
                                   THE

     LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                         OF

                         THE REVEREND

ADAM SEDGWICK,

                                         LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.,

               FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                               PREBENDARY OF NORWICH,

           WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY, 1818-1873.

                                                               BY

       JOHN WILLIS CLARK, M.A. F.S.A.

FORMERLY FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY
                          MUSEUM OF ZOOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY,

                                                             AND

          THOMAS MCKENNY HUGHES,

                              M.A. TRIN. COLl. F.R.S. F.S.A.' F.G.S.

                                   PROFESSORIAL FELLOW OF CLARE COLLEGE,
                                     WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY.

                                   VOLUME I.

           CAMBRIDGE
AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS

            1890of
                           Jr)

                                                                       is
{The Right  Translation and Reproduction                                   reserved.]

    0CT281890

                         (Eambriliffe :

PRINTED BY C. J. CLAY, M.A. AND SONS,
         AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

   HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

                         THIS RECORD
                                      OF

                 THE LIFE OF ONE

                              FOR WHOM

    H.R.H. THE PRINCE CONSORT

          HAD THE GREATEST ESTEEM
                                IS

BY HER MAJESTY'S GRACIOUS PERMISSION
           RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.


                   PREFACE.

      HE cause of the delay in the publication of
 x Sedgwick's Life and Letters demands a short

explanation. Soon after his death, in January, 1873,
Professor Hughes, his successor in the Woodwardian
Chair, undertook to become his biographer. No man
was better qualified, by geological knowledge, and by
affectionate regard for Sedgwick, to perform the task
adequately ; and, had he been able to command
sufficient leisure, he would doubtless have produced
a very admirable piece of work. He carefully studied
the materials placed in his hands, and made consi
derable progress with different portions. But, as time
went on, and the duties of his Professorship increased,
he found himself, year after year, less able to cope
with the difficulties of a task which demanded a long

and patient research. It became gradually obvious
that if the book was to be written at all, either it must
be put into the hands of some one else, or Professor
Hughes must obtain assistance. In 1885 Miss Sedg

wick applied to me ; but, as I was at that time fully

occupied with my edition of Professor Willis' Archi
tectural History of the University and Colleges, I was

viii PREFACE.

constrained to reply that I could not even look at the
materials until that work was completed. Finally,
Miss Sedgwick agreed to wait ; and it was not till
near the end of 1886 that I was able to make a start.
Professor Hughes, with great generosity and kindness,
handed over to me all his materials, together with the
portions that he had already written ; but, after some
consideration, I decided to return the latter, and to
begin afresh. It was then arranged between us that
he should contribute the geological portion only,
leaving the rest of the biography to me.

      I have tried to explain, in the opening paragraphs
of my first chapter, the difficulties with which Sedg
wick's biographer is confronted. In addition to what
I have there written I may now notice the further
drawback arising from the deficiency of materials.
Sedgwick outlived most of his contemporaries and
intimate friends ; and, since his death, many of those
younger persons with whom he delighted to corre
spond have passed away. Hence a number of inter
esting letters, which he is known to have written, and
which were long carefully preserved, have either been
destroyed, or cannot now be traced. These remarks
apply specially to his earlier years ; for the letters
which he wrote in profusion to his nieces, and which
so vividly illustrate the last forty years of his life,
have been placed in my hands without reserve.

      In dealing with the earlier portion of his life I have
tried to draw a picture of the University of that day,
and to bring out the prominent and energetic part
taken by Sedgwick in its studies, its controversies, and

                                    PREFACE.

its reforms. Further, I have gone at length into the
history of Dr Woodward and his foundation, with
short biographical notices of the Professors who pre

ceded Sedgwick, in order to show what he accom
plished in placing the study of geology in Cambridge
on a new basis, and in getting together one of the
noblest geological collections in England.

     No task could have been more congenial to me.
Sedgwick was one of my father's oldest and most
intimate friends ; and I can remember his visits to our

house, and his society in our rides and walks, as far

back as I can remember anything. If I have failed in

my attempt to delineate a singularly genial and loveable
man, my failure has not, at any rate, been due to want
of interest in my subject. I have tried to set him
before my readers as I knew him, and as I heard him

spoken of, in his best days, by those who had known
him, respected him, and loved him since they had

been undergraduates together.
     The biography of one who was born so far back

as 1785 involves, to some extent, an archaeological
investigation ; and has compelled me to trouble a
large number of persons, too numerous to mention
individually, with inquiries. I must ask them, as well
as those who have allowed me to print letters by
Sedgwick, to accept a collective expression of my
gratitude for their assistance.

     I wish, however, specially to thank the representa
tives of the Reverend Joseph Romilly for the kindness
with which they placed his Diary at the disposal, first
of Professor Hughes, and then of myself. From the

X PREFACE.

year 1832 until his death, Mr Romilly wrote down an
account, more or less minute, of each day, the names
of those whom he met, and often the subject of their

conversation. Unfortunately he does not say much
about what was going on in the University, so that the

Diary has a personal, rather than a public, interest.
But, it is an invaluable record of what Sedgwick was

about ; for he never fails to record his movements,
his employments, and his almost daily visits to him
self.

     Further, my best thanks are due to Dr Robinson,
Master of S. Catharine's College, for writing a chapter
on Sedgwick's life at Norwich ; and to my friend
Dr Jackson, Fellow of Trinity College, for revising

and correcting the proof-sheets.
     In conclusion, I have to thank the Syndics of the

University Press for their liberality in enriching the
work with numerous illustrations ; and the staff of the
Press for much kindness to myself personally during
its progress.

                      JOHN WILLIS CLARK.

      Scroope House, Cambr1dge,
             26 May, 1890.

          CONTENTS

                              OF THE

        FIRST VOLUME.

                        CHAPTER I.

Introduction. Sedgwick's birth-place. Geographical position of Dent. Descrip

tion of it at the beginning of this century. Ancient manners and customs.

Spelling of the name Sedgwick. Origin and history of the family. Imme

diate ancestors of Adam Sedgwick. His brothers and sisters. His own

account of his father.                               pp. i -- 44.

                        -CHAPTER II.
                        (1785 1804.)

....Birth of Adam Sedgwick. Childhood and boyhood at Dent. Love of his native
Dale. His sister Isabella. Goes to school at Sedbergh. His master and

schoolfellows. Selection of a College at Cambridge.  Reads mathematics
with Mr Dawson. Account of him.                                 pp. 45 -- 70.

                        CHAPTER III.

                        (1804--1810.)

Begins residence at Trinity College, Cambridge (1804). The Rev. T. Jones.

Christmas at Whittlesea. College Examination (1805). Summer at Dent.

Fever.  Life and friends at Cambridge (1806).  Preparation for degree

(1807). System of Acts and Opponencies. Sedgwick's first Act. Univer

sity election for M. P. His Father's account of the Yorkshire election.

Scholarship at Trinity College. Blindness of his Father. Senate-House

Examination (1808). Revisits Dent.  Reading party at Ditton. Classical
work (1809). Fellowship (1810)                                         pp. 71 -- 100.

xii CONTENTS.

                      CHAPTER IV.

                                                        (1810-- 1818.)

Work with pupils.     Reading for ordination (1810). Visit to London. Society
       at Cambridge.  Contested election for Chancellor and M.P. for University.

Installation of Chancellor. Reading party at Bury St Edmunds. Christmas

at Dent (181          Winter visit to Lakes. Visit to London. Petition against
                      1).
Roman Catholic claims. Reading party at Lowestoft. Appointed sub-1

lecturer at Trinity College. Second petition against Roman Catholics (1812).
Serious illness. Summer at Dent (1813). Severe frost. Visit of Marshal
Blucher. Summer at Dent. Excursion in Yorkshire (1814). Projected

tour on the continent. Farish's lectures. Cambridge fever. Goes home to

Dent. News of Waterloo.                                   Assistant tutorship at Trinity College (1815).
Tour on continent (1816).                               Ordination. Summer at Dent. Hard work in
Michaelmas Term (1817).
                                                        Elected Woodwardian  Professor of Geology
(1818)                                                                                   pp. 101 -- 165.

                           CHAPTER V.

....Sketch of the life and works of Dr John Woodward.                        His testamentary

provisions.           Arrival of his cabinets.                          A room constructed for their

reception. Sedgwick's predecessors: Conyers Middleton; Charles Mason;

John Michell; Samuel Ogden; Thomas Green; John Hailstone. Orders

and regulations sanctioned in 818.                                           pp. 166--198.

                      CHAPTER VI.

                                                        (1818--1822.)

Excursion to Derbyshire and Staffordshire (1818). First course of Lectures. Visit

to Isle of Wight with Henslow. Foundation of Cambridge Philosophical

Society. Visit to Suffolk coast. Commencement festivities. Geological

tour in Devon and Cornwall. Henslow's work in the Isle of Man (1819).

Geological tour in Somerset and Dorset. Acquaintance with Rev. W. D.

Conybeare. Death of his mother (1820). Visit to the Isle of Wight.

Geological tour in Yorkshire and Durham (1821). Controversy respecting
Professorship of Mineralogy (1822 -- 1824).                             . . . pp. 199 -- 245.

                      CHAPTER VII.

                                                        (1822--1827.)

Geological exploration of the Lake District (1822 -- 1824). Contested election for

University (1822). Death of his sister Isabella (1823). Geological papers.
Work in the Woodwardian Museum (1823 -- 1827). Lecture to ladies. Visit

to Edinburgh with Whewell (1824). Visit to Sussex with Dr Fitton (1825).

Contested election for University.                        Visit to Paris with Whewell (1826).

Elected Vice President of Geological Society. Contested election for Univer

sity (1827). Social life at Cambridge.                    Hyde Hall.         Review of Sedgwick's
Geological work (1818-- 1827).                                                           pp. 246 -- 297.

                   CONTENTS.

                   CHAPTER VIII.

                   (1827--1831.)

The Geological Society. First acquaintance with Murchison. Tour with him in

Scotland. Office of Senior Proctor (1827). Joint papers with Murchison.
Summer in Cornwall. Dolcoath Mine. Visits Conybeare in South Wales

(1828). Sedgwick President of Geological Society. Divinity Act. Mr

Cavendish elected University representative. Summer in Germany and the

Tyrol with Murchison. Joint paper on the eastern Alps (1829). Address to
Geological Society. Summer in Northumberland. Contested election for

President of Royal Society (1830).    Addresses to Geological Society

(1831)                                                pp. 298-- 371.

                   CHAPTER IX.

                   (183I--1834.)

The Reform Bill. Contested election for University. Geological papers. Tour

in Wales with Charles Darwin (1831). Declines the living of East Farleigh.
Mrs Somerville's visit to Cambridge. British Association at Oxford. Summer

and Autumn in Wales. President of Cambridge Philosophical Society.

Discourse on the Studies of the University (1832). British Association at

Cambridge.  The Beverley Controversy (1833).  Dislocates right wrist.

Petition against Tests. British Association at Edinburgh. Made Prebendary

of Norwich (1834)                                     pp. 372-- 437.

                   CHAPTER X.

                   (1835-1840.)

Cambridge occupations. Election at Dent. Presentation at Court. British

Association at Dublin. Skeleton of Irish Elk. Visit of Agassiz to Cam

bridge (1835). Lectures and Society at Norwich. Geological tour in

Devonshire with Murchison. Death of Mr Simeon (1836). Ill health.

Paper on Geology of Devonshire. Criticism of Babbage. Death of Bishop

Bathurst. Foundation of Cowgill Chapel. Geology in Devonshire. British

Association at Liverpool. Inundation of the Workington Colliery (1837).

Explorations at Bartlow. Devonian Paper. Queen's Coronation. British

Association at Newcastle. Open-air Lecture (1838). The Silurian System
published. Foreign tour with Murchison (1839). Ill health. Cheltenham.
                                                      pp. 438 -- 528.
Paper to Geological Society (1840)

                   CHAPTER XI.

Geological work accomplished between  1828 and 1838.  The Devonian
       System                                            pp. 529--539.


      CHAPTER I.

Introduction. Sedgwick's birth-place. Geographical position
     of Dent. Description of it at the beginning of this
      century. Ancient manners and customs. Spelling of
      the name Sedgwick. Origin and history of the family.

      Immediate ancestors of Adam Sedgwick. His brothers

      and sisters. His own account of his father.

It is proposed, in the following pages, to give some account

of the life and labours of Adam Sedgwick. To the world he

is best known as Woodwardian Professor in the University of

Cambridge from 1 8 1 8 to 1873, and as one of the founders of

modern geology. But, eminent as he was in the subject of

his choice, it would be a great mistake to suppose that he

was a geologist and nothing more. Geology, it is true, was

rarely absent from his thoughts. So long as his health

permitted, he devoted himself, with untiring energy, to the

investigation of some of its least-known formations ; to the

establishment of fixed principles for its study ; to the defence

of it against bigotry and ignorance ; to the instruction of
students; and to the extension of the Museum connected with

his chair. But, on the other hand, his mind was far too active,

his nature too warmly sympathetic, to suffer him to be content

with the claims of a single science, however attractive. He

took a keen interest in all that was going forward, whether in
his own University, or in the world at large. In his younger

S. L              I

2 INTRODUCTION.

days he was an ardent politician on the Liberal side, and
played a prominent part in the reforms, or attempts at
reforms, which distinguished that period of academic history;
and in later years, as a member of the Royal Commission of
1850, he was enabled to exercise a considerable influence on
the legislative changes afterwards introduced. To the end of
his life he watched public affairs, both at home and abroad,
with unabated zeal ; and his letters will show how heartily he
rejoiced over a national triumph, how bitterly he mourned a
national disaster. Nor did he forget that there were other
fields of research besides his own. He was fond of meta
physical and moral speculations, as we shall see when we come

to speak of his Discourse on the Studies of the University of
Cambridge; and no less an authority than Dr Whewcll has

admitted that had not Sedgwick's life " been absorbed in
struggling with many of the most difficult problems of a
difficult science," he would have been his own "fellow-labourer
or master" in the work which he was then publishing, The
Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences1. History too -- especially
the history of his own country -- was one of his favourite
pursuits ; he took a genuine interest in archaeology and
architecture, though he had no leisure to study either
thoroughly ; and, from his earliest years to extreme old age,
no visits gave him so much pleasure as those which he paid
to English Cathedrals.

     Again -- besides the subjects here indicated --he was an
omnivorous reader of general literature. Nothing came amiss
to him. Travels, biography, novels, poetry, even contro
versial theology, were all at least looked into. Like most
men born in the last century, when light reading was
comparatively unknown, and the multiplicity of modern
books had not yet come into being, he delighted chiefly in
the masterpieces of our older literature. He revelled in
Chaucer and Shakespeare; he could quote long passages

     1 Letter to Rev. A. Sedgwick, prefixed to The Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences, by the Rev. W. Whewell, ed. 1840.

                               INTRODUCTION.

from Milton, Cowley, and Dryden ; and he was never tired of
reading and re-reading, till he must have known them almost
by heart, the novels of Walter Scott, with which, as he often
said, "he had been driven half-mad as a young man." The
amount of information acquired through this incessant miscel
laneous reading, taken together with a rich natural humour,
and a copious flow of language and illustration, lent a
singular charm to his conversation. Few have ever told a story
so vividly as he did, or with such a marvellous combination
of the dramatic, the humorous, and the pathetic. He knew
how to invest incidents which, had they been told by anybody
else, would have seemed common-place, with the most thrill
ing interest. He placed himself in the circumstances of those
whose adventures he was relating ; he thought as they did,
felt as they did ; and whether he was speaking of an old
woman buried in a snow-drift, or a dog guarding a bag of
stones, his hearers were fascinated by the truth of the picture,
and carried away by the rare power of the narrator. One or
two of his most celebrated stories will find a place in this
narrative ; but it is to be feared that without his flashing eye,
and the passionate earnestness of his voice, they will hardly
justify their celebrity.

     And herein lies the principal difficulty with which
Sedgwick's biographer is confronted. He may well despair
of being able to set before a reader, who never saw him,
possibly never even heard of him, his remarkable personality.
Engravings may give a fairly accurate idea of his features and
his figure ; criticism may determine the exact value of his
contributions to science ; his occupations from day to day
may be accurately discovered ; and yet the reader may still
be left in ignorance of Sedgwick as a man. Some effort must
be made -- though the colours may be faint, and the brush
unsteady -- to make posterity realise his rare originality of
character, which commanded the admiration of all who knew
him, from the Queen to the humblest of her subjects; his
absolute sincerity, which Mr Justice Maule summed up in the

4 INTRODUCTION.

forcible remark : " Sedgwick is one of those men who, if they
ceased to believe in God, would tell you so directly;" his
kindly sympathy with the pursuits, the sorrows, and the joys
of others ; his unselfishness ; his boundless liberality ; his
enthusiasm for all that was good and noble ; his hatred of
wrong-doing and oppression in whatever form they presented
themselves ; his conscientiousness in the discharge of duties
which might at first sight appear so incompatible as a
Professorial Chair at Cambridge, and a Prebendal Stall
at Norwich ; and lastly, the firmness of his belief in a
personal Redeemer, which animated him through the whole
of his active life, and cheered him in the loneliness of his
declining years. Nor is this all. His humour when he
told a story has been already alluded to. But it was not
reserved for those special narratives which became insepar
ably connected with his name ; it manifested itself in all his
occupations, even the most serious. His animal spirits rarely
flagged ; he was the life and soul of every company in which
he found himself, whether it were a knot of children at a
Christmas party, or a meeting of their seniors convened for

important business. If he were present the gravest unbent

their brows --the most serious forgot their solemnity. It was
impossible to resist the infection of that boisterous laugh ;

that cheerful geniality ; that persistence in looking at the
bright side of things; in a word that union of all that was
cordial and generous and friendly which gained for him the
appropriate name of " Robin Goodfellow1."

     Fortunately he dearly loved writing letters -- not short
letters after the fashion of the present day, but long compo
sitions in which he wrote as he talked, with that combination
of playfulness and seriousness which made his conversation

    1 A paper was circulated at the Installation of the Prince Consort in 1847,
entitled : Sporting Intelligence. University Sweepstakes, Cambridge. Several of the
most prominent members of the University were supposed to be running horses,
the names of which were intended to hit off their obvious characteristics. We find
Dr Whewell's Rough Diamond; Prof. Sedgwick's Robin Good/Mow; Mr W. H.
Thompson's A-don-is; Dr Archdall's Mrs Gamp, etc.

INTRODUCTION.  5

so delightful. It will be remarked that the best of these

letters are usually those addressed to ladies. Sedgwick
compensated himself for the want of children of his own
by adopting those of his intimate friends ; and he probably
selected the daughters instead of the sons as his correspon

dents, because he felt that when addressing them he could

find unreserved expression for feelings which had no other

outlet -- and which, had his circumstances been different,
would have made him the most tender of husbands, and the
most considerate of fathers. It is much to be regretted that
some of the most interesting of these letters are known to
have been destroyed, while others cannot now be traced.
Enough, however, survive to show a side of Sedgwick's
character, the existence of which, without them, might have

been wholly unsuspected ; and, it may be added, to make us
regret more bitterly the loss of the remainder.

     Another of Sedgwick's most marked characteristics was his
attachment to his birth-place, Dent in Yorkshire. Most men
who go out into the world from a distant corner of England,

and make themselves famous in new surroundings, either forget
their birth-place altogether, or revisit it only at rare intervals.
Sedgwick, on the contrary, did not merely feel affection for
the place where he had spent the first nineteen years of his

life, but he regarded it as his home, from which he might be
separated for the greater part of each year, but which he was
bound to revisit at the first opportunity. " For more than

three-score years" he wrote in 1868, "Cambridge has been
my honoured resting-place, and here God has given me a
life-long task amidst a succession of intellectual friends. For

Trinity College, ever since I passed under its great portal, for
the first time, in the autumn of 1804, I have felt a deep and
grateful sentiment of filial regard. But, spite of a strong and

enduring regard for the University and the College, whenever

I have revisited the hills and dales of my native country, and

heard the cheerful greetings of my old friends and countrymen,

I have felt a new swell of emotion, and said to myself, 'Here

6 SEDGWICK'S BIRTH-PLACE.

is the land of my birth; this was the home of my boyhood,

and is still the home of my heart"." Nor is it a mere fancy

which traces a connection between his rugged nature and
the crags of that wild mountain-valley. To the end of his

days he was at heart a Yorkshire Dalesman.

On this account it will be a peculiarly interesting task to

dwell at some length on the natural features of Sedgwick's

birth-dale, and the old-world manners of its inhabitants, as

he remembered them. And here, fortunately, he can speak

for himself ; for, in the supplement and appendices to his

Memorial by the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, he amused

himself by setting down, for the information of his fellow

dalesmen, not only his own personal recollections, but the

traditions which he had gathered from men who were old

when he was himself a boy.

     The dale of Dent is situated in the westernmost extremity
of Yorkshire -- a corner of the county which runs forward,

wedge-like, into Westmoreland, by which it is bounded on

the west and north. The dale descends, as does the neigh
bouring Garsdale, from the lofty mountain-range called " the

backbone of England," towards what Sedgwick terms the

"great basin or central depression," in the upper part of which

stands the town of Sedbergh. Five distinct valleys are

there united. Down four of them the waters descend into

the central basin ; down the fifth they make their final escape.

The position of these valleys will be better understood from

the accompanying map than from any elaborate description.

The Rawthey, a stream which rises in the fells near Kirkby

Stephen, is joined, at a short distance above Sedbergh, by

the Clough, or Garsdale-beck, which drains Garsdale ; and,

1                                                                   by the Dee, which
                                by
                                                               p.

                                                               it,
at an almost equal distance below

drains the dale of Dent. The united streams, still called

the Rawthey, fall into the Lune at about two miles below

       A Memorial the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, with a preface and appendix,
on the climate, history, and dialects of Dent. By Adam Sedgwick, LL.D. 8vo.

Cambridge, 1868. Privately printed,  vi.



:flT AND SURROUNDING COUNTRY.


THE DALE OF DENT.

Sedbergh. From the point of junction the name Rawthey

disappears, and it is the Lune which flows past Kirkby

Lonsdale into Morecambe Bay. The whole district is

remarkably picturesque; but it is from the hills on the

right bank of the Lune, just opposite to its junction with the

Rawthey, that the finest views of the five valleys can be

obtained. Those who have personally enjoyed them can best

sympathise with Sedgwick's enthusiasm, when he exhorts his
" younger countrymen and countrywomen " to scale these
heights, and then to " warm their hearts by gazing over this

cluster of noble dales, among which Providence placed the

land of their fathers, and the home of their childhood1."

At its origin the dale of Dent is a mere gorge, leading to

a mountain-pass ; and, in fact, the whole upper portion, for a

distance of between five and six miles (all of which is included
in the hamlet of Kirthwaite) is narrow and contracted, and
the boundary-hills are bare and rugged. The climate of this

part of the dale is much more severe than that of the lower
part ; the rainfall is greater ; and " it is sometimes in the winter

season much obstructed by ice and snow, when the roads in

the lower part of the valley are quite free*." It was in this
hamlet that a destructive avalanche --or, as they would have
said in Dent, a 'gill-brack' -- took place in January, 1752, by

which seven persons lost their lives'. As a traveller descends

the dale, the ruggedness gradually disappears, the hills

become less precipitous and more cultivated, and when

the village of Dent, or, as the dalesmen call                                                  Dent's Town,
is is

     32 1
                               36
                                                                                    9

                                                                                          it,
reached, they are green to their summits, and their sides

are dotted with homesteads, divided, sometimes by stone

walls, but more frequently by rows of trees, into plots of

       Supplement to the Memorial of the Trustees of Cmvgill Chapel, with an
appendix, etc., printed in 1868. By Rev. Adam Sedgwick, LL.D., F.R.S.

Printed for private circulation only. 8vo. Cambridge, 1870. p. 48, note.
         Memorial, p. 4.
        Ibid. pp. -- 50, where a letter written by one of the survivors to his brother

    printed. This letter will also be found in the Philosophical Magazine for 1866,
xxxi. 80; and in the Cambridge Chronicle, December, 1865.

8 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

pasturage. Here the dale is nearly a mile in width ; and, at
a short distance from the village, it is joined by a short
subsidiary dale, called Deepdale. This wider part of the

            is
                          is

                                                                it,
dale is about two miles long. Below through nearly the

whole of the four miles which have to be traversed before

Sedbergh    reached, the boundary-hills again converge, and

the river-channel             deep and narrow, so that "in ancient

days, when the hill-sides were covered with dense forests,

Dent must have been more retired from sight, and perhaps

more difficult of access, than any of the other valleys within

the parish of Sedbergh1."            is            small picturesque village,
                                         a
    At the present day, Dent
                                                  ;
with single paved street; but in 1801, when the first census
    21
was taken, its population was considerably larger than that
        ;a
of Sedbergh*. Various causes have contributed to this decay,

as Sedgwick's narrative will show and, as he mournfully

admitted, "there no sign of hope that Dent may hereafteris
regain its lost position." His reminiscences have thereforea

an historical importance quite independent of his own

biography.                           land of statesmen, that         of rural and
     " Dent was once                 ;

                                                                  a is,
                                                                            a

                                                                                     a
pastoral yeomanry, each of whom lived on his own paternal

glebe. The estates were small but each of them gave right

to large tracts of mountain pasturage; and each statesman had

his flock and herd. A rented farm was once rare exception

to the general rule; but now (1868) nearly the whole dale,

          Supplement, p. 48.

Dent      Sedgwick makes the following remarks on     the diminished population          of
                                                      previous pamphlet there           are
           in the Supplement (1870), p. 24, " In the

several mournful notices of the gradual decay in the prosperity of Dent, and of

the diminution in its population. To obtain numerical test of this fact, during
                              I
                                       :

                                            I: 1
                                                               a
                                                   I
                                                                                     aI
my short visit to Dent in the summer of 868 examined the Parish Register of

Baptisms and Burials. Counting all the Baptisms from 1747 to 1766 inclusive,

found that they amounted to 985 but counting the Baptisms from 1847 to 1866
inclusive they amounted only to 529. In like manner, taking the corresponding

periods in the two centuries, found that the Burials amounted to 671 in the last
century and in the present century to 383. In both these periods the Registers

appear to have been very carefully kept and the numbers seem to prove even

greater diminution in the population than had stated."

MANNERS OF THE STATESAfEN.                     9

from end to end, is in the occupation of farmers with very

small capital, and living at a high rack-rent1."

      The statesmen, it must be understood, were the aristocracy

of the dale; they stood somewhat aloof from their fellow-

dalesmen, and affected a difference in thoughts, manners,

and dress. It used to be said of a lad who was leaving his
father's home : "He's a deftly far rand lad, and he' II dn weel,
for he's weel come, fra staetsmen o' baith sides," i.e. " He is a
well-mannered lad, and he will prosper, for he is well

descended, from statesmen on both sides'." But, though the
statesmen might be somewhat exclusive, " they never passed

a neighbour, or even a stranger, without some homely words
of kind greeting. To their Pastor, and to the Master of the
grammar-school, they did not grudge any known address of

courtesy ; but among themselves the salutations were at once
simple, frank, and kind ; and they used only the Christian

name to a Dalesman, no matter what his condition in life.
To have used a more formal address would have been to

treat him as a stranger, and unkindly to thrust him out from
the Brotherhood of the Dales. And were they not right in

this ? What name is so kind and loving as the dear Christian
name, excepting the still dearer and more revered names of
Father or Mother ? They are the names by which we speak

to our brother or sister, or friend who is near our hearts.

     "In former times I never returned to Dent without hearing

my Christian name uttered with cheerful face and rung with

merry voice by all the upgrown persons whom I encountered

on the highway. But nearly all my old friends are gone;

and, to my deep sorrow, I no longer hear my Christian name,

but am welcomed by words that pronounce me to be a

stranger, and no longer a brother living in the hearts of the

 Dalesmen.

     " I will explain my meaning by two recent examples,

 which were exceptions to the above remark ; but they will,

I trust, prove that I am rightly interpreting the ancient

1 Memorial, p. vii.  3 Memorial, p. 65, note.

io SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

manners and feelings of my countrymen. There was an

aged soldier in Dent, poverty-stricken and desolate, having

neither wife nor daughter to cheer him. Several times I

gave him a trifle by way of remembrance when I visited

Dent ; and for a while he had from me a small weekly

allowance for tobacco. When in extreme old age he was

removed to the Union Workhouse ; and he then requested

me to exchange the tobacco for a small daily glass of grog.

In the discipline of his regiment he had learned a more smart

and formal address than was usual in the Dales, but all this

wore away when he tried to express his thanks to me,
Iwhenever I called on him.
                                         was then sure to hear my

Christian name sounded from his aged lips. The last time I

saw him he was above ninety years of age and bedridden, yet

apparently happy and in good hope ; and when the master of

the Union made him understand that a gentleman had called

to  see  him,  he  said,  ' Is  it Adam    '  I did not remain long with
                                         ?

him ; and as I left him he pressed my hand, and said : ' Oh,

Adam,    it is good  of you     to come  and  see  me  here    '
                                                             !

    " The other case tells the same truth-- that the Christian

name was the name of loving memory-- but it is told in a

merrier tone. There were in my childhood two well-known,
cheerful-mannered women living in Dent -- a mother and
daughter employed in the carrying trade1 -- old Peggy Beckett,

and young Peggy Beckett. Young Peggy won my child's

heart by playing with me, and helping me to leap over the

tombstones in the church-yard. But she married, and dis

appeared from Dent ; and many years, I think not less than

seventy, passed away before, in extreme old age, she returned,

to end her days at her son's cottage. The first time I found

     1 At the time of which Sedgwick is speaking all external produce came into
Dent, by carriers from Hawes, Kendal, or Kirkby Lonsdale. Women were

carriers as well as men, and were indeed preferred, because they could match
draper's goods, and choose provisions, better. Mrs Beckett and her daughter
were carriers to Kendal, 16 miles distant from Dent. They used to leave Dent on
Friday, attend Kendal market on Saturday, and get back to Dent late on Saturday

night.

            MANNERS OF THE STATESMEN.                                          11

my way to Dent, after her return, I went, along with some

young nieces, to call upon her. She received our party with

a bright and respectful cheerfulness ; but perhaps with more

formality than was usual in the Dale ; and she spoke to me

as a stranger. But when they told her who I was, her fine

old face lighted up. She looked earnestly at me for about

two seconds, and then said : ' Oh, Adam, it is lang sin' I
                                                   "
tought  ye  to  loup  off    Battersby's  trough      (Oh  !  Adam,        it  is
                                                  !

long since I taught you to leap off Battersby's tombstone1) !

This address brought back to my memory a pleasant passage

in the life of my childhood ; and it proved that the young
Peggy Beckett of early years, by this use of my Christian

name, no longer thought me a stranger, but welcomed me

again as a brother of the Dale.
     " Do not these two examples prove what I contend for ?

That the Christian name was not used as a word of thought

less familiarity ; but as a word of confiding, brotherly, love*."
    " Many of the old statesmen in the higher parts of Kirth-

waite were numbered in the Society of Friends. Excellent

men they were, and well-informed in matters of common

life ; lovers of religious liberty ; of great practical benevolence,

and of pure moral conduct ; and they were among the

foremost in all good measures of rural administration8."

    " Though the population of the dale has diminished, I

believe, by more than one-third since the middle of last

century, yet the poor-rates are enormously increased. It was

1 Sedgwick adds the following note : " Battersby was an early Master of the

Chartered Grammar School, and had in his day the reputation of being a
"conjurer." A large and ugly monument had been erected to his memory near

the south-west angle of the new steeple ; and, being partly in ruins when the

builders began, some of its larger blocks of stone were placed in the new ground

works. When this desecration was discovered, an old man came in terror to my

father, affirming that the steeple would never stand. My father partly allayed the

old man's fears, and told him it was foolish and wrong to think that a part of

God's house could not stand against the power of a dead conjurer. For a while

the old man was pacified, and seemed half ashamed of himself ; but shortly
afterwards he returned with a blank, doubting face, and said : ' I's feard, Sir,

the bells when put in the new steeple 'ill be ringing when they sud'nt.'"
2 Supplement, pp. 44 -- 47.
                                          3 Memorial, p. xii.

 12 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

once a place of very active industry; well known as a great
producer of wool, which was partly carded and manufactured
on the spot for home-use ; but better known for what were
then regarded as large imports of dressed wool and worsted,
and for its exports of stockings and gloves that were knit
by the inhabitants of the valley. The weekly transport of
the goods which kept this trade alive, was effected, first by
trains of pack-horses, and afterwards by small carts fitted for
mountain-work.

      "Dent was then a land of rural opulence and glee. Children
were God's blessed gift to a household, and happy was the
man whose quiver was full of them. Each statesman's house
had its garden and its orchard, and other good signs of do
mestic comfort. But alas, with rare exceptions, these goodly
tokens have now passed out of sight ; or are to be feebly
traced by some aged crab-tree, or the stump of an old plum-
tree, which marks the site of the ancient family orchard.

     "The whole aspect of the village of Dent has been changed
within my memory, and some may perhaps think that it has
been changed for the better. But I regret the loss of some
old trees that covered its nakedness ; and most of all the two
ancient trees that adorned the church-yard, and were cut
down by hands which had no right to touch a twig of them.
I regret the loss of the grotesque and rude, but picturesque
old galleries, which once gave a character to the streets ; and
in some parts of them almost shut out the sight of the sky
from those who travelled along the pavement. For rude as
were the galleries, they once formed a highway of communi
cation to a dense and industrious rural population which lived
on flats or single floors. And the galleries that ran before
the successive doors, were at all seasons places of free air ;
and in the summer season were places of mirth and glee, and
active, happy industry. For there might be heard the buzz
of the spinning-wheel, and the hum and the songs of those
who were carrying on the labours of the day , and the merry

jests and greetings sent down to those who were passing

HOUSES AND GALLERIES.  3

through the streets. Some of the galleries were gone before
the days of my earliest memory, and all of them were

hastening to decay. Not a trace of them is now left. I

regret its old market-cross, and the stir and bustle of its

   The street of Dent, looking east : from a water-colour drawing by Mr William Westall, taken
                                                                        about 1820.

market-days. I regret its signboards dangling across the

streets; which, though sometimes marking spots of boisterous
revelry, were at the same time the tokens of a rural
opulence1."

     Some traces of this peculiar feature of Dent were still in

                                          1 Memorial, pp. vii -- ix.

H SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

existence so late as 1820, when the water-colour drawings
were made from which our woodcuts are taken. Both

represent the main street of Dent. The first cut shows
one of the external flights of stairs which led up to the

galleries ; and from the walls on both sides of the street

project stone brackets that once supported similar structures.
In the second cut the opposite end of the gallery ap

proached by the stairs of the former drawing occupies the

left corner of the picture ; and facing it is a conspicuous row

of brackets on which imagination can place another.
     In the first year of King James the First the principal

land-holders of Dent obtained a royal charter for their

grammar-school, the endowment of which had been collected

by subscription. This school "has had a very healthy

influence upon the education and manners of the valley.

The leading statesmen's sons attended
a

                                 ;

                             a

                           if

                                         a
                                           it,
                                                                         a
                                                                       and acquired

smattering of classical learning and                                   statesman's younger

son, or the son of cottager, were lad of good promise, his

education was pushed forward into a higher course, and he

was trained for the Church. And many so trained, and

without any other collegiate education, did enter the Church,

and filled the retired curacies in the north of England.
     " The necessities of the country soon led to an extension

of the course of teaching at the grammar-school. It had

large English classes, in which writing and arithmetic were

taught to young persons of both sexes and there were also
I

                                      a

                                                                    ;
itinerant masters, of good repute among the northern dales,

who visited certain schools in  regular cycle, and were

chiefly employed in teaching writing, arithmetic in all its

branches, and the principles of surveying.
    " Nor must omit to state that at all the knitting-schools,

where the children first learnt the art many of them were

to follow through life, the Dames always taught the art of

reading1."
     " Trusting in the traditions of family history, we may

1  Memorial, p. 54.

                       ED UCA TION, IND US TRIES.
affirm, that after the Reformation, and down towards the
concluding part of the last century, Dent was in the enjoy
ment of happiness and prosperity ; in a humble and rustic
form, it might be, but with a good base to rest upon -- the
intelligence and industry of its inhabitants. The statesmen
were long famous for their breed of horses. The farms were

   The street of Dent, looking west : from a water-colour drawing by Mr William Westall, taken
                                                                         about 1820.

providently managed ; and the valley was well known for its
exports of butter, which, from defect of ready transport, was
highly salted, and packed in firkins. The art of the cooper
became then of importance. Dent was supplied in abundance
with the materials and the workmen ; and the cooper's art
flourished in it for several generations, by works both for
home use and for export.

16 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

     " The management and economy of the good housewives
of our valley became notorious, and often was the subject of
some good-humoured jest on the part of the lazy lookers on.

Jests seldom bear repeating ; but I will repeat one which I
have heard in my boyhood. A clever lass in Dent can do

four things at a time, was said of old :

                              She knaws how to sing and knit,
                              And she knaws how to carry the kit,
                              While she drives her kye to pasture.

    "Wool must have been a great staple produce of the valley,
from its earliest history. The greater part of it was exported ;
but some of it was retained for domestic use; then worked
into form by hand-cards of antique fashion (which, in my
childhood, I have seen in actual use) ; and then spun into a
very coarse and clumsy thread ; and so it supplied the

material for a kind of rude manufacture, that went, I think,

under the elegant name of Bump.
     " But, as art advanced, our Dalesmen gradually became

familiar with the fine material prepared by the wool-comber;
and, before the beginning of last century, Dent became
known for its manufacture and export of yarn-stockings of
the finest quality. Some of the more active and long-sighted
statesmen of the Dales, taking upon themselves the part of
middle-men between the manufacturers and the consumers,
used occasionally to mount their horses, and ride up to
London to deal personally with the merchants of Cheapside,
and to keep alive the current of rural industry.

    " At a further stage in the industry of our countrymen,

worsted, that had been spun by machinery, came into common
use ; and the knit worsted-stockings were the great articles of
export from the Northern Dales. Such became the im
portance of this export, about the middle of last century, that
Government Agents were placed at Kirkby Lonsdale, Kendal,
and Kirkby Stephen, during ' the seven years' war,' for the
express purpose of securing for the use of the English army
(then in service on the Continent), the worsted stockings knit

       GEOLOGY OF THE DALE.     '7

by the hands of the Dalesmen ; and in this trade Dent had

an ample share.

     " In the last century there was another source of industry

in Dent, which I must not pass entirely over -- I mean its
minerals and its coal-works. All the mountains of Dent, to

the east of Helm's Knot and Colm Scar, are composed of

nearly horizontal beds of limestone, sandstone, and flagstone ;
and of dark shale, here and there showing traces of coal.
And the whole series is surmounted by a coarse gritstone,
called the Millstone Grit. The limestone beds are arranged
in six groups ; of which the lowest, called the great Scar
Limestone, is several times thicker than all the other groups
put together. The top of it is seen just above the village of

Flintergill ; and its upper beds are finely exposed in the

river-course of Kirthwaite. Its lower beds are nowhere seen

in our valley ; but they are grandly exposed in Chapel-le-

Dale, where they rest upon the greenish slate-rocks. All the
limestone groups of Dent are separated by thick masses of

sandstone, flagstone, and shale ; and, as the top of the great

Scar Limestone is only seen near the river-course, the other
five groups are to be looked for on the mountain-sides. The
lowest of the five contains the black marble beds ; and under

the highest of the five, sometimes called the upper Scar
Limestone, is the only bed of coal that has been worked in
Dent for domestic use. The upper Scar Limestone is sur

mounted by a bed of shale, which is capped by the lower
beds of the great group called Millstone Grit. This part of
the Millstone Grit forms the flat top of the hill called Crag,
and the top also of Ingleborough ; and over this grit (at
 Great Colme, Whernside, etc.) is a shale with beds of coal
that is too poor (in the hills of Dent) for domestic use, but

which might, I think, be profitably employed in burning

lime.
      " These facts may be seen by any one who will use his

senses ; and indeed it seems to have been generally known,
before the beginning of last century, that a profitable bed of

S. I.                        2

18 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

coal was often to be found under the upper Scar Limestone.

At what time the coal-beds in Dent were first opened I do

not know ; but it is said that they were first considered an

object of profit in Kirthwaite. Early, I believe, in the last

century a small statesman called Buttermere found the bed
of coal under the upper Limestone of the Town-Fell, just
under the last rise of the Crag. The bed appeared at first
sight too thin to be worked for profit ; but on examination it
proved to be free from sulphur, and well fitted for the works
of the whitesmiths in Kendal. He therefore engaged the
help of the country miners, and carried on his work for years
--conveying to Kendal, by a train of pack-horses (seventeen
miles over the mountains), the coal which he drew from a
bed not more than six or seven inches thick. And, spite of
the smallness of his produce, and the cost of its primitive
mode of transport, he went on till he had realised a fortune --
not small, according to the humble standard of his country
men -- and he ended as a public benefactor to his valley.

Joseph Buttermere's coal, as a matter of export, would now

be scouted as a mere worthless mockery. Yet I think the

tale deserves notice as a curious record of one of the primitive
modes in which our old statesmen dealt with those who, to

them, were in a kind of outer world. But I will return to the

craft more peculiar to our valley.

    "It may have seemed, at first sight, almost incredible

that one of our old statesmen should have thought it worth
his while to mount his little, tough, but active horse, and to
ride up to London to make bargains with the merchants of
Cheapside for a supply of goods manufactured in his Dale.

Such however was the fact, as I have already stated ; and I

well remember that, in my early boyhood, there were three
men, living at, or near, our village, who had many times
made these journeys -- some before, and some more than
twenty years after, the time of the 'seven years' war.'
Changes of manners and of times had put an end to such a

primitive mode of dealing some years before I saw the light.

NOTEWORTHY INHABITANTS.  19

But I have sat upon the knee of old Leonard Sedgwick (my

father's cousin) and listened to the tales of his London
journeys ; and how, when his horse had carried him nearly to
the great city, he saw the dome of St Paul's standing up

against the sky, and countless spires and steeples bristling up
into the air above the houses. His homely pictures never

faded from my memory. He was intelligent and honour

able in his dealings ; a kindhearted and mirthful man ; well

content to look on the brighter side of the things around

him ; and (a blessing on his memory !) he made all the little
children near him right happy by his Christmas feasts. Such

a man, and so employed, can never appear again in Dent,
unless we could undo the social work of a whole century.

     " And there was another man, old Thomas Waddington --

a dealer in hats, cloth, drugs, and I know not what besides --

who had from time to time ridden up to London to obtain a
good stock of materials for the use of his countrymen. He
was a statesman, and a man of high character ; and a great

favourite with the public, in spite of a singularly crusty and

irritable manner. Upright in person, with a face glowing
with the signs of good cheer --with a dark wig decorated with

many curls, and with a broad-brimmed hat, looped in a way
that indicated a former, and more proud, condition, -- he
steadily marched through his walk of life. And where is
there one now to represent him ? His shop was the place
where all the leading statesmen met to discuss the politics of
the day, and the affairs of the parish.

    " And there was a third man whom I must not pass over,
if I mean to give any conception of what Dent once was. I

well remember Thomas Archer, the prince of rural tailors,
with his wig of many curls. In my very early boyhood he
was what old Chaucer would have called a ' solempne man ' ;
and, whatever he said or did, seemed to take its tone from a

feeling of inherent dignity. Ludicrous as the fact may seem,

he had been in the habit, in his early days, of going up to

London, I know not how ; and there, by the help of some
                                                                           2--2

          SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

connexions or relations, he would work for a few weeks on
a London tailor's shop-board. And having learnt the last
metropolitan mysteries of his art, he would return -- well
primed and loaded -- to discharge his duties in his native
valley. To these mysteries of his skill the old statesmen
owed some of those large decorated coat-sleeves and lapped

waistcoats which were many years afterwards worn, in a
threadbare state, during Dent's decline, by men who had

been brought low through poverty.
     "There is no man among my countrymen, or in any

neighbouring valley, to match this enterprising old tailor.
Many long measures he had ; but not one so long as that by
which he measured his own standard. He was made by
the times in which he lived ; and the change of times has
made it impossible for us to find a recurrence of his

similitude.

    " Certainly I have neither room nor time for many

biographical notices of my countrymen ; but one more name

I must mention -- that of Blackburne, the barber and wig-

maker. To me he was historical, and only known by his

works ; for he had been called away some years before I was

counted among the living inhabitants of Dent. But he was

a man famed in his generation through all the neighbouring
valleys. From him proceeded the ample full-bottom; and

the three-decker (or more rarely the four-decker), so named
from its splendid semicircles of white curls that girt the back
of the wearer's pericranium ; and he made also the humblest
of all wigs, the scratch -- fitted for a poor man's head. Nor

must I forget, in this list of our native artist's works, the

formidable tie-wig with a tail like that of a dragon, and with
winged curls at the ears. I have heard this wig called, by the
school-boys of my day, the flying dragon ; and let that be its

name, for it well deserved it. All such capital monuments

of art were turned out in their glory by the man who with
cunning hand and head had built up the crowning decora
tions of our countrymen. The place of his ancient shop

NOTEWORTHY INHABITANTS.  21

was marked by a great pole, with its symbolical fillet and

basin; which I used, in my childhood, to look up to with

respectful wonder. But the genius of the place was gone ;

and I saw only the decayed monuments of the great wig-

maker's constructive skill.

    " I have not stated such facts as these that I might hold

up our ancestors of a former century to ridicule ; but in the
hope of giving my countrymen a graphic proof of the great
change of manners wrought by time ; and of a sorrowful
change in the fortunes of the inhabitants of Dent, that drove

many of them away from their early homes, and sank others
into a state of depression against which they knew not how

to struggle. I well remember (and I first made the remark in

my very childhood) that many of the old-fashioned dresses,
seen on a holiday, were the signs of poverty rather than of

pride. The coats were threadbare, and worn by men who
had seen better days. The looped broad-brim was seen, but
as a sign of mourning, like a flag hoisted half-mast high ; for

it was the half-fallen state of the triple cock (still worn by one
or two in the parish) with its three outer surfaces pointing
to the sky. And, in the same days, old Blackburne's full-

bottoms had lost all their crisp symmetry ; and the lower

hairs of their great convexity were drooping, as if in sorrow,

upon the wearers' necks. The three-deckers showed broken
lines and disordered rigging; and as for the flying dragons,
they had all, like autumnal swallows, taken themselves away.

But there were many exceptions to these mournful signs of
decay. There still remained many Dalesmen with old-
fashioned dresses, and with cheerful, prosperous looks, among
the Sunday congregations at Dent ; but the ancient fashions

were wearing fast away1.
     " Let me here add a word or two on the domestic state

and habits of our countrymen, before their old social isolation

had been so much broken in upon by the improved roads and
rapid movements of modern times. With the exception of

                                         1 Memorial, pp. 57 -- 64.

22 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

certain festive seasons, their habits were simple, primitive, and
economical. The cottager had, as his inheritance, the labour
of his own hands and that of his wife and children : and, in
the good old times, that labour made him quite as inde

pendent as one of the smaller statesmen. In manners,

habits, and information, there was, in fact, no difference
between them. Even in the houses of the clergymen and of
the wealthier statesmen, there was kept alive a feeling of
fraternal equality; and, although external manners were more
formal and respectful than they are now, yet the servants,
men or maids, sat down at the dinner-table, and often at the

tea-table, with their masters and mistresses.
     " The dress of the upper statesman's wife and daughters

was perhaps less costly than that of the men who affected
fashion ; and according to modern taste we should call it
stiff and ugly to the last degree, as was the fashion of the day.
There was one exception however, both as to cost and beauty :
for the statesman's wife often appeared at Church in the winter
season in a splendid long cloak of the finest scarlet cloth,
having a hood lined with coloured silk. This dress was very
becoming, and very costly ; but it was carefully preserved ;
and so it might pass down from mother to daughter.
Fortunately, no genius in female decoration (like the Archers
and Blackburnes of the other sex) seemed to have brought
patches and hoops into vulgar use (as in the preposterous
modern case of crinoline).

     "Among the old statesmen's daughters hoops did however
sometimes appear, as one of the rarer sights of the olden time;

and I have heard an aged statesman's daughter tell of her

admiration, and perhaps her envy, when she saw a young
woman sailing down the Church with a petticoat that
stretched almost across the middle aisle. That decoration

shut her out from a seat on any of the Church forms ; but, by
a dexterous flank movement, she won a position among the

pews ; and then, by a second inexplicable movement, the

frame-work became vertical, and found a resting-place by

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.  23

overtopping the pew-door-- to the great amazement of the
rural congregation.

    "All the women, with very rare exceptions, learned to

read ; and the upper statesmen's daughters could write and
keep family accounts. They had their Bibles, and certain
good old-fashioned books of devotion ; and they had their
cookery-books; and they were often well read in ballad
poetry, and in one or two of De Foe's novels. And some of
the younger and more refined of the statesmen's daughters
would form a little clique, where they met -- during certain
years of last century--and wept over Richardson's novels.
But this sentimental portion was small in number; and it

produced no effect upon the rural manners of the valley ;
which were fresh and cheerful, and little tinged with any dash
of what was sentimental.

     "While speaking of the habits and manners of my country

women, I may remark that their industry had then a social

character. Their machinery and the material of their fabrics

they constantly bore about with them. Hence the knitters of
Dent had the reputation of being lively gossips ; and they
worked together in little clusters -- not in din and confinement
like that of a modern manufactory -- but each one following
the leading of her fancy; whether among her friends, or
rambling in the sweet scenery of the valley ; and they were
as notable for their thrifty skill as for their industry. And
speaking of both sexes, the manners of our countrymen may

have been thought rude and unpolished from lack of commerce

with the world ; and their prosperity in a former century may

sometimes have roused the envy, and the jests and satire,

of those who were less handy than themselves ; but for many

a long year theirs was the winning side.
     "Their social habits led them to form little groups of

family parties, who assembled together, in rotation, round one
blazing fire, during the winter evenings. This was called
ganging a Sitting to a neighbour's house; and the custom
prevailed, though with diminished frequency, during the early

24 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

years I spent in Dent. Let me try to give a picture of one of
these scenes in which I have myself been, not an actor, but a
looker-on. A statesman's house in Dent had seldom more

than two floors, and the upper floor did not extend to the
wall where was the chief fire-place, but was wainscoted off
from it. The consequence was, that a part of the ground-
floor, near the fire-place, was open to the rafters ; which

formed a wide pyramidal space, terminating in the principal

chimney of the house. It was in this space, chiefly under the

open rafters, that the families assembled in the evening.
Though something rude to look at, the space gave the
advantage of a good ventilation. About the end of the

17th century grates and regular flues began to be erected ;
but, during Dent's greatest prosperity, they formed the excep

tion, and not the rule.

     " Let me next shortly describe the furniture of this space
where they held their evening Sittings. First there was a
blazing fire in a recess of the wall ; which in early times was
composed of turf and great logs of wood. From one side of
the fire-place ran a bench, with a strong and sometimes
ornamentally carved back, called a lang settle. On the other
side of the fire-place was the Patriarch's wooden and well-
carved arm-chair ; and near the chair was the sconce' adorned
with crockery. Not far off was commonly seen a well-carved
cupboard, or cabinet, marked with some date that fell within a
period of fifty years after the restoration of Charles the
Second*; and fixed to the beams of the upper floor was a row
of cupboards, called the Cat-malison (the cat's curse) ; because,

     1 In north-country dialect, a low partition.
    2 Sedgwick notes: " One or two of the Belgian refugees, who had been driven
from London by the great Plague in 1664, are said to have found, for a while, a
home in Dent, and there to have practised their art of wood-carving ; and one of
them is said to have settled in Kirthwaite. The art of wood-carving, at any rate,

flourished within the period above indicated ; and I remember many good

specimens of it in the old statesmen's houses in Dent. The art existed, however,
in Dent at an earlier period. For there was, in my Father's time, at the old
parsonage, a set of oak bed-stocks, which he had brought from his birth-place.
They were vigorously though rudely carved, and had the date of 1532."

                           SITTINGS, KNITTING.

from its position, it was secure from poor grimalkin's paw.
One or two small tables, together with chairs or benches,
gave seats to all the party there assembled. Rude though

the room appeared, there was in it no sign of want. It had

many signs of rural comfort : for under the rafters were
suspended bunches of herbs for cookery, hams, sometimes for
export, flitches of bacon, legs of beef, and other articles salted
for domestic use.

     " They took their seats ; and then began the work of the
evening ; and with a speed that cheated the eye they went on
with their respective tasks. Beautiful gloves were thrown
off complete; and worsted stockings made good progress1.
There was no dreary deafening noise of machinery; but
there was the merry heart-cheering sound of the human
tongue. No one could foretell the current of the evening's
talk. They had their ghost-tales ; and their love-tales ; and
their battles of jest and riddles ; and their ancient songs of
enormous length, yet heard by ears that were never weary.
Each in turn was to play its part, according to the humour of
the Sitting. Or, by way of change, some lassie who was
bright and renable1 was asked to read for the amusement of
the party. She would sit down ; and, apparently without
interrupting her work by more than a single stitch, would
begin to read -- for example, a chapter of Robinson Crusoe. In
a moment the confusion of sounds ceased ; and no sound was
heard but the reader's voice, and the click of the knitting
needles, while she herself went on knitting: and she would
turn over the leaves before her (as a lady does those of her
music-book from the stool of her piano), hardly losing a
second at each successive leaf, till the chapter was done. Or,
at another and graver party, some one, perhaps, would read

a chapter from the Pilgrim's Progress. It also charmed all

    1 A less agreeable picture of this continual knitting is drawn in A true story of
the terrible knitters e' Dent, in Southey's Doctor, Inter-chapter xxiv. Vol. vii. p. 78,
ed. 1847. Miss Sedgwick remembers that boys and old men knitted as well as

women.
      Loquacious.

26 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

tongues to silence : but, as certainly, led to a grave discussion

so soon as the reading ceased.

    "In all the turns of life the habits of our countrymen were
gregarious. A number of houses within certain distances of

one another were said to be in the lating rd (the seeking row),
and formed a kind of social compact. In joy or sorrow they
were expected to attend, and to give help and comfort. To
follow this subject out would lead me into details too long for
my present purpose. But I may mention how it told upon
the customs of Dent, on occasions of great domestic joy.
Before the birth of a new inhabitant of the hamlet, all the

women of mature life within the lating rd had been on the
tip-toe of joyful expectation : and the news of the first wail
ing (the crying-out, as called in the tongue of Dent) -- the sign
of coming life-- ran through the home-circle like the fiery
cross of the Highlanders ; and, were it night or day, calm
sunshine, or howling storm, away ran the matrons to the
house of promise, and there, with cordials, and creature

comforts, and blessings, and gossip, and happy omens, and
with no fear of coming evil -- for the women of the valley
were lively, like the women in the land of Goshen -- they
waited till the infant statesman was brought into this world
of joy and sorrow, in as much publicity as if he were the heir
to the throne of an empire. This custom was upheld with
full tenacity during the younger years of my life1.

     " There were in ancient times, few observances in the

conduct of a funeral, which are not known at the present day.

Formerly, however, they kept a watch in the house, with
burning lights in the room of death. This passed under the
name of the Lyk-wake: but the custom had become very

rare, and I believe entirely went out before the end of the
last century ; and at no period of our history were there

hired professional ' mourning women, skilful in lamentation,'
as among the Jews of old, to give effect to the wailings of
sorrow. As a prevailing custom, many were ' bidden to the

                                        1 Memorial, pp. 68 -- 73.

FUNERALS, FESTIVITIES, HORSERACES.  27

funeral'; and there was a peculiar refreshment called the
arval, offered even at a poor man's funeral, before they went
with the coffin to the church ; and, after the interment, if the

mourning family belonged to the better class of statesmen,

those who had been bidden to the funeral had a dinner pro
vided at one of the inns, which the immediate mourners did

not attend. The fact is nothing new to my countrymen ; and

I only mention it now, because I have many times heard it
sneered at, and shamefully misrepresented. I never knew a

single case in which this truly kind and hospitable mode of

celebrating a funeral led to intemperance or abuse. It may

be better now to conduct a funeral with more quiet simplicity.

But so long as there was a large gathering of those who had

been the neighbours and friends of the deceased, there was

nothing unseemly in giving a poor man a dinner, for which

he was thankful, or in offering refreshment to friends who

had come from afar, and stood in need of it.
      " The festivities of Christmas, and other holiday seasons,

were kept up among our countrymen with long-sustained, and

sometimes, I fear, intemperate activity. They had their

morris-dances ; their rapier-dances ; and their mask-dances.

These grotesque and barbarous usages of a former age disap
peared a considerable time before the end of the last century.

I believe I saw the end of them full eighty years since, while
I was in my nurse's arms. Dent was long famous for its

Galloway ponies ; and its race-course had its celebrity in

former centuries. I believe I saw, in my very early boyhood,

the last race ever run upon the old course. Since then, the

old ground has been so cut up and changed, that, happily, it

would be impossible to re-open it as a race-course, were the

old taste to come to life again.

    " I should think myself ill-employed were I to dwell long

upon the by-gone vices and follies of my countrymen : but I
should be disloyal to the cause of truth were I only to hold
up to the light of day the fairer and brighter side of their

character. Among the vulgar sports of England, especially

28 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

during Shrovetide, were matches of game-cocks, which for
centuries had kept their place. Nowhere did this vile and
cruel sport flourish more than among the Dales of the north
of England. Men of character joined in it without compunc
tion ; and so thoroughly was it ingrained among the habits of
society, that the Masters of the chartered grammar-schools
received a Shrovetide fee from their scholars ; and in return
gave game-cocks to the boys, to be matched for the honour of
the school ! This fee (known by the boys as the cock-penny) is

given to the present day1; and I have paid it myself many

times. But, for about a century and a half, the Master has
ceased to give any return beyond an acknowledgement of

thanks. I have been present during some of these matches

as a looker-on in my early days (what school-boy will not get

into mischief if he can?); and I have witnessed their fruits;

which were reaped in gambling, quarrels, drunken riots, and
bellowings of blasphemy. Thank God, they have gone from

sight; and will never again, I trust, defile the light of day.

So far as Dent is concerned, this form of cruel sport died
away in the unhappy years that closed the last century.

    " In conclusion, I will add a few words more upon the

social decline of my countrymen, which no ingenuity on their
part could have averted ; for the gigantic progress of mechan
ical and manufacturing skill utterly crushed and swept away
the little fabric of industry that had been reared in Dent.
Many of the inhabitants gradually sunk into comparative
poverty. The silken threads that had held society together
began to fail; and lawless manners followed*.

     " Through all the years of my boyhood and early manhood,
the Magistrate, nearest to Dent, who acted for the West
Riding of Yorkshire, lived at Steeton (in the valley of the
Aire), which was about forty-two miles from Dent, and forty-
seven or forty-eight from Sedbergh. In those years several
well-educated men of ample fortune lived within the parish

                      1 This was written, it must be remembered, in 1868.
                      3 Memorial, pp. 74 -- 77.

ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.  29

of Sedbergh, but not one of them was in the Commission of
the Peace. Whether from want of patriotism, or love of ease,

or a too modest estimate of their own powers, they refused
the office. My Father, through all the vigorous years of
his very long life, refused to act as a Magistrate, believing
its duties inconsistent with those of a Parish Priest. My

brother John thought differently, and obtained his Com
mission soon after he became Vicar of Dent, to the real
benefit of the country. For he knew the people well ; knew

how to temper justice with mercy; and, without flinching from
his duty in its sometimes painful exercise, he was honoured,
trusted, and beloved ; and to the end of life was called the
poor man's friend --a character engraven on his monument by
those who knew him well1. The cost and trouble of seeking

justice put law for awhile in abeyance ; or, if a check were
put upon coarse manners and a disorderly life, it was some

times done in the way of lynch-law, like that which on

occasion has reigned in the back-settlements of America. I

could tell some tales of this kind that might raise a laugh ;
but in very truth they ought to be called tales of sorrow*.

    " I remember, one Sunday evening, when I was a young

school-boy, seeing a man in a brutal state of drunkenness,
tumbling and bellowing like a maniac among the graves and
tombstones of the church-yard, and challenging any one in
Dent to fight him. He was a man of very great strength, and
of considerable pugilistic skill, which he had gained in London,
where he had resided for some time with a relation, but had

been sent back to Dent for insubordination and intemperance.

When sober he was a good-tempered cheerful man, and a

(so-called) 'good companion'; but he had not one grain of
principle. He had learnt to regard sin as life's jest, and good

      1 Supplement, p. 30, note. The words of his epitaph, in Dent Church, here
 referred to, are : " His manners and temper were gentle and kind, And endeared
 him to all who were under his pastoral care : Nor did he forfeit their love while
 Faithfully discharging the duties of a magistrate, For he was merciful, as well as
just."

       * Memorial, p. 77.

30 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

manners as a mask or mockery, put on to serve a purpose.
When under excitement he became fierce and dangerous, and
for several years he was the terror of the Dale.

     " On the occasion just alluded to, the constable of the
parish came with a pair of handcuffs and one or two assist
ants to secure the drunken maniac. After looking at the

formidable brute for a few seconds, the constable said, ' If I
fix these things on, I dare not tak 'em off without ganging
to th' Justice, and that will cost the parish I kna not what.

He is oer drunk to be dangerous, and I'll give him a good

basting.' So he laid down the handcuffs upon a tombstone,
and being himself a man of activity and great strength, and

no mean artist, he had, in less than a minute, so pounded the
maniac's face that it lost all semblance of humanity, and the
monster, for a while, had got his quietus. The constable then
walked home with his handcuffs, cheered and thanked by his
neighbours for his cheap way of doing justice.

    "Of this strange scene, acted in our quiet village on a
Sunday evening, I was a witness. And on another occasion,
at one of our annual Fairs, I saw the same drunkard put in

handcuffs by the same constable. The day following, the

constable and his prisoner, and an assistant, each well
mounted, began their journey towards Steeton. The horses
required food ; the men regarded such excursions as a kind
of holiday-keeping, and lived well ; and the party could

not return before the third day. This was not called cheap
justice. The magistrates hated dealing with country brawls,
and often quashed the cases with the cheap benefit of some
good advice. And, if the case led to the prisoner's committal,
there were two more very long journeys for the parish officer,

and more cost for the parish1."
     " The great French Revolution seemed to shake the whole

fabric of society to its foundation ; and the shock was felt
even in the retired valleys of the north of England. But the
inhabitants of Dent, though sorely lowered in position, had

                                             1 Supplement, p. 31, note.

DEPRESSION, IMPROVEMENT.  3t

learnt no lesson of disloyalty. They burnt Tom Paine in
effigy -- a kind of fact sure to fasten itself upon the memory
of a boy; and one of the statesmen, who had inherited a

fortune far above any previously known in the valley, engaged
the parish singers, and others with lungs that were lusty and

loyal, to make nocturnal parades about the parish, singing

melodies like Rule Britannia and Hearts of Oak ; and when
the parade was over, they were allowed to crown the day
with squibs, crackers, loud cheers, and deep potations. Such

fooleries could do no good ; and they did much harm to

those who acted in them.
      " The war that followed brought new taxes, and increased

poor-rates ; and no new gleam of reviving hope shone upon

our countrymen. I was still living at the Parsonage at the
end of last century ; and I well remember the two years of

terrible suffering, when the necessaries of life were almost at

a famine price, and when many of the farmers and land
owners -- before that time hardly able to hold up their heads

--had to pay poor-rates that were literally more than ten
times the weight of what they had been in former years. It
was indeed a time of sorrow and great suffering. But I will

not end with notes of such a dismal sound.
      " Dent has again revived, and taken a new position.

Emigration has relieved the burthen of the five hamlets.

Education has made good progress. Roads are greatly

improved1. I remember some roads in Dent so narrow that

there was barely room for one of the little country carts to
pass along them ; and they were so little cared for, that,
in the language of the country, the way was as 'rough as

the beck staens.' I remember too when the carts and the

carriages were of the rudest character; moving on wheels
which did not revolve about their axle ; but the wheels and

their axle were so joined as to revolve together. Four strong

pegs of wood, fixed in a cross-beam under the cart, embraced

the axle-tree, which revolved between the pegs, as the cart

                                                     1 Memorial, pp. 77, 78.

32 SEDGWICK'S RECOLLECTIONS OF DENT.

was dragged on, with a horrible amount of friction that
produced a creaking noise, in the expressive language of the
Dales called Jyking. The friction was partially relieved by
frequent doses of tar, administered to the pegs from a ram's
horn which hung behind the cart. Horrible were the creakings
and Jykings which set all teeth on edge while the turf-carts or
coal-carts were dragged from the mountains to the houses of

the dalesmen in the hamlets below. Such were the carts that

brought the turf and the coals to the vicarage, during all the
early days of my boyhood. But now there is not a young
person in the valley who perhaps has so much as seen one of
these clog-wheels, as they were called ; and our power of
transport, to be more perfect, only wants a better line of
road, that might easily be made to avoid those steep inclines,
which are now a grievous injury to the traffic of the valley.
But, with all our modern advantages of transport, Dent has
lost the picturesque effect of its trains of pack-horses : and

many times, on a Sunday morning, I have regretted that I

could no longer see the old statesman riding along the rough
and rugged road, with his wife behind him mounted upon a

gorgeous family pillion ; and his daughters walking briskly
at his side, in their long flowing scarlet cloaks with silken

hoods1."

     The ancestors of Adam Sedgwick have been statesmen
of Dent for more than three centuries, but their origin, the
orthography of their name, and its etymology, have occasioned

many rival theories. In 1379 the name is spelt Syggheiswyk,
Scghewyk, Segheswyk1 ; in 1563 Seeggeswyke ; between 161 1
and 16 19 the parish registers of Dent give Sidgsweeke ; in
1624, Siddgswicke ; between 1645 and 1696, Sidgwick or

Sidgswick. Between 1700 and 1737 the name is entered

II.1 Supplement, p. 41.                                                    in

* From the rolls of the collectors of the subsidy granted to King Richard
the West Riding of Yorkshire 1378 -- 79, printed in The Yorkshire Archaeological
and Topographical Journal, Vol. v. pp. 1--51. These and the succeeding

references to the spelling of the name are due to the kindness of Arthur Sidgwick,

M.A., Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford.

           THE NAME SEDGWICK.                                          33

thirty-six times. Of these entries, two in 1701, and one in

1736, give Sidgwick; all the rest Sidgswick. The earliest
Sedgwick at Dent appears on the tomb of the Rev. James
Sedgwick, great-uncle to Adam Sedgwick, who died in 1780;

but in his register of baptism, 30 Sept. 1715, he is entered
as son of John Sidgswick. Adam Sedgwick maintained
that the spelling of the family name was deliberately changed

by this James Sedgwick, at the suggestion of the then Master
of Sedbergh school. On the other hand, a branch of the

family who had settled at Wisbech in the Isle of Ely called

themselves Scdgewick at the beginning of the seventeenth

century1, and they are said to have adopted a characteristic

crest, a bundle of sedge bound up in a form like that of a
wheat-sheaf. Hence it became natural to seek for the origin
of the family in 'a village built on fenny ground, with an
abundance of the water plant called sedge'; and Sedgwick
in Westmoreland, near the head of Morecambe Bay, was
fixed upon as the birth-place of the clan, from the similarity
of sound, though it does not fulfil the other conditions.

Adam Sedgwick rejects these theories for the following

reasons :                               iIs,     think, unknown in the
     " 1. Because the word sedge

dialect of the northern Dales.                               is      built
     " 2. Because the well-known village, Sedgwick,
                                                                 3 is
upon high and dry soil that washed by the beautiful waters3. aais it is
of the Kent, stream that runs brawling over the rocks.; it

     " Because the word Sedgwick does not give the sound
of the name as was uttered among the ancient inhabitants

of the mountains nor does come near to the spelling used

in former centuries. The name           is     at this time commonly
                                              a
pronounced Sigswick by the natives of the Dales'."
     The same information cast in more humorous form

in the following letter  :

21     Visitation of Cambridgeshire, made 1619 by Henry St George, Richmond
herald; printed by Sir Tho. Phillips, Middle Hill Press, 1840.

    Supplement, p. 18. Miss Sedgwick informs me that the name          still

commonly pronounced Sigsick.

    S.  L

34 THE NAME SEDGWICK.

''The Sidgwick you mention is of the Dent stock. His

great-grandfather was brother to my great-grandfather.  It
                                                        In
may be one step higher ; for I am a sorry genealogist.

the old Parish Register the spelling was always with two is.

My father's uncle altered the spelling, and adopted the

Cyclopic form (at the foolish suggestion of an old pedant of
Sedbergh School), when he was a boy. He afterwards

educated my father and sent him to College; and so it came

to pass that all my dear old father's brood were born with
the one i ; or at least were so dockited on all high-ways, and

in all post-towns.

    "The name is still pronounced (except where children's

tongues have been doctored by 'pupil teachers') Siggswick,
and has nothing to do with Sedge. Neither the name nor the

plant are known among my native hills1."

The etymology of the word Sedgwick has been most

kindly investigated by Professor Skeat, with the following
result. "There can be no doubt," he says, "that Sedgwick
was at first a place-name, and then a personal name. ' Wick '

is not a true Anglo-Saxon word, but simply borrowed from
the Latin nicus, a town, or village. ' Sedge," or ' Sedj ' or
' Sedg ' is simply the later spelling of the Anglo-Saxon secg.

Two distinct words were spelt thus : (1) the modern 'sedge' ;
(2) a word which has now become quite obsolete, but was

once in common use, like uir in Latin. It is a derivative from

secg-an, to say, and meant say-er, speak-er, orator, and generally

man, hero, warrior. It could easily be used as a personal

name, as ' man ' is now ; and Secg-wic is therefore a town

built by Mr Secg or Mr Mann, as we should say at the

present day*."

     When Sedgwick was making a geological tour in Saxony,
he met a gentleman who was both a geologist and an
antiquary. They fell into conversation about the etymology

     1 To Archdeacon Musgrave, 13 March, 1862.          is Secges-bearmoc, Le. Secg's-
     * In the same way Sedgeberrow, in Worcestershire,  which means Secg's-lea, not
grove; and Scdgeleigh, in Hampshire, is Secges-leah,
a sedge-lea.

THE NAME SEDGWICK.  35

of his name, and it was decided that it might originally have
been sieges-wick, ' village of victory ' ; whereupon, taking
into account the position of the village of Sedgwick, they
amused themselves by inventing the following story :

     " Soon after the abandonment of England by the Romans,
the Anglo-Saxons invaded the valley of the Kent, and settled
there after they had driven out the ancient Britons. Then
came successive crews of new invaders, Danes and Norsemen ;

and, during a lawless period, there were many conflicts
between the earliest settlers and the piratical crews, which
landed and were engaged in the highly exciting work of
burning, plundering, and cattle-lifting. On one of these
occasions, the plundering sea-rovers were repulsed by the
older Anglo-Saxon inhabitants, in a battle fought on the
banks of the Kent ; and the victory was commemorated, at
first perhaps by a heap of stones, and then by a village built
near the spot, which took the name of Siegeswick, or village
of victory1."

     Professor Skeat rejects this etymology, and Sedgwick did

not advance it seriously ; but, even if it be erroneous, it may

still be admitted that the hero who gave his name to the

village may have established his reputation by an achieve
ment not so very different from that which Sedgwick and
his friend invented ; and, in fact, there is still to be seen a
large cairn or tumulus near the village in question, under
which those who fell in some such raid may have been in
terred. Moreover the presence of northern invaders in old
days is amply attested by traces of their language still to be
met with in the dales.

      Here, however, we must leave these interesting specula
tions for the surer ground of legal documents still in the
possession of the Sedgwick family. From these it can be
ascertained that towards the end of the reign of Queen
Elizabeth a Sedgwick was in possession of an estate in Dent
called Bankland. His son Leonard, who owned, besides

                                                 1 Supplement, p. 19, note.

                                                                                            3--2

36 THE SEDGWICK FAMILY.

Bankland, a second property in Dent, called Gibshall, had
twin sons. The elder of these inherited Bankland, the
younger Gibshall, of which, at the end of the seventeenth
century, a John Sedgwick was in possession. He was a man
of energy ; and, having a grove of oak trees on his property,
turned tanner, and realised a handsome fortune out of their
bark. He had two sons, Thomas, born 1705, who followed
his father's trade, and James, born 17 16, who took Holy
Orders, and became Master of the endowed Grammar-school

at Horton in Ribblesdale. The former, grandfather to
Adam Sedgwick, had an only child, Richard, born 7 March,
1736. He was educated at Dent Grammar School until the
age of fifteen or thereabouts, when he was sent to his uncle at
Horton for more advanced instruction. After spending some
months at Horton, he was removed to the school at Sedbergh,
at the suggestion of his uncle, who has the further credit of
having persuaded his brother to give his son the benefit of
a University education. But, as he had not enjoyed that
privilege himself, while Mr Wynne Bateman, then Master of

the school, had graduated at St John's College, Cambridge,
in 1734, it is surely more probable that the step was taken
in consequence of his advice. Be that as it may, Richard
Sedgwick, after a few months instruction in mathematics
from Mr John Dawson of Garsdale (of whom more below),
matriculated at Cambridge in 1756 as a sizar of St Catharine's

College, or, as it was then called, Catharine Hall. It has

been recorded that before starting he bought a horse, rode
it to Cambridge, and there sold it at a profit. There was
nothing unusual in this at that time. His cousin, another
Richard Sedgwick, went up to St John's College, Cambridge,
in the following year in the same manner ; and when
Mr Paley, Master of Giggleswick School, took his son to
Cambridge in 1758, he rode on horseback, with the boy on a
pony beside him. The future archdeacon was a "bad rider,
and at first got a good many falls. His father paid but little

attention to his misfortunes, merely turning his head and

                 THE SEDGWICK FAMILY.  37

exclaiming: "What, William, off again! Take care of thy
              "
money,  lad
             !

Richard Sedgwick proceeded to the degree of Bachelor of

Arts in 1 760, when he was placed seventh in the second class of

the Mathematical Tripos. He was ordained in that year or the

next, and from 1761 to 1768 held the curacy of Amwell near
Hoddesdon in Hertfordshire. He was also assistant-master

in a boarding-shool at Hoddesdon, kept by Dr James Bennet,
a gentleman of some distinction in the literary world, for he

not only published an edition of Roger Ascham's English

works, but obtained the collaboration of Dr Samuel Johnson,

who is said to have written for him a life of the author and a

dedication to the Earl of Shaftesbury. In 1766 Sedgwick
married Dr Bennet's daughter Catherine, and in 1768 was

presented to the living of Dent by the patrons, twenty- four of

the leading statesmen of the Dale-- a strong proof of the

popularity of the family, for they could have known little or

nothing of him personally. His young wife accompanied her

husband to Dent, where she died before the end of the

summer (31 July, 1768), leaving one child, who survived her
mother for some years. After her death (28 June, 1777) her

father married a distant cousin, Margaret Sturgis, by whom

he had seven children: Margaret (1782), Thomas (1783),

Adam (1785), Isabel (1787), Ann (1789), John (1791), James

(1794)-

     The names of Adam Sedgwick's brothers and sisters will

occur so frequently in the course of our narrative that it will

be best to mention in this place the leading events in the

lives of each of them. Margaret married late in life a distant

cousin, the Rev. John Mason, Vicar of Bothamsall in Notting
hamshire, and chaplain to the Duke of Newcastle. She

became a widow, 29 October, 1844, and returned to Dent,
where she resided till her death, 13 January, 1856. Thomas
passed his whole life in Dent, and died, unmarried, 19 Sep
tember, 1873, aged 90. Isabel died unmarried, 18 January,
1823. Ann married, 22 September, 1820, Mr William Westall,

38 SEDGWICICS FATHER.

an artist of considerable reputation in his day, and died in
1862. John was admitted a sizar of St John's College in 18 10,
and proceeded to the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 18 14, but
without obtaining Honours. He was ordained immediately
afterwards, and became curate of Stowe in Lincolnshire.
Ultimately, in 1822, he succeeded his father as Vicar of Dent,
an office which he held till his death, 9 February, 1859.
James, like his brother, was admitted a sizar of St John's
College, Cambridge in 181 3, and proceeded to the degree of
Bachelor of Arts in 18 17. He was not deficient in ability, and
it was hoped that he might take a good degree, and perhaps
be elected to one of the Fellowships then appropriated to
Sedbergh School. But he lacked industry ; was placed no
higher in the Tripos than sixth in the third class, and subse
quently failed in the Fellowship Examination. Soon after
taking his degree he was ordained, and in March, 1818,
became curate of Freshwater in the Isle of Wight, where he
remained until June, 1839. He then removed to Downham
Market in Norfolk, and in 1840 was presented by the Dean
and Chapter of Norwich to the vicarage of Scalby near
Scarborough. He died, 28 August, 1869.

     No son ever spoke or wrote of his father with greater love
and respect than Adam Sedgwick; and, when it is remem
bered that the old man lived till 1828, when his son was

forty-three years of age, everything that he says about his
public character, his management of the parish, and his

influence in the dale, may be accepted as the deliberate

judgment of one man by another. Numerous allusions to
him, and anecdotes illustrating the fervid religious feeling,
tempered by sound common-sense, for which he was so
remarkable, will be found scattered through the letters printed
below. For the present we will select the following passages
from the Memorial and its Supplement. They are not only
interesting in themselves, but reveal the source of many of
the convictions which were most deeply engrained in his son's

character.

MR WILBERFORCE.  39

    " When in my childhood I saw, on a Sunday morning,

the ample convexity of my father's well-dressed and well-
powdered wig, I thought it one of the most beautiful sights

in the world. I remember too, as he went, with his usual

light step, towards the church, and saluted his friends who

were come to join in the sacred services of the day, that each
head was uncovered as he passed. They loved my Father,
because by birth he was one of themselves, and because of
his kindness and purity of life. They were proud of him too,
because he was a graduate of the University of Cambridge,

and had been living in good literary society some years before
he fixed his home in Dent. Part of his influence arose, also,
from the reputation of his skill in athletic exercises ; and
from a principle of action which he carried out through his
long life -- never to allow his conception of his sacred duties
to come, on questions of moral indifference, into a rude

collision with the habits and prejudices of the valley. The

consequence was that he held an almost unbounded influence

over his flock. Of this I will mention one example ; for
it deserves notice as a fact of which it would be in vain to

look for a match in the present condition of the Church of

England.

    " Some years before I ever saw the light there was an
unexpected contest for the county of York. Mr Wilberforce,

a young man of bright presence and great eloquence, was
then first named as a candidate ; and he had even then

become famous as an enthusiastic advocate for the abolition
of the Slave Trade. This fact set every chord of my father's
heart in motion. He consulted his early friends, the good old
Quakers in Kirthwaite, and his other friends in all the five
hamlets ; and he personally canvassed the valley from house
to house. Then at least the inhabitants of the valley formed

an united Christian brotherhood. At that time the free
holders abounded, and every vote was pledged for Mr Wilber

force. Soon afterwards came a solicitor to canvass on the

other side ; but he soon left his canvass, finding himself

4 SEDGWICICS FATHER.

unable to advance a single step. For wherever he asked for

a vote the reply was, Nae use Sir, we d here gang w1 th

Parson. So the solicitor left the field ; mounted his horse at

the door of the Sun Inn ; and, uttering an anathema, cried

out aloud, that Dent was "the  Priest-ridden hole in

England1."

    " Great injustice should I do to the memory of my Father,
were I to describe him as turning his influence as a Parish

Priest to serve the purposes of a political movement. The

Slave Trade he regarded as a foul national sin, which (how
ever deep its roots might be struck into the policy of the

State) every man, who believed in the over-ruling Providence
of God, was bound, by all lawful means within his reach, to

root out and trample under-foot. The influence he had over

the minds of his flock rested on his humble teaching of
Gospel truth ; on the cheerful simplicity of his life ; and on

his readiness, at every turn and difficulty, to be in true

Christian love an adviser and a peace-maker.
     " Were then the inhabitants of Dent, in any high sense,

religious men during the old times of their prosperous

industry ? They were honourable in their dealings, active in

their daily work, steady in the external observances of the

Church Services, and without the bitterness of controversial

spirit. They had an ancient custom which I may mention
here, (and many times when I have thought of it I have

felt sorrow that it had ever been abandoned), of assembling

and holding a Communion in the Church at a very early

hour on Easter Sunday morning. The custom had come

down to them from ancient times, --probably before the

Reformation. There was nothing superstitious in such an

observance ; and it was well fitted to touch the conscience

     1 This story refers to the general election of April 1784, when Parliament

had been dissolved on the recommendation of Mr Pitt. Mr Wilberforce, then a

young man of 25, successfully contested the county of York, with Mr Duncombe,
in opposition to Mr Weddell and Mr Foljambe, the nominees of the great Whig
families. Life of Wilberforce, by his sons. 8vo. London, 1838: i. 50 -- 64.

       OLD CUSTOMS OF THE DALE.                               4i

of any one who believed in his heart that his Saviour had,

at an early hour, as on that day, triumphed over the grave,

and opened to the race of fallen man the gate of everlasting

life.

       "They had some customs that raised in their hearts no

reproach of conscience, but which in our day would, by

many, be thought inconsistent with the conduct of a man

who professed to be leading a Christian life. I will mention
one notorious example. It had been a custom, dating from a
period, I believe, long before the time of James the First, for

the young men of Dent to assemble after Sunday Evening

Service, and finish the day by a match at foot-ball. My

father might perhaps have put down this ancient custom ;
but he did not interfere, because he thought the contest, if

carried on in good-will, tended to health and cheerfulness :

and he knew well that it was not thought sinful or indecorous
by the old inhabitants of Dent. He dreaded, too, the acts of

intemperance and drunkenness which might arise out of the

sudden suppression of a generous and healthy exercise in the

open field.

    "There was often at the old Parsonage, on a Sunday

evening, a small tea-party for those whose homes were distant
from the Church ; and, later in the evening, my Father read,

to a small assembled circle, from some serious book  ;      might

                                                      (it
                                                          it
be an extract from one of Bishop Wilson's sermons) and the
little service ended with short family prayer. Now was
       1
by no means unusual for one, who had been contending
              a
robustly in the foot-ball match, to come and join in the grave

and quiet Sunday evening Service at the Parsonage and the;
only kind of question the old Pastor ever asked was one

which expressed his trust that the game had gone on in

cheerfulness and good-will1."
     " Athletic sports were held in rivalry by different parishes,

and were conducted with great spirit. Matches at leaping,
foot-racing, wrestling, and foot-ball, were all in fashion among

       Memorial, pp. 64-- 68.

42 FOOTBALL MATCH.

the Dalesmen. But the victory of the foot-ball match was

regarded as the crowning glory of the rural festival. My

father never opposed such games, because he thought

they promoted health, temperance, and good social temper.

The spirit of parochial rivalry sometimes, however, led to

mischief; and in some rare instances the games were carried

on with a savage energy.

    " I remember an occasion, in my very early life, when one

of the old statesmen, John Mason of Shoolbred, came in

great haste and out of breath into the Vicarage, and wished

to see my father. ' I hope you will kindly come and help

us,' he said, 'or there will be mischief at the field-sports in

the Great Holm. At a late parochial meeting there was a

sad accident, which led to mutual charges of foul-dealing.

Several of us have been asking them to pledge their word,

as true men, that all shall be done fairly and kindly; but

their blood is up, and they refused with scorn, till one of

the men cried out, 'We will play fairly if Mr Sedgwick will

come and be the umpire of the foot-ball match.' ' I will go
with all my heart,' said my Father, ' that I may be a peace
maker ; and I should like to see the game. Come, Adam,

take my hand, and you shall walk with me to the foot-ball

match.' I right willingly obeyed the order; and though

more than eighty years have passed away since that day, yet

I remember standing on the high embankment by the river

side, and my father's figure at this moment seems to be
Iliving before my mind's eye.
                               remember his cheerful coun

tenance, beaming with kindness, and lighted by the flush of

health ; his broad-brimmed hat, looped at the sides in a way

that told of a former fashion ; his full-bottomed wig, well-

dressed and powdered ; and his large silver shoe-buckles ; all

of them objects of my childish admiration. But what I wish

most to notice was the respectful manner of the crowd.

Many of them came to thank my Father, and each one

spoke with uncovered head. Harmony and good-will were

restored to the excited combatants, and the great foot-ball

           OLD AGE OF RICHARD SEDGWICK.               43

match went on and ended in joyful temper and mutual

good-will1."
     To these reminiscences may be added another, told by

Sedgwick in the presence of Miss Lucy Brightwell, daughter
of Mr Brightwell of Norwich, and written down by her shortly

afterwards.

" During one of the last visits the Professor paid to my dear

father, then nearly blind from cataract, he was led to mention his
own father, who had been similarly afflicted. He told us how the
good old man was honoured and loved in his old age ; and concluded

with the following story.

One of his parishioners, an ungodly-minded man who had no

faith in the Scriptures, called one day at the Vicarage ; and, being

directed to find his way to the study, came unawares upon the aged
pastor, whom he heard (as he supposed) conversing. He waited
and listened, and found that the converse was in truth Prayer.
' My father,' said Professor Sedgwick, ' being absorbed in feeling,

was unconsciously uttering aloud the breathings of his soul before
his Maker. The man remained spell-bound for some minutes, and
           away, without saying   a word. But he
then went  him of the reality of  religion -- he had  had heard what
convinced                                             found true and

genuine faith, and from that moment ceased to be an unbeliever.'

The Professor, as he told this, was weeping, and we were ready to

weep with him."

     During the last twenty years of his life Richard Sedgwick
was afflicted with total blindness, and was in consequence
obliged to keep a curate. But he knew the different services
of the church by heart, and generally took part in them.
Those who remember him record that it was especially
touching to see and hear him when conducting the service for
the Burial of the Dead. Led by one of his sons, or by a
friend, he would meet the mourners at the gate of the church
yard, and precede them into the church. He had a clear
voice, very sweet in its tones, and pronounced the Lesson
in a tone of triumphant exultation, which never failed to

make a deep impression on the congregation ; and, when they
came to the grave, the prayers were not read, but prayed.

" My father," Sedgwick wrote in 1829, "was a very happy old
man, and over and over again said that his blindness was a

                           1 Supplement, pp. 42, 43.

44 DEATH OF RICHARD SEDGWICK.

blessing, as it made him more religious and more fit to die.
In the last years of his life he was, out of all comparison, the

most perfect moral creature I have ever had the happiness of

knowing1."

     In 1822 he resigned the Living, and went, with his eldest
son and daughter, to live at Flintergill, a small house at no
great distance from the Parsonage, where he died, 14 May,
1828. His son has recorded that "he was cheerful and happy
to his last day, and died as quietly as a child goes to sleep in
a cradle'."

                             1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 7 February, 1829.
                         s To Miss Kate Malcolm, 16 April, 1849.

CHAPTER II.

                                          (1785--1804.)

Birth of Adam Sedgwick. Childhood and boyhood at Dent.
      Love of his native Dale. His sister Isabella. Goes

      TO SCHOOL AT SeDBERGH. HlS MASTER AND SCHOOLFELLOWS.
      Selection of a College at Cambridge. Reads mathe

     matics with Mr Dawson. Account of him.

Adam Sedgwick was born at the vicarage of Dent, early                                 ,7g5.
                                                                                      ^Et. 1.
in the morning of the 22nd March, 1785. The surgeon who
attended his mother was Mr John Dawson of Sedbergh,
already celebrated as a mathematician, as mentioned in the

previous chapter, but still compelled by poverty to follow the

more lucrative profession of a general medical practitioner.

Sedgwick always took a singular pleasure in recording, both

in conversation and in writing, the circumstances under which

he came into the world, and his letters contain several versions

of them. Of these by far the most graphic and humorous
occurs at the end of a letter to Mr Charles Lyell of Kinnordy,
father of the geologist. He had been one of Mr Dawson's

pupils, and had written to Sedgwick urging him to draw up

a memoir of him, and asking for some information respecting

his life and writings1. "A fourth sheet! I had no notion
that I had finished a third till I tried to find a blank page.
Well ! as I have a blank page, I will tell you of my very first

     1 The rest of the letter, dated 26 January, 1847, is printed below, pp. 61 --69
A few details have been added from a letter to Miss F. Hicks, 28 March, 1841 .

          46 BIRTH.

1785.     acquaintance with our old Master, and I will tell it you as

      '-  nearly as I can in his own words: 'On the 21st of March,

          1785, I was called to attend your mother. The night was
          tempestuous, and I had much difficulty in making my way to
          Dent through the thick snow ; and when I got to the old

          vicarage I found that my difficulties were not over. The

          moment was critical ; and though you seemed anxious to

          show your face in the world, you were for doing it in a

          strange preposterous way.' Here he referred me laughing to

          an early page of Tristram Shandy. I' So sent ' said he ' your

          Father's servant to knock up old Margaret Burton to help me

          to keep you in order.' She was a celebrated midwife, of

          firmer nerves than the old mathematician. Between them

          the work was done, and by hook or by crook, I was ushered

          into the world at about 2 o'clock, a.m. on March 22nd, 1785.

          I was then carried downstairs, in old Margaret's apron,

          to the little back-parlour, where my Father was sitting in

          some anxiety, as he had been told that his youthful son was

          beginning life badly, and not likely to take good ways.

          Margaret threw back the corners of her apron and cried out :

          ' Give you joy, Sir, give you joy ! a fine boy, Sir, as like you

          Sir, as one pea is to another.' My Father looked earnestly

          at me for a moment or two, kissed me, and then, turning to

          the old midwife exclaimed : ' Like me do you say, Margaret,
                                                 '
          why  he  is  as  black  as  a  toad  !    ' Oh ! Sir ! don't speak ill of

          your own flesh and blood, if I have any eyes in my head he

          is as white as a lily,' she replied, much shocked, while old Mr

          Dawson shook his sides, as much, I dare say, as he did when

          he told me the story. To stumble on the threshold was of

          old counted a bad sign, and what I have told you may be

          the reason why I am sticking as a Senior Fellow without

          getting on in the world."

          Sedgwick's complexion, though not so black as to justify

          his father's comparison, was still extremely dark. He in

          herited it from his mother. Mrs Burton acted as nurse to

          young Adam for a short time, but she died when he was still

                                                                    47

quite a boy, and he lost sight of her family for many years.                     1785 to
In 1840, however, an accident made him acquainted with her                        1793'

great-granddaughter, and they soon became sworn friends on
the strength of their common obligations to the skill of the

same person1.

     As a child, Adam was active and merry, fond of play, and
given to tearing his books rather than reading them. When
he was five years old, his godfather Mr Parker, then Master
of the Grammar School at Dent, gave him a new and
handsomely bound spelling-book, which the little fellow
thought too good to be torn. So he set to work, and soon
learnt to read it. Like his father before him, he was sent,

probably at a very early age, to the public grammar-school,
to be educated with the other boys of the Dale. Mr Parker
was much attached to his godson; and in the summer of 1793,
when Adam was eight years old, he took him, riding behind
him on horseback, to visit his friends at Hesket-Newmarket in
Cumberland. The events of this summer made an indelible

impression upon Sedgwick's memory. He refers to it again
and again in his letters, and always with pleasure. He was
shown Carlisle, and remembered that at that time the old

walls were standing, and that he had walked all round the

city on the ramparts; and he spent a few days at Scaleby
Castle, an old place of strength about six miles from Carlisle8,
the occupier of which was Mr Fawcett, a distant cousin.
But the most delightful reminiscences of all occur in a letter
which he wrote in 1853 for the amusement of one of his
nieces, who had just been revisiting her birthplace, the Isle of
Wight. " We all delight," he says, " to revisit the scenes of
our childhood. Such visits produce emotions, some cheerful
and some sorrowful, that do our hearts good, and they

ought to teach us healthy lessons. I almost envy you

the pleasure of your visit to the sweet Island of your child

     1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 23 March, 1840.                           were pulled
    a To Miss Fanny Hicks, 18 April, 1849. The walls of Carlisle
down in 181 1. Life of Isaac Milner, 8vo. Cambridge, 1843, p. 453-

           48 VISITS CUMBERLAND.

1793.      life. When I was a child of eight years old I spent the
       8-
           summer vacation at Hesket, a small village between Penrith
           and Carlisle. My schoolmaster took me home with him
           during his summer holidays, and the Grand Turk does not

           think himself half so great a man as I then thought myself.
           Exactly thirty years afterwards, I landed one Saturday

           evening at Hesket, during my geological tour in 1823. The

           old man who kept the Inn when I was a child was still
           living ; and I remembered him by this token, namely, that
           he had pulled my ears because I had, with a lad older than

           myself, caught his turkey-cock, and pulled some beautiful

           feathers out of its tail. I quite rejoiced to see the old man. I
           forgave the ear-pulling which I had deserved, and he had quite
           forgotten my theft of the feathers. Next day I went to church.
           A woman opened the door of a pew, and when I looked round
           I saw that it was the very seat I used to sit in during my visit

           in 1793 -- the year the king of France was beheaded, you

           know. Of course I knew no one, but I observed that the

           well-looking middle-aged woman who had received me into

           her pew went to the house where my old school-master lived.

           So I followed her, and she proved to be the sister of my

           master --a young woman who in 1793 was very kind to me.
           I was very sentimental all that day, and in the evening drove

           to Penrith1."

                When they got home to Dent, Mr Parker told Mr Sedgwick
           how much everybody had been struck by his son's powers of

           observation.

                Soon after this, Mr Parker left Dent", and Mr Sedgwick

           was solicited by the Governors of the school to undertake the

           Mastership, with one or more under-masters to assist him.

           After some hesitation he consented, and taught his own boys

           along with his other scholars. About Adam's progress tradi
           tion is silent ; but as, in after years, his knowledge of Greek

               1 To the same, 27 July, 1853.                                  To Rev. W.
               2 In 1812 Sedgwick went to stay with him "near Macclesfield".
           Ainger, 14 February, 18 12.

       BOYHOOD.     49

and Latin was superior to that of most men as distinguished 1793 to

^ ^in mathematics as himself, it may be safely assumed that he                     ,

worked hard ; and that he had been well grounded, in the

first instance by his godfather, who was a clever man, and

afterwards by his father, who is said to have been a very good

scholar, and whose early experience under Dr Bennet would

now stand him in good stead.

    It is an old story that the boy is father to the man ; and

it is interesting to find that the portrait which family tradition

has drawn of Adam Sedgwick as a boy would be true had it

been drawn of him when he was grown up. He did not give

any special promise of future intellectual power, but he was

remarkable, we are told, for a frank, genial disposition ; he

was full of fun and high spirits ; he delighted in rambling

over the fells and climbing the hills which bound his native

dale ; his powers of observation were great ; and he had a

plentiful share of sound practical common-sense. He was

also distinguished for undeviating truthfulness in all that

he said and did. Among his brothers and sisters and school

fellows, if Adam said a thing was so, there was no further

question about the matter. " I almost lived out of doors," --
he said in conversation with Mr J. W. Salter1 --"at fourteen
years old I was trusted with a gun, and coursed over the

heathy moors the whole autumn day. I believe I was a
tolerably good shot. I was a fisherman too at this age, and

was particularly careful to obtain the exact feathers which

were considered the most killing flies for trout, grayling, etc.

Nor, though I ought to confess it with some reluctance, --
save that I never had an unworthy selfish thought in the

matter beyond the joy of sport--was I quite free from the

     1 Mr Salter accompanied Sedgwick to North Wales in 1842 and 1843, and
afterwards prepared under his direction A Catalogue of the collection of Cambrian
and Silurian Fossils contained in the Geological Museum of the University of
Cambridge., 4to. Cambridge, 1873. While engaged upon this work he persuaded
Sedgwick to dictate to him a few reminiscences of his early life, apparently with

the intention of preparing a complete biography ; but ill-health and other en

gagements prevented the completion of the task.

S. I.            4

                              RECOLLECTIONS OF 1745.

171s93''to  crime of poaching. Old  and I were great friends, and

,            many a night have I met him by appointment to try our

             Iflies, and our snares for rabbits, hares, and pheasants.

             believe he always had the game ; the sport was quite enough

             for me. But to this day I like to hear the click of a fowling-
             piece; and, as I pass a mountain burn, I can scarcely help

             speculating in what holes the trout may be lying.

                 " But I did not quite forget the rocks and the fossils.

             One of my early employments on a half-holiday when nutting

             in Dent woods, was, as I well remember, collecting the con

             spicuous fossils of the mountain-limestone on either side of

             the valley. It was not till many years afterwards that I

             understood its structure, but these early rambles no doubt

             aided to establish a taste for out-door observations."

                  These geological reminiscences must be received with
             a certain caution, partly because Mr Salter was not suffici

             ently well acquainted with the district to follow Sedgwick's

             descriptions of  partly because even the most truthful of
             ;

                              it,
                                                                                                            a
             men cannot help imparting to events which happened in their

             early years the colouring derived from fuller study at later
             period still, as Sedgwick could hardly have drawn upon his

             imagination, even in extreme old age, for the whole story, the

             record has been thought worth preserving in this place.
                  As might be expected from the recollections of Dent in

             former days which have been printed in the previous chapter,
             he loved to talk with the old statesmen, and to hear their

             stories of the Scotch incursions, and of the rebellion of 1745.
             Some of them, his father among the number, had been at

             Kendal in that eventful year, and seen the disorderly retreat
             of the remnant of the Pretender's army. Two incidents of

             the '45 can fortunately be reproduced almost in the words

             in which Sedgwick used to tell them.
                  " When was boy there was living at Dent certain
             I

                            a
                                                                                  a

                                                                                              a
             Matthew Potts, whom we lads looked up to as hero, because,

             when he was an apprentice, he and another lad ran away

             from their masters, and followed the fortunes of the Scottish

             BATTLE OF THE MLE.

army on their retreat northward. They were witnesses of '793 to
                                                                                                  -
             of Clifton              Penrith,
                                                                                    S,,TL.l. 8 -- It.
the  battle              Moor  near            which  Scott  -has

described in Waverley, and Potts carried off from the battle

field a broadsword, a target, and a tortoise-shell comb stolen

from the body of a young Highland off1cer. The young

scamps lived by milking the cows they found upon the

moors ; and they grew so familiar with scenes of battle that

they boasted of having set a dead Highlander astride of a

stone-wall with a pebble in his mouth to keep it open."

     "When the Highlanders marched through Kendal they

were very badly shod, and laid hands on all the boots and
shoes they could find. One of them went into the stables of

the King's Arms and appropriated a pair of boots belonging

to the ostler, who was out of the way. As the thief was

lagging behind his comrades to put on his ill-gotten spoils,

he was overtaken by the owner of the boots, a truculent

fellow, who ran him through with a pitchfork and killed him

on the spot. My father, who was a boy of ten years old at

the time, knew the ostler well, and had often heard the story.
I think the histories record that a soldier of the Duke of

Perth's regiment met with his death at Kendal, but say
nothing of the manner of it1."

     The old men of the village were delighted to have the

bright boy as a listener, and used to speak of him afterwards

to his father as 'a lad aboon common'. We can readily

imagine that "Adam o' the Parson's," as he was called in

the dialect of Dent, soon became a leader of the lads of his

own age; but the only records of his youthful prowess that

have come down to us are both connected with bonfires.

The first of these incidents befel in 1798, when Sedgwick
was thirteen. " I well remember," he wrote in 1863, " the day

that brought to my native valley the news of the battle of the

Nile, and we contrived (for the schoolmaster gave us a
holiday) to pile up such a heap of turf, sticks, and tar-barrels,

     1 These stories were told by Sedgwick, about a fortnight before his death, to

W. Aldis Wright, M.A. now Fellow and Vice-Master of Trinity College.

                                                          4-2

            52 VISITS DURHAM.

1793 to that we had nearly set the village of Dent on fire1." The

Ait  8- 16  other was an annual celebration.                             In 187 1, having occasion  to
            write a letter to Canon Selwyn                             on the fifth of November,    he

            began as follows : " This was, in my younger days at Dent, a

            day of joy -- a holiday, a hunt, and a bonfire. I was busy,

            with my schoolfellows, a good part of the day in gathering

            logs of wood, collecting turf, and breaking hedges, with

            loyalty to King George, and detestation of the Pope and

            Jesuits. We clubbed from our poor purses, and sturdily

            begged of those who had a little to spare, to raise a stock to
            purchase tar-barrels -- each of which cost about eight-pence --

            and finally used to put old Dent into such a blaze that there

            was a serious risk of our turning the village itself into a

            bonfire*."

            An interesting anecdote respecting this period has been

            preserved by family tradition. When Adam was about
            twelve years old, the conveyance of a farm in Dent to the

            trustees of a charity had to be executed by some gentlemen

            who resided in the north of the county of Durham. There

            upon a formidable difficulty presented itself. By what means

            were the indispensable signatures to be obtained, and the

            deeds brought back to Dent in safety? Said one of the

            trustees : " If anybody can be depended upon, it is Adam

            Sedgwick ; and I, for one, am quite willing to entrust the
            deeds to his care, if his father will let him go." Mr Sedgwick,

            to the boy's great delight, made no objection ; and mounted
            on his father's mare " Bet ", Adam rode off all alone, with
            the precious deeds secured in saddle-bags. He came back at

            the end of a week with the deeds in safety, all properly signed

            and sealed.

            Such an expedition as this, taken together with the sense

            of importance conferred by would have gratified any boy
                         *1

                                                   it,

                                                                    5
            of spirit and intelligence. But, keenly as Adam admired
            new scenes and fresh objects of interest, we do not hear that

                         To Dean Trench, 21 April, 1863.
                         To Canon Selwyn, November, 1871.

LOVE OF HOME.  53

he was fired with any special ambition to leave his native        1793 to
                                                                          '
dale, and try his fortune in the great world beyond it. A few

years later, when he had tasted the sweets of University life,

he was apt to find Dent somewhat dull ; and in middle life he

had other objects of interest, and perhaps thought less of his
home than of those who lived there. But, when he became

an old man, all his boyish fondness for the place returned to

him, and he has left many a charming description of its
scenery, and of his own feelings towards it. Here is one,
written from Dent to Lady Augusta Stanley, 3 July, 1865,
which recalls his young days there with singular vividness.

    " I wish I could, for a minute or two, transport you to this

place. Not so much that you might look at my rugged old

face, as that you might gladden your eyes by gazing over the
sweet scenery of this rich pastoral valley. The home scenery

is delicious ; and glowing at this moment (6.30 a.m.) with the
richest light of heaven ; and from the door of this old home

of my childhood I can look down the valley, and see, blue in

the distance, the crests of the Lake Mountains which rear

their heads near the top of Windermere. All around me is
endeared by the sweet remembrances of early life. For here
I spent my childhood and my early boyhood, when my

father and mother and my three sisters and three brothers

were all living in this old house. Our home was humble ;

but we were a merry crew ; and we were rich in health, and
rich in brotherly love. Forgive me for going on at this rate.

I think you are a lover of rural scenery ; and indeed when I
return to Dent I feel again as if I were in my true home -- and
I quite naturally talk and think of the joys of boyhood, and

begin ' to babble of green fields '."
      Fond as Sedgwick was of his brothers and sisters collect

ively, his chosen friend and companion was his sister Isabella,

who, it will be remembered, was just two years younger than

himself. She died in 1823, and when we come to that part of

his life, we shall see how passionately he mourned her loss.
Nor did his sorrow diminish as time went on. Throughout

          54 HIS SISTER ISABELLA.

  1801.   his life he cherished her memory with the tenderest affection,
a-a. 16.
          and his letters of sympathy to friends in trouble frequently
          contain allusions to her, and to their early days together. For

          instance, in 1 849, twenty-six years after her death, he wrote

          to a lady who had just lost her own sister : " I can feel for
          your great sorrow. I once lost a sister, the dearest of all my

          sisters, and the darling companion of all my early years.

          She was a woman of most placid temper, yet of great personal

          courage. We had our little squabbles about our toys when

          children ; but after we reached our teens I think I never heard

          so much as a word from her lips that was not spoken in

          kindness. Her death was a grievous blow to me, and I never

          visit my native hills without being reminded of her at every
          turn1." And again, writing in 1864 to the mother of one of
          his numerous godchildren: "My especial love to my dear god

          child. I rejoice to know that she is a jolly tomboy. That

          shows that she has good spirits, good health, and the right

          use of her limbs. I had a sister, not quite a year younger

          than myself. When a young girl she was my never-failing

          companion ; and I taught her, in our wild valley of Dent,
          all sorts of boys' tricks. For example, she would run like a

          monkey up a tree to peep into a magpie's nest. The effect of
          this training gave her excellent robust health -- and it matured
          her sweet natural temper -- and when she grew up she was a

          mild, gently feminine, unselfish person, beloved by everyone.
          May my dear god-daughter have health and temper like that

          of my beloved tomboy and my darling sister, and may God

          bless her with a longer life*."

               When Sedgwick was sixteen he was sent to the Grammar-
          School at Sedbergh, the mastership of which was then in the

          gift of St John's College, Cambridge. At that time the post
          was held by the Rev. William Stevens, a former fellow of that

               1 To Mrs Horner, 14 March, 1849.
               a The account of Sedgwick's brothers and sisters given in the previous
          chapter, which has been verified from the parish- registers of Dent, shows that his

          memory was slightly at fault here.
               3 To Mrs Martin, 26 February, 1864.

I


                               SCHOOL LIFE AT SEDBERGH.                                                      57

house, who had been fifteenth wrangler in 1791. As far as 1801 to
mathematics went he must therefore have possessed sufficient MJ8t.0*16'--
knowledge for his position ; but the school did not flourish 19.
under his rule. Indeed it has been whispered that he neglected
his duties, and that "for years together he had the school

locked up, teaching in his own house a few boys, hardly ever

amounting to ten1." Mr Sedgwick, however, must have had

confidence in his abilities, for he sent all his sons, one after

another, to be taught by him, and the two families were on
terms of close intimacy. Adam describes him as "an excellent

scholar, and a good domestic and social man*." Perhaps he

took more pains with him than he did with others ; perhaps
his social qualities endeared him to his pupils. For it should

be mentioned that he had been for a short time a chaplain in
the Royal Navy, and had been present at Lord Howe's victory
off Cape St Vincent in 1794. In those days of martial enthu
siasm such a man would appear little short of a hero in the

eyes of boys, especially if he entertained them with stories

of his naval experiences. Indeed it is not improbable that

Sedgwick's lifelong interest in all things naval may be traced

to the influence of his old schoolmaster.
    Discipline was not strict at Sedbergh School. The boys

boarded at the neighbouring farm-houses, and when their

work was done, few inquiries were made as to the employment

of their time. Half holidays were generally spent in fishing

in the Rawthey or the Lune, or in rambles over the mountains.

The farm-house called "the Hill", where Sedgwick boarded,
along with three other boys, stands a little to the north of the
town, just under Winder. As the woodcut shows, it has been

but slightly altered from the aspect it bore in his day. The

farmer was a quaker named Edmund Foster, a near connexion
of the Fosters of Hebblethwaite Hall, who were great friends

    1 History of the Parish and Grammar School of Sedbergh, Yorkshire, by
A. E. Piatt. 8vo. Lond. 1876, p. 159.
    2StSeuvpepnlse'm"enzte,al
Mr                             p. 65.    Writing   to  hAisingpuepr,ils14"  Feb.   18 12,  "Sethdegrweickis  speaks of
                                for the  interest  of                       ; but  adds                      something

about him which I neither like nor understand".

         5 SEDBERGH SCHOOL.

1801 to  of the Sedgwicks. "We were treated", Adam has recorded,

E iL     " with infinite kindness by the family, and our happy freedom
         made us the envy of our schoolfellows1." The lodgers were
         of course obliged to accommodate their hours to those of their
         host ; and it was to this training that Adam attributed the
         habit of early rising which he never abandoned*.

              The schoolhouse, erected in the last century, has not

         been materially altered since Sedgwick's time. It is an

         oblong stone building in two floors, about sixty feet long
         by twenty-two feet wide. The west door, long disused, and

         1 Supplement, p. 55.  1865.
         3 To Dr Livingstone,

SCHOOLFELL 0 WS.  59

blocked by slabs of stone, is a picturesque example of the                        1801 to
classical style prevalent in the early part of the last century1.                     19.
The date, 1716, probably indicates the completion of the
existing building. The lower floor is now fitted up as a
chapel, and the upper floor
as a library and reading-
room. The words A. Sedg
wick, 1803, are cut on a

stone at the south-west ex

ternal corner. The inscription was no doubt intended to

commemorate his leaving the school, but whether it was cut
by himself, or by some other person, is not now known.

     Of Sedgwick's schoolfellows at Sedbergh two at least must
be specially commemorated, William Ainger, and Miles Bland.
The former, who in University standing was his senior by one
year, was the chief friend of his early life. They lived in close

intimacy at Cambridge, and afterwards, though they met but
seldom, corresponded with tolerable regularity. Mr Ainger,
after holding several pieces of preferment, became Principal
of the Theological College at St Bees, and Canon of Chester.
He died rather suddenly in 1840, attended by his old
friend. Mr Bland became a Fellow of St John's College, and
during his residence at Cambridge, he and Sedgwick probably
saw a good deal of each other. On the occasion of the death
of their old Master, Mr Stevens, in 1819*, they raised, by their
joint exertions, a large sum of money for the benefit of his
widow and children, for whom he had neglected to make any

provision. But their friendship was never very close, and
after 1823, when Mr Bland accepted the living of Lilley, in
Hertfordshire, and left the University, it ceased altogether.

     Adam Sedgwick's school days were prolonged, we do not
know why, until a later period than was usual at that time,
for he was not sent to Cambridge until 1804, when he was

     1 The beautiful drawing from which the woodcut was taken is due to the kind

ness of Edward G. Paley, Esq., of Lancaster, Architect.
    a Mr Stevens d1ed 9 November, 18 19, aged 50.

           6o CHOICE OF A COLLEGE.

 1801 to   well on his way to twenty. In the autumn of the previous

/E 16      vear a council was held to determine the particular college at

      19.  which he should be entered. It was composed of his father,

           Mr Stevens, and their common friend the Rev. D. M. Peacock,

           then Vicar of Sedbergh, who had been Senior Wrangler in
           179 1, and subsequently a Fellow of Trinity College. Boys
           educated at Sedbergh were usually entered at St John's
           College, because on that foundation there were then three

           Fellowships and ten Scholarships appropriated to the School ;
           and Mr Stevens urged that his two cleverest boys, Bland and
           Sedgwick, should both be entered there. But Mr Peacock
           held a different opinion. "Bland", he said to Mr Sedgwick,
           " is a better mathematician than your son. He will always
           " beat him in examinations, and, afterwards, if it comes to a
           " question of a Sedbergh Fellowship, your son will not be the
           " successful candidate." Mr Sedgwick assented, and suggested

           his own college, Catharine Hall. "No!" said Mr Peacock,
           " Adam is a clever lad, let him go to my college, Trinity, and
           take his chance1." And so it came to pass that he was entered

           as a sizar at Trinity College, 18 November, 1803, under the

           popular tutor Mr Jones*.
                 During the summer-months of 1804 he became a pupil of

           Mr John Dawson, the surgeon-mathematician of Sedbergh,
           who had given similar instruction to his father just forty-eight

           1 This account has been communicated by Miss Isabella Sedgwick, and there

           fore represents family tradition. Sedgwick himself gave a different version of the

           reason why he was not entered at St Catharine's College, which we find stated

           as follows in a diary kept by the Rev. George Elwes Corrie, B.D.,  t:he"n16FJeulnloew,
           and Tutor of that College, and afterwards Master of Jesus College
           1843. I met Professor Sedgwick in the Library, who, among other things, told

           me that he was anxious to have been admitted to our College, in consequence

           of his Father having been of the Society, but that owing to the disputes in
           College at that time the Master did not allow any admissions." A reference to

           the Cambridge Calendar for 1803 shows that the offices of Tutor, Bursar, Dean,
           Lecturer, and Steward were all vacant, and that there was only a single under
           graduate on the boards. The Master was the Rev. Joseph Procter, D.D. (1799--

           1845)-                Admissus est sizator Adamus filius Ricardi Sedgwick de

               2 "18 Nov. 1803.

           Dent in Com. Ebor. e Schola apud Sedbergh in eodem Com. sub prsesidio Mag.

           Stevens, ann. nat. 19. Mag. Jones tutore." Admission Book of Trinity College.

                     J/A" JOHN DAWSON.                            61

years before. It has been already related that Mr Dawson                            1804.

had been called upon to use his skill as a surgeon to usher                      /Et- '9-
Adam Sedgwick into the world ; and now, by a singular
coincidence, he was to use his skill in another department to
fit him for his entrance into the University.

     This seems to be the fitting place to give some account of
this remarkable man, whose career affords one of the most

striking instances on record of self-help, of indomitable

perseverance triumphing over difficulties which could hardly

have been surmounted by anyone, unless he had belonged,
as Sedgwick said, " to the very highest order of intellectual

greatness."

     Sedgwick had a warm affection for Mr Dawson, and has
left two accounts of him : one in the letter to Mr Lyell, from

which a single passage has been already quoted1; the other in

the Supplement* to the Memorial. These accounts, as might
be expected, travel over much of the same ground, especially

when describing Mr Dawson's early struggles. An attempt

has therefore been made, in the following pages, to combine

them into a continuous narrative, of which the letter to Mr

Lyell forms the basis.
    " The outline of Mr Dawson's early life I will try to give

you in a very few words. He was the son of a very poor

statesman in Garsdale*, with perhaps not more than 10 or

12 a year, and his vocation was to look after the paternal
flock of sheep on the mountains. In this situation he remained,

I believe, till he was more than twenty years of age. But he

was a forgetful shepherd, and was living in an ideal world of
his own. He had no money, no friend, and could not there

fore buy books. But he begged them, or borrowed them, or
invented them, for he actually worked a system of Conic
Sections out of his own brain. Some small sums of money

he gained by teaching, and in 1756 three young men went to

1 See above, p. 45.                  a Supplement, pp. 49 -- 54.
3 He was born at Rangill Farm in Garsdale, and, as he was baptized 25 February,

1734, was probably born in January.

         62 MR JOHN DAWSON.

1804.    read with him before they entered the University. My father,
Et. 19.
                0ften spoke of the Garsdale summer as one of very great
         happiness and profit, was one of them ; Dr Haygarth1, after
         wards a physician at Leeds, and in his day a man well known,

         was one of this happy number ; the third took his degree at

         St John's College, Cambridge, and afterwards had a living
         in Leicestershire. This was perhaps the first dawn of the

         youthful shepherd's fortunes'.
              "Soon after this triumvirate went to the University,

         young Dawson was taken as a kind of assistant -- he was too
         old to be a regular apprentice -- by Mr Bracker an eminent
         surgeon of Lancaster, a man of science and good sense, who
         had a name among the northern worthies of last century.

         There he remained several years, compounding medicines,

         solving crusty problems on an inverted mortar, and learning
         the duties of his profession as a surgeon. His condition was,

         during this time, much improved. He had now no lack of

         books, or want of sympathy ; and he rapidly made that great

         and generous progress which marks an intellect of first-rate

         power, when urged onwards in its work by a never-tiring will.

         Before long he was capable of holding consultations with
         good professional men, and of measuring weapons with mathe

         matical analysts of the highest name in England. But he

         had only stolen hours for his favourite studies, as his master

         -- I think I may say his master -- was in great and wide

         practice. As soon as he thought himself fit for the duties

         1 John Haygarth, M.D. of Leeds, was born in Garsdale in 1740. He was

         distantly related to Dawson.
              2 Professor Pryme, who read with Dawson during the summer of 1799, gives a

         somewhat different account of his early years : "He was the son of a yeoman in

         Garsdale. He had availed himself of some books belonging to his brother, an

         excise officer, to gain a knowledge of arithmetic, and of the rudiments of mathe

         matics, and then became an itinerant schoolmaster ; for many parts of that

         mountainous district were not sufficiently peopled to maintain one capable of
         teaching anything beyond mere reading and writing. He stayed two or three

         months at a time in one house, by arrangement, teaching the children of the family

         and neighbourhood, and then removing to another. In the meantime he was

         pursuing his own mathematical studies."  Autobiographic Recollections of George
         Pryme. 8vo. Lond. 1870, p. 29.

MR JOHN DAWSON.                             63

of his profession, before he had attended any regular aca-                     1804.
                                                                             ^t- 19-
demic medical course, and without any medical diploma,

he became surgeon and apothecary at Sedbergh. There
he remained about a year-- living on a crust, and saving

every farthing he could scrape together, till he was pos

sessed of nearly ^100. This sum he 'stitched up in the

lining of his waistcoat' -- I am telling you his own words,
which I have more than once heard from his mouth when I

was a schoolboy at Sedbergh. Off he set, staff in hand, and

walked to Edinburgh. There he lived, in a cheap garret,

upon a sum so incredibly small, that I dare not trust my

memory with the mention of it.

"While making way with the medical cycle, and en

countering a formidable range of severer studies, he lived

with the sternest self-denial. But no economy could save his

funds from wasting ; and the external sinews of his move

ments were on the very point of failing, when once again he

packed up his whole stock, took his good staff in hand, and

strode back to Sedbergh. He had then no difficulty in meeting

the common wants of life. The country was longing for his

return, and professional practice flowed in upon him. But he

still lived with great self-denial, and by using all means

within his power, both of head and of hand, he amassed a sum

I believe about three times as great as that with which he

walked to Edinburgh.                        and went, partly on
     " Again he left his native mountains,  to London, with all

foot, partly I believe in a stage-waggon,

his gold stitched, as before, in small parcels under his waist

coat. 'But I could not', said he, 'live as I had done at

Edinburgh.' Neither could he live in the same retirement,

for the sound of his name had passed beyond the Dales, and

several men of science sought his personal acquaintance.

Among the rest he mentioned, I think, the late celebrated Dr

Waring, Lucasian Professor at Cambridge1. 'My money

     1 Edward Waring was Lucasian Professor of Mathematics from 1760 to his
death in 1798. He proceeded M.D. in 1767.

         64 MR JOHN DAWSON.

  1804.  went from me', said he, ' faster than I wished, but I got

Mu 19.   through one good course of surgical and medical lectures.'
         In short, he became a regular member of his profession ;

         obtained a diploma ; and then returned on foot to Sedbergh.
         His course was now clear, and he had won a good position for
         himself. He married, and had one daughter1, whom you

         must well remember ; settled in his own house, and had the

         command of the best medical practice in all the neighbouring
         Dales ; and sometimes, to his sorrow, his duties carried him

         far beyond them.

              " He still went on with his favourite studies, and his mind
         hardly seemed to have a pause. It was said of him, perhaps

         in jest, that he could solve a problem better when riding up
         the Dales on his saddle than when sitting at his private desk.

         At any rate he made himself master of every standard mathe

         matical work known to the scientific literature of this country,

         and was counted among the very first analysts of his day.
         This was not the mere admiring gossip of a country town ;
         its truth is proved by various profound essays on contested
         points of Physical Astronomy, into which he was led, not
         through vain-glory, but from the simple love of truth.

             " The rest you know, I think, as well as I. After several

         years of honourable, and most successful, practice, in a wild

         and poor country, and amidst a thousand interruptions to his
         severer studies -- he gained a small fortune and a great repu
         tation. Cambridge undergraduates flocked to him every
         summer. About 1790 he entirely relinquished his practice as
         a surgeon, and devoted himself exclusively to mathematical
         teaching8. Between 1781 and 1794 he counted eight Senior

              1 The Sedbergh Registers show that John Dawson married Ann Thirnbeck, 3
         March, 1767. Their daughter Mary was born 15 January, 1768. Mrs Dawson
         died 21 January 1812 ; her daughter, unmarried, 18 July, 1843.

              2 The expense of attending Mr Dawson's class was not great. We have seen a
         letter written by Dr Butler, Headmaster of Harrow and Dean of Peterborough,

         who became his pupil in 1792. The letter is dated 17 June in that year. The
         writer, after describing his journey from London to Sedbergh (which began on a

         Tuesday at 7 a.m. and ended on the following Saturday at 1 1 p.m.), mentions that
         Mr Dawson charged 5s. per week for instruction ; and that he would have to pay

      MR JOHN DAWSON.     65

Wranglers among his pupils. In 1797, 1798, 1800, and 1807                             1804.
the Senior Wranglers were also Dawsonians1. I only knew                                     19-

Ihim in his decline ; but he continued, believe, to have pupils

till about 18108.

    " I became a pupil of our late Master in 1804, a few months
before I entered at Cambridge ; and at that time he was full

70 years of age. His intellect was then as grand as it had

ever been, but his memory had begun to fail. I remember a
singular example of this in the vacation of 1806, when I was

reading with him some of the later sections of the first book

of the Principia. You remember his ' Peripatetic' mode of
teaching. He came to the back of my chair. ' Here is a

proposition', said I, 'but no proof, and I think it is by no

means self-evident.' He looked at the proposition for a

minute, and then took his pencil and worked out a kind of

mongrel proof, half analytical, and half geometrical, on a slate.

This was done in about ten minutes. Judge of my surprise !
On turning over the leaf I found Newton's proof on the next

page ! I called Mr Dawson back, and showed it to him. He

was as much surprised as myself, and said, with an expression

of sorrow, that he had gone over this section many hundred
times, and ought not to have forgotten the proposition. ' But',

he added, ' I am beginning to have an old man's memory.'

at the King's Arms Inn "the best in the town" 1f. 6d. per week for an excellent
room ; for dinner lod. a day, and for breakfast id. "Dinner" he says "consisted

of a leg of mutton and potatoes, both hot ; ham and tongue, gooseberry tarts,
cheese, butter, and bread: pretty well for 1orf." The letter is printed in The

Sedberghian for December, 1881.
     1 The Senior Wranglers of these four years were: 1797, John Hudson, Trinity,

afterwards Fellow and Tutor; 1798, Thomas Sowerby, Trinity, afterwards Fellow
and Tutor of Queens' College ; 1800, James Inman, St John's, afterwards Mathe
matical Professor in the Royal Naval College ; 1807, Henry Gipps, St John's.
The previous eight cannot all be identified, but the following may be safely claimed
for Dawson: 1786, John Bell, Trinity; 1792, John Palmer, Professor of Arabic
on Sir T. Adams' foundation; 1793, Thomas Harrison, Queens'; 1794, George

Butler, Sidney.
     a There is a slight error here. Miss Ann Sedgwick writes to her brother 25

July, 18n : "James is attending Mr Dawson during Mr Stevens' vacation. It is
his last opportunity, as Mr Dawson takes no more pupils after this summer. He

has at present fourteen."

S. L                   5

           66 MR JOHN DAWSON.

  1804.    "About twelve or thirteen years afterwards, I called on
-^.t- 19-
           him during one of my visits to my native valley of Dent. He

           seemed delighted to see me, roused himself, talked of Cam
           bridge, of his own early studies, of our change of system, of

           some new work of analysis, and especially of the Calculus of

           Variations, with which, he said, he had just begun to be

           acquainted when his mind began to fail, and he was by old

           age made incapable of any new and severe study. ' I have

           sometimes grieved,' he said, ' but perhaps it is ungrateful of

           me, that I did not know this powerful implement of discovery
           in early life. I thought that I might have grasped
                 ;                                                                                  and

                           I
                                                                                               it,
           then tried my hand with some of the great problems of physical

           astronomy but now am a feeble old man, and my days are

           nearly numbered.' While this conversation was going on,
           with no small animation on his part -- to the utter amazement

           of his daughter and myself, for she told me afterwards that she

           had hardly heard him talk collectedly for many weeks, and

           expected only to see venerable intellectual ruin, and bid
           him sorrowful adieu for ever -- in came some neighbours and
           a
                                           a

                                       I
                                                                                   I
           interrupted him. He became silent at once. They went

           away in ten minutes, and then tried again to arouse him,

           and lead him back to the subjects on which he had dwelt with

           so much energy and apparent delight. But all in vain. He
           had forgotten every syllable of our conversation, and was

           become again mere dotard.  left him with most oppressive
                     I is             II
                           a                      I

                                                               it
           feelings of admiration and sorrow, and never saw his face

           again.                  my outline, but have given      you in more

               "Such               first intended. He published one or two good

           words than

           mathematical tracts in the Manchester Memoirs*, which, as you

           well know, have become famous as the vehicle of Dalton's*

           This                    mistake. Dawson wrote no papers in the Manchester Memoirs.
           21
                           is
                                a
           Sedgwick was probably thinking of some letters by him in Hutton's Miscellanea

           Mathematica, signed "Wadson," in which he attacked theory advanced by the
                                      aa
           Rev. C. Wildbore, On the velocity of water issuing from vessel in motion.
                 John Dalton, of Manchester, F.R.S., Chemist and natural philosopher,

           born 1766, died 1844.

67

great chemical generalisations. He was engaged in a contro-                              1804.
                                                                                               19-
versy with that strange but clever mathematical bear Emerson1.

Thomas Simpson* had shown, in an analytical investigation,
that Newton had made a slip in his great problem of Precession.
Spite of this blunder it is one of Newton's very greatest
triumphs. Emerson worshipped Newton, and abused every
other son of man. So on principle he opened a foul-mouthed

volley on poor Thomas Simpson. Dawson replied by sending
an entirely independent analytical investigation of the same
great problem, which gave a result identical with that of

Simpson, at the same time modestly pointing out the slip in
Newton's demonstration. This produced a volley of abuse

and nothing better, from his opponent, and so the matter

dropped.

     " At a later period Mr Dawson wrote an excellent memoir
on certain problems in the Lunar Theory, in reply to a

geometrical essay on the same subject by Matthew Stewart
(father of the celebrated Dugald Stewart), of Edinburgh.
Our old tutor proved to demonstration that purely geometrical
methods must in many approximations necessarily fail, and in

nearly all must be unsatisfactory, inasmuch as they do not
give us any certain data as to the value of the terms left out
in the approximation. This controversy was carried on in the
pure love of truth, and in a most excellent spirit. Dawson

had the entire victory, and his tract procured him the personal

friendship of some of the leading Edinburgh philosophers'.

     1 William Emerson, mathematician, born 1701, died 1781.
    a Thomas Simpson, F.R.S., mathematician, born 1710, died 1761.
     s In 1763 Mr Stewart published an essay on the "Sun's Distance", which he
made out to be far in excess of previous estimations of it. Dr Chalmers (s. v.
Stewart) says that "even among astronomers, it was not every one who could
judge in a matter of such difficult discussion. Accordingly, it was not till about
five years after the publication of the ' Sun's Distance ' that there appeared a
pamphlet, under the title of Four Propositions, intended to point out certain errors
in Dr Stewart's investigation, which had given a result much greater than the
truth." After describing the nature of these errors, Dr Chalmers adds: "And it
is but justice to acknowledge that, besides being just in the points already mentioned,
they [the Four Propositions'] are very ingenious, and written with much modesty
and good temper. The author, who at first concealed his name, but afterwards

                                                                5-2

                                              MR JOHN DAWSON.

  1804.  After this, he was visited at Sedbergh by Playfair1, Lord
         Webb Seymour, and Lord Brougham.
Mt. 19.
             " The pamphlet you inquire after was written, I believe,

         sometime between 1780 and 1790, in reply to some of the
         published doctrines of Priestley in his tract on Philosophical
         Necessity. Dawson thought the doctrine of immoral tendency,
         and not true. He attacked it with firmness, but with his

         usual calm temper. Priestley replied, also in a good spirit,
         and ever afterwards spoke of Dawson in terms of respect

         and admiration*.
              " Our old master was a firm believer, and a good sober

         practical Christian of the old school. His moral influence

         was felt by all near him, but he loved a good story, and told

         his rough adventures among his country patients with infinite

         humour. I have, however, no time to tell you any of them
         now. His sphere of usefulness was limited. The wonder is

         that he could do anything, circumstanced as he was, to make

         himself a name. On the whole I think him a man belonging

         to the very highest order of intellectual greatness.

             " I knew him well in his honoured old age, for I was his

         consented to its being made public, was Mr Dawson, a surgeon at Sedbergh in

         Yorkshire, and one of the most ingenious mathematicians and philosophers which
         this country at that time possessed. "

         1 John Playfair, mathematician and natural philosopher, of Edinburgh : born

         1749, died 1819.
             s Thomas Priestley published, in 1777, a pamphlet entitled The Doctrine of

         Philosophical Necessity. Dawson's reply was first published anonymously in

         178 1 : The Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity briefly invalidated, 8vo. 1781. An
         answer appeared in The Monthly Review or Literary Journal for July, 1781

         (p. 66), but Dawson's name is not mentioned. Subsequently Dawson published

         a second edition : The Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity briefly invalidated, by

         J"ohAnndDabwinsdoinng  of Sedbergh.  in  Second edition, to which is now   added  an Appendix.
                                 Nature fast      fate, Left free the human will."  Pope.   1imo. Lond.

         1803.

             It should be mentioned that Dawson had paid a good deal of attention to

         metaphysics and theology, as shown by his correspondence with the Rev. Thomas
         Wilson, who had been his pupil in early life. The quotations in these letters prove
         that he had at least a respectable knowledge of Latin and Greek, though he

         laments his inability to read the Fathers            in the original. Selections  from the
                                                              Wilson, Cheetham Society,    1857, pp.
         Poems and Correspondence             of the Rev. T.
         106-- 125.

MR JOHN DAWSON.                                            69

pupil during three successive summers of my undergraduate                          1804.
                                                                                         19-
life, but it is hard for me to do full justice to the head and

heart of my dear old master. Simple in manners, cheerful

and mirthful in temper, with a dress approaching that of the

higher class of the venerable old Quakers of the Dales, without
any stiffness or affectation of superiority, yet did he bear at

first sight a very commanding presence, and it was impossible

to glance at him for a moment without feeling that we were
before one to whom God had given gifts above those of a
common man. His powerful projecting forehead and well-

chiselled features told of much thought ; and might have

implied severity, had not a soft radiant benevolence played

over his fine old face, which inspired his friends, of whatever

age or rank, with confidence and love.
     " Happy were the days, both to young and old, when the

genial-hearted philosopher walked over the hills, which he did

frequently, to spend a few hours at the Vicarage of Dent !

Whenever he and my father met, their hearts seemed to be

warmed with the spirits of two schoolboys meeting on a
holiday. And well might they be happy in the sweet remem

brances of God's mercies so long vouchsafed to them, and in

those firm unflinching Christian hopes that gave a bright

colour to the days of their old age1."
     Our portrait of Mr Dawson is reduced from a beautiful

water-colour drawing by William Westall -- who married
Sedgwick's sister Ann --dated 18 17, three years before
Dawson's death. It represents him therefore "in his honoured

    1 Mr Dawson died 19 September, 1820. A few years afterwards a monument
was erected to his memory, on the south side of the central aisle of Sedbergh

Church, by some of his former pupils. It consists of a black marble niche,

enclosing a bust, inscribed "Sievier sculp1. Aug. 1825." Beneath, is a
"Inwhite marble tablet bearing the following inscription:
                                                           memory of John

Dawson, of Sedbergh, who died on the 19th Sept. 1820, aged 86 years.
Distinguished by his profound knowledge of mathematics, beloved for his

amiable simplicity of character, and revered for his exemplary discharge of

every moral and religious duty. This monument was erected by his grateful pupils,

as their last tribute of affection and esteem." The inscription was written by

Mr John Bell, the distinguished leader at the Chancery Bar, who had been one
of Mr Dawson's Senior Wranglers, as mentioned above, p. 65, note.

                                 MR JOHN DAWSON.

  1804.  old age", when advancing years had probably increased the
MX. 19.  natural severity of his features. An earlier portrait, by the
         Rev. D. M. Peacock, taken in or about 1809, represents him

         standing beside a pupil, who is seated at a table, working out
         a mathematical problem. In this picture the face is thought
         ful, but far less severe than in the later work1.

              1 In 1809 Mr Joseph Allen, a portrait-painter, having been commissioned to
         paint Dawson's picture, Mr Peacock, then vicar of Sedbergh, invited him to stay at

         his house. When the picture was finished, Mr Peacock was not satisfied with the

         likeness, and being himself an artist of no mean capacity, painted a replica of

         Allen's work, with the advantage of fresh sittings from Mr Dawson. This picture

         is now at Ripon in the possession of Miss Cust (Mr Peacock changed his name

         to Cust on  inheriting  an estate near Northallerton).   itA. lle"n'Ist  portrait cannot now
         be traced.   Sedgwick    gives the following history of                  was the property of

         Mr Leigh of Leeds. This gentleman was unfortunately killed during a furious

         election riot about the time the Reform Bill was passing through Parliament, and

         I heard some time afterwards that the portrait was knocked down at a public
         auction in Leeds, but to whom I never learnt." Fortunately, however, it was

         engraved ; and a comparison of the engraving  ThweithengMrar viPnegacoisckl'esttepreodrtra"it    shows
         that the two works are absolutely identical.                                                   Painted

         by Joseph Allen. Engraved by W. W. Burney. To the Friends and Pupils of

         Mr Dawson, of Sedbergh, this Engraving, from an original Picture in the

         possession of R. H. Leigh, Esq. is respectfully Inscribed by Joseph Allen." The

         Jpicture may be thus described: " Canvass, 17J in. broad, by 21 high. Dawson

         is standing up, seen to waist, three-quarters face to the spectator. His right
         hand, holding spectacles, rests on the back of a chair ; his left on an open folio

         volume lying on a table covered with a green cloth. The fingers are closed,

         except the fore-finger, which points to a mathematical figure on the right page.

         Dawson's figure is tall and spare; face rather severe, with deep lines on it.

         Complexion clear and ruddy ; eyes grey ; short grey hair. White neckcloth

         twisted round his neck ; high black waistcoat ; chocolate coat, with row of five
         buttons. A pupil is seated at the table, his back turned to the spectator. He is

         bending over his work ; right elbow on table ; head resting on right hand.

         Light hair, light brown coat, white neckcloth like Dawson's." The name of the

         pupil represented is said to have been Litterdale.



                          JOHN  DAWSON, OF SEDBERGH.

                                   Born 1734; died 1820.

From a water-colour drawing by William Westall, 181 7.

To face page 70, Vol. I.


              CHAPTER III.

              (1804 -- 18 10.)

Begins residence at Trinity College, Cambridge (1804).
      The Rev. T. Jones. Christmas at Whittlesea. College
     Examination (1805). Summer at Dent. Fever. Life
      and friends at Cambridge (1806). Preparation for
      degree (1807). System of Acts and Opponencies. Sedg
     wick's first Act. University election for M.P. His

Father's account of the Yorkshire election. Scholar
ship at Trinity College. Blindness of his Father.

Senate-House Examination (1808). Revisits Dent. Read

ing PARTY AT DlTTON.  CLASSICAL WORK (1809). FELLOW

SH1P (1810).

Sedgwick went up to Cambridge, accompanied by his                             1804.
friend Bland, in October, 1804. They left Dent, or Sedbergh,
on Saturday, 29 September ; spent Sunday with a friend at                   Mt. I0-
Kirkby Stephen, and on Monday joined the " Paul Jones "
coach at Brough, in which delightful vehicle, " an old

six-inside," they passed three days and two dismal nights1.
    The fear of a French invasion was at that time uppermost

in the minds of Englishmen. As Sedgwick often said 'England
looked like a great camp"; and the occupation of arming

and drilling, which had penetrated even to the University,
together with the paralysis of trade, and the high prices of

   1 To Miss Sedgwick (U.S.), n October, 1853.  To Miss Isabella Sedgwick,

1 October, 1857.

          72 ENTERS COLLEGE.

  1804.   the common necessaries of life, had seriously diminished the
          number of young men who could afford a University education.
J&t. 19.  In 1804 only 128 presented themselves for matriculation, the
          smallest number since 1775, when it had sunk as low as 1211.

               More than one of Sedgwick's contemporaries has been
          heard to say that when he first made his appearance in
          Trinity College he was thought uncouth, and that some time
          elapsed before he was properly appreciated. This unfavour
          able judgment need not surprise us. It must be remembered
          that though he was nearly twenty years of age, he had never
          quitted his home, or its immediate neighbourhood, for more

          than a few days at a time. Carlisle was probably the
          furthest point he had reached in any of his brief excursions.
          Nor, in that remote corner of England, could he have had
          any opportunity of associating with men of the world. When

          we have mentioned his own father, the vicar of Sedbergh,
          Mr Dawson, and two or three of the neighbouring country-
          gentlemen, the list of his older friends is exhausted. From
          the young men of his own age, whose ideas of amusement

          were confined to sport, wakes, and drinking-bouts8, he could
          have learnt nothing but tastes and customs ' more honoured

          in the breach than the observance ', and that he never gave

          way to such himself, to any serious extent, is a proof either
          of his father's influence, or of his own strength of will. On

          1 In the first six years of the present century, 1800 -- 1805, the average (neglect

          ing fractions) was 150: in the last six years of the previous century it had been

          156. Between 1806 and 181 1 it rose to 232 ; and between 1812 and 1817 to 278.
          "I! A friend -- a clergyman -- writing to Sedgwick 28 July, 1807, records the
          following experiences :  had fully determined to write to you immediately after

          my return from Yorkshire; but a number of Feasts crowded upon me in such

          Iquick succession that found myself unable to devote a single hour to correspond

          ents. Mr  's house was filled with company on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,

          and Thursday, many of whom never thought of flinching till three or four o'clock

          each morning; they then staggered home to bed.... We met with the usual

          hospitality in Dent.... They even kicked up a dance for us in the old school-room

          on Whit Friday. Your Brother John and I unluckily dined with Thomas

          Fawcett on that day, where we met a set of rook-shooting Bloods from Kendal.

          IThey all drank very freely, and tho' John and left early in the afternoon, yet we

          were far from sober. This however did not prevent our joining in the dance, and

          frisking away as well as the best of them."

REV. THOMAS JONES.  73

a young man brought up as he had been, the University                             1804.
would produce the sense of wonder and bewilderment which
we associate with the first sight of a crowded capital. He must

have felt out of his element among scenes for which he would

be less prepared than most undergraduates even at that time,
when journeys were not lightly undertaken, and when most
people could say, with the Vicar of Wakefield, that their
longest migrations were from the blue bed to the brown. His

dress, his manners, and his bearing would bespeak him a plain

unsophisticated Dalesman1.

     Sedgwick's tutor at Trinity College, as mentioned in the
previous chapter, was the Rev. Thomas Jones. It would be
difficult, if not impossible, to name any one man, who by force
of personal character, vigour of intellect, and unwearied devo

tion to his duties, was enabled to effect a more enduring

influence for good on the moral and intellectual life of his
college. He had been Senior Wrangler and first Smith's

Prizeman in 1779, and was elected Fellow in 178 1. A few

years after his election he took part in a movement of such
far-reaching importance, that we must briefly notice it. For
some years the examination for scholarships and fellowships
had been conducted in private-- candidates "went their rounds
to the electing seniors*". This system could never have been
a good one, and of late years it had been grossly abused,
inasmuch as it was notorious that some of the Seniors had

voted at elections without having examined, and others had

been personally influenced in favour of particular candidates.
In October, 1786, an election to Fellowships, made "exactly

in the most improper, as well as the most unpopular, manner

possible8", brought matters to a crisis. Ten of the Junior

     1 Unfortunately none of the numerous letters which Sedgwick is known to

have written to the home-circle at Dent have been preserved.
     2 Memoirs of Richard Cumberland, 4to, London, 1806, p. 106. The author

gives a detailed account of the way in which the whole examination was then

conducted, which well deserves careful perusal.

    3 Mr John Baynes to Mr Romilly, in Memoirs of the Life of Sir S. Romilly,
ed. 1841, i. 253. The writer, one of the Junior Fellows who signed the Memorial,

           74 REV. THOMAS JONES.

1804.      Fellows -- among whom was Jones -- addressed to the Master
      19-  and Seniors a remonstrance, which alleged that the practice

           was in opposition to the statutes, and tended to destroy the

           objects of the foundation. The Master and Seniors, greatly

           incensed, cautioned the memorialists to behave with greater

           deference to their superiors, and entered an admonition to

           that effect in the Conclusion Book. From this sentence the

           Junior Fellows appealed to the Visitor. The appeal was
           heard by Lord Chancellor Thurlow on behalf of the Crown.

           His sentence, while condemning the form which the action of

           the memorialists had taken, condemned the practice com

           plained of more strongly still. The result was eminently

           satisfactory.  Not only were the remonstrance and the

           admonition both withdrawn, but the Master insisted ever

           after on each elector being a bond fide examiner; and, in
           the following year (1787), notwithstanding the share which

           Jones had taken in the memorial, he was elected Senior
           Tutor-- an office which he held until his death in 1807, at

           the comparatively early age of fifty-one1.

               It must be recollected that in those days private tutors

           were not commonly resorted to, and indeed, during the two

           years which preceded the examinations for degree, were
           forbidden by Grace of the Senate*. In consequence of this,

           and of the comparatively small number of undergraduates,

           the college tutors were brought into closer relations with

           their pupils than is possible at present, for they were not

           takes credit to himself for having originated it. As he and Miles Popple, another

           of the Memorialists, were parties to the appeal to the Visitor, it is probable that

           they were the prime movers in the whole matter.            ed. 1855, ii. 100;
                1 Cooper's Annals, iv. 424; Gunning's Reminiscences,

           Monk's Life of Bentley, ed. 1833, ii. 423.
               2 Grace, 25 February, 1781. It is printed at length in Whewell, Of a

           Liberal Education, Part 1., p. no. The time at the end of a student's career

           during which reading with a private tutor was prohibited, was gradually diminished.

           By Grace, 9 April, 1807, it was reduced to a year and a half; by a subsequent
           Grace, 3 July, 1815, to one year. Ibid. p. 221. The Grace of 1781, it should be
           observed, limits its prohibition to tutors engaged within the precincts of the
           University (intra Academiam). A student was at liberty to read with whom he
           pleased during the vacations.

                 REV. THOMAS JONES.          75

only advisers, but instructors. In both capacities Mr Jones                         1804.
                                                                                          19-
was preeminent.  His friend and biographer, the Rev.

Herbert Marsh, has recorded that in his duties as College

Tutor

"he displayed an ability which was rarely equalled, with an
integrity which never was surpassed. They only, who have had
the benefit of attending his lectures, are able to estimate their value.
Being perfect master of his subjects, he always placed them in the
clearest point of view ; and by his manner of treating them, he made
them interesting even to those who had otherwise no relish for

math"eAmsataicaclominpqaunirioiens,. he was highly convivial : he possessed a vein
of humour peculiar to himself; and no one told a story with more
effect. His manners were mild and unassuming, and his gentleness
was equalled only by his firmness. As a friend, he had no other limit
to his kindness than his ability to serve. Indeed his whole life was
a life of benevolence, and he wasted his strength in exerting himself
for others. The benefits which he conferred were frequently so great,

and the persons who subsisted by his bounty were so numerous, that
he was often distressed in the midst of affluence. And though he
was Head Tutor of Trinity College almost twenty years, with more
pupils than any of his predecessors, he never acquired a sufficient
capital to enable him to retire from office and still continue his

accustomed beneficence1."

     To this sober prose may be added a few lines from an
elegy by Robert Dealtry, LL.D., written after Jones' death.
The verse is poor, but the sentiments have the true ring of

sincerity :

            "The wild unbroken boy he led, not drove,
               And changed coercion for paternal love.
               By mildness won, youth found resistance vain,
               Bound in a silken, yet a snapless chain.
               Around his sacred tomb th' ingenuous band
             Of sorrowing pupils oft shall pensive stand,
             Shall hail the Tutor faithful to his trust,
               Revere his memory, and bedew his dust."

    It is not likely that Sedgwick made many new friends
during his first term of residence. His two school-friends

Ainger and Bland being both members of St John's College

    1 Memoir of the late Rev. Thomas Jones.  Signed, Herbert Marsh, Cambridge,

Feb. 19, 1808.

         76 WHITTLESEA.

  1804.  he probably was more frequently in their society than at
         Trinity ; and we shall find by and bye that he made
Mt. 19.  several friendships in their college.

              Dent was far too distant to be visited in one of the short
         vacations; so, when the Michaelmas Term was well over,

         Sedgwick went, on December the 17th, 1804 (a date he was
         fond of recalling), to spend Christmas with Ainger at his
         father's house at Whittlesea. From this memorable visit
         dates his lifelong friendship with the whole Ainger family.
         He never forgot the simple pleasures which he there enjoyed.
         In 1851, forty-seven years afterwards, he could still write to
         Mr James Ainger, his friend's brother, that " when Christmas

         came round, I remembered the happy, genial, joyful Christmas
         I spent in your father's house in 1 804". It was on this occasion

         that he made the acquaintance of Henry Smith, son to the
         surgeon of Whittlesea, then a boy of sixteen, who afterwards
         became a distinguished Indian general, and is known to fame
         as Sir Harry Smith. Sedgwick watched his career with
         affectionate interest, and his name will frequently recur in our

         narrative.

              In the College examination held in June 1805, Sedgwick's
         name appears in the first class, in company with only six
         others -- a distinction which shows, to those familiar with the
         practice of Trinity College at that time, that he must have

         got up the classical subjects with thoroughness, as well as
         the mathematical. The ordeal was in those days specially
         formidable, for a vivd voce examination used to be held in the
         Hall in the presence of the Master, who sat in the centre of
         the dais, with the Seniors to his right and left, as Byron has
         recorded :

                   "High in the midst, surrounded by his peers,

                        Magnus his ample front sublime uprears :
                      Placed on his chair of state he seems a god,
                        While Sophs and Freshmen tremble at his nod1."

              1 Thoughts suggested by a College Examination. The lines were printed in

         Hours of Idleness, published in 1807, only two years after Sedgwick's first
         examination.

TYPHOID FEVER.                   77

     The persons to be examined stood in front of this awe-        1805.

inspiring assemblage, and questions were passed down the         /Et. 2C
line from one to another by the presiding examiner, the
Master occasionally interposing a word of praise or reproof--

more frequently the latter. Men have been known to faint

with apprehension even before it had come to their turn to

be questioned. When the examination was over the names

of those only were published whom the examiners thought

specially worthy of commendation1. A place in the first class

was therefore a considerable distinction.
     In the summer Sedgwick went down to Dent, accompanied

by his friend John Carr, an undergraduate of Trinity College,
one year senior to himself. Carr was a distinguished mathe

matician, who became second Wrangler and second Smith's

Prizeman in 1807, and subsequently obtained a Fellowship.
Sedgwick's intimacy with him indicates that he was by
this time making his way in the College, and had got into
the society of men older than himself -- at all times a sure

indication of popularity. The vacation was spent, as re
corded in the last chapter, in reading mathematics with Mr

Dawson.

     Soon after Sedgwick's return to Cambridge, he was
attacked by a typhoid fever which nearly proved fatal. His
medical attendants despaired of his life. They had in fact

left his rooms, and were walking up and down on the pave

ment beside the Chapel, waiting to hear the last news before
they left College. The news, however, did not come, and it
was at last suggested that they should go back and look at
their patient again. To their surprise they found him not
only not dead, but apparently somewhat stronger than when
they had left him. One of them, Sir Busick Harwood, said
to the other : " This is a very strong young man, let us try if
we can do anything more for him." Accordingly a blister
was suggested. The poor patient shrunk from the anticipated
suffering, and asked what effect the application would have

1 Pryme's Recollections, p. 90.

         78 BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR.

  1805.  upon his flesh. To this very natural question he is said to
         have received the somewhat brutal answer : " Oh ! -- the
Sx. 20.  flesh, if we can only save the life ! " The blister was applied,

         and the patient survived, to tell the story almost as it is here

         related1. He was nursed through his illness with unremitting

         diligence by his friend Ainger, and he used to say that he

         owed his life more to him than to his physicians.

         The date of this fever is fixed exactly by an interesting

         circumstance which Sedgwick recollected when the funeral of

         the Duke of Wellington reminded him of the death of Lord

         Nelson. News of the success or failure of his operations

         against the French fleet must have been waited for with an

         anxiety of which we, in these peaceful times, can form no
         Ifconception.
                        he failed, England would almost certainly be

         invaded ; if he were successful her safety was secured. In

         telligence of the battle of Trafalgar reached London on

         Wednesday, 6 November, 1805, and Cambridge on the

         following day. The volunteers assembled in the market

         place, and fired three volleys ; the bells of Great St Mary's

         Church rang a dumb peal ; and in the evening the town was

         illuminated*. Sedgwick resided at that time in a set of

         garrets between the Chapel and the Great Gate8; and, half-

         delirious as he was, he insisted, as soon as he heard the bells,

         on being carried to the window, that he might see the

         illuminations4. In those days the Sun Inn was opposite to

         the College, and would no doubt be conspicuous for its

         patriotism.

         Sedgwick's recovery was slow, and it was not till the

             1 This story is taken from an excellent article headed " Adam Sedgwick," by

         the Lord Bishop of Carlisle, in Afacmillan's Magazine for April 1880.

             2 Cambridge Chronicle, Saturday, November 9, 1805. "At noon yesterday

         [the column is headed ' Cambridge, November 8'], the Cambridge Volunteers were

         drawn up in the Market Place, and fired three feux de-joie. A dumb peal was
         rung at Great St Mary's, as a testimony of respect to the memory of the brave
         Admiral, and in the evening a general illumination took place."

              3 Sedgwick told his niece, Miss Isabella Sedgwick, that his first rooms were in

         this part of the College.
              4 To Mrs Richard Sedgwick, 21 November, 1852.

              KIRKE WHITE.                                                                                         79

early spring of the following year (1806) that he was able                                                             1806.
to leave his rooms. He recollected this in 1871, when fine

weather on the last day of the year had enabled him to take
a short walk under the shelter of the Chapel : " The bright

sunshine ", he wrote, " has tempted me out, and I have had a
turn on the flags before our Chapel. I tried the bowling-

green, but it was in the shade, and did not suit me. While

walking I could not but think of the early weeks of the year
1806, when I crawled out of my rooms, one bright sunny day
(about February I think) after my long confinement from
typhus fever. I had great difficulty in getting back. But
then I was young, and my rate of recovery was astonishing.

I am not strong now, but I mounted my staircase quite

briskly on my return today1."

     The rest of the year 1806 is singularly barren of informa

tion. At the examination in June Sedgwick was again placed

in the first class -- which shows that he had by this time
entirely recovered from the effects of his fever -- and when

term was over he went down to Yorkshire, where he spent
the summer in reading mathematics with Mr Dawson. We

get, however, a glimpse of his Cambridge life and interests,

from the following letter, which, though written sixty-one

years afterwards, belongs, by its subject-matter, to 1806.

To Rev. H. C. G. Moule, Trinity College.

My dear Sir,  Fakenham, Dec. 16, 1868.

                I wish it were in my power to give you more

information respecting the two very remarkable persons (H.

Kirke White and Robert Hall), than I have at my command.
Both of them, in their way, were men of great genius. I did

not know Kirke White till a little while before his death --

      never met him and conversed with him during his
thatI
        iIs,

                                1

                                                I

                                                                                                                a
first academic year. But whenever met him in the streets
   was impressed by his look and bearing. He was tall

      To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 31 December, 1871.

8o ROBERT HALL.

1806. thoughtful-looking young man, with fine features, and with a
          complexion that seemed to indicate a life of severe study.
         In his second year, a month or two before his death, I several
         times met him in society. His manners well matched his

          character. They were simple, earnest, winning, and unaffected.
          He had the look of a man of genius. So far as regards his
         features, Chantrey's medallion gives, I think, a good general
          notion of them, so far as can be given by a profile likeness in
          low relief1.

              Robert Hall had ceased to live in Cambridge before my
          Freshman's year2; and of his manners in society I have no
         right to speak, as I do not remember to have ever exchanged
          a sentence with him ; though, on public occasions, I have
          once or twice met him. But he occasionally revisited Cam

          bridge ; and then he always preached at the Baptist Meeting-
         House in St Andrew's Street ; and whenever I could secure a
         seat on such occasions, I always attended the Meeting. He
         always began with a prayer (sometimes of considerable
          length), uttered with great earnestness and simplicity, but
          injured in effective power from an apparent asthmatical
          difficulty of articulation. There was the same constitutional,
          or organic, difficulty in the commencement of his sermons.
          But the breathing of his sentences became more easy as he

          advanced, and before long there was a moral grandeur in his
          delivery which triumphed over all organic defect or physical

          weakness. While he rolled out his beautiful and purely
         constructed sentences one felt as if under the training of a
         higher nature. In occasional flights of imagination, in dis
          cussions of metaphysical subtlety, we were for a while amazed,

    1 Henry Kirke White commenced residence at St John's College in October
1805; but he did not matriculate (as a Sizar) until j6 May, 1806. He died
19 October in the same year. The medallion by Chantrey is in All Saints' Church,

Cambridge.

* Mr Hall resigned his duties at Cambridge, owing to ill-health, in November,

1804 : returned in April, 1805 ; and resigned finally 4 March, 1806. In 1803 he
had been advised to reside at Shelford, and his biographer ascribes the mental

affection of 1804 to the loss of society occasioned by this removal.  Works of
Robert Hall, 8vo. Lond. 1843. v. 443, vi. 73 -- 75.

       COLLEGE FRIENDS.

and almost in fear for the Preacher. And then he would                    1806.
come down, with an eagle's swoop, upon the matter he had in
hand, and enforce it with a power of eloquence such as I                      Jt-
never felt or witnessed in the speaking of any other man.
Such is my feeling now. Many a long year has passed away
since I last heard Robert Hall. I have listened with admira
tion to many orators in the two Houses of Parliament, and to
many good and heart-moving preachers ; but I never heard
one who was, in my mind, on the same level with Robert
Hall.

     I am at a friend's house, and I have very little spare time
on my hands ; but I have stolen away from the party for a
few minutes, that I might do my best in answering your letter
which has just reached me. Alas ! I know too well that this
letter is not worth your reading ; but I have, at any rate, en
deavoured to shew my goodwill to a brother-Fellow.

                                 I remain,

                                        Very faithfully yours,

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

Sedgwick's recollections of Henry Kirke White, who was

of St John's College, confirm what was mentioned above, viz. :
that his friendship with Ainger, his senior in University

standing by one year, would readily introduce him to

Johnian society. Two other men of Ainger's year and
college became intimate with him, Robert Bayne Armstrong,

and James Tobias Cook, who were afterwards both Fellows
of the House. In his own college he knew Charles James
Blomfield, afterwards Lord Bishop of London, William Clark,

afterwards Professor of Anatomy, Richard Ward, and Edward

Peacock. These were all of his own year, and distinguished

for their hard- reading and academical success. Of those

senior to him, besides Carr, may be mentioned George

Pryme, afterwards Professor of Political Economy, who had

obtained his degree in 1803, and his Fellowship in 1805. He

S. I.                    6

          82 EXERCISES FOR DEGREE.

  1807.   had been a pupil of Mr Dawson, and while at Sedbergh had

/Et. 22.  played cricket with Sedgwick1, but they could hardly have seen
          much of each other at Cambridge before 1808, when Pryme

          gave up the pursuit of the law in London, and returned to

          College. They then became very intimate friends.
              At the beginning of 1807 Sedgwick began to prepare in

          earnest for his degree. In those days the University required

          no proof of a student's proficiency until his third year, in the
          course of which he had to keep two Acts and two Opponencies,
          as they were called. Of the former the first took place in
          the Lent Term, the second in the Michaelmas Term. This

          system has been so long completely obsolete that a descrip
          tion of the way in which it was managed is almost indispen
          sable. We will try to make this as brief as possible.

              At the beginning of January in a given year the Moderators
          obtained from the Tutor of each college a list of his pupils

          who aspired to Honours in January of the ensuing year.
          Out of these lists -- each name on which was noted for the

          Moderators' guidance, reading, non-reading, hard-reading, as
          the case might be -- a complete list was formed, and tran

          scribed into a book. On the second Monday in the Lent
          Term the Moderator for the week -- (the two Moderators
          divided the term between them) -- sent a written notice to
          one of the students on his list -- who apparently was selected
          quite arbitrarily -- to the effect that he was to appear in the

          Schools on that day fortnight as a disputant. Shortly after

          receiving this summons, the student, now called a Respondent,

          waited on the Moderator with three Propositions, usually
          termed Questions, the truth of which he was prepared to

          maintain against any three students of the same year, whom

          the Moderator chose to nominate, and who were called

          Opponents. The first question was generally taken from

          Newton's Principia ; the second from some other writer on

          Mathematics or Natural Philosophy; the third was called the

          Moral Question, and, in connexion with     Locke, Hume,
          1
                                      p.

                                                it,
          Retollediotu,  30.

EXERCISES FOR DEGREE.                             83

Butler, Clarke, Hartley, Paley, were alternately attacked and
defended. During the fortnight's preparation, it was usual

(at least at the time we are considering) for the Respondent
to invite the Opponents to wine, or tea, or breakfast, in order
to compare arguments, and generally to rehearse the per
formance1. On the day appointed the Moderator entered

The Moderator's seat, from a photograph 1.

1 Alma Mater, 8vo. Lond. 1827, ii. 35 -- 38. The system here sketched was

abolished in 1839, and for about sixty years previous the disputations had lost

much of their original vitality. Compare The Origin and History of the
Mathematical Tripos, by W. W. Rouse Ball, M.A., 8vo. Camb. 1880 ; and The

Mathematical Tripos, by J. W. L. Glaisher, Sc.D., F.R.S., 8vo. Lond. 1886.

     2 The seat here figured is that in the Law School, which was somewhat larger

than that in the Arts School, but in all other respects resembled it exactly. The

photograph was taken in January 1886, just before the Law School was fitted up

for Library purposes, as authorised by Grace of the Senate, 17 December, 1885

{Cambridge University Reporter, p. 297).

                                            6--2

         84 EXERCISES FOR DEGREE.

  1807.  the Arts School at 1 p.m., ascended the rostrum on the
         west side, and said : Ascendat Dominus respondens. Thus
Xx. 22.
         summoned, the Respondent ascended the rostrum on the
         opposite side of the school, and read a Latin dissertation,

         which generally occupied from ten to fifteen minutes, on
         any one of the three questions. As soon as he had finished,
         the Moderator called upon the first Opponent to begin
         {Ascendat opponentium primus). He ascended a rostrum
         beneath that of the Moderator, and propounded his argu
         ments in the form of syllogisms, which the Respondent
         answered as best he could. When the first Opponent had

         finished, his place was taken by the second Opponent, and
         so on. The first Opponent was obliged to bring forward
         eight arguments, the second five, and the last three. " When
         the exercise has for some time been carried on according to
         the strict rules of Logic "-- says the authority from whom we
         have borrowed this account -- "the Disputation insensibly slides
         into free and unconfined debate, the Moderator, in the mean

         time, explaining the argument of the Opponent, when neces

         sary; restraining both parties from wandering from the subject ;
         and frequently adding, at the close of each argument, his own
         determination upon the point in dispute. The three Opponents,
         having, in their turns, exhausted their whole stock of arguments,
         are dismissed by the Moderator in their order, with such a

         compliment, as, in his estimation, they deserve (Domine

         opponens, bene disputasti--optime disputasti --optime quidem
         dispntasti) ; and the Exercise closes with the dismission of
         the Respondent in a similar manner1."

              At the close of the Act, the Moderator assigned to the

          Disputant a certain number of marks, which he set down
         opposite to his name in his book ; and, when all the Acts had
          been kept, the two Moderators conjointly formed the students
          into classes according to the number of their marks.

              1 Remarks upon the present Mode of Education in the University   of Cambridge.
         By the Rev. John Jebb, M.A., Ed. iii. 8vo. Camb. 1773, pp. 18 -- 20.   Wordsworth,
         Schola Academics:, pp. 32--43 : 368 -- 376.

                          HENRY lilCKERSTETH.

      The disputations took place on five days in each week,                 1807.

and each occupied about two hours. The language used was
 Latin, which, by the beginning of the present century, had

degenerated into a strange jargon ; and the logic was little
better than the language. Still, as a man's place in the

classes depended upon the impression he made upon the
Moderator when he kept his Act, it was imperative (at least
in 1807) to take pains. Moreover, at that period, when the
distractions of University life were few, Acts still excited
considerable interest, and were well attended, both by

graduates and undergraduates. The disputant was there
fore on his mettle, and anxious to distinguish himself at a
performance which he felt would have a great share in
determining his academical reputation1. The Acts were
often performed with great spirit, and tradition still preserves
the names of some of those who were specially successful for
their ingenuity of attack or defence. The system was also

useful in a social way, by making men of the same year, but
of different colleges, known to each other. By this means
Sedgwick " became well acquainted with " Henry Bickersteth
of Gonville and Caius College, who was Senior Wrangler
in his year. He mentions this fact in a letter which is
printed in Bickersteth's Life, and adds : " He did not quite
do himself justice in his first public Act, in the Lent
Term of 1807; but his Act in the October Term of the

same year was the most triumphant I ever witnessed.

He literally seemed to trample his opponents under foot'."
Their acquaintance, thus begun, ripened into a friendship
which was maintained after the one had become Master of
the Rolls and Lord Langdale, and the other Woodwardian

Professor.

     Sedgwick kept his first Act in February, 1807, and soon

1 Of a Liberal Education in General, Part I. By W. Whewell. Ed. ii.

1850, p. 183.                                               By T. D. Hardy.
    * Memoirs of the Right Honourable Henry Lord Langdale.

8vo. Lond. 1852, i. 232.

         86 CAMBRIDGE NEWS.

  1807.  afterwards wrote to Ainger to record his success, with other

Mt. 22.  fragments of University intelligence1:

             " I came off better than I expected in the schools. I
         perhaps might fairly say that I came off better than I could

         have previously wished. The honour I received from Wood-

         house* was : " omni tuo officio multd cum laude perfunctus es."
              " Since you left Cambridge we have had a most eloquent

         sermon from Dr Milner ; it was delivered with that peculiar

         emphasis which you might expect from a man of his powers,

         conscious at the same time of the truth and importance of

         what he was delivering3. We have had four sermons from

         Lemma Vince4, the most strange things ever preached in

         pulpit. The first Sunday he took us thro' the three laws of

         motion and Wood's chapter on projectiles*. The 2nd Sunday

         he got into his complete system of astronomy6. The 3rd he
         took us through the I ith section of Newton, and to conclude

         gave us a dissertation on optical glasses.  His pulpit lectures
                         "
         have now ended

         The Act over, Sedgwick evidently thought of nothing

         but preparation for the Senate House ; and is rallied by his

         friend on his devotion to his studies :

              " How possibly can you, deeply immersed as you are in all
         the sublimities of Mathematical Science, take any interest in the
         grovling concerns of one who, since he left you, has merely been
         scampering about the Fens in order to get rid of time ? In truth,

              1 To William Ainger, 23 February, 1807.
              * Robert Woodhouse, M.A., Fellow of Gonville and Caius College; Lucasian
         Professor 1820 -- 22; Plumian Professor 1822 -- 28.
              3 Isaac Milner, D.D., President of Queens' College, 1788 -- 1820. In after-life
         Sedgwick did not speak of Dr Milner in such complimentary language. The sermon

         referred to must be the one preached at Great St Mary's Church, 30 January,

         1807, against the Emancipation of the Roman Catholics, which produced a great

         sensation in the University. Life of Milner, 8vo. 1842, p. 344. It is printed in
         Milner's Sermons, 2 vols., 8vo. Lond. 1820, i. 1.

             * Samuel Vince, M.A., Plumian Professor 1796 -- 1822. He was Select
         Preacher in February, 1807. The Sundays in February 1807 fell on the 1st, 8th,

         15th, 22nd.

              0 An allusion to a then popular mathematical work : The Principles of Mechanics ;
         designed for the use of Stutlents in the University, by James Wood, B.D. 1796.

             6 A Complete System of Astronomy, by Rev. Samuel Vince, 3 vols. 4to. 1797.

CAMBRIDGE NEWS.                                                    87

Sedgwick, had I anything more important to acquaint you with, I             1807.
would not presume to inform you that last Tuesday sen'night I was         ^gt. 22
capering at Wisbeach to the sound of a Fiddle, and that the deepest
speculation in which I have engaged, has
                                          been an  attempt     to  learn
the character of an eccentric girl whom   you may   recollect      once
                                                                I

mentioned as the only female likely to make an impression on your

iron heart. Positively I think her as great an oddity as yourself;

and surely this is saying enough to excite any one's curiosity who is
not so much infected with the Mathematical Mania as to scorn

everything which is lower than the stars...."1

    We do not know what became of this damsel, or whether
she was ever aware of the honour destined for her; but the

next letter shows that the self-denying student could at any

rate find time to take interest in University politics :
     " Since you left us we have had a dead calm in Cambridge,

which in all probability would have been of long duration if
the King of his great goodness had not caused a dissolution

of parliament. We are now in confusion and uproar. The

Johnians are exerting themselves to the utmost in grunting
out the praises of their brother Palmerston. Lord H. Petty's
interest is considerably diminished in consequence of Mr

Jones' illness. We were under the greatest apprehension for
the life of our old Tutor, but the last reports from London
were more favourable. He is now there, under the care

of an eminent physician, attended by his friend Professor

Marsh....

    " As my sister has now left Cambridge, I can begin a
system of close reading to which I hope to adhere. I have
finished the first volume of Newton, and just begun to look at
the second. In making an attempt, last night, upon the
philosophy of sound, I got so completely fast, that after
retiring to rest I was disturbed with the most horrid dreams
you have the power of conceiving. I intend to rise at five all
this summer ; if you will do the same I can promise you

great advantage from it....*"

      Sedgwick had been taught by his father to abhor the

1 From William Ainger, 11 April, 1807.
a To William Ainger, 4 May, 1807.

        88 UNI VERSITY ELECTION.

1807. slave-trade, and he told Bishop Wilberforce in 1848 that he
          had signed a petition against it as soon as he " had learnt to
         scrawl his name in childish characters". He had also imbibed,
         probably from the same source, a wholesome horror of the
         Church of Rome, and had not yet become a sufficiently
         decided Liberal to see the justice of removing the civic
         disabilities of Roman Catholics, as he did a few years later.
         He would therefore take a peculiar interest in the University
         elections of 1806 and 1807, of which the former turned on
          Abolition, the latter, at least to some extent, on Catholic
         Emancipation. After the death of Mr Pitt, Lord Henry
         Petty of Trinity College, afterwards Marquis of Lansdowne,
         then Chancellor of the Exchequer in the cabinet of Lord
          Grenville, had come forward, as an abolitionist, at the sug
         gestion of Mr Wilberforce1, who had personally canvassed
         on his behalf. He was elected by an enormous majority,
         his competitors, Viscount Althorp and Viscount Palmerston,
          polling together only 273 votes, while 331 were recorded for

        him*. At the same time many of those who usually agreed
         with Mr Wilberforce were not a little scandalised at his
         support of one who had opposed Mr Pitt, and some, among
        whom was Dr Milner, voted against his candidate*. At the
         general election of 1807 the feelings of the constituency were
         no longer the same. The Abolition Bill had received the

          Royal Assent on the 25th March, and therefore the slavery
         question had passed out of sight for the moment. Lord
         Grenville and his colleagues -- better known as the ministry of

        " All the Talents "--had been dismissed by the King on a

          point connected with the relief of the Roman Catholics ; and
         their successors, the Duke of Portland and Mr Perceval, had
          dissolved Parliament. The question placed before the consti
         tuencies was partly the relief of the Roman Catholics -- partly
         the vindication of the King's conduct, who had demanded

                                        1 Life of Wilberforce, ul supra, iii. 255, 256.
                                        2 Cooper's Annals, iv. 484.
                                        3 Life of Milner, ut supra, pp. 316 -- 320.

              UNIVERSITY ELECTION.                    89

a pledge from his ministers that they would never again,            1807.

under any circumstances, offer him advice on the Catholic         Mt- 22
question. Protestantism and loyalty -- both equally unreason
able -- were roused to passionate enthusiasm in the country

and in the University. There were four candidates for the
two seats : Lord Euston, who had been Mr Pitt's colleague
ever since his first election in 1784, and Lord Henry Petty
(whigs) ; Sir Vicary Gibbs, Attorney General, and Viscount
Palmerston (tories). " We are all in a flame for Church and

King " wrote Dr Milner. " Most seriously, I do think that

the greatest constitutional question, by far, that has happened
in my time is now at issue ; and if the ' outs ' were to get the

better, I think that the royal prerogative would be in im

minent danger." He concludes by urging his correspondent
to support " Sir V. Gibbs and Lord Palmerston, who, at

present, represent the constitutional side, against Lord
Euston and Lord Henry Petty, the friends of the ex-

ministers1."

     The polling, then limited to one day, took place on May

the 8th. At the end of the morning's voting Gibbs and

Palmerston were considerably ahead, Lord Euston was third,
and Lord Henry Petty " hopelessly at the bottom ". There

upon Mr Pryme and about forty of Lord Henry's supporters,
who had promised to vote for him only, called a meeting of

his committee, and with his consent divided their votes

between him and Lord Euston*. In consequence the latter

headed the poll with 324 votes, and Sir V. Gibbs was second
with 312, just beating Viscount Palmerston, who polled 310.
Lord Henry Petty polled only 265*-- a curious instance of the
fickleness of fortune, when compared with his great majority

only fourteen months previously. Sedgwick was probably
right in attributing his failure to the loss of the active
assistance of so influential a member of his own college as

                 1 Life of Milner, ut supra, p. 349.
, '' Pryme's Recollections, ut supra, p. 70.

                 :! Cooper's Annals, iv. 487.

          90 YORKSHIRE ELECTION.

  1807.   Mr Jones, who must have supported him on general grounds,
          for he was the pupil of another tutor, Mr Porter.
/Et. 22.
               An interesting glimpse of an election contest of those

          times is afforded by a letter written to Sedgwick by his

          father from Dent, 11 June 1807. The candidates for the
          county of York were Mr Wilberforce, who had been member
          since the memorable contest of 1784, Mr Lascelles, and
          Viscount Milton. The polling, held at York, lasted for fifteen
          days, at the end of which Mr Wilberforce and Viscount
          Milton were declared to have been elected1.

          "You will naturally conjecture what a bustle and ferment this

          County has been put into by the contested election. Wilberforce

          had every freeholder's vote in this parish except Tattersell's, who

          gave a plumper for Lord Milton Dr Dawson and I with 12 others
          from Dent and Sedbergh set forward from Kirkby Lonsdale at the
          same time, but were divided at Skipton for want of immediate
          conveyances. From thence Mr John Fawcett and Hen. Hodgson
          were"      sharers in a chaise to York  and home again. . .
                 my  Leigh Bland's friend was a   warm advocate for    Lascelles,  but

                 Mr

          very careful about spending money for liquor. Lord Milton's agents

          were just the reverse, they spared no expence to get a single voter.

          Most of his freeholders returned home with about five guineas clear
          of all expences. The other candidates were before him in canvassing;

          and Milton would have got few here had not a report prevailed that

          his Committee allowed very liberally for expences. Indeed we were

          all carried almost free from expence by stopping at houses that were

          open for accommodation."

              The same letter reports that Mr Dawson is anxious to
          know " in what Book or Section of Newton your mathemati

          cal question was which you kept your Act upon in the

          Schools : he also wishes to know upon what you mean to

          keep your next Act8, if you have already determined that
          point." This inquiry shows that the old mathematician was

          watching with interest the steps of his pupil's career at the
          University. Mr Sedgwick, whose knowledge of the higher
          mathematics had grown somewhat rusty, contented himself

          with general advice: "You have been engaged in lectures

              1 Life of Wilberforce, ut supra, iii. pp. 315--337.
               2 No reference to Sedgwick's second Act, or to either of his Opponencies,

          occurs in his correspondence.

TRINITY SCHOLARSHIP.  91

out of my sphere. I wish you to apply regularly to your              1807.
                                                                           25
studies, but at the same time not so closely as to injure your

health; take also regular exercise when you can1."
     In the Easter vacation Sedgwick was elected to a scholar

ship in his college. As this was his only opportunity of

competing for a distinction without which, according to the
rules then in force, he would not have been allowed to sit

for a Fellowship, success was a matter of vital importance
to him, and his chances probably caused him the gravest
anxiety. The election over, he allowed himself a short pe
destrian excursion by way of holiday, in which he had invited
one of his earliest Yorkshire friends and schoolfellows to join
him. The answer indicates how acutely he had suffered from

apprehension as to the result of the examination :

    "It would have given me heartfelt pleasure to have been with

you in the delightful walk you mention, that I might have congratu

lated you, while your mind was filled with the most agreeable ideas
from the honour which you had achieved. As your breast would be
entirely free from those anxieties which you could not but feel in
preparing for that day on which your reputation in a considerable
manner depended, you could not but be in a cheerful mood, and, be

assured, I should have enjoyed your cheerfulness*."

     The beginning of the Long Vacation of 1807, which
Sedgwick spent in College, preparing for his degree, was
saddened by the death of the respected and beloved tutor,
Mr Jones, which took place on the 18th July. His claims on
the affection of his pupils have been already recorded, and
therefore need not be repeated. That he had obtained it is
proved by a single extract from a letter of one of Sedgwick's
friends : " Poor Jones ! I am sure there is not a man one
could have less spared, or one who is more lamented by our

College or by the University in general." Sedgwick no doubt
shared this common sorrow ; but he had, in addition, a
private trouble of his own. His father was gradually becom
ing blind, and a letter from his sister Margaret, after giving
the sad news in detail, had concluded with the ominous words,

                             1 From Mr Sedgwick, 18 November, 1806.
                             3 From John Brown, 10 April, 1807.

                          FA THER'S BLINDNESS.

1807.    "he fears he shall not be able to teach the school next winter.
Et. 22.
         My Mother says that if they can get over this winter, you and
         Thomas may manage it next summer. How will you like to

         be a Dent's schoolmaster ?" Much as Sedgwick loved Dent
         -- much as he might have liked such an offer had he never

         left it -- he now contemplated the possibility of enforced

         return with infinite bitterness of spirit.
             " My Father's eyes," he wrote to Ainger, " have long failed

         him, but he has lately perceived their imperfections so much

         that he fears a total blindness; in other respects he is as well

         as at his time of life could possibly be expected. These

         accounts for some time produced such a depression in my

         spirits that I was prevented from reading ; my sorrow,

         indeed, was in a good measure selfish (few of our sorrows
         are otherwise), for, if my Father's sight should continue to

         decline, a fixed residence in Dent must be my inevitable lot.

         This situation of all others I should dislike. Little as I have
         seen of the world, I have seen enough to find that to me no

         pleasures are to be found in illiterate solitude. These thoughts

         are to me too gloomy to dwell upon                    Pray has Henry

         Smith escaped the fate which many of our brave countrymen

         have met in Egypt ? I believe his regiment was in the expe

         dition1."

         His friend, with many apologies for being a bad cor

         respondent, for Sedgwick had begun the above letter with a

         page of abuse on that subject, lost no time in replying :

                                                        WHITTLESEA, Aug. 3, 1807.

         My dear Fellow,

                         ...Henry Smith, after whom you enquired, did not go
         into Egypt, but to Buenos Ayres. His father had a letter from him
         after the engagement. His captain was killed by his side in the
                         command      of the company            of course,
         outset ;   the              acquitted himself  then,  creditably,   devolved to
         Henry,    who,  I believe,                     very                and did not,

         to use his own expression, get a single scratch. Last week brought
         his friends another letter from Monte Video, which acquainted them
         that he was then (in April) just recovering from the attack of a fever
         which appears, Sedgwick, not to have been less formidable than

                         1 To William Ainger, 1 August, 1807.

                LAST LONG VACATION.                                   93

Iyours was. He says he has lost all his flesh; but find he retains all                         1807.

his spirit.                                                                                  ^t. 22.

    It is needless to say that I am truly sorry for the accounts which

you have received from Dent. However, you are certainly right in

endeavouring to banish gloomy thoughts. I do not indeed think it

is your character to indulge in them much, and in the present

instance I trust the occasion is not so serious as to justify them. In

the sincere hope, at least, that it may not be found so,

                   I remain, Dear Sedgwick, your friend,

                                                                                 W. AlNGER.

     We can imagine that Sedgwick's natural elasticity of spirits

would enable him, before long, to chase away gloomy antici

pations, and brace himself to his work and his amusements
as if his future were without a cloud. In 1807 a Long Vaca
tion offered few distractions, with the exception of Sturbridge
Fair, with its varied diversions and excellent theatre, which
even older members of the University did not scruple to
frequent. To these Sedgwick was evidently looking forward,

for Ainger (probably in reply to an invitation to Cambridge)
wishes him "much fun at it", and regrets his own inability to
be present. In the more important matter of work he had

made such good progress that a notion seems to have been

current that he had a chance of being Senior Wrangler. His

friend Carr, who had been Second Wrangler in 1807, and

therefore knew the Senate-House examination well, had
written to him soon after his own degree : " Mind you read

hard, and I have not the least doubt that we shall have the

Senior Wrangler next year. You have my best wishes ;" and
Ainger heard by accident at the very end of the year, that
the Fellows had formed a very high opinion of his powers.

                                            ICKLEFORD, Jan. 1, 1808.

Dear Sedgwick,

...One morning Mr Professor Lax' called here. He

enquired of me about the great men who were going out this year.
Your name, of course, was                   He enquired whether
were to be Senior Wrangler.  mentioned.  a                            you
                                            question which I could    not
                               This was

    1 The Rev. William Lax, M.A., Fellow of Trin. Coll. and Lowndean Professor
of Astronomy and Geometry 1795 -- 1836. It was probable that, in virtue of his
office, he might be appealed to to settle the position of the candidates in the brackets.

          94 DEGREE.

  1808.   positively answer ; but I took the liberty of saying that you, without

/Et. 23.  doubt, would be among those whom he would have the pleasure of
          examining. He said he had heard a splendid account of you from

          some of the fellows of Trinity, among whom, I think, he specified

          Hudson1.

              From a man of your celebrity, Mr Sedgwick, I certainly cannot

          expect the honour of a letter 'till your expectant brows are finally

          crowned with the laurels which at present hang over                          them   ; and, by
                                                                                       shall  assuredly
          that time, I may, probably, be again at Cambridge. I
          Ibe most happy to make one in the train of your triumph.
                 conclude,  IfDbeeanr eSdeicdtgiownisck,    by   repeating my    wish  of a happy   new
          year  to you.                                   are   of any service,   may   mine avail  you

          in the Senate House. Seriously, however, Sedgwick, may success

          attend you! but, whether successful or unsuccessful, rely equally on
          the sincere esteem and unaffected friendship of yours truly,

                                                                                 W. Ainger.

               The Senate-House examination began on Monday, 18
          January. It was at that time conducted partly vivd voce,

          partly by printed papers, each class8 being seated at a separate

          table. At the conclusion of the first three days examination

          a new classification was published of those who had passed
          with the greatest credit. This consisted of a series of brackets,
          arranged in order of merit, the names in each being placed
          alphabetically. These brackets (which were hung up on the
          pillars of the Senate House at 8 a.m. on the Thursday morn
          ing) were regarded as a first approximation to the final list,
          " and men who were joined together in the same bracket had
          the opportunity of fighting the battle out under the direction
          of some Master of Arts appointed for the purpose. Sedgwick
          was in the first bracket, and the battle was fought out under
          the direction of the Rev. George Barnes, then Tutor of
          Queens' College, who said that he found no reason to
          alter the order in which the names came to him ; that

          the men were so different in their reading that he could
          have put them in almost any order by a special choice of
          questions ; but that the man who impressed him most as

          possessing inherent power was Sedgwick*." The result of

                   1 The Rev. John Hudson, M.A. succeeded Mr Jones as senior tutor.

                      2 These classes were arranged by the Moderators. See above, p. 84.
                     3 Macmillar1's Magazine, ut supra, p. 477.

DEGREE.                                                                   95

this last trial was published on the Friday morning, when                     /Et- 2-
the successful candidates were admitted to the degree of

Bachelor of Arts. Sedgwick's name stood fifth in the first
class, or Wranglers. Those above him were : Bickersteth, of
Gonville and Caius College (Senior Wrangler) ; Bland, of
St John's College, his old friend and schoolfellow, who had
always, as we have seen, been considered certain to beat him ;
Blomfield, of Trinity College, who used to say that Sedgwick
was a much better mathematician than himself1; and White,

of Gonville and Caius College.
     The next two years were spent by Sedgwick in preparing

for the Fellowship examination at Trinity College. His own
wish was to read for the Bar, to which he was stimulated by
the example of his friend Bickersteth ; but he was deterred

by the consideration that his father's health was failing, that

The Vicarage of Dent, from a water-colour drawing by Mr William Westall.

J.1 Memoir of C.  Blom field, Svo. 1863, i. p. 9.

          96 COUNTRY PLEASURES.

  1808.   his two younger brothers had to be educated, and that it
          was therefore his duty to create an independence for himself
/Et. 23.  as soon as possible1. Some relaxation, after the strain of the
          preparation for the degree, was, however, indispensable, and
          in January, 1808, he went down for a few months to Dent,
          which he had not visited since October, 1806. The change
          proved the reverse of agreeable, and his letters betray a good
          deal of disappointment, not to say ill-humour.

                                                                  Dent, February 19, 1808.

                Dear Ainger,

                     I hope you have executed the commission which I

          left with you, viz. 'to see my box well fortified with a wrapper,
          cord &c., and set on the right road for finding its way into
          the North.' The said box contains all the valuable property
          of your humble servant. You need not doubt therefore that he

          is extremely anxious for its arrival. I am anxious on another
          account ; it contains some books of which I already begin to
          feel the want. Indeed all the last week I have thought myself
          a fish out of water. I rise about 9 in the morning ; come down

          stairs in all due form, and commence breakfast, which consists

          of a large mess of oat-meal porridge, to which I drink about a
          quart of excellent milk. This is by far the greatest animal

          comfort which I enjoy, for I no sooner have finished breakfast
          than I become miserable for want of employment. The weather

          is so bad that to walk is impossible. I have therefore nothing

          to do all morning but amuse myself with my own pleasant re
          flections, surrounded and perplexed with all the clamour of

          domestic music. I hope next week to find more rational plea
          sures, for I have procured an excellent grey-hound. You may

          depend on it that dogs are the best company a man can have

          with him in the country. Your pleasures, Ainger, I know are in

          some measure different from mine ; marriage may be all well
          enough when a man is on his last legs, but you may depend
          on it that to be linked to a wife is to be linked to misery.

                  1 This statement is made on the authority of Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

VACATION AT DENT.         97

From the horrid estate of matrimony I hope long to be de-                     ^1808.
livered. I arrived at Dent without any incident during my                           J3-

journey which is worth mentioning. I found my friends at

Dent better than I expected ; my father, though his eyes have

so far failed as to be of no use to him in doing the Church

service, still keeps up a good flow of spirits, and his general

health does not seem materially impaired....

Believe me, dear Ainger,

Yours truly,
      A. Sedgwick.

                                                       Dent, April 23, 1808.

       Dear Ainger,

           I merely write this to be out of your debt, for there
is nothing here which I can tell you totidem litteris, but Bland

will be able to tell you much better totidem verbis. As soon

therefore as you may think convenient after the sight of this,

write to me, write to me about anything but love and friend

ship. Indeed a plain matter-of-fact letter will be most agree

able, inasmuch as you are the only person from whom I can

expect to hear what my old friends are doing in Cambridge....

Bland tells me you have been lately on a visit, and that

Miss H --s has been of your party. I think your plan of en
joyment most rational. I wish some blooming damsel could
contrive to kindle a flame in my breast, for then I might

stand some chance of keeping up a proper degree of animal
heat ; without some artificial aid of this kind I am fully con

fident that my lamp of life will be soon extinguished. Indeed,

Ainger, such is the inclemency of the season, that at the

moment I am writing, most of the farmers in the higher parts
of our valley are busily employed in digging out sheep which
have been covered up in the snow. An "over-drive" at this

time is most unfortunate as many of the sheep are on the

point of bringing forth lambs. So much for the pleasures of
a country life and a crook. I have now completely exhausted

       S.L 7

          98 READING PARTY AT DITTON.

  1808.   myself ; love naturally led me to talk of sheep, and sheep lead
yEt- 23-
          me to talk of I know not what. I shall therefore only add
          that I am. dear Ainger,

                                                        Yours &c. A. Sedgwick.

               Sedgwick returned to Cambridge in May, 1808. Theit,
          summer was spent on a reading-party with seven pupils.a
          That ingenious device for combining instruction with exercise
                                                         ;
          and pleasure was then in its infancy, and Sedgwick went no
          further afield than Ditton, a small village on the River Cama;

          about two miles below Cambridge, where he established the;

          head quarters of his colony, as he called at Mr Bond's farm;
          house. One, at least, of his pupils lodged there with him
          another established himself at Horningsea, village about
          mile further down the river, but spent the day at Ditton the

          others probably had lodgings in the village. Sedgwick appears
          to have given himself up to his tutorial duties with unremitting
          diligence. Vainly did Ainger try to tempt him away to

          Whittlesea by the attractions of "a day's excursion on the

          Mere " " my engagements preclude the possibility of my
          leaving Ditton" was the stern reply and in fact the only
          amusement which he allowed himself was an occasional visit to
          the theatre at Sturbridge Fair. Still he and his pupils seem to

          have enjoyed themselves, for more than one of those who read

          with him refers in after years to his summer at Ditton as a
          pleasant experience. Sedgwick was nicknamed "the Com
          missioner", and his authority as "head of the colony" was

          successfully maintained. All went well, and the party did not
          return to College until near the end of October.

               The names of five out of his seven pupils can be recovered
          with certainty from his correspondence, viz. Robert Roberts,
          and Arthur Savage Wade, of St John's College Henry
          Rishton Buck, of Pembroke College Oliver Hargreave, and
          John Bayley, of Trinity College. To these should probably
          be added two other men of the same college, William Robin
          son Gilby, and Samuel Duckworth. None of these gentlemen
             ;
                              :

                                                    ;

                          PORSON'S FUNERAL.                              99

                     were specially distinguished in after-life ; unless indeed we    1808 to
                     except Gilby and Bayley, who became Fellows of Trinity and
                     Emmanuel respectively. Buck went into the army in 1809,:

                     as soon as he had obtained his degree, and saw a good deal                    a
                     of active service in Flanders and Holland. Ultimately his
                                                                                                                                                  J4.3
                     regiment took part in the battle of Waterloo, where he was
4                         'a
             it      killed, 18 June, 1815. A good many letters passed betweena

                    ahim and Sedgwick, who was evidently sincerely attached to
                     him. He carefully preserved all Buck's letters, and on slip
                     of paper dated 22 September, 18 15, he recorded the last
                     events of his friend's career, concluding his brief notice with

                     these words " Peace to his soul. A man of more cool
                     undaunted courage never existed. If he had lived he would

                     have been an ornament of his profession."
                          One interesting reminiscence of the autumn of 1808 was

                     frequently recalled by Sedgwick in conversation. He hap

                     pened to come over from Ditton to Cambridge on Tuesday,

                         October, and on reaching College found that Professor
                     Porson was to be buried on that very day in the chapel. As
                     may be easily imagined, his dress was suited to the country
                     rather than to such an occasion, but, being anxious to honour
                     the memory of so distinguished a scholar, he borrowed black

                     coat from friend, and took his place in the procession.
                          In October, 1809, Sedgwick sat for Fellowship, but was

                     unsuccessful. There were but two vacancies, to which Charles
                     James Blomfield and William Clark were elected. The
                     former, will be remembered, was third Wrangler in the same

                     year as Sedgwick, and had also been senior Chancellor's
                     Medallist; but Clark was only seventh wrangler, and had
                     obtained no University distinction in classics. On the sup
                     position therefore that there was no first-rate candidate of
                     the upper year, Sedgwick had good prospect of success. In
                     the examination, however, which was partly classical, partly
                     mathematical, Clark did extremely well in classics, and gave
                     special satisfaction to the examiners by a translation of
                          a
                                                                              a

                       1  Professor of Anatomy from 1817 to 1866.

                                                                   7--2

        IOO FELLOWSHIP.

1810.   passage from Pindar into English verse. Sedgwick was
Et. 25
        therefore compelled to wait for a year, which he spent in im

        proving his classical knowledge. "What are you about now?"

        writes his friend Duckworth, 22 April 1810: "How many

        vacancies ? What number of books of Thucydides, and plays,
                       "
        &c.  perused      Others write in the same strain.  On the next
                      ?

        occasion, in October, 18 10, there were four vacancies, to fill

        which the Master and Seniors selected Sedgwick ; George Edis

        Webster (8th Wrangler), Edward Peacock (9th Wrangler), and
        Richard Ward (7th Senior Optime, and second Chancellor's
        Medallist), all of the same year.

             Sedgwick's friends hastened to express their joy at his

        success. Letters of congratulation have a certain uniformity of
        style, and those addressed to Sedgwick -- or "Sedge " as he was

        called for brevity's sake -- form no exception to the rule. None
        need be quoted at length -- but from that written by Samuel

        Duckworth, more enthusiastic than the others, we will cite

        a brief extract. " Escaped from the clutches of x and y ;

        no longer bounded by right lines, superficies, or solids ; no
        longer impelled to move in a diagonal by the joint action
        of ambition and lucre on the one hand, and of indolence on

        the other, you may commit yourself entirely to the influence

        of the latter, enjoy otium cum dignitate, and listen to the con

        gratulations of your friends resounding from the banks of the

        Mersey and Humber to those of the Cam. I for one sincerely

        congratulate you, my dear Sedge," and so forth. But of all

        those which he received probably none gave him so much

        pleasure as that from his old school-master at Sedbergh,
        who added in a postscript : " Mr Dawson begs to join in

        congratulations."

CHAPTER IV.

(1810-- 1818.)

Work with pupils. Reading for ordination (1810). Visit

      to London. Society at Cambridge. Contested election

for Chancellor and M.P. for University. Installation

of Chancellor. Reading party at Bury St Edmunds.

Christmas at Dent (181 i). Winter visit to Lakes.
Visit to London. Petition against Roman Catholic

claims. Reading party at Lowestoft. Appointed sub-
lecturer at Trinity College. Second petition against

Roman Catholics (181  Serious illness. Summer at
it
     itDent (1813). Severe frost. Visit of Marshal Blucher.

               2).Summer at Dent. Excursion in Yorkshire (1814).
                           a
Projected tour on the continent. Farish's lectures.

Cambridge fever. Goes home to Dent. News of
Waterloo. Assistant tutorship at Trinity College

(1815). Tour on continent (1816). Ordination. Summer
at Dent. Hard work in Michaelmas Term (18 17).
Elected Woodwardian Professor of Geology (181 8).

THE long-coveted distinction of  Fellowship at Trinity          r81o.

College did not bring to Sedgwick all the pleasure he had no  Mu

doubt anticipated from it. He had sacrificed his own inclina

tions, as already mentioned, to his duty towards his father

and his brothers, and he never repented of that decision.

But the course which compelled him to follow was not the

less distasteful because was right. He had never taken

         102 WORK WITH PUPILS.

  1810.  any deep interest in mathematics, or done any original work

Xx. 25.  in them ; and when it became necessary to teach them,

         merely for the sake of money, to young men of whom some

         probably approached their study with unwillingness as great

         as his own, he regarded both the subject and the pupils with

         feelings little short of detestation. He worked hard, and

         evidently did his duty conscientiously and thoroughly1, but

         he was at heart profoundly dissatisfied with himself and his

         surroundings. " Six of these blessed youths I have to feed

         each day," he exclaims in one of his letters ; in others he

         deplores his wasted life, his inability to find leisure, even in

         the summer vacation, for the private reading which he is

         longing to begin ; and he looks forward, with eager anticipa
         tion, to a future in which he will be able " to have done with

         the system altogether". Nor were other causes wanting to

         make his life less pleasant than it had been.                                          He
             In the first place, his health had become impaired.

         had been extremely anxious about the result of the Fellow

         ship examination, and had over-worked himself in pre
         paration for it. In fact, the chronic ill-health from which

         he suffered during the rest of his life, and which occupied

         so large a space in his letters and his conversation, may

         be traced to the mental and physical strain of that period.

         He broke down completely in 1813, as will be related below;

         but even at the end of 18 10, though he declined to allow that

         he was ill, his appearance was such that his friends had
         become solicitous on his behalf. As one of them wrote : " a

         man who is reduced two or three stone below his standard

         weight cannot be very well8." The state of his purse, how

         ever, would not allow him to take the rest of which he stood

         1 For instance, when Ainger was coming to Cambridge in the Easter Term,

         1812, and    had   suggested that Sedgwick      should     meet   him  on   the  road   from
         Whittlesea,   he  received the following reply          would    have  met  you  with  a gig
                                                          : "I

         with my whole heart if I could have done it with a good conscience. But consider ;
         I have six pupils, and it is now within three weeks of the examination. An

         absence of two days would at this time of the year be a great trespass."
              3 From Rev. John Mason. 3 October, 1810.

              WORK WITH PUPILS.                1o3

so much in need, and he was "driving on just as usual1".         1811.
                                                                        76
Moreover, his determination to give up the Bar entailed a

further, and more important, step, namely, the adoption of
the clerical profession, for which he had no very decided
inclination. He came, however, to the wise conclusion that
it would be best to commence the study of such a subject

"Iwithout delay, and before the end of 18 10 he wrote : intend
to begin my theological labours in about a fortnight. I wish
I had a better motive than I have for beginning these labours.
I acknowledge the necessity and importance of them, but I
feel an indifference to serious subjects which I shall find it

difficult to conquer. We must hope for better times." We

shall see that the commencement here announced was again

and again deferred : but the feeling that he ought to be

studying theology was constantly present to his mind, and

added to his anxieties. Lastly, he felt acutely the loss of his
old set of friends-- all of whom, with the exception of Carr,

had left Cambridge. It was probably their absence, far more
than ill-health or uncongenial work, that made him feel so ill
at ease. As usual, he poured his troubles into the sym
pathising ears of Ainger, now comfortably settled in a

curacy at Beccles in Suffolk, who had ended his last letter

with these words : " I conclude with earnestly advising you,

and the whole set of you, to follow my example, and get away

from College as fast as you can."

Dear Ainger,  Trin. Coll. February 11, 181 1.

I feel much obliged to you for the circumstantial

account you have given me of your situation, your prospects,

and your society. You know little of my feelings if you are

not convinced that everything relating to yourself must always

excite in me the warmest interest. I am frequently gloomy
when I consider that in the common course of things I may

not hereafter have it in my power to spend many weeks in

that society which for the last six years has contributed so

1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 7 December, 1810.

                    HOLIDAY IN LONDON.

1811.  Ifmuch to my happiness, I might almost say to my existence.
       Carr was away I should consider myself alone at Cambridge.
^
           You will recollect that I made several resolutions to read

       Idivinity this vacation. I did begin, but that was all, for

       made no progress. Boswell's Life of Johnson is the only

       book I have seen this Christmas. While the men were in the
       ISenate House, did nothing. The result you will of course
       Ihave seen.
                    should otherwise have sent you a tripos in some

       corner of this sheet. It has been a noble year for Trinity.

       Armstrong says he fears the glory of St John's is gone for ever1.

           Soon after the degrees were conferred I set off to Town,
       where I spent a gay and agreeable week ; indeed I was

       engaged out to dinner every day I remained there. Gilby

       and I one evening left a party early and went to the Opera.
       I was much more astonished than pleased with the per
       formance. Catalani's powers are certainly transcendent, yet I

       felt more surprise than delight at her Italian warblings. The

       music was much too refined for my taste; they sacrifice

       everything to execution : however I have no right to censure
       what I do not understand. After taking an early dinner
       with Harrison*, I one evening went with Armstrong and

       Duckworth to Covent Garden. Cato* and the new pantomime

       of Asmodeus were performed. I am Goth enough to acknow

       ledge myself more pleased with Grimaldi's wry faces than

       with Addison's declamation.

           I returned to Cambridge last Tuesday, and am now lead
       ing a life of dull uniformity. I am at present almost prevented

       from leaving my rooms by a violent cold which has already

       taken away three of my senses ; I can neither hear, smell,

       nor taste. But while I have one sense left I shall ever

       remain

                    Yours sincerely and affectionately,

                                        A. Sedgwick.

            1 There were 15 Wranglers, of whom Trinity had 7; the 1st, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th,

       9th, 14th: St John's only 2 ; the 10th and 12th.
           2 Charles Harrison, Trin. B.A. 1810.
            3 A revival of Cato with John Kemble as Cato and Charles Kemble as Juba.

UNIVERSITY SOCIETY.

     In April 181 1, after Sedgwick had proceeded to the degree      181
of Master of Arts, he had the right of dining at the High
Table in Hall ; but these new surroundings gave him but            Xx-
little pleasure, at any rate at first. For a time he enjoyed
Carr's society there ; but at the end of 1811 or the beginning
of 18 12 he also left College, and Sedgwick remained alone, to
make new friends as best he could. His judgment on his
brother Fellows -- at least on those senior to himself -- was not

favourable :

    " I find a great want of Carr ; for, though I am more at

home among our Fellows than I was formerly, I find none
amongst them to supply his place. On the whole I have

been rather disappointed in the society of Masters of Arts.

Many are gloomy and discontented, many impertinent and
pedantic ; and a still greater number are so eaten up with
vanity that they are continually attempting some part which
they cannot support1."

     The University has changed so completely since Sedgwick
wrote these words, that a few remarks on University life at
the beginning of the present century will be not out of place.
In attempting to picture to ourselves what it was, it must be

remembered in the first place that foreign travel was impos
sible, that communication with other parts of England was
slow and costly, and that therefore journeys were seldom

undertaken. Many Fellows made Cambridge their home,
which they rarely left, and died, as they had lived, in their
college rooms. Newspapers -- such as they were -- travelled
as slowly as individuals, and the arrival of a letter was a rare
event. We have often wondered what the Fellows conversed
about at dinner or supper, or at the symposia in the Combina
tion Room which in winter filled up the long interval between
the two meals. And yet those gatherings were described as
cheerful ; and Sedgwick himself has been heard to expatiate
with delight on the recollection of a certain Christmas, when
they had been so fortunate as to secure the company of an

1 To Rev. W. Ainger, without date.

         io6 UNIVERSITY SOCIETY.

 1811.   Irish Captain, specially famous for his comic songs. Christ-
         mas, however, comes but once a year, and the joviality of the
Et. 26.  twelve days over which its festivities then extended was no
         doubt enhanced by the dullness of the remaining three

         hundred and fifty-three.

              Again, the refining influence of ladies' society was almost
         wholly absent. With the exception of the Heads of Colleges,
         there were very few married men in the University, and the
         Heads were averse to general society. Dr Mansel, who had

         daughters to establish, gave a few evening parties ; the other
         members of the oligarchy thought themselves too important

         to associate with anybody whose degree was below that of a
         Doctor, or who had not achieved the dignified position of a
         Professor. Nor was it the custom for Fellows of Colleges to
         see anything of the undergraduates. It was rather the fashion
         to ignore their existence. The old custom of a Fellow sharing
         his room with one or more undergraduates had died out a
         century before, and had not been replaced by the frank inter
         course which has now become usual, to the common benefit of
         both. It is evident, from what Sedgwick says of the Fellows,
         that he knew nothing about them until he was enrolled among
         their number. There were Fellow-Commoners it is true, who
         were sometimes numerous ; but the Fellows saw very little
         of them. From the way in which Professor Pryme speaks of
         the pleasure which he and some of his friends derived from
         intercourse with "the most cultivated of the Fellow-Com

         moners1 ", it is evident that such intercourse was as rare as

         they found it agreeable.
              Few Fellows of Trinity College, except the officials, had

         any definite occupation. With two exceptions, they were
         bound to take Holy Orders. Some held small livings in
         Cambridgeshire, tenable with their fellowships ; others, who
         had been appointed to the office of College Preacher, held
         more lucrative pieces of preferment. But in neither case was
         residence compulsory ; parishes were held to be sufficiently

                                                            1 Recollections, p. 89.

                UNIVERSITY SOCIETY.                                                             107

provided for by the appointment of a curate, and the per-                                                 181
formance of an occasional Sunday service. With the large
                                                                                                        Mt-

majority of the residents, the fact that they were clergymen

imposed upon them no duties, and effected no difference in
their manners, habits, or language. Men of ambition went

out into the world and boldly courted fortune, as soon as
they had obtained their fellowships -- some without even

waiting for that assistance. Those who despaired of success,

or had no energy to strive after                                remained behind. One
             a

                                                       ;

                                                         it, it,
                                                             a
resource, and one only, remained to them, the chance of

obtaining College living and for this, and for the marriage

which in many cases depended on                                   man would wait, year

after year,

        "Sickening in tedious indolence,
          Hope long deferr'd, and slow suspense1;"

till not only had he become unfit for active work in parish,      a
but his hopes of domestic happiness had too often ended,                   a
sometimes by mutual consent, sometimes in sadder way,
by the death of the intended wife.

     No wonder that discontent and ill-humour became chronic,

except with those happy dispositions whose natural gaiety

can never be checked no wonder that those who had to
        a

                                               ;
endure       life which had all the dullness of a monastery

without its austerity or its religious enthusiasm, should

become soured, eccentric, selfish,                if              not intemperate and
immoral.

     We have drawn a gloomy picture, but one which reprea                                            a
sents, we fear, painful reality. Before long, however,
great change took place. The restoration of peace put an
end to the isolation of England, and the Universities, in
common with the rest of the kingdom, shook off their torpor,
and became imbued with new ideas. The Fellows of Trinity

College only few years junior to Sedgwick were men of
powerful intellect and wide interests with whom, as will
be our pleasing task to point out, he made common cause
1

                       a

                                                                                             ;

                                                                                    p. it
Ode to Trinity College, Cambridge. By G. Pryme, 8vo. Lond. 18n,                                 a1.

         UNIVERSITY ELECTIONS.

  1811.  against the dullness of a previous age, and inaugurated the
         modern development of the University.
St. 26.
             At all times, even the most stagnant, politics can rouse

         the soundest sleeper; and in March, 181 1, the University was
         thrown into an unusual state of excitement by two elections,
         both of which were contested. The Duke of Grafton, who

         had been Chancellor for forty-three years, died on the 14th ;
         and the elevation of his son, Lord Euston, to the peerage,
         vacated one of the seats in Parliament. For the Chancellor
         ship the candidates were Prince William Frederick, Duke of
         Gloucester, and the Duke of Rutland. The latter had ac

         quired an almost paramount influence in the Town of Cam
         bridge, of which he was High Steward, and on this account

         was opposed by several prominent tories, and notably by
         Professor Marsh, who considered that his duties to the

         Borough would clash with his duties to the University. The
         Duke of Gloucester, as a staunch Abolitionist, had the support
         of Mr Wilberforce, and Dean Milner was specially active on
         his behalf. The Duke of Rutland's supporters, on the other
         hand, hinted not obscurely that His Royal Highness was in
         favour of Catholic Emancipation, and called his friends
         " enemies of the Church ". This clever electioneering move
         was, however, unsuccessful, and the Duke of Gloucester was

         elected by a majority of 117, 26 March, 18111.
              For the seat in Parliament the candidates were Viscount

         Palmerston, who had been Under-Secretary for War since
         October 1809, and John Henry Smyth, M.A. of Trinity
         College. The tories made the most of " the ability displayed
         by Lord Palmerston in the administration of the country," and
         he obtained a majority of 106 over his opponent, a whig, who
         had taken no part in public life, and was known only as a
         good classical scholar*. The election -- which took place on

              1 The Question Examined, whether the Friends of the Duke of Gloucester in the
         present contest are Enemies of the Church. By Herbert Marsh, D.D., 8vo. Camb.
          181 1. Milner's Life, p. 450. Cooper's Annals, iv. 495. Wilberforce's Life, iii. 502.

              a Mr Smyth had taken an ordinary degree in 1801, but had obtained Browne's
         medal for a Greek and Latin Ode in 1799, and for a Greek Ode in 1800.

             UNIVERSITY ELECTIONS.                                                                                                        log

the day following that of the Chancellor -- excited compara-                                                                                   1811.

tively little interest beyond the walls of Palmerston's own

College. Sedgwick, as the next letter shows, was beginning
to take a keen interest in politics -- and he puts the objections

to the Duke of Rutland even more forcibly than Professor

Marsh had done.

                 Trin. Coll. Tuesday morning.

                                          [March, 181
My dear Ainger,;

                       is
                                           a is

                                                                          a

                                                          I
                                                              It I

                                                                                                                                     1.]
          ...The University  already in ferment; shall

rejoice to see you whenever you may come, tho' fear many

of my political lectures have been lost on you.        would

be absurd in any one to wish you to vote against Lord

Palmerston he no doubt highly respectable candidate,

and deserves the support of his college.

The candidates for the Chancellorship are both of our

college. The Johnians in general support the Duke of

Rutland.     am astonished at his impudence in offering him
          I

                                                                                     is
                                                                                         is
self. If we look to his intellectual attainments we shall find

them beneath contempt. He borrows his influence from that

source which ought to render him infamous. He one of
the greatest borough-mongers in the kingdom. It con

foundedly provoking to the men of our year to be without a

vote. The undergraduates of St John's are all about to be
sent out of College to make room for the Masters of Arts.

As you will be here before next Tuesday, shall trouble you
                 I
no further,
                         a

                                 if
                                               II

                                                                  I
                 am Yours most affectionately,

                                          A. Sedgwick.

     You must not tell your friends what  have written.
shall be prosecuted for libel you do.

     Notwithstanding Sedgwick's good resolutions, his theo
logical studies made little or no progress. During the Easter

Term he was occupied as usual with pupils, and with prepara
tions for his summer excursion to Bury St Edmunds. When

         1 10 1NSTALLA TION.

 j8n.    term was over, he stayed in Cambridge in order to participate
         in the gaieties of the Chancellor's Installation, and evidently
mt. 26.
         forgot all his cares in the bustle and excitement. "Well

         do I remember," he wrote in 1864, "the tumult of joy with

         which I plunged into the festivities of 181 1, when the Duke
         of Gloucester was installed our Chancellor. In those days
         I was a dancing man, and found it a most happy method

         of discharging my redundant spirits1."

              The following letter to Ainger, written at the end of term,

         opens with such an amusing burst of well-feigned indignation,
         that we are tempted to regret the loss of the remonstrances

         against unpunctuality in answering letters which provoked it.

                                           Trin. Coll. June 10, 181 1.

         Dear Ainger,

                      Your letter was left in my rooms this morning.
         When I had read it over, and found your name affixed to
                                           a

                                                   I
                                                                         iIt,
         could with difficulty persuade myself that was not deceived

         by my senses.  am at present      solitary, matter of fact
                        I

                                       is
         man, little accustomed either to give, or receive, the language

         of abuse. Your letter             indeed couched in terms of right

         orthodox scurrility. You have been reading books of reli

         gious controversy, presume. Authors of the description you
                        II
         are now studying am little acquainted with, and therefore
                                                            I

         cannot be expected to express the worst passions of human

         nature with the same strength and propriety that you do. A

         momentary irritation was the only effect your impudent scrawl

         produced  resolved to throw aside and think no more of
         I
                        ;
                 I
                                                      it

                                                         I
         it. have, however, allowed my judgment to master my

         feelings, and resolved to give you an opportunity of explain

         ing away this farrago of false accusations.        have been since

         endeavouring to account on rational principles for this change

         in your tone of thinking and of writing. Have you become

         so far intoxicated by the applause of the gaping crowds at

         Beccles that you expected to overwhelm me with torrent of
                        1
                                                              5

                                                                              a
                            To Mrs Hotson, June, 1864.

CAMBRIDGE GOSSIP.  111

eloquent abuse, unaccompanied by reason or truth? You            1811.
                                                                       26
have indeed got some egregious Gospel Trumpeters in your
parish. Your sermons make as much noise in the papers

as Daffy's Elixir, or Bish's Lottery tickets. I hate such
Pharisaical blasts; I wonder you have not found means to

stop them.

    You begin by asserting Ithat am a sad careless fellow,
Iand that you fear shall never mend. This from you is too
much. On turning over your letters I find that, almost with

out exception, they begin with apologies for neglect. In one
you acknowledge " that the happiness you derive from present

objects had filled up every moment of your attention ; that

you had never found time even to think of those who were
absent " (dated Hertfordshire) ; in another you with all due
contrition bewail your offences, calling yourself " a wretched

caitiff and a miserable sinner"; in a third you say "that the

fulminations in my last letter had roused you as it were from a

dream, and at length brought you to your senses". In truth,

Ainger, out of the six letters of yours which I have before me

I could find more expressions of bitter remorse than you

could pick out of all the volumes of the Newgate Calendar.

    I should not have brought your own words in judgment
against you if you had not set me the example. I still pro

fess myself desirous of continuing a regular correspondence.

If you had been guilty of no dereliction of duty, you would

have experienced none from me. You say it was my turn to

write because you had paid me a visit. I recollect no such

visit. You did indeed just show your face in Cambridge " to

do the devil's dirty work for nothing ". But let me assure you
that if the taking a coach, and driving across the country to

vote for a foolish fox-hunting Duke is hereafter to be con

sidered as an answer to my letters, I shall feel no desire of

continuing our correspondence.

    I cannot yet propound to you any difficult questions in
divinity, because I have not taken the trouble to look for
them. I have had five pupils during the whole of last term ;

          I 12 CAMBRIDGE GOSSIP.

1811.     when I was not engaged with them I employed myself
          principally in reading voyages and travels. I managed to get
lit. 26.  through ten or twelve quarto volumes. Besides these I have

          read Malthus on Population twice through ; he is a delightful
          author, and has made me a convert to most of his opinions.
          His maxims are too cold-blooded for a man of your tempera

          ment. My more serious moments have been devoted to

          Xenophon, Tacitus, Virgil, Berkeley's Metaphysical Works,

          and Paley's Sermons. I am at present engaged exclusively

          in reading Mathematics by way of preparation for our

          summer's labours. We shall not remove to Bury till after

          the Commencement.  I have of course regularly seen the

          morning and evening papers. Such a tide of success has

          been flowing in upon us, as Perceval says, that even you,

          dead as you are to all political feeling, must have joined in

          the general exultation. The reappointment of the Duke of
          York is a cursed drawback. " The Talents " have behaved

          infamously ; they are nothing better than the vile refuse of a

          party.

          Carr has left Cambridge and all its festivities behind him ;

          he is now in the North, and will continue there during the

          summer. I almost envy him. At one time I intended to

          have seen Dent before July, but I could not raise the wind.
          In truth, Ainger, I scarcely dare appear in the streets ; some

          terrific gaping dun stares me in the face at every corner.

          Bland is now at Sedbergh. I had some conversation with

          him before he left us. When speaking of you he seemed

          quite in a pet, and muttered something between his teeth

          very much like an oath ; he seems resolved never more to

          think of you, or to write to you, because you never give your

          self the trouble of answering his letters. Armstrong has sent

          me a very long and amusing letter. He was one of the

          Stewards at the John Port Latin dinner. On returning to
          Gray's Inn he was obliged to leave a reverend friend of his in

          the watch-house. Armstrong seems to have made a long

          speech in defence of this hopeful divine, but his eloquence

READING-PARTY AT BURY ST EDMUNDS.                                                113

produced no effect on the constable of the night. He men-                             1811.
tions no names. " The Parson " (he says in one part of his                                  s6-
letter) "has never written to me since he left town." He
complains of you for your indolence. Your friends, you find,

are abusing you with one consent. Don't be so self-com

placent as to imagine that you are right and they wrong. If

after this prompt and vigorous exertion on my part you

make no suitable return, I shall for the future consider you a

monster of ingratitude.  I am, dear Ainger,

                                             Yours most truly,
                                                       A. Sedgwick.

The reading party assembled at Bury St Edmunds in

July1, and, let us hope, passed the summer both profitably
and agreeably, but we know neither the names of the pupils,
nor any particulars of their doings, with this exception, that

Sedgwick, as might be expected, made friends there, whom

he visited on subsequent occasions.

     Between October 181 1 and April 1812 Sedgwick's life

offers no variety. He worked on as usual ; denied himself a
holiday in London towards the end of the year --" Five pupils
and an empty purse interpose difficulties not easily got over*;"
-- passed the Christmas vacation at Dent ; and finally, after a
Lent term devoted to pupils, and preparation for a summer at

Lowestoft, allowed himself a hasty glimpse of his old set in

London. It is painful to notice that the tone of his letters is

still depressed. The elasticity of youth had passed away, and
had not yet been replaced by the cheerfulness of a man who
is doing work which he enjoys contentedly and resolutely.

My dear Ainger,          Tr1n. Coll. February 14, 181 2.

            I informed you in my last that I should visit Dent
during the Christmas vacation. My anxiety to be off was

     1 Miss Margaret Sedgwick directed a     letter (31 July) to "Mr  Sedgwick,  at

Mr Crisp's, Druggist, Bury St Edmunds."      4 December, 181 1.

     2 To Rev. W. Ainger, Beccles, Suffolk,

s. 1.                                                                 8

         H4 VACATION AT DENT.

 18n.    such that I left Cambridge two days before the end of the
Mt- 7-  October term. You will perhaps be surprised when I say

         that I travelled outside all the way from Alconbury Hill to
         Ingleton. I had fortified myself with a box-coat of huge

         dimensions and impenetrable thickness, so that, notwithstand

         ing a keen north wind and hard frost, I found little incon

         venience from the weather.

         My Father still retains that freshness of complexion, and

         activity of limb, for which he was remarkable, and, though

         deprived of his sight, he is not cut off from all communication

         with books, for my sisters read to him by turns the greater

         part of every evening. On the whole there are perhaps few

         men who enjoy a more rational, or a more happy, existence.
         My mother looks old, though she does not complain of ill

         health.

             At Sedbergh the empire of dulness is firmly fixed. With
         Stevens I spent some pleasant days ; his hospitality, and,

         above all, his zeal for the interest of his pupils, cannot be

         too much admired ; but yet there is something about

         him which I neither like nor understand. He has seven

         daughters and a son, and there is another on the stocks,

         but of its sex one cannot speak with certainty.  Mrs

         Dawson died about ten days before I left the north. Her

         dissolution had long been expected. Mr D., if one may

         judge from his appearance, will not be long in following
         her. He looks quite cadaverous, and is shrunk into a

         mere skeleton.

             I spent about a week with a man of our college who lives

         on the borders of Windermere. We took many excursions

         during my visit to the different Lakes in the neighbourhood.

         The face of nature is certainly seen to a great disadvantage
         during this part of the year, yet the excursion --

             I was interrupted about 10 this morning by the entrance

         of a pupil. It is now late, the fumes of wine are in my head,
         and I am drowsy. It had been my intention to give you a

         bombastic description of the rugged scenery in the neighbour

                 VACATION AT DENT.

hood of Coniston, but I am now quite disabled. I returned                    1812.

to Cambridge by Manchester and Leicester. The road is                     &t- 27.

intolerably bad, and the distance about fifty miles greater
Ithan by Leeds.
                 was induced to return by this route that I

might call on a clergyman near Macclesfield1 who formerly

had the delectable office of teaching me A, B, C, and with

whom I spent a month in Cumberland about twenty years
ago. I have only seen him twice since that time and after
long intervals. We soon became as intimate as if our ac

quaintance had been uninterrupted ; and as he is not tor
mented by that bane of domestic happiness a wife, we

contrived, during each of the few nights I was with him,

to keep up the conversation till two or three o'clock in the

morning.

    I forgot to tell you that I went out with a gun several

times during the Christmas vacation. I have quite lost the
art of shooting. I had many good shots, and literally killed
nothing. Here I am grinding away with six pupils. Under

such circumstances it is impossible to advance one step. But

I am compelled by circumstances to undergo this drudgery.
When I look back on what I have done since I was elected
Fellow I cannot discover that I have made any proficiency

whatever, or gained one new idea. This is miserable stagna

tion, but I thank God that I am not yet in the " slough of

despond ". I hope for better things. You will undoubtedly

have heard of Carr's appointment to Durham School. I find

a great want of him. He was too valuable a man to be
easily replaced. I think he was in the right to accept

the situation, though at present the emoluments are but

small.

                 I am, dear Ainger,

                 Yours most affectionately,
                                       A. Sedgwick.

        1 Sedgwick's godfather, Mr Parker.  See above, p. 47.

                                                                    8--2

n6 VISIT TO LONDON.

                 Trin. Coll. Sunday Evening,

My dear Ainger,      April 19, 1812.

I left Cambridge on Monday week, and arrived here

last Thursday, having exhausted my stock of cash and curi

osity. I had no time to yawn or flag during the visit, as a suc

cession of delightful engagements presented themselves. Our

friends Armstrong, Hargreave, Harrison, Duckworth, Gilby,

&c. are all well ; with some of these I contrived to breakfast

almost every morning during my stay, spent the remainder of

the morning in spying farlies1, and ended at one of the

Theatres, the Opera, or the House of Commons, seldom

finding my way to bed before two in the morning.

My resolution of spending the summer at Lowestoff2 is

still fixed. We shall probably remain there about sixteen or

seventeen weeks; as this is a good long time, perhaps I might
engage lodgings cheaper on that account. If a comfortable

sitting-room and a bed-room could be procured for a guinea

per week I should feel quite happy ; if for less so much the
better ; if for four or five shillings a week more, I should not

quarrel with them. Some of the men may perhaps take a

house, as you recommend. I should prefer being on my old

footing. As you have proposed to look out for me, I feel

disposed to accept your offer; but should wish to put you to

no inconvenience, especially as more than two months must

elapse before I shall think of leaving Cambridge. In regard

to the formation of a mess, that will be best done after we

arrive at the spot, as two or three of us shall probably leave

Cambridge together. At the same time a hint from you may

be of good service.

                 Believe me yours,

                           A. Sedgwick.

Sedgwick's interest in the contested election of 181 1, and

   1 In North Country dialect, a farlcy means a wonder, a strange thing.
   3 Sedgwick always writes Lowestoff, not Lowestoft.

PETITION AGAINST CATHOLIC CLAIMS.  117

his regret that he had no vote wherewith to oppose the tories,   1812.
                                                                       27-
as represented by His Grace of Rutland, have been already
mentioned. In the Easter term of 1812 he found an oppor
tunity of exercising his newly obtained rights as a member of

the Senate, under political circumstances of more than ordinary
interest. Early in the year the propriety of making some
concession to the Roman Catholics, in connection with the

peace and good government of Ireland, had engaged the
attention of both Houses of Parliament. The motions, each

of which took the form of a petition for a committee on the
state of Ireland, were lost ; but it was evident that much of

the opposition was directed against the form of the proposal
rather than against the matter, and that the question would
be brought forward again at no distant date. Under these

circumstances the Protestantism of both Universities took

fright, and it was resolved to send petitions to Parliament.
But it is evident that, at least at Cambridge, those who
suggested such a course knew that they were not standing on
sure ground. The petition was certain to be opposed, and in
fact, as the result proved, ran considerable risk of being
rejected altogether. Even the all-powerful Heads of Colleges

were not unanimous in its favour. The promoters of it there
fore determined to bring it forward as secretly as possible.

It was presented to the Senate on Monday, 20 April; but, "it
was not till Saturday (18 April) that it was surmised in the

University that such a Petition was in contemplation, and it
was not till Sunday, a day usually devoted to other concerns,

that the promoters of the Petition formally promulgated their
purposes." Incredible as this statement sounds, it was made
in the House of Lords by the Marquis of Lansdowne, in the

terms quoted above, and no one ventured publicly to contra
dict it. The Earl of Hardwicke (Lord High Steward of the
University) had already spoken in the same sense, adding
that even the Master of Trinity College had not been trusted
with the secret ; perhaps because, as Lord Lansdowne " had

authority to state ", he would have opposed the petition had

           n8 PETITION AGAINST CATHOLIC CLAIMS.

  1812.    he not been accidentally absent. The document was drawn
.<Et. 27.  Up by Dean Milner1, and, from what we know of his character,
           it may be safely assumed that the measures for presenting it
           to the Senate were devised by the same person. The petition
           is not in his happiest manner, and the main argument is

           curiously fallacious. It stated, with a specious affectation of

           liberality intended of course to disarm opposition, that the
           petitioners " have never been adverse to liberty of conscience
           in Religious or Ecclesiastical Matters ; that they feel no
           uneasiness at the Concession of any comforts or advantages
           to their Roman Catholic Brethren " ; but that " the controul
           of any foreign Power over the Government of this country
           either in Church or State is inconsistent with the first princi
           ples of all Civil Government...; that the power of the Pope,
           though for various reasons lessened in the public opinion, is

           notwithstanding more dangerous to us now than ever, being
           itself brought under the control of a foreign and most in
           veterate Enemy." As Sedgwick's friend Armstrong observed:
           "According to the wiseacres who framed that petition, the
           Pope's influence increases as all external means of doing
           mischief are taken away from him ; if he were only shut up
           in a dungeon it follows he would be irresistible." Notwith
           standing the precautions that had been taken, the opponents
           mustered in considerable force in both the Houses into which

           the Senate was then divided ; and the Grace to affix the

           University Seal to the document obtained a majority in the
           Regent House of only fourteen, and in the non-Regent House
           of only five*. That Sedgwick voted in the minority is evident
           from the following extract from a letter to Ainger (3 May) :

               " I had a long letter from Armstrong yesterday in reply to
           a much longer of mine. In truth I had filled to the brim a

           large sheet of scribbling paper with abuse of those men who
           were instrumental in sending that absurd petition to the two

               1 Life of Milner, ut supra, p. 500.  34, Non-Placet, 20;  Non- Regents ;
               * The numbers were: Regents; Placet
           Placet 24. Non-Placet 19.

READING-PARTY AT LOWESTOFT.  119

Houses. Armstrong felt exactly as I did, but, in my opinion,                        181

acted very absurdly, for he not only shewed my farrago of

invectives to our common friends, but, by some means or
other got it conveyed to Mr Whitbread, who in consequence
fired off some bitter invectives in the House against the

patchers of the petition. Fortunately the speech was not

reported ; I say fortunately, because if any circumstances had

transpired by which my letter had been made public in

Cambridge I should have found myself in hot water. After

having committed my assertions to paper, the onus probandi

would have rested on me ; and I might have found it devilish
difficult to prove every thing I had asserted. But of all this

mum, mum1."

      Sedgwick's summer residence at Lowestoft was in every
way successful. He frequently spoke and wrote of it in after-

years, with all the pleasure afforded by a thoroughly agree

able retrospect, and, on several occasions, when prebendary

of Norwich, he spent a few days there in revisiting his old
haunts. Of his nine pupils four at least became his intimate

friends ; and some of the resident families, delighted to
welcome a set of cultivated young men to their society,

showed him civilities which he never forgot. Among these
were Dr Smith, afterwards Sir James Edward Smith -- the
celebrated botanist, founder of the Linnean Society-- and his
accomplished wife. In April, 1865, when all but fifty-three
years had elapsed since his first visit, Sedgwick was at
Lowestoft. Saddened by a drive to several country churches,
where he saw " the monuments of friends of bygone years ",
he called on Lady Smith, " the most wonderful woman of her

years that I ever beheld. She is now ninety-two; yet her

eyes are bright as diamonds ; her face is smooth ; there is

     1 Armstrong's letter (from which a quotation has been already made) is dated
May, 18 12. Sedgwick's letter to him has not been preserved. The petition was

presented to the House of Commons (22 April) by Sir Vicary Gibbs, M.P. : but
no debate is reported. The history of the petition, as stated above, will be found
in Hansard, Vol. xxii., pp. 506, 507, 722. It was presented to the House of

Lords (21 April) by the Duke of Gloucester, Chancellor.

           120 LADY SMITH.

1812.      a natural colour on her cheek ; her voice is full ; her gestures
      7-  active and firm ; her posture as upright as that of a young

           woman ; her manner of address happy, kind, and cheerful.

           She is still very good-looking. When young she was very
           beautiful, and it was a kind of beauty to last well -- somewhat

           of oriental about
           a                  for when she was a girl she sat to Opie
              a

                                   it
                                      it,

                                                            a
           as gipsy, and was one of the cleverest pictures he ever

           painted1." The conversation naturally turned on their first

           acquaintance in 1812, and few days afterwards she sent

           him copy of verses written on the departure of the party
           by one of her young friends, Miss Ritson. This jeu a"esprit

           --which indicates by the way that their time was not wholly
           absorbed by the study of mathematics -- fortunately records

           the names of all Sedgwick's pupils.

           Whence comes the deep sigh, whence springs the fond tear?

           Why seems my sad heart now so lonely and drear?

           Why beats so heavy that once was so gay?
           Ia
                        it
                               it
                                                I
                                                                                   a
           ********'Tis                                          The
                                                               and
           Did
           yboeucautsheinkpleasuwroeuldflieslasmt?e--.                              moralists                                           say  --  Nay.
                                                                                    answer                                           them

           Yet sigh of regret will arise in my heart
           When see that my friends with my pleasures depart.
           At the play, at the ball, in the dance, with the song,
           Our hours have sped gaily and swiftly along.

           Farewell then to Belgrave1, good wishes attend,
           Good sport in the field, and at home true friend.
           And farewell to Sedgwick, the Mentor who join'd
           With the grave mathematics, the life of the mind,
           Who foremost in whate'er was gay or could please,
           With knowledge join'd mirth, and with study mix'd ease,
           Who so justly the dulce and utile mingled

           That the harp still was soft and the chords never jingled.

                  To Mrs Atkinson, 18 April, 1865. Pleasance, Lady Smith, daughter of
           Robert and Pleasance Reeve, was born 1773, and died 1877, aged 103. Her
           husband died 1828. The picture was painted 1797, soon after her marriage. It
           a is
                11                                             Rogers, 8vo. Lond. 1878, p. 161.

                         \

                                                     ;
                                                                                        ;

                                                              J.
                                                                 J.

                                                                                                                                  a
           thus described in Opie and his Works, by
           " Canvas, 29 in. x 24J in. Seen to waist, three quarters face to right, dressed as

           gipsy, her hat thrown back on her neck, and hanging by muslin scarf tied in

           front under her chin dishevelled hair about her brow, both hands shown, her

           right fore-finger resting in the left palm an arch smile and pretty face."

                  William Belgrave, St John'*, li.A., 1813.

LOWESTOFT PUPILS.                                        121

Farewell too, to Musgrave1, polite and refined,                           1812.
Like a well-tuned piano the chords of his mind.
Tho' grave never stately, tho' wise n'er pedantic                       /Et. 27,

Tho' devoted to music, yet never romantic.

And farewell to Peacock"1, to Lodge3, and to Case*,

Who alike pleased us all, by each good-humoured grace ;
And though Adams6 at dancing and Ladies may sneer
Still we'll wish him success in his learned career.

And to Cook' who to study and books ever true ;
To the well-bred, polite, lively Holder7 adieu.
And farewell to Ingle* of marvellous fame,

By mighty comparisons marking his name,
Who, fond of discussion, would oft raise the smile

And join in the laugh the long hours to beguile.

His mind I for once will attempt to compare
To the great bird of Jove, to the prince of the air,
For ever in alto his thoughts will arise
And you must take care, they're not lost in the skies.

Keep his wits 'neath the     clouds, for they're   monstrously clever,
                              you, you've lost    them for ever.
If they once soar above
His mind never free from a thousand vagaries,
You would think he had lived in the age of the Fairies.

But the gay tribes are flying and flitting away
And the brown tints of Autumn no longer may stay.
Stern Winter will come, bid his tempests to roar,
So I'll give a fond tear to the Summer that's o'er,
And sweet retrospection of scenes long gone by
Shall paint, and will raise, or the smile or the sigh,
While poor Lowestoft deserted no gaiety knows

And hears nothing more than the keen blast that blows.
But hope may to future sweet scenes look along
Through the gloom of the winter, whose terrors among

May arrest the sad sigh, make my bosom to swell

And wipe off the tear that accords with Farewell.

Lowestoft, 1 October, 1812.

     Of the nine gentlemen here celebrated, Case, Belgrave,
Holder, and Adams are unknown to fame; nor do their
names occur in after-years in connection with Sedgwick's
history. With Cook -- who became a Fellow of Christ's

1 Charles Musgrave, Trinity, B.A. 1814.           1814.
4 George Peacock, Trinity, B.A. 1813.
8 John Lodge, Trinity, B.A. 1814.
4 Isham Case, St John's, B.A. 1814.
5 Richard Newton Adams, Sidney Sussex, B.A.
6 Joseph Cook, Christ's, B.A. 1813.
7 Robert Keyse Holder, St John's, B.A. 1813.
6 Charles Ingle, Trinity, B.A. 1814.

           I 22 LOWESTOFT PUPILS.

1812-      College-- he maintained a correspondence until his death,
      27-
           in 1825, while travelling in the Sinaitic Peninsula. Musgrave

           (the future Archdeacon), Peacock, Lodge, and Ingle, were
           all numbered among his most intimate friends. The two

           former became Fellows of Trinity ; and though Musgrave
           left College in 1821 to become Vicar of Whitkirk, in York

           shire, they still contrived to meet frequently. Peacock resided
           in College until he was made Dean of Ely in 1839. Lodge
           obtained a Fellowship at Magdalene College in 1818, and was

           University Librarian from 1822 to 1845. Ingle obtained no
           University distinction, and left Cambridge as soon as he had

           taken his degree. But a very warm affection had grown up

           between him and Sedgwick, and they continued to write

           letters, and to pay frequent visits, to each other. Ingle was a
           brilliant, impulsive creature -- with a warm heart and a weak
           head --who clung to Sedgwick's stronger character like ivy to

           an oak. The friendship, however, was far from being all on
           one side. Sedgwick had a high opinion of his talents, de

           lighted in his society, and selected him as the confidant of his

           most private thoughts and feelings. Few lives have opened
           with brighter promise ; none -- as it will be our painful task
           to tell --have had a more miserable close.

                Sedgwick paid another visit to Lowestoft in 1869, and

           sent a charming description of it to his two American cousins,
           Mrs Norton and Miss Sedgwick. The letter, dated 8 July,

           1869, contains so many references to 18 12, that it will be best

           to quote a considerable portion of it here :

               " I have no news to communicate except what relates to
           myself. I am looking over the broad sea. The sands below

           my windows are covered by groups of merry children, digging
           away with their little spades, as lustily as if they thought the

           fate of England was in their hands. The waves are sparkling

           in the bright sun, and a great number of vessels are running

           before a side-wind both north and south, and close in shore,

           for this is the most eastern point of our Island. I ought to have

           returned to Cambridge to-day to superintend some important

LOWESTOFT REVISITED.  123

works going on in my Museum ; but I could not resist the         1812.
temptation of a run for a few hours to the seaside, that I             7-

might breathe the free air of heaven, and visit some old

friends.

    "And I have visited two or three to my joy. Among them
was my dear old friend Lady Smith. She has bright manners,

bright eyes, and clear sight ; a face still handsome, and with

healthy colour on her smooth, well-rounded, cheeks. She

hears well, and her voice has a cheerful ring with it. All this

may be said of many English women. But Lady Smith is
one of a million --the wonder of the county, and the charm of

her old friends, for she is now happily wearing her way

through her 97th year ! I am old and suffering from the in
firmities of old-age ; but my friend Lady Smith, to whom I
gave a true-love kiss, is twelve years older than myself. Let

not my two saucy American cousins laugh at the thought of
a love-kiss given between two such aged remnants of old
Time's gleanings. Love is the dearest attribute of God.
Like Himself it will last for ever. He may plant it here ;
and, if we do our part well, it will have its consummation and
perfection after the wreck of all visible worlds.

    " Well ! to come back. I am going to have a drive, that
I may revisit the pretty rural spots in this neighbourhood,
where I spent many happy days in my youthful life ; and to
which I have often brought my young relations during the
periods of their visits to me at Norwich. I spent 181 2 at
this bright little seaport on the Suffolk coast. It was the
last time I ever went out with pupils. The whole summer

and autumn were seasons of intense excitement. No rail

roads, and no telegrams then. So day by day we went out

to meet the mail-coach, on its first entrance, to catch the

first whispers of news from Spain and Russia. It was you

know the year of Napoleon's invasion of Russia, at the head
of the grandest army that ever mustered within the limits of
Europe. The issue of the contest seemed to involve the very

life and death of old England. And in fits of gloom I some

         124 VICTORY OF SALAMANCA.

  1812.  times fancied that she must fall before the fortune of the

Mu 27.   great conqueror, as so many other powers of Europe had

         done before her. But such gloomy visions had one bright

         side. I said to myself, if England lose her freedom I will

         pack up all I have, and go to settle along with my relations

         among the free-men of the United States. We had heard

         reports of good news, and I took my stand on a little hill

         that overlooks the London road along with my party. Several

         hundred of the inhabitants joined us. At length the mail-

         coach came in sight, rapidly nearing us. On its top was a

         sailor, waving the Union Jack over his head, and gaudy

         ribbons were streaming on all sides, the sure signs of victory.

         The guard threw down a paper to me, and with it I ran to

         the Public Room. There, mounting upon a table, I read to

         the assembled crowd the Gazette Extraordinary of the Battle

         of Salamanca1. The cheers were long and loud, but there

         were sobs of sorrow too, for some of us had lost those who

         were dear to us. Remembrances of this kind gave a quiet

         charm to my sweet drive."

              When the party had separated Sedgwick took a short

         excursion with his friend Mr Daniel Pettiward* to Ipswich
         and Bury St Edmunds, and then returned to Cambridge. It
         is sad to learn that he still found the place distasteful. At

         the beginning of the term, however, he was appointed a sub-
         lecturer -- an office which, by requiring him to take part in the
         College examinations, brought him into closer contact with

         the undergraduates, and also with the tutors. From this

         period may be dated the commencement of the excellent

         understanding which ever after subsisted between him and

         the rest of the society.

         My dear Ainger,            Tr1n. Coll. Oct. 17th, 1812.

         I met Mr Pettiward at Ipswich as I expected. The

         day following we commenced our excursion. We had not

         1 Wellington defeated the French at Salamanca, 22 July, 181 2.
         2 A member of Trinity College : IS. A. 1780, M.A. 1792.

        SUFFOLK REVISITED.

descended more than three or four miles when our vessel         1812.
                                                                      27-
stuck fast in the mud. This accident I had from the first

expected, as the navigation is very intricate, and the whole
crew of the wherry was intoxicated before we started ; one of
the many blessed effects of a general election. Wc must

have remained in the mud till next high-water, if a very

beautiful yacht had not most opportunely made its appear
ance. One of the gentlemen hailed Mr Pettiward, and, on

being informed of our situation, offered to take us on board ;
we wished good night to our brethren in jeopardy, and most

gladly accepted the proposal. Our voyage was delightful in

every respect ; indeed the accident we had met with gave us
Ifa greater zest for enjoyment.
                                 you should ever have an

opportunity of making the same excursion you will find

yourself amply rewarded for sacrificing some time to it.
After taking dinner on board the yacht, and drinking nearly

a bottle of Madeira each, we landed at Harwich. Every

thing there was in a state of uproar, as the election had
taken place in the morning. As we approached the inn we

heard sounds of boisterous conviviality. All the gentlemen

of the town and neighbourhood were assembled in the

upper rooms to celebrate a dinner on the event of the

election. Mr Pettiward knew many of the party so well

that he did not scruple to introduce me. I flatter myself
I chimed in with considerable effect. I never was in better

mouth.

The next day was well employed in examining Landguard

fort, and many other fortifications in the neighbourhood.

The day following we went a short excursion up the Manning-

tree river, landed at the other side, and walked to Ipswich,

where we arrived late in the evening. I spent a day with

Mr P. near Stowmarket, and three at Bury St Edmunds

most delightfully, among the friends I acquired there last
summer. "Past and to come seem best." This I find
confirmed by my own feelings. I am already beginning to

complain of Cambridge. This may perhaps be accounted

          126 PETITION AGAINST CATHOLIC CLAIMS.

 18n. for; few of my friends are arrived, and I am indisposed in
Mt. 7. consequence of the effects of a severe cold.

                                                 Your most affectionately,
                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

The term was not many weeks old before the Catholic

Question became again prominent. Early in November the
ruling party in the University determined to send a second

petition to Parliament. The document used in the previous

April was slightly altered and enlarged, but the arguments
were the same as on the former occasion. It was not, how

ever, proposed to the Senate with the same precautions

against discovery ; though, when presented to the House of

Lords ( 1 December) Lord Hardwicke complained that "due
notice had not been given to the non-resident members of the

University of the intention to set on foot such a petition." It

appears, however, that a notice of six days, instead of the usual

notice of three days, had on this occasion unquestionably been

given. The excitement among non-residents, especially among
junior Masters of Arts in London, was prodigious ; and Sedg

wick became the corresponding member of "a confederacy,'' as

one of them called established among members of Gray's Inn
1
  8and the Temple, prominent among whom were Gilby and

          it,Armstrong, for the purpose of opposing the petition. He

was to send information to four specified persons, who were to

inform the rest. By this means, no matter how late the

notice of congregation might be issued, a      was expected

that twenty voters would reach Cambridge in time. Theseit

elaborate precautions were rendered unnecessary by the

length of notice ultimately given, but       number of non

residents did eventually come up. The voting took place on

Wednesday, November, when the Grace to seal the petition

was passed in the Regent House by eighteen votes, and in
the Non-Regent House by eleven -- result which must have
               a

                   BREAKS A BLOOD-VESSEL.                            127

been singularly mortifying to the enthusiastic partisans of                                              1813.
                                                                                                               28
toleration 1.

    At the beginning of May, 1813, Sedgwick broke a blood

vessel in the course of an excursion on the river. One of his
usual colds -- as usual neglected -- had ended in a violent

cough ; and finally inflammation of the lungs, or something

very like  had supervened. The attack must have been
           if it,

                           by
                                                     it
serious, from the way in which his father wrote on receiving

the news:

" Notwithstanding your caution to the contrary we were all           Ia

good deal alarmed       your first letter. However your last letter, in
which you seem so much recovered, has made us in better spirits.

hope by this time you are nearly well, and beg that you will take the

earliest opportunity after you receive this of letting us know how

you go on, you have not, before arrives, sent letter off.

     Your mother joins me in requesting that you will set off for the
                                                         it a
North as soon as you think you are able, and                 is  safe for you to

undertake the journey. Perhaps the journey and change of air may

be of service to you."

    That the health of one apparently so strong should breaka

down so completely was subject of great surprise, and;
sincere regret, to all his friends and Ainger with his usual
solicitude hastened to him. His place as examiner in the
next College Examination was taken by Mr Pryme", and
towards the end of May he was well enough to leave Cam

bridge. Indeed he felt so strong that before going away he
accepted the laborious office of Moderator for the ensuing
year. On his way to Dent, however, while staying at the
house of his cousin Mr Mason, in Nottinghamshire, he had

relapse which compelled him to give up all thoughts of the
Moderatorship. When he got home his friends were greatly

shocked at his appearance, and despaired of his recovery. It

was thought that he would become consumptive. Complete
idleness, however, did wonders. He provided himself with
2; 1
                                                         9.1

                                                                                        is

                                                                                                     aa
The numbers were: Regents; Placet 52, Non-Placet 34; Non-Regents;

Placet 53, Non Placet 47. The above account derived from the letters addressed
m,to Sedgwick by Gilby and Armstrong; from Hansard, Vol. xxiv., pp.
                                                                     134,

218 and from the Cambridge Chronicle, 20 November 1812.

Recollections, ut supra, p.

         128 RECRUITS AT DENT AND THE LAKES.

  1813.  horse (which he named Caliban from his ugliness) warranted
         to " waik on the edge of a precipice or descend a mountain
Mt. 28.

         with any horse in Christendom ", a gun, and fishing-tackle,

         and lived in the open air. Still he was subject to relapses,
         and it was not till near the middle of July that he was well

         enough to take an excursion to the Lakes. As he frequently

         visited that district in after years as a geologist, it is interest

         ing to note his remarks upon it when he was simply in search

         of the picturesque and wonderful.

             "About five weeks since, I left Dent on an excursion

         which afforded me the most unmixed delight. My head

         quarters were at Hawkshead, in the centre of the Lakes.

         The lady whom I visited allowed me to pursue every scheme

         of pleasure my fancy could suggest, so that during the first

         fortnight not a single day elapsed without my going out on

         some expedition from which I generally returned in the

         evening fatigued without being exhausted. My appetite,

         strength, and spirits, every moment improved ; my mind

         therefore was in a state above all others suited for receiving

         pleasing impressions.  Objects combining everything to

         delight and astonish were each day presented to my view.

         I always left them with reluctance, and started the day

         following with increased avidity.

             During the first fortnight I not only visited all the principal

         Lakes in the neighbourhood, but I also spent an afternoon

         among the ruins of Furness Abbey, descended into the iron

         mines in that neighbourhood, and explored, I think, more

         than a quarter of a mile under ground, the copper-mines near

         Coniston. After the celebration of the regatta at Winder

         mere I left Hawkshead, and commenced my last and longest

         journey. After passing for twenty-five miles through a most
         rugged and desolate country I arrived at the foot of Wastdale.

         The day following I ascended about three miles by the side

         of a noble expanse of water. On the opposite side a mountain

         entirely covered with rock rose abruptly, to the height of

         2000 feet, from the margin of the lake ; when I arrived at the

       VISIT TO THE LAKES.     129

top I found myself in an amphitheatre of pyramidal mountains,     1813.

all of which terminated in sharp rocks. Rudge makes the               l8-
perpendicular height of the ridge considerably more than

3000 feet. I was this day quite alone, and felt an elevation
of spirits infinitely greater than when I was surveying the
sweet country on the shores of Windermere. I sometimes

thought that the lovely scenery in that neighbourhood made
me melancholy. In Wastdale everything was rugged and

sublime ; about a dozen farm-houses seemed to make the

desolation more visible. From this place I pursued my way

through a pass in the mountains by a most frightful road,
which literally winds among masses of rock which have fallen
from the precipice above. I remained on horseback till I

became quite giddy ; then I dismounted, and led the way to

the top along a road in many places not more than a foot

and a half wide. A false step would have been destruction

to my beast.

     August 19. I was prevented from coming to a conclusion
on Tuesday, and am now so busy that I shall be compelled to
take the remaining part of my tour for granted. Suffice it to

say that I arrived from Wastdale-head to Borrowdale without
breaking my neck. I proceeded through the most romantic
vale in England to Keswick, where I met with a Cambridge

man with whom I prosecuted my journey for the next four

days. We walked round Bassenthwaite, ascended Borrow

dale, explored the lead-mines, perhaps a quarter of a mile
from the surface of the earth : and descended to Buttermere

through a fine pass in the mountains. The celebrated Mary

has now no personal charms to recommend her, but I must

recollect her with gratitude, for I was wet to the skin, and she

spliced me with a dry shirt, and her husband's breeches.
We scraped an acquaintance with the parson, who introduced
us to a party of ladies who were going on Crummock Lake
on a fishing excursion. We caught few fish, but had lots of

conversation. We returned to Keswick, and went together to
Ambleside, where we parted, and where I considered my tour

s. I.                       9

         130 EFFECTS OF ILLNESS.

1813.    as terminating. I remained one day near Windermere, which
Et. 28.
         t spent in sailing, and had I imagine very nearly been upset,
         and in the evening I dined with Wilson, the author of The
         Isle of Palms1. He is a clever convivial man, much superior
         to what I should have expected from his poetry*".

              After this he accompanied his sisters to Gordale, near

         Settle, and ended the vacation with a visit to his friend Carr,

         whose appointment to the headmastership of Durham School
         has been already mentioned*. In October he was well enough

         to return to Cambridge4, whither he was accompanied by

         his brother James, who was entered as a sizar at St John's
         College.

              For the moment Sedgwick had recovered, but he felt the

         effects of this illness throughout his life. " I have been liable

         to attacks of congestion ever since 1 8 1 3," he wrote in 1 864 ;
         and he told Dr Hooker that he had become "unfit for

         sedentary labour after 18 13." Fresh air and regular exercise
         became indispensable to him; and frequent attacks of ill-
         health warned him that he must seek for a profession which

         would keep him out of doors for several months in each year.

              1 John Wilson, better known as Christopher North, published The Isle of
         Palms, and other Poems, in 181 2.

              a To Rev. W. Ainger, 17 August, 1813.
              3 The Rev. John Carr died in November, 1833. Mr Robert Surtees, in a

         letter dated 15 November of that year, thus sums up his character: "He was

         eminently distinguished as a mathematician, and was, perhaps, not less dis
         tinguished as a classical scholar. He peculiarly excelled in pure Latin com
         position, but his private character was to me his chief recommendation. Kind,

         unobtrusive, gentle ; most pure, most blameless, wrapped up in domestic feeling,

         and neither meddling with nor caring for the world, I firmly believe he had not an
         Ienemy. . . . There was a quiet, unobtrusive independence about him, which never,

         perhaps, saw equalled ; a purity and delicacy of mind and manners arising from
         the union of a complete education and the most perfect sense of honour, united to
         the most unaffected simplicity of manner. As a schoolmaster, he never looked
         like one, but he sent good scholars to Cambridge. No boy ever left Durham
         without loving him." A short time before his death Carr had been made
         Professor of Mathematics in the newly founded University of Durham. A
         monument, by Rickman, was erected to him in Durham Cathedral. Taylor's
         Memoir of Robert Surtees, ed. Raine, p. 439.

              4 Many of the details respecting this illness have been supplied by Miss

         Sedgwick.

EFFECTS OF ILLNESS.

This conviction, more than any other consideration, deter-                             1814.

mined him to become a candidate for the Professorship of                             Ml- JO-
Geology in 1818 ; and, after forty-nine years devoted to that
science, he could say with thankfulness : " Geology has been

a hard task-mistress, but she has paid me nobly in giving me

health, which I had utterly lost before I put myself under her

robust training1."

     The immediate effects of Sedgwick's illness are painfully
apparent in the listlessness and want of energy from which he
suffered during the next two years. He was evidently obliged
to take constant care of himself, and felt indisposed for

any intellectual exertion that was not absolutely indispens
able. He performed his duties as College examiner ; tried to
make his brother James work ; and did some desultory read
ing, partly theological, on his own account. But the old
animation was gone, and the letters which formerly he wrote
so frequently, ceased altogether. And yet events took place
which under more favourable circumstances would have

furnished him with subjects for long and entertaining narra
tives. There was the great frost of January, 1814, when no

coal-barges could get up the river, and he was obliged, as he

has been often heard to say, to burn his gun-case and some of
his chairs'; and in July the dinner in Hall to the Chancellor
and Marshal Blucher, on leaving which he saw the old soldier

snatch up an attractive damsel who was pressing forward to
get a good look at him, and give her a kiss. But on these

trifles, and on graver matters, he is equally silent. In the

summer months a curacy was suggested to him, at a small
place in Northamptonshire, where the church, he was assured,
would not be too much for his lungs' ; but he had not energy
enough to submit to even the small amount of work then

     1 To Mrs Norton, 27 August, 1867.              113), that the scarcity of coal
      * Professor Pryme records (Recollections, p.  of the trees in the grounds of
was so great and the cold so severe, that some

St John's College were cut down for fuel, and at all the colleges men sat two or

three together in one room.

* From Rev. W. Ainger, 2 May, 1814.

                                                    9--2

         132 VISITS YORKSHIRE AND WESTMORELAND.

1814.    required of candidates for ordination, and so the proposal was

Et. 29.  declined. In the spring of 1815 he attended the lectures of
         William Farish, Jacksonian Professor of Natural and Experi
         mental Philosophy, probably more for the sake of obtaining

         intellectual gratification without thought or trouble, than for

         any more serious reason. But, listless as he was at Cambridge,

         the moment he got to Dent he became a different man. In

         September 18 14 Ainger and his brother James paid him a
         visit there, and they took a pedestrian excursion together.

         The letter in which he directs James Ainger how to get to
         Dent shows how difficult it was in those days to reach remote

         parts of England.    of our village from Ingleton is not more
              " The distance
                              If the weather should be very favourable, I
         than eight miles.

         should be happy to meet you there, and walk home with you

         over the mountains. On horseback we perhaps might break
         Ifour necks.
                       the weather should be bad it will be better to

         go on to Kirkby Lonsdale, which is about eleven miles from

         Dent. The road from thence is passable by a carriage, though

         some parts of it are as steep as any house-roof in Whittlesea.

         We could easily contrive to meet you there with a horse. At

         all events it will be necessary that your portmanteau should be

         conveyed to Kirkby Lonsdale or Kendal, and from one of

         those places to Dent by a carriage. If your Reverend brother

         come along with you it will be best to post it from Kirkby

         Lonsdale, and then you will both arrive bag and baggage."

         During the expedition Sedgwick was evidently better able

         to bear fatigue than either of his friends. Their melancholy

         experiences evidently made a deep impression on him ; for,
         writing to one of them thirty-seven years afterwards, he
         laments that he had then become " a poor walker compared

         with what I was when I took you (I think in 18 14) to the

         Ulverston slate-quarries, and witnessed on your face an

         expression of anything but comfort1."

         When his friends had left him, Sedgwick made a short

         1 To James Ainger, Esq., 29 December, 1851.

YORKSHIRE CA THEDRALS.  133

tour in Yorkshire. He went by way of Leeds to York, which            1814.
he had evidently never visited before, and was profoundly                  2'i-
impressed by the "vastness, harmony of proportion, and rich
ness of execution of the cathedral," though the exterior was
" miserably spoiled by a set of dirty houses which press so
close upon it that no situation can be found from which the
whole pile can be seen at once." Next morning he went on
to Hull, taking Beverley by the way. " The minster is a
beautiful specimen of the lighter gothic, though in some
places much injured by certain modern improvers. The west
front is exquisite, infinitely superior to that of Westminster
Abbey, which was intended to be an imitation of it. Hull

is a fine town of the kind, though, I should think, not a

very comfortable residence. The docks are beautiful, and
the Humber is superb. As we were crossing it the merchant
vessels seemed almost to cover its surface. In our passage

we met a steamboat, working its way at a prodigious rate
against wind and tide." From Hull he travelled to Cambridge
by Peterborough, where he thought the cathedral " very fine ;
but whoever compares it with that at York should be stoned

for blasphemy1."

     As soon as the Peace of 18 14 had been concluded, English
men, who had been shut up within the narrow limits of their

own island for more than a quarter of a century, felt a natural
anxiety to explore the Continent, and above all France, with

whose Government we had been so long at war. Several of

Sedgwick's intimate friends had taken the first opportunity to
go abroad -- Bland to Switzerland, Charles Musgrave to

France, whence he wrote exceedingly interesting letters.
He notes the richness and the beauty of the country, the

cheapness of living, even to a foreigner, and the efforts that

were being made, at the sea-ports and elsewhere, to recover
from the disastrous isolation to which France, like England,

had been so long subjected. The effects of the war were still

painfully apparent: "In passing through the country I have

                             1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 31 October, 1814.

         '54 INTENDED VISIT TO FRANCE.

1815.    seen few men in the fields compared to the number of women.
Et. 30.
         Tne effective male population of France seems to have been
         completely drained by the war." English troops were still

         marching through France on their way home from Spain, and

         the sight of them did not increase the respect for the restored

         Government, which was on all grounds unpopular, especially
         with the army : "No one endeavours to conceal that the
         military are highly disaffected to the King, and are panting
         for a change." Nor were traces of the Revolution wanting :
         " Every town on the Loire presents a monastery in ruins, and
         the chapels of the convents have been principally converted

         into Diligence-offices and stables. The men who have con
         ducted us down the Loire from Nantes remember to have

         seen boats crowded with Royalists sent to the bottom, while
         the Revolutionists fired at them from the shore if they raised

         their heads above the surface of the water1." These and

         other letters, similar in tone, though less graphically written,

         were not without their effect on Sedgwick, and in the early

         spring of 1815 he was planning not only a tour in France, but
         a first essay in authorship. By way of preparation he spent

         part of the Lent Term in learning the French language, and in
         reading French books. His projects, however, were overset by
         Napoleon's escape from Elba; and he was obliged to exchange
         Paris for Bury St Edmunds, and French literature for divinity.

             "My French journey is quite hopeless. If that were the

         only ill effect to be expected from Bonaparte's visit it would

         not, perhaps, be much lamented. So many books of travels
         have been written that my little volume could not have con

         tributed much to the general stock of information.

             "On Monday I shall begin to read divinity. I have got
         about twenty folios out of our library. By the way, if I
         should go to Bury I cannot take them with me. I must

         therefore begin the Monday following. No matter'."

         *^m  Charles  Musgrave, dated " Paimboeuf, 18 July, 1814."  curate  of
                . W.   Ainger, 30 March, 1815. Mr Ainger was now

                  FEVER AT CAMBRIDGE.

    In the course of the Lent Term Cambridge was visited by                            1815.
                                                                                             3-
an unusually severe epidemic of typhoid fever. At first little

or no attention was paid to                       but the deaths of several
    a
                    a
                                             it,
members of the University, and the serious illness of others,
created so great panic, that on the 3rd May -- in deference to

public opinion rather than from any conviction of the necessity
of such measure -- the Senate agreed to allow the term then

commencing to all undergraduates, who, having kept the

previous term, chose to absent themselves. Such a permission
was of course largely taken advantage of, and the public life
of the University practically ended on the day the above

Grace passed1. Even the Commencement was celebrated with
maimed rites "not single fiddle3" was heard, and the non
resident Masters of Arts who had journeyed to Cambridge in
search of pleasure went back to their chambers and their
    ;

           a
                a
parishes sorely disappointed. Sedgwick, warned by his own                     a
experience of "the Cambridge fever" in 1804, had beaten

hasty retreat at somewhat earlier period, and gone down
to Dent with his brother James, and his friends Lodge* and

Sheepshanks*.

    Dear Ainger,                                         Dent, May 22, 1815.

    The escape of Bonaparte from Elba was not more

sudden and unexpected than my flight from Cambridge.
                                                  ;
                                                                  :

                                                            I
                                                                                   I
had resolved to remain at all events and as knew that my

1brother James was not likely to read much at home (for God
       The exact words of the Grace are worth quotation " Cum opinio, quamvis

vana forsan sit, late pervagata est, et multorum animis insedit, eam esse hoc

tempore loci hujusce gravitatem, ut Juvenes Academici non sine vita: periculo in
eo commorari valeant Placeat vobis, quo Parentum potius medeamur anxietati,
               ;

quam quod rei necessitas ita postulare videatur, ut scholares in quacunque facultate,

vel absentes, hunc terminum complevisse censeantur, ea tamen lege ut nemini qui

superiore termino abfuerit, haec Gratia sit profutura."

*a     From Rev. W. Ainger, 29 July, 1815.               Fellow of Magdalene  Coll.
       John Lodge, Trin. Coll. B.A. 1814; afterwards
and University Librarian 1822 -- 1845.

*   Richard Sheepshanks, Trin. Coll. B.A. 1816, a distinguished mathematician,

afterwards Fellow, Secretary to the Astronomical Society, and Founder of the

Sheepshanks' Fund and Exhibition.

          136 FEVER AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1815.   knows his literary zeal is not very great in any place), I was
AZt. 30.
          resolved still more on his account to remain in College. The
          death of six or seven members of the University during the
          latter part of the Lent term excited so much apprehension,
          that the walls of many colleges were quite deserted in the
          vacation. About the beginning of this term two men, one of

          Christ's and the other of Emmanuel, died the same morning.
          The fever also began to make its appearance in our College,
          which till then had escaped all contagion. These melancholy
          appearances excited so much alarm that many members of

          our College, and among the rest your present correspondent,

          were persuaded to scamper off, without having time to give

          notice of their departure. At the time of our departure we

          expected to be called back to the University to keep the latter

          part of the term. The death, however, of another member of
          Emmanuel College, and one or two new cases of fever, induced
          the Senate about the beginning of this month to give the term

          altogether.

              Since my arrival I have as usual been engaged in a variety
          of employments. I have now read the whole of Gil Bias

          twice over, and am reading for the second time certain parts

          of Telemaque.  A short analysis of certain chapters in

          Beausobre's Introduction has employed part of my time,

          but the task is a confounded dry one. Old Carr had the

          kindness to lend me a very elaborate commentary on St Luke,

          of which I purpose to make myself master. I hope also to

          read the Bishop of Lincoln and Burnet on the Articles in

          course of the summer.

               My sisters received five or six weeks since a second package

          of books for the use of their Sunday Schools1. Upwards of 40
          children attend, and many of them have made a highly satis

          factory progress ; but more of this in my next.

                                 Yours ever,

                                 A. Sedgwick.

          1 The school had been established in, or about, 1813. Memorial, p. xi.

NEWS OF WATERLOO.  '37

     This quiet life was interrupted by one great excitement --  1815.
the news of the victory of Waterloo --which Sedgwick had the          3-
pleasure of bringing himself to Dent. How this came to pass

can fortunately be told in his own words.

    "At that time we had a post three days a week, and each of
those days, to the great comfort of the aged postman, I rode

over to Sedbergh to bring back the newspapers and the letters
to my countrymen. Gloomy reports had reached us of a

battle and a retreat; but another and greater battle was at

hand ; and on one of my anxious journeys, just as I passed
over the Riggs, I heard the sound of the Sedbergh bells.
Could it be, I said, the news of a victory ? No ! it was a full
hour before the time of the postman's arrival. A minute
afterwards I saw a countryman returning hastily from
Sedbergh. " Pray what means that ringing?" I said. "News,
Sir, sich as niver was heard before : I kna lile about it ; but

the Kendal postman has just come an hour before his time.

He was all covered with ribbons, and his horse was all covered

with froth." Hearing this, I spurred my horse to the Kendal

postman's speed ; and it was my joyful fortune to reach

Sedbergh not many minutes after the arrival of the Gazette

Extraordinary which told us of the great victory of Waterloo.
     "After joining in the cheers and congratulations of my

friends at Sedbergh, I returned to Dent with what speed I

could ; and such was the anxiety of the day that many scores

of my brother Dalesmen met me on the way, and no time was

lost in our return to the market-place of Dent. They ran by

my side as I urged on my horse ; and then, mounting on the

great blocks of black marble, from the top of which my

countrymen have so often heard the voice of the auctioneer

and the town-crier, I read, at the highest pitch of my voice,

the news from the Gazette Extraordinary to the anxious crowd

which pressed round me. After the tumultuous cheers had

somewhat subsided, I said : ' Let us thank God for this great
victory, and let the six bells give us a merry peal.' As I

spoke these words an old weather-beaten soldier who stood

          i38 ASSISTANT TUTORSHIP AT TRINITY.

  1815.   under me said : ' It is great news, and it is good news, if it

/Et. 30.  bring us peace. Yes, let the six bells ring merrily ; but it has

          been a fearful struggle, and how many aching hearts will
          there be when the list of killed and wounded becomes known

          to the mothers, wives, and daughters of those who fought and

          bled for us ! But the news is good, and let the six bells ring

          merrily!""

              Just a month after this stirring scene had been enacted
          before the public of Dent, private news came to Sedgwick

          which must have caused a nearly equal excitement in the

          home-circle at the vicarage. Hudson, who had succeeded
          Jones as Senior Tutor of Trinity College, had accepted the
          vicarage of Kendal, and the approaching vacancy of the tutor
          ship -- which could not be delayed, at the farthest, beyond the
          expiration of the year of grace -- had been taken advantage of

          by the Master and Seniors to extend the number of tutors to
          three -- a step rendered necessary by the increase in the number
          of students. Two of the assistant-tutors, John Brown, and
          James Henry Monk*, were promoted, as was usual, to be tutors,
          and the offices thus vacated had to be filled up. The selection
          of assistant-tutors was at that time left to the tutors under

          whom they had to work, and Monk, with the consent of his

          colleague, invited Sedgwick to accept one of the vacant posts.

          J.From ReiK  H. Monk.

          Dear Sedgwick,                                                            Cambridge, July 15, 1815.

                    IYou are probably aware that J. Brown and myself have
          been appointed to succeed Mr Hudson as joint Tutors.                                                        now

          write to solicit your aid as mathematical assistant tutor, and to

          express the earnest hope of my colleague and myself that you may
          find it consistent with your views and your feelings to accept that
          office. We are well aware of the great advantage which would
          accrue to the College from your assistance in the tuition, and are

          persuaded that the appointment would be in the highest degree
          gratifying to every person who is interested for the prosperity of our

          society.1 is,I

              It                                                                 2
                    believe, Brown's intention to take the higher mathematical

          departments himself, though not exactly in the same arrangement as

                    Supplement, p. 38.                                              Professor of Greek 1808 -- 1823.

             ASSISTANT TUTORSHIP AT TRINITY.                                           39

Hudson has done. But I am certain that in this, as well as in every                                                                    1815.
other respect, your wishes will be consulted as far as possible, and
nothing will be omitted, to make the situation as agreeable and as                                                                   Mu 30.

beneItficisianl etcoesysoauryastocimrceunmtisotnanctehsat  can  allow.    arrangement  made by
                                                           the  original
Mr H. for giving up the tuition has been altered. He had agreed to
resign it to us at Michaelmas. This agreement he has broken, and
has induced the Master to suffer him to retain the pupils till
Christmas, except the freshmen, whom he will give up to Brown
and myself at Michaelmas. Though this alteration is naturally a
subject of displeasure to us, on many accounts, yet it will make no
difference in the department of which you are invited to accept :
since Brown is decidedly of opinion that it is desirable for the person
who gives the mathematical lectures to the freshmen, to begin with

I Ithem in October.
        am aware that your health has not been strong, but trust that
it is now better, and at all events that there is no fatigue in the office
alluded to   lwewahivilclehfCoyloloolulwegnemeeedn--exastpopFrderhoideannydo.tmhournrriyngin--dbeuctidaingle, ttesrhoduirldectyeodu

    I shall

to me here
Ihesitate. But
                am sanguine in hoping that we may have the
benefit of your valuable assistance.
I am, dear Sedgwick, with great regard,

                Ever your most faithful Servant,

                                                                          J. H. Monk.

     This letter must have been in every way gratifying to
Sedgwick. The proposed office offered him a congenial

occupation with less wear and tear than private tuition, and
besides might lead eventually to a Tutorship. He did not,
however, accept it without due consideration. The answer
which he finally wrote -- so modest, dictated by so nice a sense
of honour, and so perfectly straightforward --must have con
firmed Monk in the belief that he had made choice of a

colleague who would do him credit.

Dear Sir,                                                       Dent, July 28, 1815.

        Our communication with the post town is so irregular

that I have only had your letter a day or two, but should
think myself unpardonable, if I any longer postponed my
reply. I should indeed have written sooner if I had not been

desirous of first speaking to some of my friends in this neigh

bourhood. They have all earnestly wished me to accept the

140 ASSISTANT TUTORSHIP AT TRINITY.

1815. mathematical lectureship. The reluctance which I at first

          expressed to them did not arise, let me assure you, from any

dislike to the appointment, more especially when the offer of

it was made in terms so very flattering to my feelings ; but

from an indescribable fear of not being able to discharge the

duties of it properly. You are aware that for the last three

years my health has not allowed me to attend seriously to any

mathematical subjects. I am, however, now much better, and

have besides most solemnly resolved within myself not to

retain the office of lecturer unless I feel myself on trial quite

equal to the duties of it. If I acted otherwise I should show

myself very little deserving the good opinion you have so

handsomely expressed, and of which you and your colleague

have given me so substantial a proof. I hope you will both

accept my thanks, and at the same time my congratulations

on your appointment to the Tutorship.

    It will of course be necessary for the Bishop1 to confirm my

appointment ; but you or Mr Brown will know how to speak
Ito him on the subject.
                         hope you will have the kindness to

write again when all is finally settled.

    Since I left Cambridge I have been leading the most retired

life possible. But even in this corner of the world we are all

overjoyed at the great events which have been passing on the

Continent. Every individual in the Island must have exulted

at the exploits of our brave fellows. By the way I had forgot

that there may perhaps be one or two exceptions in the Com

bination Room of Trin. Coll. I expect some friends when

the moorgame season commences, in whose company I shall

probably not spend a very sedentary life. Early in September
I propose to return to College. In a few weeks after that
time I shall hope to have the pleasure of meeting you.

Believe me, Dear Professor,

                         Your most faithful servant,
                                                 A. Sedgwick.

    1 William Lort Mansel, D.D. Master of Trinity College, was Bishop of Bristol

from 1808 to his death in 1820.

              OCCUPATIONS AT DENT.

                                                                  1815.

                                                                Mx. 30.

not a very profitable, life since I received your last letter.

Two friends from Nottinghamshire spent the latter half of

August with me in Dent. We were constantly out on the

moors, and killed a good many birds. About a fortnight

after their departure I turned my face towards the South.

I had several reasons for leaving Dent so soon. In the first

place I have accepted the office of mathematical lecturer
under our new Tutors, and I was desirous of having some

time to prepare for my new duties. In the next place I
was desirous of getting James up to College, where he will, I
hope, adopt new habits. He has been doing nothing in the
country this summer. Besides, I hoped to have some sport

in this neighbourhood before the confinement of lectures.

    I left our friends well, and as for myself I am in better
health than I have enjoyed for three years before. Bland is

returned from France. He does not open out freely, but he

looks well. My sisters' school flourishes as well as they can
expect. I attended almost every Sunday during the summer,

and heard one of the classes. They are desirous of instituting

some little rewards occasionally among the children, and have

petitioned the assistance of some of the good folks in the

parish. I have promised a guinea, which I mean to spend in

books. Can you recommend me to any cheap shop ? Does

the National Society print any books which would answer the

purpose ? I intend, if they will admit such a heretic, to be a

subscriber to the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.

Could you propose me ?  Yours ever,

                        A. Sedgwick.

Dear Ainger,            Trin. Coll. November2% 1815.

sooner.  I fear you will complain of me for not having written
         Indeed I have no excuse to offer. As Hudson still

         142 CONTINENTAL TOUR.

1816.    continues in College, and the labours of the mathematical

El- 31-  lecturer are consequently divided between Brown and myself,

         Euclid and the first part of Algebra have fallen to my share.

         If you inquire what I have been doing, I can hardly tell you.

         My health has, however, been much better than it was last

         year. The run in the country last summer has quite set me

         up. Father Bland and your other college friends are I believe
         well ; though I am sorry to say that one or two cases of fever

         have made their appearance in the University during this term.

             It is now near 12 o'clock, and my fire is almost out. You

         must therefore allow me to finish by assuring you that I

         remain yours truly and affectionately

                                                A. Sedgwick.

              In the summer of the following year (1816) Sedgwick
         spent four months in France, Switzerland, part of Germany,
         and Holland. Travelling was slow in those days, and,
         though he was so long abroad, he did not see more than
         would now be accomplished in less than half the time. Nor
         has he left any detailed account of what he did see. This is

         the more provoking, as he was a keen and accurate observer,
         and was travelling at a time of special interest. He kept a
         journal, it is true, but unfortunately it was only written up at

         intervals --occasionally very long ones -- and therefore is little

         better than a record of places visited, people met, and dis
         comforts endured in the inns and on the road. Page after
         page, especially at the commencement, is filled with dis
         jointed notes, which make us suspect that, when he started,
         he had still some idea of writing a book, and was jotting down
         heads of paragraphs, and fragmentary details, to assist his

         memory on a future occasion.
              He embarked at Brighton on June 22nd, and reached

         Dieppe on the following evening at 9 o'clock. There he
         joined his friend Edward Valentine Blomfield, Fellow of
         Emmanuel College1, his pupil Lord Charles Murray, and

             1 A distinguished classical scholar (B.A. 181 1), younger brother of C. J.

         Blomfield. He died, of a fever caught abroad, 3 October, 1816, a few days after

             DISLIKE OF THE FRENCH.                                               143

another Englishman, and in their company journeyed by way                                           1816.
of Rouen to Paris, which was reached on the afternoon of                                                  31-
June 27th. Here we will give a specimen of the diary :

     "27. Early walk in Mantes. Church injured by the Revolution.
Churches in Normandy very beautiful. Down the valley of the
Seine to Meulan. Mons. Wastel the priest. Destruction of his

church and his sufferings. Dialect of the Normans. St Germain.
Royal Palace. Panorama from the top. Immense work on the

Seine at Marly. Enter Paris. Palais Royal. Dinner surrounded
     [dSiserineep.utabRleichechsaroafcttehres].counAtryge--nenraol                of the valley of
by                                                                   description  of depopulation
the                                                                 appearance

or misery."

    A fortnight was spent in Paris ; but bad weather, a

rooted prejudice against the Roman Catholic religion, and a
cordial hatred of all the ways and works of the French,

prevented him from enjoying it as much as he did a few years

afterwards. Entries of this sort frequently occur: "A French

man will never pretend to be ignorant ; but he will rather lie

than make that confession. Insolence of the soldiers;" "Con
temptible character of the French. No display of loyalty on
this occasion (a review of the National Guard by the King)";
and in one of his letters, though he admits that "the beautiful,

gay, and profligate city of Paris is a noble capital," he adds,
" but the people are so abominable and detestable that there
can be no peace for Europe if they are not chained down as

slaves, or exterminated as wild beasts." He took a master

in the French language, and worked hard at the usual sights,
among which the method of instructing the deaf and dumb
pursued by the Abbe' Sicard --successor to the famous Abbe'
de l'Ep6e -- seems to have interested him more than Notre

Dame or the Louvre. He also visited the gaming-houses, then

so numerous, the cafes, and the principal theatres ; saw Talma
twice in Manlius Capitolinus1 and Mile. Mars as Elmire in

his return to Cambridge. An interesting memoir of him, by J. H. Monk, is in the

Museum Criticum, of which he had been one of the founders, i. 520.
    1 A tragedy in verse by Antoine de la Fosse, sieur d'Aubigny (born 1653,

died 1708) a contemporary and imitator of Racine. The play is poor, with a

single fine scene, in which Manlius by means of an intercepted letter discovers a

            144 FIRST SIGHT OF THE ALPS.

1816.       Tartuffe. This latter occasion was of unusual interest. The
       31-  performance had been commanded by the Due de Berri, on

            whose entrance, accompanied by his wife, there was a good
            deal of enthusiasm, repeated when the famous lines were

            spoken, which have been applied to so many different persons,

            and have glorified such opposite principles :

                   Remettez vous, monsieur, d'une alarme si chaude,
                   Nous vivons sous un prince ennemi de la fraude, etc.

                About the middle of July, accompanied by William Hodge
            Mill1, then a Junior Fellow of Trinity College, Sedgwick

            started for Switzerland. A weary journey of six days brought

            them to Lyons ; whence, after a brief rest, they proceeded to
            Geneva. The bad weather followed them, and, besides this

            drawback to their enjoyment, the place was "filled with a set
            of lounging impertinent English coxcombs, who appear to go
            abroad for no other purpose than to disgrace their country."
            There he met by appointment, John Haviland*, Fellow of
            St John's College, with whom he made a tour through
            Switzerland, for the most part on foot.

                 "We started from Lausanne on the second of August, and
            walked to Vevay, a beautiful small town near the head of the
            lake. Next day we proceeded in a voiture to Martigny,

            through a valley infinitely more beautiful than anything my

            imagination had ever formed. Of the Alps I had formed

            a good general notion. One can conceive an outline varied
            in every possible form ; a man can imagine a mountain four
            times as high as any he has seen ; but of that exquisite
            perfection of scenery which arises from contrast and com
            bination, no one can have any perfect notion who has not

            been in Switzerland. If I attempt to describe these delicious

            conspiracy against his life, organised by his friend Servilius. He hands the
            letter to Servilius and bids him read it aloud. When he has finished Manlius

            exclaims "Qu'en dis-tu?" The great success of the revival is said to have been
            entirely due to the expression of Talma's face while Servilius was reading, and to

            the tone in which he uttered the above words.                           1817 -- 1851.
                 1 Regius Professor of Hebrew 1848 -- 1854.
                 3 Professor of Anatomy 1814 -- 1817; Regius Professor of Medicine

       CHAMOUNI.      '45

Iscenes, should only use certain general terms which would       1816.
                                                                       31-
convey no distinct meaning.
     "Next morning we started for Chamouni, with a guide and

three mules. After having ascended for some time we entered

the pine forests. These forests are constantly broken in upon

by small patches of cultivated ground. If the soil is capable

of producing anything, the Swiss are sure to find it out. You
observe on the very confines of perpetual snow small wooden

cottages, many of which are only inhabited during the summer.

They drive up a certain number of goats or cows sufficient to

consume the vegetation ; and when that is finished descend

again into the valleys. I was also much pleased with observing

the mode in which the Swiss have cultivated some mountains

which in any other country would have been quite unproduc
tive. They have erected a number of strong walls parallel to
the horizon on the sides of their most rugged hills, which by

those means become divided almost from top to bottom into

a series of steps or platforms, the top of each wall being on
a level with the field immediately above it. Each of these

small slips of ground is cultivated with the utmost care ; and

the whole mountain-side presents the appearance of an im
mense sloping garden. With such habits of industry, and
such a country, the people can never be uninteresting. We

were much pleased with the honest simplicity and kindness of

this people, which was rendered still more agreeable by being

contrasted with the unmanly insolence of the French. I find
I am forgetting myself and running out into general observa
tions. I must pull up, and proceed with my journey. After

having traversed the pines we reached the forests of larch
trees which in this country are always found near the extreme
limits of vegetation. Some of them were of an enormous size.
We could not help observing the effects of the winter storms
in these wild regions. Sometimes several acres of trees are
cleared away in one night. We remarked also a passage

formed through the forest by an avalanche of the preceding

winter, which had literally forced its way to the bottom of the

S. I.             10

         146 MER DE GLACE.

1816.    valley. After having traversed this second valley we as-
Et. 31.
         cended a second and higher ridge, and at length emerged
         from the forest, and found ourselves in the regions of per
         petual snow. We soon gained the top of the Col de Balme,

         and had before us perhaps the most glorious mountain
         scenery in the world. On the right were a ridge of lofty
         mountains, whose pointed summits rose far above the limit
         of perpetual snow, before us were the beautiful villages and
         fields of Chamouni, and on the left were the pinnacles of
         Mont Blanc, rising to a height of more than twelve thousand
         feet above the level of the valley. In our descent to the
         village we passed three glaciers. There is a very fine one
         below the village, which we visited that day.

             " Early next day we started for the sea of ice. It takes
         about two hours' good work to climb up to it. You are,
         however, well rewarded for your labour. A few stunted
         larches mark the limit of vegetation. After you enter the

         valley, everything is rude, barren, and desolate. We de
         scended on the ice, and were amusing ourselves with throwing
         lumps of ice down the deepest crevices we could discover,
         when the rain began to fall in torrents, and soon drove us
         among the larches. We afterwards descended by a steep
         path along the side of the ice to the bottom of the valley.
         The lowest parts of these enormous glaciers appear to me by
         much the most interesting. One cannot form any perfect
         notion of the depth of the sea of ice, or of its general magni
         tude, but no one can see without astonishment huge blocks of
         ice, some of them coming down into the even fields, piled
         one upon another to the thickness of some hundred feet, and
         extending for many leagues in the channeled sides of the
         mountain. In the lower part of the glaciers large masses are
         continually rolling down the hill with a loud rumbling noise,
         which adds much to the effect produced by such savage
         scenery. We returned next day, though not by the same

         route, to Martigny.
              " On the 7th, by the help of our mules, we ascended in

MONT ST BERNARD.                                                             '47

 eleven weary hours to the Mont St Bernard. We were well                            1816.
 rewarded for our exertions. About half way up we met two                         /Et- 31-

 monks, one bearing a banner with a picture of the Virgin,
 and another with a crucifix, heading about two hundred
 people dressed in white. They consisted of a set of country
 people who had gone up to the convent to kiss the image of

 St Bernard, and to beg for his interest to get them some fine
 weather. We travelled over snow for about three miles

 before we reached the convent. The monks received us with

 hospitality, and even with politeness. One of the monks
 walked with us over a lake, at that time frozen four feet

thick, to the ruins of an ancient temple. We took a peep
into the north of Italy, returned, and dined, or rather supped,
in hall with our new friends. The Prior was fortunately
there -- he does not commonly reside --a pleasant, well-

informed man as I should wish to meet. We retired early--

rose next morning at four, and were much astonished and not

a little pleased to find two honest monks up, with some warm
coffee and toast, to see us well off.

    " I have a great deal more to say, but my paper is nearly
over, and I have already stolen an hour from my sleep. I

must therefore content myself with saying that we got safe

down ; that we went up the Valais ; crossed the Gemmi, and

were nearly frozen among the sleet and snow ; that I had
nearly broken my neck, and that I did break my crupper in

endeavouring to follow a mad English sailor across a preci
pice ; that we have seen the lakes of Thun and Brientz, the
glaciers of Grindelwald, and the town of Berne ; that we

marched across the country from Berne to Lucerne by the
help of the sun and stars, inasmuch as we neither knew the

language of the people, nor the names of the towns we were

to pass through; that we reached Lucerne this morning1;

that we are off for the Devil's Bridge tomorrow ; and lastly

that I am

                                          Yours ever, A. Sedgwick.

1 This letter, to the Rev. W. Ainger, is dated Lucerne, 17 August, 1816.

                                                                     IO-- 2

           148 HOLLAND AND BELGIUM.

1816.          It is worthy of remark that the future geologist, though
      31-
           filled with enthusiasm at the first sight of the Alps, says not a

           word about their physical structure, nor does he appear to

           have been more surprised than any ordinary tourist by the
           novel spectacle of a glacier. After some further adventures

           in Switzerland the travellers proceeded down the Rhine to

           Cologne, whence Haviland returned to England (10 Septem
           ber) and Sedgwick went on alone to see something of Hol
           land. Writing from Leyden (19 September), he says:

               " The Dutch I have found a mighty comfortable, sober-

           mannered, old-fashioned, people. In the towns you see great

           signs of active industry, though there everything goes on in a

           quiet orderly manner. It is however in his country-house
           that you see the animal in all his glory. By the side of his

           canals you see him enthroned amidst clipped hedges, sedge,

           and duckweed ; he is so grave and immoveable that at

           first you might easily mistake him for a smoking automaton.
           When you approach him you find his face the very picture of

           internal comfort. I had a deal of conversation with one of

           these comfortable-looking gentlemen in my way down the

           canal to Amsterdam. From his appearance I should conjec

           ture that he was first cousin to a burgomaster. He asked me

           if I thought the Swiss villages as beautiful as the Dutch. I
           answered that I thought the Swiss villages much more beau

           tiful ; and then proceeded to describe some of them. The

           Dutchman puffed the tobacco once or twice with somewhat

           more violence than before, and then observed that these things

           were well enough to look at, but after all Holland was the

           country to live in. The English are in great favour in this

           country. I have met with the greatest civility in all the parts
           of it I have seen. The inns are so excellent that I am more

           than half a convert to the old citizen's opinion."
                Sedgwick was always fond of art, and his diary shows that

           he took considerable interest in the Dutch School, which
           would of course be quite new to him. When he got to

           Antwerp, he criticises Rubens and Vandyke with an acuteness

                      FEVER AT BRUSSELS.

which shows a remarkable natural aptitude for grasping a                    1816.
painter's characteristics :
                                                                          /Et-

"One striking character of Rubens' pictures, is animation.
He always chooses
and represents it  a moment when some great event is taking  --plabceu,t
                   with vigour and truth. He groups well
there is almost always a want of delicacy and variety in his

female figures. He    is   a great master   of colour, but often seems
only to have painted  for  distant effect.
                                            I have, however, seen some
pictures of his finished to the last degree, and which appear to me

to equal anything I have ever seen in the richness, the disposition,
and the harmony of the colours."

From Antwerp, though he had been unwell for some days,

Sedgwick persisted in going to Brussels, to have a look at the

field of Waterloo A sharp attack of fever --due to a neglected

cold, incessant exposure, and hard travelling -- was coming on,

and by the time he reached La Belle Alliance he was so ill

that he could with difficulty hold up his head. Next day a

Belgian physician prescribed herb-tea, which did more harm

than good ; and the result might have been serious had not

an English physician been discovered, whose remedies, though

severe, were efficacious. After nearly a week's confinement,

the patient, sorely enfeebled, was allowed to travel, and pro

ceeded by way of Calais to Dover, where he landed in safety,

after a passage of only five hours and a half, on the 17th

October.                          Tr1n. Coll. March 16, [1817J
     Dear Ainger,

                Some months have elapsed since we last parted, and

I have still to reproach you for not having written to me.

Pray what have you been doing ? How do you get on with
your new college1? How do you like your curacy, your

living, &c. &c. ?
     My own history may be written in a very few words.

Since we parted I have not been a single day out of College.
During the Christmas vacation I was present at divers parties
of whist, in which I did not join ; I witnessed the scaling of

     1 The new Theological College of St Bees in Cumberland, of which Mr
Ainger had just been made Principal.

                       CAMBRIDGE GOSSIP.

  1S17.   many pies, of which I did not taste; and I saw huge bowls

/Et. 32.  of punch emptied without venturing even to sip of them.

          Notwithstanding this system of mortification, I spent my

          time pleasantly enough, for my health was better than it has

          been for the four preceding years. During the greater part

          of this term I have been slightly indisposed, principally I
          believe from the fatigue of lecturing ; I am beginning now to

          see land, for the Easter vacation commences before the ex

          piration of next week. James will this week be very busy

          with the Fellowship examination. I am of course most

          anxious about his success. John is now here, but is not able
          to sit, as he was unfortunately elected to a Heblethwaite

          scholarship, which prevents his being a candidate for either of

          the Lupton Fellowships which are now vacant. Bland looks

          dismally; he has for some time been tormented with a

          jaundice ; he is now, I hope, convalescent. Carr was up last

          vacation ; he had only been married about a fortnight, and

          was apparently quite happy, and most anxious to be back to

          his wife. He came to take possession of a small College

          living1 to which he had been presented a few weeks before.

          The old Knight5, I think, died after you left us ; Haviland

          has got the Regius Professorship. The Anatomical Pro

          fessorship will be vacant next term. Clark and Woodhouse

          are again candidates. There  believe, no doubt whatever
                                       iIs,
                                                 I
          of Clark's success8. If you should be anywhere in this neigh

          bourhood about the time of the election hope you will come

          up and give him your vote.

                                       Yours ever,

                                                    A. Sedgwick.

          21      Hatfield Broad Oak in Hertfordshire.
                  Sir Isaac Pennington, M.D., Fellow of St John's College. He was Professor
          3of Chemistry 1773 -- 93, and Regius Professor of Physic 1793 to his death,7.
                3
             February, 181

                 William Clark, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, and John Thomas
          Woodhouse, M.D., Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, had been candidates for
          the Professorship of Anatomy in 1814, when Haviland was elected. On this

          occasion Woodhouse retired, and Clark was elected without opposition.

ORDINA TION.  151

     Since Sedgwick obtained his Fellowship in 1810 the study                   1817.
of Divinity had formed part of his programme of work, as
often as he drew up that record of good deeds to come. He                     Mi. 3-
was always going to begin; he intended to be ordained before
the summer was out ; and the like. Now, however, it had

become impossible for that procrastinating spirit of his, which
furnished him with so many jokes at his own expense, to
frame any excuse for further delay. The stern voice of the
statutes under which Trinity College was then governed pro

claimed that all the Fellows save two should be in Priest's

Orders within seven years from the full completion of the
degree of Master of Arts, under pain of forfeiting their

Fellowship. No time was therefore to be lost ; and on July
20th, 1 817, having obtained letters dimissory from the Lord
Bishop of Bristol, Master of Trinity College, he was ordained
deacon by Bishop Bathurst of Norwich. His companions in
a postchaise thither, were Charles Musgrave, and Mill, his
fellow-traveller for a portion of the previous summer. Mill,

who had already begun the oriental studies in which he after
wards obtained such distinction, beguiled the tedium of the
journey by translating, for the amusement of his companions,

a tale from an Arabic manuscript1.
     The greater part of the Long Vacation was spent in the

North, which he had not visited since 1815. There he began
to perform the duties of a clergyman, in the shape of writing
and preaching sermons at Dent. In the course of the summer
he found time for an excursion to the Lakes with Charles
Musgrave ; paid a visit to Ainger at St Bees ; and later in the
year visited Ambleside, where he provokingly just missed the
pleasure of being introduced to Wordsworth, with whom he

afterwards became so intimate". Besides these occupations,
he got his usual shooting at Dent, for the last time, as events

    1 To Miss F. Hicks, 27 December, 1853. Sedgwick was admitted to Priest's
Orders on Sunday 15 February, 1818, at Quebec Chapel, London, by the Lord
Bishop of Salisbury.

    2 To Kev. W. Ainger, 6 November, 1817.

          152 WORK AS A COLLEGE LECTURER.

  1818.   proved -- but he never forgot the pleasure he had derived from
          that sport. In 1866 -- forty-nine years afterwards -- happening
.Et. 33.  to write to a friend on the first day of September--he said :

          " In early life I used to count much upon this day, for I was
          a keen sportsman till I became a professed Geologist. So
          soon as I was seated in the Woodwardian Chair I gave away

          my dogs and gun, and my hammer broke my trigger. My
          sporting days ended with the autumnal season of 1817V So
          long as he was employed in this way we hear nothing about

          his health ; but as soon as he got back to Cambridge he
          began as usual to feel ill again. The work was no doubt

          severe. " I am as usual employed two hours every morning

          in lecturing to the men of the first and second year, and every
          other day we are engaged about two hours and a half more in
          examining the men of the third year. We are besides em

          ployed at least three hours in the evening in looking over
          their papers'." His relations had already urged him to
          resign his lectureship, and rusticate for the rest of his days.
          To those who knew him, idleness and Sedgwick is such a

          strange conjunction, that it sounds wonderful that even

          paternal solicitude should have suggested it. It is fortunate

          that he turned a deaf ear to these admonitions ; had he not

          done so he might have missed the golden opportunity which

          shortly presented itself.
               Early in the Lent Term of 1818 it was whispered in

          Cambridge that the Rev. John Hailstone, one of the Senior
          Fellows of Trinity College, who had been Woodwardian

          Professor of Geology since 1788, and must therefore have

          reached the ripe age of fifty-eight, was proposing to take to
          himself a wife -- a step which would ipso facto render the
          Professorship vacant by the provisions of the Founder's Will.

          Sedgwick at once made up his mind to be a candidate, for

          reasons which are best stated by himself in the following

          letter :

          1 To Rev. J. Edleston, 1 September, 1866.

          1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 6 November, 1817.

WOODWARDIAN PROFESSORSHIP.                  153

Dear Ainger,  Trin. Coll., March 19, 1818.                         1818.
                                                                         33.

               I sent a letter to St Bees about five months since
which most probably never reached its address ; I should other

wise most assuredly have had an answer from one of my most

punctual correspondents. But change of place, and change of
time, and change of circumstances, are enough to work stranger
changes than even this, and may, after all, have broken in upon

those punctual business-like talents for which my old friend was
most deservedly in good repute. But enough of other people,

let us talk about ourselves. If thou art a priest, so am I, and,
if thou art a Professor, so I fain would be. I don't suppose

you have so entirely forgot Cambridge as not to feel some
interest in our proceedings.

      We were very busy in the October term with the subjects

of lectures : for, besides the ordinary course, we established

additional examinations for the men who were going out.
We have certainly reaped the fruits of our labours, for we
turned out the Captain of the Tripos with eight other

wranglers at his heels. Since that time we have got both the

medals, the Pitt Scholarship, and the first on Bell's foundation.

Notwithstanding this blaze of honours I am most heartily

sick of my connexion with the Tuition, and only wish for an
adequate motive for resigning all hopes in that quarter. Now

such a motive will probably present itself ; for it is generally

expected in Cambridge that the Woodwardian Professorship
will be vacant by the marriage of Hailstone. In case that

event should take place I mean to offer myself as a candidate
for the vacant appointment. It would be quite premature to
commence a general canvass ; I have therefore only written to

my personal friends, requesting them to give publicity to my

intentions, in a way too most likely to promote my interests.

What do you think of the business? If I succeed I shall

have a motive for active exertion in a way which will promote

my intellectual improvement, and I hope make me a happy
and useful member of society. I am not such a fool as to

          '54 WOOD WA RDIA N PROFESSORSHIP.

   1818.  suppose that my present employment is useless; and my
          pecuniary prospects are certainly better than they would be if
/t- 33-
          I were Woodwardian Professor. Still, as far as the improve
          ment of the mind is considered, I am at this moment doing
          nothing. Nay I often very seriously think that I am doing
          worse than nothing ; that I am gradually losing that little
          information I once had, and very sensibly approximating to
          that state of fatuity to which we must all come if we remain

          here long enough. If you were two hundred miles nearer

          you might perhaps serve me with a vote. As it is let me

          have your opinion of the matter in the first place, and your

          good wishes in the second. There will probably be several

          candidates. Evans of our college means to offer himself.
          Carrighan of St John's1 has been written to. He is now at
          Rome, and is expected back in a month or two.

                                                                    Yours ever
                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

               His friend's answer was rather lukewarm. Ainger approved
          his purpose, but added : " I should be quite delighted with it

          if I did not find, on consulting the Cambridge Calendar, that

          the salary is only .100 a year: yea, indulge me, as a Benedict,

          in saying further, that I am sorry to find you must, if suc

          cessful, resign your honours whenever you follow your pre
          decessor's example ! But, notwithstanding these drawbacks,

          you have my most hearty wishes for your success." The
          conclusion of the letter is significant, as showing the view

          then taken of Geology : " I really think the pursuit of miner
          alogy will suit you to a hair, as I take it for granted that it

          will sometimes lead you to pick up stones, as well as to range
          them in your lecture-room." Other intimate friends to whom

          he wrote at this early date were more enthusiastic. Armstrong
          and Duckworth began to canvass Members of the Senate in
          London, and were successful in obtaining numerous promises
          of support against all comers. Bickersteth for instance pledged

          1 Arthur Judd Carrighan, Fellow of St John's College, B.A. 1803.

BECOMES A CANDIDATE.

himself at once : " I am quite sure," he said, " that Sedgwick              1818.
would not propose himself if he did not judge himself to be               yEt- 33-
the proper person ; and, if that is his opinion, I have no doubt

of the fact."

     In the first instance the only candidate who appeared to

have any serious intention of going to the poll was Robert
Wilson Evans, Fellow and assistant-tutor of Trinity College.

One of the two Musgraves had been thought probable ; but

there is no evidence that he had any such intention himself,

and the same may be said of Carrighan of St John's College.
Evans was a dangerous opponent. He was a man of high

character, deservedly popular both in his own college and in the

University. Before long a third candidate appeared, George
Cornelius Gorham, Fellow of Queens' College, who afterwards
became celebrated for his long doctrinal controversy with
Bishop Philpotts of Exeter. He had been third wrangler in

1809, and could therefore show a better place in the Tripos
than Sedgwick. Moreover he was reported to have " been
studying Geology for a long time1" -- an important point
of which his friends did not fail to take full advantage.
Sedgwick could make no such pretensions -- nor indeed could
Evans --but it was specially unfortunate that one of Sedgwick's

two opponents belonged to his own college; for, as one of
his most active supporters observed, it " destroyed that cor

porate spirit which induces men to inconvenience themselves

to attain an object about which individually they care

nothing*."

     Professor Hailstone having sent in his resignation (1 May),
Sedgwick issued a short circular, dated on the same day,

addressed to those whom he thought likely to support him.
After announcing the vacancy, he said :

"The kind assurances of support which I have received from
many Members of the Senate, have induced me to declare myself a
                                  I am at the same time aware, that
Candidate for the appointment.
I have no right to found my expectations of success on support

1 Pryme's Recollections, p. 135.  * From K. 15. Armstrong, 8 May, 181 8.

                      AY VA L CANDIDA TKS.

1818.      derived from the partiality of personal friends. Let me then assure
      33.
           you tnat 110 one can appreciate more       highly   than  nmoywseslfo,lictihtiengg. reatI
           responsibility attached to the office for  which
                                                              I am

           venture, therefore, to ask for the honour of your Vote and Interest
           at the ensuing Election ; pledging myself, in the event of my

           success, to use my best endeavours to discharge the important duties
           of the Professorship, and to carry into full effect the intentions of its

           Founder."

                 We have not seen the circular issued by either of Sedg
           wick's opponents, but both of them evidently took advantage
           of the vagueness of his pledges to state explicitly that they
           intended to deliver lectures -- a move which created a diversion
           to their side -- for Armstrong warns Sedgwick (9 May) that :
           " the promise to lecture given by your opponents is con

           sidered by their supporters as greatly in their favour ; and

           perhaps with those that do not know you the maxim dolus in

           generalibus may do you some disservice." It therefore became

           necessary to correct the erroneous impression which had got
           abroad ; and, the 21st day of May having been fixed by the

           Vice-Chancellor for the election, Sedgwick issued a second
           circular (14 May) in which he informed his supporters of this
           fact, and added :

           I" have pledged myself, in the event of my success, to use
           Imy best endeavours to carry into full effect the intentions of the
           Founder of the Professorship. In making that pledge,      more
           especially wished to refer to a clause in the Will of Dr Woodward,

           Iby which it is provided that a Course of Lectures be annually read
           on some subjects connected with the Theory of the Earth.  am

           happy in having an opportunity of giving this additional explanation
           Iof my views respecting the important duties attached to the office for

           which am now soliciting."

               A postscript to this circular announces " that Mr Evans

           of Trinity College is no longer a candidate." He had retired
           from the contest after a comparison of votes, which Sedg
           wick, or some of his friends, had induced him to agree to.
           Similar proposals were made to Mr Gorham, but in vain.

           Sedgwick's friends therefore, though they felt that after
           Evans' resignation he was " out of all hazard ", being com
           pelled to continue the contest, determined to make his

                                MR GORHAM.                                                                                                                                                           157

majority as large as possible; and, in addition to his resident                                                                                                                                                     1818.

supporters, arrangements were made for twenty London                                                                                                                                                              /Et
voters, most of whom were barristers, and could ill afford to

lose even a single day, to travel to Cambridge in post-chaises

or on horseback, record their votes, and return at night. The

position of affairs, on the eve of the election, is graphically

described by Gorham to his father :

                                     Queen's1 College, Cambr1dge,

My dear Father,                              17 May, 1818.

              Evans gave in on Thursday. I instantly got the Clare
Iand Bene't resident Voters, but no others. St John's is against me.
In fact, except a few stragglers,            have only Queen's, Catharine,
Peterhouse, Clare, and Bene't. You shall have a note on Thursday
night, though the event is not doubtful. I can only reckon on
I50 votes, and Sedgwick has promises of 190. Nevertheless                                                                                                                                            will,

on principle, carry on the contest, and go through the disagreeable

business of the poll. Sedgwick is put up by a large College, merely
                                             fit himself for                                                                                                                                          For
                 talent, who can soon        persons in the                 his office.
                 a conviction that few                                      University                                                                                                               have
Ias a man   of
myself, I
           feel
followed up the Science more sedulously than have. If, therefore,

IaftnuhtelecaepEsrpslieniotccyllti,po(lrwweshhcioicchfhhoionmsIfeluakeyntnoocbweedisatpphguoeasbyinelsiswthoisefqhudWatlooiiffoicadaIvwtioloaiikndre,d) 'siotIf--fuwrnneildolcstodrrutdihpvianeotgn the shame

                                                                                                                                                                                                   them to the

                                                                                                                                                                                                     their votes
                                                                                                                                                                                                      intend to

take that step. Some few (like our dear friend Farish z) were taken in
by anticipation : but the greater number avow the precedent of Bishop

IWatson.                                     should give in; to obviate

     It has been clearly expected that
any such rumour my notice in the Cambridge paper was worded in

the form in which you see it3. Clarke4, I suspect, has given me his
                                     cTarlliniintyomute-vnoteemrsp. loyeId
name, but  not   his interest.  The                                           him on                                                                                                                 Friday to
persuade   me    to agree not    to                                         rejected                                                                                                                 any such

arrangement.
You may rely on the number of votes, 60 to 200, being nearly
Icorrect, even if I push my minority to the

of the prejudices against a small College,
and my having little acquaintance in the
                                             anudtmaosmt. ethToodisstaicyalnootnhein--g

                                              University -- feel that I

have been left to myself. While Sedgwick's printed letters were

1 Mr Gorham always, on principle, wrote Queen's, not Queens', College.

2 William Farish, Fellow of Magdalene College, then Jacksonian Professor.

Charles Farish, Fellow of Queens' College,   voted for Gorham.
    3 Cambridge Chronicle, 15 May, 1818.
                                              " We are authorised to state that the

Rev. G. C. Gorham, Fellow of Queens' College, decidedly intends to continue the

contest for the Woodwardian Professorship."

4 Edward Daniel Clarke, Professor of Mineralogy 1808-- 1822.

          i58 RESULT OF THE POLL.

  1818.   Iunderwritten by friends, only one of mine had that advantage -- and,
          excepting Mr Holmes and Dr Ingle,           do not believe that one
/Et. 33.
          member of the Senate has canvassed for me.

                                   Your affectionate Son,

                                                      G. C. GorHAM.

               The result showed the correctness of these anticipations.

          Sedgwick polled 186 votes to his opponent's 59, a conclusion

          on which Gorham made the following comment in the

          promised note to his Father : " In the result I feel perfect

          satisfaction, though certainly not in the circumstances con

          nected with it. The plain fact is that Sedgwick had all the
          influence of his College, and that of St John's exercised their
          influence against me as being a Methodist. Disagreeable as

          the day has been, I am glad I drove the matter to a Poll1."
              A summary of the votes taken gives the following

          results :                                      S    G Votes

             Proxies .                                    4      15
              Peterhouse .                                4      7 11
             Clare Hall .                                  1    9 10
             Pembroke Hall                                      05
             Caius College                                 5    29
             Trinity Hall .                                7
             Bene't College                                5    05
             King's College                                2    24
             Queens' College                              8     08
             Catharine Hall                               0
             Jesus College                                    19 '9
             Christ's College                             4
             St John's College                             7    48
             Magdalene College                           11     18
             Trinity College
             Emmanuel College                           32      0 11
             Sidney College                                7
             Downing College                                    4 36
             Commorantes in villa                      67
                                                                 29
                                   Total                 11
                                                          6     3 70
                                                           2    1 12

                                                           3     17
                                                                02
                                                      186
                                                                36

                                                              59 245

              It was natural that a disappointed candidate, smarting

          under a sense of undeserved wrong, should call Sedgwick's

               1 These letters -- extracts from which are printed above --have been most
          kindly lent by the Rev. G. M. Gorham, Vicar of Masham, Yorks.

RESULT OF THE POLL.

success "an instance of favouritism1." An examination of the                       ^1818.
                                                                                            33-
above summary, however, shows that he not only polled more
votes in his college than his opponent did in the whole

academic body, but that there was a general feeling through
out the University in his favour. The colleges of Pembroke,
Trinity Hall, King's, Christ's, and Downing voted "solid" for
him ; he had a majority in those of Caius, Jesus, St John's,
Magdalene, Emmanuel, Sidney ; those of Corpus Christi and
St Catharine were equally divided, contributing respectively
two and four to each side ; while Gorham had a majority
only in his own college, in Peterhouse, and in Clare Hall.
Further, those who care to go through the names recorded in
the poll-book will find that Sedgwick's majority was not
merely strong in numbers ; he had on his side most of those
who were distinguished in the University by their position or
their attainments.

     Gorham is probably right in saying that his own claims
were never fairly considered. Nor is it unlikely that the
strong evangelical tone of Queens' College at that time,
taken in conjunction with Dr Milner's personal unpopularity
with Liberals, and with most of the Fellows of Trinity
College, the Mastership of which he had twice tried to obtain,
may have done him some disservice. But we may safely assert
that the election was virtually decided by Sedgwick's personal
character. In the next chapter it will be shown that the
successive Woodwardian Professors had done little or nothing
to justify their appointment. To this discreditable state of
things the University not unnaturally wished to put an end ;
and Sedgwick, with his fiery energy, and reputation for

thoroughness in whatever he did, seemed to be the man most
likely to do this necessary work in a completely efficient

manner.

     In attempting to form a just estimate of the qualifications

     1 These words occur in Gorham's note to his father, dated 21 May, 1818, from
which an extract has been already quoted.

           16o SEDGWICK'S QUALIFICATIONS.

1818.      of the two candidates, we must discard the ideas which we
      33-
           now attach to the term geology, and recollect that at the
           beginning of the present century it was regarded as little

           better than a subordinate department of mineralogy, which,
           from its practical usefulness, and the beauty of the substances

           with which it dealt, had become popular at an early period.

           It was considered to be the business of a geologist to investi

           gate the mode in which the earth had originated, and the results

           of these speculations may be seen recorded in various essays
           called Theories of the Earth. When, therefore, we find Gorham
           credited with "a long study of geology", and are told that
           some of Sedgwick's personal friends, among whom was Mr
           Pryme, thought his claims so strong that " it was only just to
           vote for him", we are led to suspect that an acquaintance with
           mineralogy must have caused this favourable opinion. This
           theory is supported by the fact that Dr Edward Daniel
           Clarke, Professor of Mineralogy, voted for Gorham -- though
           in the above-quoted letter he makes light of his support--
           and that the same person was also proxy for Sir Joseph

           Banks, President of the Royal Society, whose action would
           naturally be governed by the opinion of the official repre
           sentative of mineralogy at Cambridge. This, however, is mere

           speculation, and may be erroneous. On the other hand, we

           have Gorham's own deliberate statement, in the letter quoted

           above, that he had "sedulously" studied geology; and we

           have been informed that he had worked at the physical

           structure of Scotland, and of parts of Yorkshire. But, un
           fortunately for his own reputation, he had never published

           any geological papers ; and, in the absence of the direct proof

           of his acquirements which these would have given, the
           worthlessness of his geological knowledge has been too

           hastily assumed from Sedgwick's celebrated account of him

           self and his opponent, which is still remembered in the

           University : " I had but one rival, Gorham of Queens', and he
           had not the slightest chance against me, for I knew absolutely
           nothing of geology, whereas he knew a good deal -- but it was

            SEDGWICK'S QUALIFICATIONS.                           161

all wrong1!" This remark, however, was not made seriously,                                    1818.

and it would be unjust to Gorham's memory to quote it as a                                  /Et, 33-

deliberate judgment, without making a large allowance for

that departure from literal truth which is permitted to a

brilliant antithesis. That he had a genuine love for natural

science may be taken for granted, for he was a good practical

botanist, and had formed a valuable collection of plants in the

course of an extended tour in Switzerland in 1810 and 181 1.

While the contest was proceeding Sedgwick is reported to

have said: "Hitherto I have never turned a stone; hence

forth I will leave no stone unturned," and his contemporary

Mr Pryme amplifies the idea of thoroughness conveyed by

this sentence into the following statement :

" The latter [Sedgwick] professed to know nothing of the sub
ject, but pledged himself, if elected, to master
                                                    it,and to resign

                                                                                         ;
the assistant tutorship in order that he might give the more complete
attention to it*."

IfThis passage contains several inaccuracies.       Sedgwick

professed ignorance, he had the good sense to reserve such

professions for private conversation with his intimate friends

his public utterances contain no reference to it. Nor did he

state, as we have seen, that he meant to master the science of

geology. All he said was that he would deliver public
lectures " on some subjects connected with the Theory of the

Earth." Neither did he announce his intention of resigning

the assistant tutorship elected we know that he had long
                    ;

                     if

                                       a

                                                 :
been anxious to do so and, as matter of fact, he did resign

in the course of the following Long Vacation, and Mr

Whewell was elected in his room. But he never pledged

himself to such course.

    At the same time there
                    a                         no evidence that he had ever
                                          is

troubled his head with any cosmical speculations. The word

'-' 1 To this story Mr G. M. Gorham adds the following delightful anecdote:a
" Did not such logic warrant an ancient inhabitant of Dent, himself stone-breaker,a
        I.in his reply to my pilgrim-inquiry in 1874, 'Have you ever heard of native here
called Adam Sedgwick?'" "What d'ye mean the Perverser?"!

         Recollections, p. 135.

            S.
                                                            I
                                                              I

           162 SEDG WICICS Q UALIFICA TIONS.

1818.      " strata " occurs in one of his letters from Switzerland, but,
      33-
           with that exception, there is no evidence that he had given

           things of the earth a moment's consideration. It has been

           recorded, on his own authority, that he collected fossils at

           Dent when he was a child ; but, had he lived on the sea-coast,

           he would probably have picked up recent shells ; and the

           former habit no more indicates a future geologist than the

           latter a future conchologist. The time that he could spare
           from mathematics he devoted to general literature. He had
           indeed, as we have seen, attended the lectures of William
           Farish, Jacksonian Professor of Natural and Experimental
           Philosophy, in 181 5. But the object of those lectures was to
           exhibit "the application of Chemistry to the Arts and Manu
           factures of Britain," by means of a series of models of the

           machinery employed. The method was novel, and we have
           the authority of Professor Willis for stating that the illustra

           tions were ingeniously contrived, and the lectures generally

           instructive ; but, beyond the fact that Part I. of the Syllabus

           is headed Metals and Minerals, and that such subjects as The

           structure of the Earth, Strata, Dislocation of the Strata, appear

           as sub-headings, there is nothing in the whole course to
           suggest geology1. Professor Hailstone, Sedgwick's predecessor,
           did not lecture. An interleaved syllabus of Dr E. D. Clarke's

           lectures on mineralogy, enriched with copious notes, shews
           that he attended him for at least one course; but Professor
           Clarke was no geologist. Nor do any of his friends, when
           writing to him about his chances of success, refer to his

           special knowledge of the subject as a reason for supporting
           him. Mr Daniel Pettiward, for instance, says (May, 18 18) :

                1 A general view of the course is given in the Camb. Univ. Calendar, 1815,
           p. 38. Farish had been Professor of Chemistry, 1794 -- 1813, and, on finding "the
           province of reading lectures on the principles of Chemistry already ably occupied

           by the Jacksonian Professor [F. J. H. Wollaston, Trin. Hall, 1792 -- 1813] was

           therefore obliged to strike out a new line." When elected to the Jacksonian
           Chair he continued his former course, as may be seen by comparing the Calendar
           for 1815 with that for 1802, p. 24. See also : A Plan of a Course of Lectures on
           Arts and Manufactures, more particularly such as relate to Chemistry. By
           W. Farish, 8vo., 1821.

       BISHOP WATSON, DR CLARKE.

    "It is my Intention to Enlist myself under your Banners, in great       1818.

hopes that one of my Favourite pursuits, from your Activity of mind       /Et. 33.
and the Genius you possess for General knowledge, may not be hid
in a Napkin, but that the world may be better for the fruit of your
Labours."

    This is very different language from what he would have
used had his correspondent been thoroughly conversant with
even the little geological knowledge of those days. Sedg
wick's intimate friend Carr too, writing a letter of congratula

tion (26 May), says :

    "I suppose you will be busily employed this summer in the pursuit
Iof your new studies ; for this purpose venture to recommend the

North as the most proper place, both as it abounds in those
productions of nature which will now more particularly engage your
attention, and as it will at the same time afford me the opportunity
of seeing you."

     Moreover Sedgwick himself, in his first letter to Ainger
on the approaching vacancy, dwells on the " motive for active

exertion," and the intellectual stimulus, which the Professor

ship would give him ; but says not a word about his wish to
cultivate a science which he had already begun. Nor should

his impaired health, and the fatigue which mathematical
teaching caused him, be left out of consideration. His eager

ness to escape from an uncongenial occupation has been

already mentioned more than once.

Precedents were not wanting at Cambridge for the election

of a man of ability to a Professorship in a subject of which

he knew nothing. Bishop Watson, to whom Gorham refers,

was made Professor of Chemistry in 1764, and says of him

self:

I"At the time this honour was conferred upon me,                    knew

nothing at all of Chemistry, had never read a syllable on the subject,

nor seen a single experiment in it ; but I was tired with mathematics

and natural philosophy, and the vehementissima gloria cupido stimu
lated me to try my strength in a new pursuit'."

Dr E. D. Clarke's knowledge of mineralogy was thoroughly

unscientific, and in fact he was only saved from mistakes by

       1 Anecdotes of the Life of Bishop Watson, ed. 181 7, p. J8.

                                                  II -- 2

           TESTIMONY OF MR BLOMEFIELD.

1818.      the interposition of a friend, the Rev. John Holme, Fellow of
      33-
           Peterhouse, to whom he submitted his syllabus, and the

           outline of his lectures1. Notwithstanding these drawbacks

           both these gentlemen filled their lecture-rooms ; Watson

           advanced his subject scientifically ; and Clarke was successful

           in creating a general enthusiasm.

               It is almost impossible, at a distance of just seventy years

           from the period we are investigating, to obtain personal

           recollections of Sedgwick at the time of his election. One

           valuable testimony has, however, been placed in our hands by

           the Rev. Leonard Blomefield, who, as the Rev. Leonard

           Jenyns, established a high scientific reputation as a system
           atic naturalist. He attended Sedgwick's lectures " not more

           than a year or two after his election to the Professorship," and
           is under the impression " that he was not a mere learner

           himself at the time ; he seemed a master of the subject, and

           his lectures were earnestly listened to, as well as earnestly
           delivered." Mr Blomefield is further of opinion " that though

           Sedgwick had not made Geology much of a study, nor learnt

           its details to any great extent practically in the fields, before
           he was admitted to the Professorship -- he was fairly acquainted

           with the subject in a general way, and took a great liking to

           or he would not have offered himself for the chair*."
           it,
                                                  is,  on the whole, for the reasons men
           Our own opinion

           tioned above, opposed to that of Mr Blomefield, and in

           favour of the notion commonly accepted in Cambridge, that
           Sedgwick got up his subject after his election. It will
           be our business to trace, in subsequent chapters, the

           gradual development of his geological knowledge for the
                                                       a

                                                                   ;
           present we will content ourselves with quoting passage from

           his latest work, dictated only a little more than three months

           before his death, in which he sums up the purpose he set
           before himself at the outset of his career, and which domi

           nated his long academic life
           21
                                                   :
           Gunning's Reminiscences, ed. 1855, ii. 195.
           From Rev. L. Blomefield, 20 August, 1887.

SEDGWICK'S INTENTIONS.

     "There were three prominent hopes which possessed my                          1818.
heart in the earliest years of my Professorship. First, that I
might be enabled to bring together a Collection worthy of                        /Et- 33-
the University, and illustrative of all the departments of the

Science it was my duty to study and to teach. Secondly,

that a Geological Museum might be built by the University,

amply capable of containing its future Collections ; and

lastly, that I might bring together a Class of Students who

would listen to my teaching, support me by their sympathy,

and help me by the labour of their hands1."

    1 Preface to A Catalogue of the Collection of Cambrian and Silurian Fossils
contained in the Geological Museum of the University of Cambridge, by J. W.
Salter, 4to. Cambridge, 1873, p. xxxi. The preface, by Professor Sedgwick, is

dated 15 September, 1872.

                    CHAPTER V.

Sketch of the life and works of Dr John Woodward. His
     testamentary provisions. arrival of his cabinets. a
     room constructed for their reception. sedgwick's

      predecessors : conyers Mlddleton ; charles mason ;
     John Michell; Samuel Ogden; Thomas Green; John
      Hailstone. Orders and .regulations sanctioned in 1818.

We have now reached a point in our narrative at which it

is desirable to sketch Dr Woodward's life, together with his

intentions in founding a Professorship, or, as he would have

called    it,     Lectureship, in the University of Cambridge. As
              a
a supplement to this, we shall briefly record what Sedgwick'sis

predecessors did, or, we might almost say, did not do, to carry

out the founder's instructions.

    John Woodward was born in Derbyshire, May, 1665.aI
His father said to have been "a gentleman of good family

in the county of Gloucester" but, such were the case,
                    a                                  it
                                  is ;                     is

                                   it

                                      if
strange that the son should have been apprenticed, on leavingis

school at sixteen, to linendraper in London. It true that

the most original of Woodward's biographers, Dr Ward1,

guards himself with an "as said," while making this state

ment but, on the other hand, was certainly believed during
1
       ;
       The Lives of the Professors of Gresham College, by John Ward, Professor of
Rhetoric in Gresham College, and F.R.S. Fol. Lond. 1740, pp. 283 -- 301.It
will be understood that the quotations in the following sketch are from this

work, unless other references are given.

WOODWARD'S EARLY STUDIES.                                                    167

Woodward's lifetime, and was used to his discredit by un
scrupulous opponents1. That he did go to London, while a
mere boy, is certain ; and while there had the good fortune to
become acquainted with Dr Peter Barwick, physician to King
Charles the Second, who received him into his house, and
"took him under his tuition in his own family."

     To this circumstance the general direction of Woodward's
studies is obviously due; and it may be further conjectured
that his interest in the University of Cambridge may have
been inspired by Barwick. Barwick had been educated at

St John's College, where his elder brother John, the sincere
and courageous royalist, afterwards successively Dean of
Durham and of St Paul's, was already Fellow. He proceeded
Bachelor of Arts in 1643, Master of Arts in 1647, and Doctor
of Medicine in 1655. As a London physician he had a large
practice and a well-deserved reputation ; while as a man of
science he is known as the defender of Harvey's theory of the

circulation of the blood. Barwick is also described as a man

of sincere religious convictions, a strong churchman, and a

daily attendant at service, either at St Paul's or at Westminster
Abbey. From him therefore Woodward probably derived that
religious tone of mind which led him to devote most of his
scientific writings to the support of the Mosaic history of the

Deluge.

     Barwick has recorded in a testimonial dated 24 September,
1692, that he had then known Woodward "for above these
eight years"; that he "had made a very great progress in
learning" before he came to him ; that he studied physic with
him for nearly four years ; and that subsequently he " prose
cuted his studies with so much industry and success that he

hath made the greatest advance not only in physick, anatomy,
botany, and other parts of natural philosophy ; but likewise

     1 For instance, Dr Richard    Mead, in   his Discourse    on the Smallpox and
Measles, calls Dr Woodward " a   man equally  ill-bred, vain,  and ill-natured, who,

after being for some time apprentice to a linen-draper, took it into his head

to make a collection of shells and fossils," etc. Works, ed. 1763, ii. 100.

                    WOODWARD'S EARLY STUDIES.

in history, geography, mathematics, philology, and all other

useful learning of any man I ever knew of his age." It would

appear, therefore, that he became known to Barwick in 1684 ;
and, as he was born in 1665, and remained at school till 1681,

when he was sixteen, there remain only three years to be
accounted for, during part of which -- whatever may be the
truth of the apprentice story-- he is said to have pursued his
studies " with great diligence and application." We are not,

however, told what these studies were, nor is any hint given

that he went through the ordinary course prescribed for

candidates for a medical degree. By 1692, however, he had
become sufficiently well known to obtain the Professorship of

Physic in Gresham College, for which he was recommended not
merely by Dr Barwick, in the testimonial already mentioned,

but "by many gentlemen of figure in the learned faculties."
It is much to be regretted that Dr Ward, who had seen these

testimonials, should give no particulars of them, nor even
record the names of those who wrote them. Had he been

a little more explicit, we might have discovered the reasons

which induced the electors to choose a young man of twenty-
eight, who, so far as we know, had given no visible signs of

fitness for so distinguished a position; and we might thus have
learnt the nature and extent of Woodward's early studies.

     In the following year (30 November, 1693) Woodward
was elected Fellow of the Royal Society. Two years later,

4 February, 1695, he was made a Doctor of Medicine by
Archbishop Tenison, and in the same year (28 June) the
same degree was granted to him by the University of Cam

bridge ; on which occasion he was admitted a member of
Pembroke Hall -- as Pembroke College was then termed1.

Here again Barwick's influence may have disposed the

     1 He  is  so   recorded in   Dr Richardson's   List of Degrees    preserved   in the
Registry   of  the   University.   The Supplicat   for his degree is                vobis
                                                                      : " Placeat

ut Johannes Woodward sit eisdem Gradu       Honore et Dignitate       apud nos Canta-
brigienses quibus est per Lileras Patentes  Domini Archiepiscopi       Cantuariensis " ;

endorsed, "Ad. Lect. et Cone. 28 Junii 1695. Non subscripsit." The records of

Pembroke College do not mention Woodward.

WORK AS A PHYSICIAN.                                                     169

University to admit his friend and pupil ; but on this point

we can only form a probable conjecture, and as to Woodward's

reasons for selecting Pembroke, we are completely in the
dark. He was admitted a candidate of the College of
Physicians 25 June, 1698; and Fellow 22 March, 1702 -- 3.
He held the office of Censor there in 1703 and 17 14; and
in January 1710 -- 11 delivered the Gulstonian Lectures On
the Bile and its Uses1.

    It would be beside our present purpose to investigate

Woodward's claims to distinction as a physician, or to do

more than allude to his quarrel with Dr, afterwards Sir Hans,

Sloane, in 17 10, which led to his expulsion from the Council
of the Royal Society* ; or to his controversy with Dr Freind
and Dr Mead on the new treatment of the smallpox suggested

in his treatise, The State of Physick and of Diseases, published
in 1718s. For the same reason we will be silent about his
antiquarian pursuits, and "poor Dr Woodward's shield4," by
which "he ingaged the attention of the learned for a consider

able time." Those who wish to enjoy a hearty laugh at his

expense should turn to the third chapter of the Memoirs of
Martinus Scriblerus, where, under the transparent disguise of
Dr Cornelius Scriblerus, the misfortunes of the learned owner

    1 Roll of the Royal College of Physicians of London ; by William Munk, M.D.
8vo. Lond. 1861, ii. 3.

     2 Weld's History of the Royal Society, 8vo. Lond. 1848, i. 337; Brewster's

Life of Sir Isaac Newton, Chapter XXI.

     3 This was the occasion of the attack made on Woodward by Mead.

According to the account which Woodward sent to The Weekly Journal for
20 June, 1719 (printed by Nichols, Lit. Anecd. vi. 641), Mead followed him to
the gate of Gresham College, and there made a pass at him with his sword from

behind. Woodward drew, and was defending himself, when his foot slipped, and

he lay at the mercy of his adversary, who bade   him ask his life.  The   encounter
was presently terminated by the interference of                     Had  he been to
                                                 other persons. "
have given me any of his physic," said Woodward, " I would, rather than take
i.
      4

                      is
                              it is
                                                   ;
                                                                                4
                                                                              it

                                                                                  J.

                                                                                                                                        it,
have asked my life of him but for his sword was very harmless."

        Lord Castledurrow to Dean Swift, December, 1736. The shield, of iron,
14 in. in diameter, a cinquecento Italian work. It was bought, at the sale of
Woodward's Collections'(see below, p. 186, note), by Colonel King. After his death
in 1767, aged 84, was sold for ^40 (Nollckms and his Times, by T. Smith,

   39). It now in the British Museum, Department of General Antiquities.

170 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

of the shield, reputed to have once been wielded by Camillus,
are chronicled with infinite humour1. His geological specula
tions, on the other hand, deserve careful examination, for,

though they are in many parts absurd, and warped throughout

by the necessity for making the observed facts fit a precon
ceived theory of a universal deluge, "he appears to have had
some very correct notions as to the general structure of the
globe, and the proper method of pursuing the investigation

of if."

     The circumstances which led him to these studies have

been recorded by himself in the Preface to the Catalogue
of the English Fossils in his own collection.

IIt may not be improper or unseasonable, before proceed to the
             I am going to     gI ivbeegaonf       Bodies in the following
                                                   Observations and Collec
             take notice that
Ibrief Account                                the
                                              my             Ralph Dutton,
Catalogue, to
tions  in Gloucestershire     ; whither was invited  by Sir   tuition I then
along  with his Lady's     Father Dr Barwick, under   whose

was, very happily, he being a Man of great Sagacity, Learning, and

an Encourager of all ingenuous Studies. Here I had very generously
Iallow'd me all Conveniencies and Assistances for the furthering of

Comparative Anatomy, in which took great pains ; and had all the
Iseveral sorts of Brutes, of Birds, of Fishes, that this noble and

plentiful Country afforded, readily brought to me for Dissection. had
I Ihere likewise opportunity of carrying on my Botanic Studies, of which,

being then young, was very fond. Not that confin'd myself so
much to this part of Natural History as not to be ready, forward, and

desirous to look into any other ; and the Country about Sherborne,

where Sir Ralph Dutton's Seat was, and the neighbouring parts of

Gloucestershire, to which I made frequent Excursions, abounding
                            being Quarries of this laid
with Stone,   and there    visit these, in order to inform   open almost
everywhere,                                                  myself of the
             I began to
Inature, the situation, and the condition of the Stone. In making
these Observations,        soon found there was incorporated with the
ISand of most of the Stone thereabouts, great plenty and variety of
Sea-shells, with other marine Productions.         took notice of the like,
lying loose in the Fields, on the plough'd Lands and on the Hills,
                           of the highest thereabouts. ...This was a
even to the very      top
Speculation new to   me ;  and what I judg*d of so great moment, that
I resolv'd to pursue it through the other remoter parts of the
IKingdom ; which afterwards did, made Observations upon all sorts
Iof Fossils, collected such as thought remarkable, and sent them up

       1 Pope's Works, ed. Roscoe, v. 160.

       2 Edinburgh Review, xxix. 316. The article is by Dr W. H. Fitton.

NATURAL HISTORY OF THE EARTH.                              171

to London. Some others were afterwards given me by such curious
and intelligent Persons, as being appriz'd of the usefulness of these
Studies, turn'd their Thoughts to such Searches '.

The results of these observations are recorded in A n Essay

toward a Natural History of the Earth and Terrestrial Bodies,
especially Minerals ; as also of tlie Sea, Rivers, and Springs,
with an Account of the Universal Deluge, and of tlie Effects
that it had upon tlie Earth, first published in 1695, as the

forerunner of a larger work, which, however, was never written.

The author tells us that in order to inform himself of the

present condition of the earth, he travelled through the
greatest part of England, enquiring "for intelligence of all

Places where the Entrails of the Earth were laid open, either

by Nature (if I may so say), or by Art, and humane Industry.
And wheresoever I had notice of any considerable natural

Spelunca or Grotto, any digging for Wells of Water, or for

Earths, Clays, Marie, Sand, Gravel, Chalk, Cole, Stone, Marble,

Ores of Metals, or the like, I forthwith had recourse thereunto;

and taking a just account of every observable Circumstance of

the Earth, Stone, Metal, or other Matter, from the Surface

quite down to the bottom of the Pit, I entered it carefully
into a Journal, which I carry'd along with me for that purpose."

The English tour being finished, Woodward wished to extend
his travels beyond sea ; but was prevented by " the Com

motions which had then so unhappily invaded Europe," and
had to content himself with the observations of others, for
whose use, he says, " I drew up a List of Quaries upon this

Subject, which I dispatch'd into all parts of the World, far and
near, wherever either I myself, or any of my Acquaintance,

had any Friend resident to transmit those Quaries unto*."

1 An Attempt Towards a Natural History of the Fossils of England ; in
J.a Catalogue of the English Fossils in the Collection of  Woodward, M.D.

'2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1729. Vol. I. Part It. p. 1.

      Brief instructions for making observations in all parts of the world; as also
for collecting, preserving, and sending over natural things: Being an attempt
to settle an universal correspondence for the advancement of knowledge, both natural
and civil: 4to. Lond. 1696. An abridgement, called: Brief Directions for
making observations and collections, and for composing a travelling Register of all

172 NATURAL HISTORY OF THE EARTH.

     These observations led him to the following conclusions :
that in all parts of the world, " the stone and other terrestrial

Matter" was "distinguished into Strata, or Layers ; that those
Strata were divided by parallel Fissures ; that there were

enclosed in the Stone, and all the other denser kinds of terres

trial Matter, great numbers of Shells, and other Productions

of the Sea;" that the "Shells, and other marine Bodies, found

at Land, were originally generated and formed at Sea;" and
" that they are the real spoils of once living Animals." The

arguments by which he establishes this truth -- in those days
a startling novelty -- show that he had carefully examined

both recent and fossil forms.

Unfortunately for Woodward's reputation, he felt obliged

to account for the presence of these bodies where he found

them, and therefore promulgated the geological romance with

which his name is associated. He imagined the centre of the
earth to be a spherical cavity --the Great Deep of Genesis --

filled with water; that when the Flood took place these
waters burst forth ; that by their agency " the whole Terrestrial
                                                   "  that " Stone,
Globe was taken  all  to  pieces  and  dissolved
                                                  ;

and all other solid Minerals, lost their solidity, and that the

sever'd Particles thereof, together with those of the Earth,
Chalk, and the rest, as also Shells, and all other Animal and

Vegetable Bodies, were taken up into, and sustained in, the

Water ; that at length all these subsided again promiscuously,

and without any other order than that of the different

specifick Gravity of the several Bodies in this confused Mass,

those which had the greatest degree of Gravity sinking down

first, and so settling lowest ; then those Bodies which had a
lesser degree of Gravity fell next, and settled so as to make a

Stratum upon the former ; and so on, in their several turns, to

the lightest of all, which subsiding last, settled at the Surface,

and covered all the rest ; that this very various Miscellany of

sorts of Fossils, was printed after Woodward's death in : Fossils of all kinds,
digested into a Method suitable to their mutual Relation and Affinity, 8vo. Lond.

1728.

             SCIENTIFIC COLLECTIONS.                                                     173

Bodies being determined to subsidence in this Order meerly
by their different specifick Gravities, all those which had the
same degree of Gravity subsided at the same time, fell into,
and composed, the same Stratum; so that those Shells, and
other Bodies, that were of the same specifick Gravity with
Sand, sunk down together with and so became inclosed in
the Strata of Stone which that Sand formed or constituted
                                 it,

                                                                                                          :

those which were lighter, and of but the same specifick

Gravity with Chalk (in such places of the Mass where any

Chalk was), fell to the bottom at the same time that the

Chalky Particles did, and so were entombed in the Strata of

Chalk; and in like manner all the rest1:" in proof of which

he maintains that the shells usually found in sandstone are

heavier than those found in chalk. Further, he scornfully
rejects the notion that there have been " Changes and Altera

tions in the Terraqueous Globe" since the Deluge, except

such as are due to the agency of man.

While engaged in the researches which led to this theory, he

amassed a vast collection of specimens, all of which he terms
fossils --though the collection
             ;                                                      partly petrological, partly

zoological.      a Itaccompanied by an elaborate catalogue,

in which the specimens are carefully described, and theiris
                                              a

                                                                 ;

                                                    a is
localities noted. Here again Woodward was far in advance

of his age and, had not his mind been predisposed to theory,

he might have anticipated, by century, the discoveries of

William Smith. Instead of this, as Sedgwick pointed out,
" he formed magnificent collection of organic remains, and

he separated from the rest series of fossils of the Hampshire

coast, and was aware that many of the species were the same

as those of the London Clay but this fact, and many others

of like kind, were with him but sterile truths and, being led
                                                                    ;

astray by his theory, he knew nothing either of the real

structure of the earth, or of any law regulating the distribution

of organic forms*."

31    An Essay, etc. p. 29.                                         1831, on announcing  the first

        Address to the Geological Society, 18 February,
award of the Wollaston prize.

i74 THE THEORY ATTACKED.

     The Essay achieved great popularity, passing through at

least four editions in England during Woodward's life, besides

being translated into Latin at Zurich, by Dr J. J. Scheuchzer1.

After Woodward's death it was translated into French (1735)
and published simultaneously at Paris and Amsterdam ; and

subsequently into Italian (1739).

    It was not to be expected that views so novel should

escape attack ; and accordingly we find them controverted,
" partly by occasional remarks in other writings, partly by
pamphlets written directly against " the Essay. Among the
latter is a tract by Dr John Arbuthnot, published in 1697.
He fully admits " that though Dr Woodward's Hypothesis

seems to be liable to many just exceptions, the whole is not
to be exploded ; " but good-humouredly hits him in his
weakest point when he adds : " I cannot forbear to wish that

People were more diligent in observing, and more cautious in
System-making. First, the World is malicious, and when

they write for an Opinion it spoils the Credit of their Obser
vations : They have then taken their Party, and may be
suspected for partial Witnesses. In the next Place, Mankind,

in these Matters, is naturally too rash, and apt to put more

in the Conclusion than there is in the Premises ; yea, some

there are so fond of an Opinion, that they will take Pleasure to
cheat themselves, and would bring every Thing to fit their
Hypothesis2." The illustrious Ray, though he could not
make up his mind as to the real nature of the " formed
stones," as they were termed, rejected the notion that their
position had been regulated by their specific gravity, as " not
generally true," pointing out "that they are often mingled,

heavy with light, in the same Bed or Stratum." At the same

time he shows, with much acuteness of observation, that

1 His translation is called : Specimen Geographic^ Physica Quo agitur de Terra

et Corporibus Terrestribus Speciatim Mineralibus [etc.]. 8vo. Tiguri, 1704.
2 An Examination of Dr Woodward's History of the Deluge, in Miscellaneous
Works of the late Dr Arbuthnot, Lond. 1770, ii. 230. The same collection
          166), An Account of the Sickness and Death of Dr W-dw-rd,
contains  (i.
                                                                                                                                                      a

satire on the Doctor's medical theories.

                          TA URONOMACHIA.                                        175

many parts of the earth had been changed in comparatively
recent times, and that Woodward was by no means accurate
in maintaining that it was now in the state in which the

Deluge had left it1.
     These authors, and others whom we need not enumerate,

treated Woodward seriously; but he met with not a little

ridicule. Gay presented him on the stage, in a farce called
Three Hours after Marriage, as Dr Fossile -- " the man who
has the Raree-show of Oyster-shells and Pebble-stones "-- ;
and the wrath of the doctors against his medical theories ma
nifested itself in a plentiful crop of scurrilous pamphlets. We
have neither space nor inclination to recount the history of
" Don Bilioso de l'Estomaca," as Woodward is called in one

of these ; but in Tauronomachia : or a description of a Bloody
and Terrible Fight between two Champions, Taurus and Onos,

at Gresham College*, his theory of the earth is hit off so

happily that we cannot forbear transcribing a few lines.
After introducing us to Onos, "a fam'd Empirick of the

Town," who knew how everything was created, and who

                                  "of Atoms what, can tell

                   Echinites made, and Cackle-Shell*,"

the satire gives a humorous description of the Abyss,                            the
Deluge, and the struggle of the various substances to                            get
to their proper places as the waters subsided.

          Each thought himself as good as other,
          And with confounded Stir and Pother,

          Strove to accelerate his Pace,
          And shove some other out of 's Place.
          But cross-grain'd Levity combin'd
          With Fate to make some lag behind;

1 Three Physico-Theological Discourses, by John Ray, ed. 1713, pp. 165-167,

206-295.
1 The Life and Adventures of Don Bilioso de tEstomac. Translated from the
Original Spanish into French; done from the French into English. With a
Letter to the College of Physicians, 8vo. Lond. 17 19.
*                         Lond. 1719. Small
4  Tauronomachia etc.     in another line says,  f"olBioy,  pp. 6.    of speech  peculiar  to
                                                            a figure
   A note on this word

Onos." It was evidently intended to ridicule his affected pronunciation, which

other writers allude to.

176 DR CAMERARIUS.

For some, tho' immensely large and huge,
Were Naturally Centrifuge;
Whilst others, Atoms, yet their Weight

Inclin'd them to be Centripete.
Oh ! had you heard what dreadful Moans
Were made by Marie, and Coals and Stones,
And Seeds of Trees ; that had not Power
To sink themselves two Inches lower;

How Chalk and Soil did curse and swear,

That they must lye in open Air;

You'd been amaz'd, to find this Worldly
Frame in so d --d a Hurly-burly.

   Thus I've observed, pro re natd,
A Kitchin-Wench of Bread lay Strata,
Eggs, Suet, and Plums in plenteous store ;
But, in a Moment of an Hour,
Milk in a Deluge vast comes flowing,
And dissipates all she'd been doing :

But, when the Streams began t' asswage,

IAnd quiet grow, and free from Rage;

Then to my Sorrow have spy'd
Whole Troops of Plums with speed subside.

     Woodward took no notice of any adverse criticism until
17 14. Two years before Dr Elias Camerarius, Doctor of
Medicine in the University of Tubingen, had published a
volume of essays on various points of physic and medicine1,
in some of which he had disparaged Woodward's theories,
but without acrimony or severity. There seems to be no

special reason why Woodward should have broken his silence
on this occasion in particular ; but perhaps he was glad of an
opportunity of addressing the learned world, and especially
the learned world of Germany, where his own works had

made many converts. Accordingly he published, with a
dedication to Thomas, Earl of Pembroke, a short Latin essay,
in which he examines the points challenged by Camerarius,

and defends his whole theory, but, it must be admitted,
without any great novelty of argument*. The essay concludes

1 Elioe Camerarii Dissertationes Taurine1tses Epistolica, Physico- Mediae. 8vo.

Tubingae, 1712.                                        Illustrata el Aucta.    Una
     2 Johannis Woodwardi Naturalis Historia Telluris  Objections D. El.     Came

cunt Ejusdcm Defensione ; Prtrsertim contra Ntiperas

rarii Med. Prof. Tubingensis. 8vo. Lond. 1714.

WOODWARD'S BOTANICAL EXPERIMENTS.                                             177

with a Classification of Fossils, prefaced by an epistle to Sir
Isaac Newton, at whose suggestion, says the writer, the work

had been undertaken.

     One other scientific work of Woodward's must be briefly
noticed. In June, 1699, he laid before the Royal Society
Some Thoughts and Experiments concerning Vegetation1. This

remarkable paper shows that the author should be ranked as
a founder of experimental plant physiology, for he was one of
the first to employ the method of water-culture, and to make
refined experiments for the investigation of plant-life.

     Woodward's object was to controvert a theory then
prevalent, that water, and not mineral matter, was "the
only Principle or Ingredient of all natural things;" and
that there was " a direct transmutation of water into plants

and other bodies." The supporters of this view had in
vestigated, experimentally, the growth of various selected
plants, and had shown in the first place that " mint and other
plants prosper and thrive greatly in water"; and secondly,
that, if a plant be placed in a given weight of earth and
allowed to grow for a considerable time, at the end of the

experiment the earth will be found to have experienced no
loss of weight, thus proving that all the nutriment must have

been obtained from the water. Woodward proceeded as

follows. A number of glass phials of fairly equal size were

filled with water, and weighed. Each was then covered with
a piece of parchment, pierced with a hole just large enough
to admit the stalk of a plant. Sprigs of spear-mint {Mentha
viridis) and other plants, having been carefully weighed,
were inserted through the holes in the parchment, and the
phials set in a window, under the same conditions of air,
light, and sun. As the water evaporated, the phials were

replenished, account being taken of the weight of the water
added. He placed in his phials: (1) pure water; (2) water
containing soluble matter in varying proportions ; (3) water

         1 Philosophical  Transactions,  1699, Vol. xxi. pp. 193 -- 227.
S. I.
                                                                          12

178 WOODWARD'S BOTANICAL EXPERIMENTS.

artificially mixed with earth. At the conclusion of the

experiment the plants were weighed a second time, and
their growth calculated in proportion to the weight of the
water used. The most important results, as stated in Wood
ward's own words, were the following:

     1. "The Plant is more or less nourished and augmented in
proportion as the Water in which it stands contains a greater or
smaller quantity of proper terrestrial Matter in it."

     2. " The much greatest part of the Fluid Mass that is drawn off
and conveyed into the Plants, does not settle or abide there: but
passes through the Pores of them, and exhales up into the Atmo
sphere."

     The first of the above conclusions was a sufficient answer

to those who supported a contrary theory ; the second shows
that Woodward had discovered what is now called Tran
spiration, which has so important a bearing on plant-life. In
the light of this result he proceeds to discuss the effect of
vegetation on climate ; and concludes that " so continual
an emission and detachment of water in so great plenty from
the parts of plants affords us a manifest reason why countries
that abound with trees and the larger vegetables, are very
obnoxious to damps, great humidity of the air, and more
frequent rains than others that are open and free ; " and that
this evaporation is dependant on temperature, for " much
less quantity of water was exhaled in the colder months."

     Woodward was not popular with his contemporaries.
Thoresby, the well-known antiquary of the last century, calls
him "very ingenious, yet not the best-tempered;" and, in
another place, "that ill-natured piece of formality1." Nor
did foreigners judge him more favourably than his own
countrymen. Dr Christian Heinrich Erndl, or Erndtel, who
visited England in 1706, says :

      The said Doctor owns an inestimable treasure of minerals and
petrified shells, partly collected by himself in Britain, partly obtained
with much diligence from all corners of Europe, as specimens of the
rarer minerals and petrifactions. He has likewise a very choice
library of books on medicine and philosophy. It is to be regretted

                                       1 Nichols, Illustrations, i. 800, 806.

                        WOOD WARD'S MANNERS.                                             179

that this celebrated man should be very ignorant of Latin, which he

Ifspeaks with difficulty ; and it is wonderful how chary and churlish
he is in showing his cabinet of curiosities.                                  you do get a peep at

mind you do not touch the smallest object with so much as the
it,
         it
tip of your finger. Nor may you look into single volume, unless he
                                  a
holds in his own hands'.                                       a

     His eccentricity and vanity are amusingly described in
Uffenbach's account of visit paid to him in 1710; but
allowance must be made for the writer's evident vexation.

     30 October. In the morning called on Dr Woodward for the fifth
time, and at last found him at home but were shown into an ante
                                                              :
                                                                     ;

                                                                       a
chamber. When we had stood there good quarter of an hour, he
first sent his boy to ask our names after another quarter of an hour
the boy came back, saying, His master was still in bed, as he had'

sat up somewhat late the night before;                                    it  might be half-an-hour

before he got up, we could wait so long.' We left our interpreter
                        if

and servant behind, with orders to summon us, when was convenient
                                                                              it

to the man, and meanwhile drank cup of coffee in the next coffee
                                                              a

house. When one of them came for us, we set off at once, but must
again wait some half-hour in the ante chamber. At last his boy
called us, and led us through two rooms to the precious Mr Doctor.

He stood stiffly up in his silk dressing-gown, and with an affected air

and screwed-up eyes, asked who we were, and where we came from.
But when we begged for a sight of his cabinet, he excused himself,

saying that in half-an-hour he had to attend consultation, which he
                                                                          a
could not possibly put off, and prayed us to come again the next
                                                                                     is
afternoon at three.                                                                                     is
                                                                                                              2
When we were about to take leave, he begged us to stay awhile,
                                                                                                                   :a
and called to his lad, make haste,' intending, as we supposed, to
offer us chocolate, according to his custom. For, as we had beenit

                               '
assured, he presents to all strangers, and that with such ridiculous
fuss and ceremony, that one can scarce refrain from laughing. For

till the chocolate comes he keeps urging the boy with every variety of

expression              shouting to which, much to our disgust, we were forced
        it a

                  ;
                     a
to listen some half-hour. But this time we had not the honour to

drink cup with him for though the boy brought a silver can and
                            ;
                                                 ;
cloth,       was only for shaving and we were to be favoured with the

privilege of looking on. We had heard already of more than four
foreigners, who had received the same treatment. But we excused

C. H. E. D. De Itinere suo Anglkano et Batavo Amis MDCCVI et
1

                  of

                            a
                                                          1,
MDCCVII facto relatio ad amicum D. G. K. A. C. Amsterdam, 1710, p. 41.
"ItA second edition, published 171 omits the passage                          to be regretted -- own

hands." An English translation of the first edition appeared in 171 1, entitled

The Relation            Journey into England and Holland in the Years 1706 and

1707. By a Saxon Physician. 8vo. Lond. 1711. This translation                     badly done,

and has not been exactly followed in the above passage.

                                                                                  12 --

i So WOODWARD'S DEATH.

ourselves, and said we would not detain him, and got away, though

he several times begged us to stay.

     31 October. In the afternoon we drove again to Dr Woodward,
and at last attained our end, to see his things. Yet he kept us

                     is,
                                    a
                                          is
waiting, as his way  again good half-hour in his ante-chamber;

and then complained that we were not quite punctual, and had not

come half-an-hour before. This said to be the uncivil compliment

which this affected, learned charlatan, pays to all strangers that

come to him.

     He showed us first all kind of precious stones found here and

there in England then some minerals, and then petrefactions, his
              ;

strong point. Not only was the quantity amazing, but the specimens
were select and fine. Amongst others he showed us shells filled and

partly overgrown with stone of all kinds, even the hardest flint.
Specially curious was the collection in which he showed us the whole
growth of the conchylia from first to last. He had also many stones
containing fossil plants of all kinds shells covered with metals and
ores, and partly also filled with them amongst the rest very many
fine ammonites. He had cabinet filled with ancient urns and vases.
In another were great fossil snails and ammonites. In another he
                     a
                                           ;

                                           in ;
                                                         a
had good number of MSS., chiefly relating to the Natural History
   a
of England, which, as he professed, were mostly of his own writing.;

Among these books was a volume,               which he had had all his

conchylia tolerably well drawn. Again,                              fine herbarium vivum
anglicanum of his collection, in which the plants were quite fresh and
well-preserved. Dr Woodward showed us all his things with such an

affected air, and such screwing-up of the eyes, that one cannot help

laughing though he suffers you to laugh as little as to speak,

requiring every one to listen to him as an oracle, approve and extol
all. You must listen to his opinion de diluvio et generatione ante-
dituviana ct lapidum postdiluviana, till you are sick of
                                                                    a           He
                                                                           it.
repeats whole pages of his works, accompanying them with running
panegyrics. The maddest thing of all that he has many mirrors
hanging in every room, in which he constantly contemplates him
self. In all he does he behaves like woman and conceited
                     a
fool1.                     a
                                                             a is,
   Woodward died of decline, in his apartments at Gresham

College, 25 April, 1728, in the sixty-third year of his age.
                     wish that he may be buried "
His Will records                                                    in          the

Abbey Church of Westminster, with as little Pomp and

Expences as may well be." On May-day following this

wish was carried out. His grave close to that of Newton,
                               is

                                           is
                                                   J.
1  Zacharias Conrad von Uffenbach, Merkwiirdige Reisen. Dritter Theil.

pp. ii8, 235. The translation  by the Rev.                          E. B. Mayor. M.A. St

John's Coll. A few lines have been omitted in transcription.


JOHN                       WOODWARD, M.D.          F.R.S.

                            Born 1665; died 1728.

From a contemporary oil-painting in the Woodwardian Museum, Cambridge.

To face page 181, Vol. /.

t, I

              /.;/

i iiO . '. 1 ' . m'i.!t'"   M , ,..
fro'1i 1 1n* 1 it- . .'
l >'vi t'- * ' '. -V*'    - .-..,'. i ;

                                  - ' . '

I'l? ''' -'I r''    -'" i- : i '

i ...             N I } I .,!'.'.'. ,il.<"

. . i .' .                  Vl->. i

. i. .              .. . :

                          JOHN WOODWARD, M.D. F.R.S.

                                                    Born 1665 ; died 1728.
         From a contemporary oil-painting in the Woodwardian Museum, Cambridge.

'Jo fate page 18 1, Vol. I.

                      \

WOODWARD'S WILL.  181

on the north side of the entrance to the choir. No inscription
marks his resting-place, but near the west end of the nave,
on the same side of the church, an elaborate monument of
white marble, erected to his memory by the pious care of his
friend Colonel King, bears the following inscription :

                                                   M.S.

                  JOHANNIS WOODWARD,

                                 Medici Celeberrimi,
                              Philosophi Nobilissimi,

                                            Cujus
                              Ingenium et Doctrinam
                      Scripta per Terrarum fere orbem

                                   Pervulgata ;
                 Liberalitatem verb et Patrice Caritatem

                            Academia Cantabrigiensis,
                          Munificentid Ejus aucta,

                                          Opibus ornata,

                        In Perpetuum declarabit.
                 Natns Kal. Maij A.D. MDCLXV.
                Obiit VII. Kal. Maij MDCCXXVlil.

                        RICHARD US KING

              Tribunus Militum, Fabrflmque Prcefectus,
                           Amico optime de se merito

                                                      D. S. P.

     Our portrait of Woodward is taken from an oil-painting in
the Woodwardian Museum. Its history is unknown, but,
from the style, it is evidently a contemporary picture, and is
believed to have been sent to Cambridge at the same time as
the collection, or shortly afterwards.

     Woodward's will is dated I October, 1727. He names as
his executors the Honourable Dixie Windsor1 ; Mr Hugh
Bethell, of Swinton in Yorkshire ; Mr Richard Graham ; and

     1 Of Trinity College; B.A. 1694, M.A. 1698, and M.P. for the University,

 175-- 177-

182 WOODWARD'S FOUNDATION.

Colonel Richard King, of the Office of Ordnance in the Tower

of London. They are directed to convert into money his

personal estate and effects, including his library, and his

antiquarian collections ; to purchase land of the yearly value

of one hundred and fifty pounds, and to convey the same

to the University of Cambridge. Out of this yearly income

100 is to be paid, in four quarterly instalments, to a
Lecturer, to be chosen in the first instance by the executors,

and after their decease by "the Lord Archbishop of the

Province in which the said University           is,  who,  it            to be

presumed, besides his favouring of learning and all useful     ;

knowledge, will think himself under obligation to have special  is
regard to this University"; the Lord Bishop of the Diocese
                                                                        ;
in which the said University is; the President of the College

of Physicians the President of the Royal Society the
                 ;
two Representatives of the University in Parliament and the
                        is
whole Senate. The six persons first-named, together with

the Chancellor of the University, are to have the privilege of

voting by proxy.            to be bachelor " and in case of the
     The Lecturer           a  is
                                       a
marriage of any of the said Lecturers afterwards, his election
                                             ;
shall be thereby immediately made void, lest the care of
                                                     a
wife and children should take the Lecturer too much from           a

study, and the care of the Lecture." This condition was                is
                                                                                a
evidently borrowed by Woodward from the statutes of

Gresham College. In choosing the Lecturer, layman to
be preferred to divine, " not out of any disrespect to the
                 is
                    a

                     I
clergy, for whom have ever had particular regard, but

because there in this kingdom better provision, and much

greater number of preferments, for the clergy than for men of

learning among the laity"; he to be "further subject to

such rules, orders, and directions, not interfering with those

hereinafter particularly specified and set forth, as the electors,

or majority of them, shall from time to time think fit to
a

          ;

                   is
make " he              not to hold " any preferment, office, or post,

whatever, that shall any ways so employ and take up his time

WOODWARDS FOUNDATION.  183

as to interfere with his duty herein set forth, and in particular
that shall require his attendance out of the University"; if

he accept such, his post is to become vacant ; he is not to
be absent from Cambridge for more than " two months in the

year, and those to be in the long vacation in the summer"; he
is there to " read at least four Lectures every year, at such
times, and in such place of the said University, as the majority
of the said electors shall appoint, on some one or other of the
subjects treated of in my Natural History of the Earth, my

Defence of it against Dr Camerarius, my Discourse of Vege
tation, or my State of Physick, at his discretion, but in such

language, viz., English or Latin, as shall be appointed from
time to time by the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, Provosts,
and Masters of the several Colleges and Halls belonging
to the said University ; the said Lectures, or at least one of

them, at the Lecturer's own free choice and election, to be

published in print every year."
     In the next place he bequeaths to the University his

collection of English fossils, with the two cabinets containing
them, and their catalogues, copies of which are to be
" reposited in the publick Library of the said University, for
greater security that the said Fossils be preserved with great
care and faithfulness." The executors are to " cause and

procure the same to be lodged and reposited in such proper
room or apartment as shall be allotted by the said Uni
versity " ; the Lecturer is to " have the care and custody of
all the said Fossils and the catalogues of them"; he is to
"live and reside in or near the said apartment so to be
allotted for repositing the said Fossils " ; he is to " be actually
ready and attending in the room where they are reposited,
from the hour of nine of the clock in the morning to eleven,
and again from the hour of two in the afternoon till four,

three days in every week (except during the two months in
the long vacation, wherein he is allowed to be absent) to show
the said Fossils, gratis, to all such curious and intelligent
persons as shall desire a view of them for their information

                     WOODWARHS FOUNDATION.

and instruction"; and he is to "be always present when
they are shown, and take care that none be mutilated or lost."

     For the sake of additional security the Chancellor, Vice-
Chancellor, and Heads of Colleges are to appoint "two
discreet and careful persons" before the admission of every
Lecturer, and also once every year, "who shall inspect and
examine the said collections of fossils, and compare them
with the catalogues." These inspectors are to "give under
their hands a report of their examination," and to receive "for
their care and trouble," 5 a piece out of the testator's estate.
Besides these precautions, the Lecturer, before his admission,
is to give such security for the safe-keeping of the fossils as
the electors shall think proper ; and, further, he is to receive
jio in each year, " to be laid out and employed by him,
from time to time, in making observations and experiments,
keeping correspondence with learned men on the subjects
directed to be treated of in the Lectures, and in procuring
additions to the Collections of Fossils... he rendering annually
to such of the electors as shall be in the University an account
in writing of the ways in which the said sum hath been dis

bursed and employed1."
     Notwithstanding these minute directions and limitations,

Woodward clearly intended his benefaction to be modified
from time to time; for he directs that a further sum of 1o
" be appropriated for a dinner, on the first day of May, or,
if this fall on a Sunday, then on the second day of May,"
for the Lecturer, Inspectors, Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, and
Heads of Colleges, " to the end that they may then confer
and consider of the methods to improve the design and use

of the said donation by me hereby made. And I greatly

wish that these things that are of so much use and importance,

and which I have with great diligence and expense collected,

may by this settlement, the care of the electors, and the
diligence of the Lecturer, be made serviceable to the setting

      1 The addition of this 10 virtually raised the annual salary to .110, an
amount often mentioned as though it had been specified by Woodward.

WOODWARD'S FOUNDATION.

forth the wisdom of God in the works of nature, to the

advancement of useful knowledge, and to the profit and

benefit of the publick."

     Lastly, the balance left in hand after the discharge of the
sums above specified, is to be spent by the University in " the
payment of taxes, or any other necessary contingencies " ;
and any further surplus " in such manner as the said

University shall think fit ; but in hopes, that for the honour

of the University, and the benefit that will thence accrue to
the publick, if the design of this donation be rightly carried on,

that the said University will be pleased to dispose of the said

residue in making experiments and observations, in corre

spondence, in natural collections, books, or other things that

may serve to the promoting the good ends of this donation."
    It is evident that Woodward's primary object in this

foundation was the permanent commemoration of himself
and his researches without limitation of subject. Geology

was not, in his eyes, more important than Medicine or
Botany, provided his collections-- the monument of his
industry and sagacity -- could be preserved, extended, and
displayed to the public. This point having been secured, he

did not bind his lecturer to their illustration. He might be

a Botanist or a Physician, provided he took the Woodward ian

utterances on those subjects as his text-book, and provided

always that he was willing to act as an honest and efficient
curator of the Woodwardian cabinets.

     Woodward's estimate of the value of his works is worth
quotation. After directing his executors to treat his un

finished writings as they shall think fit1, he proceeds :

But for such others of my writings as I have at any time in my
life caused to be published, the property and copyright of all which
myself, and also all such others  Iofsamy yofwarliltitnhgosseasanmdy
hereafter appoint to be printed,
is in

Imay
                                                                       executors
                                                                      these do
give and devise one moiety of the said property and copyright, and

the benefit and profit thence arising, to the said University ; and the

     1 Notwithstanding this it was found that the MSS. had been placed in a box
by Woodward's order, with a request, bearing a date anterior to that of his Will,

that they might be destroyed, which was accordingly done.

186 WOODWARDS COLLECTIONS.

other moiety to the said Lecturer and his successors from time to
time, upon this special trust and confidence, that the said University
and the said Lecturer and their successors do take care that all my
said works from time to time be printed as soon as the former edition
of the same or of any part is sold off or become scarce, and that they
and he do not by any contracts to be made for the republishing
thereof so enhance the price as to prejudice the sale and divulgation
of any of the said copies to be reprinted.

     The executors lost no time in carrying out Woodward's
instructions. He died, as we have seen, in April, 1728, and

by the following September the two cabinets containing the
English fossils had been sent to Cambridge1. The University
seems to have been fully aware of the importance of the new
foundation, for at the beginning of the following year
(26 February, 1728 -- 29), the Senate agreed to purchase, for
a sum not exceeding one thousand pounds, two other cabinets
containing " foreign fossils," and " additional English fossils "
respectively. These cabinets had at first been included by

the testator among the effects which his executors were

directed to sell, but by a subsequent clause they were

empowered to make any arrangements they thought proper
respecting them, or even to give them away. They decided,
however, to dispose of them by public auction, and the Grace
recommending their purchase dwells at some length upon the
importance of preventing a separation of collections so

valuable, and collected at so great an expense.
      There is no evidence to show where the cabinets were

bestowed on their arrival at Cambridge ; and it was not until
1734, during the Vice-Chancellorship of Dr Roger Long,
Master of Pembroke College, that a definite place was devised

     1 Grace of the Senate, 17 September, 1728. "May it please you that the
acquittance now read to you be given to the executors of the late Dr Woodward,
sealed with your common seal." This Grace can only refer to the collections, for
the estate was not bought until 1731 ; and in the University Accounts for the
year ending 3 November, 1728, we find: "Paid Colonel King the carpenters
bill and other charges in packing Dr Woodward's boxes and two cabinets

          1$s. od." His Library and Antiquities of various kinds were sold by
auction. See A Catalogue of the Library, Antiquities, etc. of the Late learned

Dr Woodward, [etc.] 8vo. pp. 287. The sale began 11 November, 1728, and

occupied 33 days, 28 of which were devoted to the Library.

                                                                        A ROOM BUILT FOR THEM.                                             187

for their reception. In a letter dated 13 April, 1734, the              a                                                               a
executors express to Dr Long their " thanks for the room                         1 it,
which you have been so good as to appoint for the better                                                                                   it
standing of the Cabinets ; and hope you will be pleased to                                                                   1,                    it
order the fitting it up for that purpose." Dr Long was                                                                    a
renowned for his mechanical contrivances, and it is probable                                                                            a
that he himself suggested the ingenious scheme which was                                                                            aa
completed in 1736. By dividing off from the north end of
the Arts School a space about fifteen feet in length, a room
was contrived, now the Novel-Room of the Library, of con
venient size, and fairly well lighted. The comfort of the
Lecturer, who was supposed to spend twelve hours of each
week in was provided for by fireplace, curtains to the
windows, and other luxuries. The whole work was super
intended by Mr James Burrough, of Gonville and Caius
College, the popular amateur architect of the day1. So long
as the geological collections belonging to the University were
contained in Woodward's four, or five, cabinets, this room was

probably not ill-adapted for its purpose; but even then
was impossible for the Lecturer to " live and reside in or
near the said apartment " as the Will directed. As time

went on, and new acquisitions had to be displayed, was

found to be wholly inadequate, and we shall have to notice,
as we proceed, several abortive attempts to provide proper

Museum.

     The acquisition of an estate of the exact annual value
specified in the Will proved somewhat difficult matter, and
was not effected until 173 when property near Beccles in
Suffolk was conveyed to the University. The annual value was
slightly in excess of 150, and the proportional difference in

the purchase-money was made up partly by the generosity of
Colonel King, Woodward's residuary legatee, partly by loan

from the University.
     This matter having been settled, the four executors drew

up formal document under their hands and seals, dated

                     University Accounts and Vouchers for 1735 and 1736.

188 PR CON VERS MIDDLETON.

30 July, 173 1, by which they appointed Conyers Middleton,
D.D., formerly Fellow of Trinity College, to be the first

Lecturer. Middleton was a good scholar, and a distinguished
man of letters. He wrote an English style of which it has
been said that "for elegance, purity, and ease, it yields to
none in the whole compass of English literature1." His love
of music had gained for him the epithet of "musical Conyers";

which, as he himself played on the violin, was contemptuously
changed by Dr Bentley to " fiddling Conyers*." He was a
well-bred, courteous man of the world ; and, having married

a lady of good fortune3, his house had become, to some
extent, the centre of Cambridge society. His pamphlets

against Bentley, and the subsequent degradation of his
opponent on a question which he had been foremost in

raising, had made him a prominent person in the University,
and the office of Protobibliothecarius, or Principal Keeper of

the University Library, had been created for him by the

Senate in 172 1 as a mark of gratitude to a man whom they
regarded as their champion. But he had no knowledge of
any department of science, and he probably owed his appoint
ment either to his general distinction as a scholar and a
gentleman, or to a personal acquaintance with Woodward,
on which he insists in more than one passage of his inaugural
lecture. This composition, an elegant piece of Latin, was
printed in 17324. As might be expected, it refers to science
only in language borrowed from Woodward's own writings,

without expansion or criticism. It may be described as a
string of well-turned compliments to Woodward, to the

executors, and to the University. Woodward had brought

science out of the depths of the earth, as Orpheus brought
Eurydice ; Woodward might claim a place by Newton's side.

1 Monk's Life of Bentley, ii. 67.              3 Ibid. ii. 38.

3 Mrs Middleton died 19 February, 1730.
4 It is entitled : Oratio de novo Physiologia Explicandce Munere, ex cele-

berrimi Woodwardi testamento instituto, habita Cantabrigia in Scholis Publicis a

Conyers Middleton, S.T.P. Academia Cantabrigiensis Protobibliothecario et

Ledore ibidem Woodwardiano : 4to. Lond. 1732.

                          MR MASON.

Newton had explained the nature of light by study of the
sun ; Woodward had made light shine out of darkness -- a
conceit which may have been suggested by Dr Bentley's well-
known lines :

         Who Nature's Treasures wou'd explore,
            Her Mysteries and Arcana know,

         Must high, as lofty Newton, soar,
             Must stoop, as searching Woodward, low1.

   From the compliments to the executors, though hardly

less rhetorical than those to Woodward, the interesting in

formation may be extracted that the University was princi

pally indebted to Mr Richard Graham for Woodward's

benefaction. He had been educated at Cambridge, though

he did not proceed to a degree, and actuated by love for his

old University he had constantly urged his friend to entrust

his collections to Cambridge, as a place of note where they

would be seen and valued.

     Middleton held the office for rather less than three years.
He resigned, 7 April, 1734, either from a sense of his own
unfitness, or because he was meditating the second marriage

which he shortly afterwards contracted.

   The executors next appointed the Rev. Charles Mason,

M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, apparently at the suggestion
of the then Vice-Chancellor, Dr Roger Long. Some passages

from their letter to him, dated 13 April, 1734, will be found
interesting :

   " Mr Vice-Chancellor,

               Dr Middleton having transmitted to us his Resignation of
Dr Woodward's Professorship, in Form, dated the 7th of this month,
we proceeded forthwith to the Nomination of a fit Person to succeed
him : and have unanimously made choice of Mr Mason : being

confirm'd in the good Opinion we all have of his Abilities and

"     1  Johnson (Life  of Cowley, Works, ed. 1787,   ii. 43)  speaks of these lines as
   the    only English  verses which he [Bentley] is  known    to have written." For

Johnson's admiration of them, see Boswell's Life, ed. 1823, iii. 468. The whole
poem is printed in Monk's Bentley, ii. 174, from Dodsley's Collection, ed. 1765,

vi. 189. We have followed an earlier text as given in The Grove; or, a
Collection of original Poems, Translations, etc., 8vo. Lond. 1721. In the 4th
line Dodsley reads ' delving ' instead of ' searching.'

190 MR MASON.

sufficiency for that Post, by the Character you have been pleas'd to

give him.

     There is nothing, Sir, we have more at heart, than the firm
Establishment of this Professorship. And therefore we make it our
Request to you, that as the Professor is to receive his Salary by the
hands of the Vice-Chancellor for the time being, no part of the said
Salary may be paid to him till he shall produce a Certificat, sign'd
by two Masters of Arts, that he has duly read the Lectures, accord
ing to the Institution ; and at the expiration of every year shall
present to the Vice-Chancellor one of them Printed, giving him (at

the same time) a particular Account, in writing, how the 10

annually allow'd for Correspondence, Experiments, etc., has been
expended for the Year past ; as is directed by the Founder's Will."

    Two contemporary accounts of Mason have been preserved.

The first is by the Rev. William Cole, his "particular friend":

    "He is looked upon as rather unhewn, rough, and unsociable....

He is a very ingenious Man, an excellent Mechanic, and no bad
Geographer : witness a most accurate Map of Cambridgeshire, which
he has made from a personal Visitation of almost every Spot in the
County. He has also large Collections for an History of the same
County1."

     The next is by Mr Richard Cumberland :

    " A man of curious knowledge in the philosophy of mechanics,

and a deep mathematician ; he was a true modern Diogenes in
manners and apparel, coarse and slovenly to excess in both ; the
witty made a butt of him, but the scientific caressed him ; he could
ornament a subject at the same time that he disgusted and disgraced

Society. I remember when he came one day to dinner in the
qyC'TouohuelelsetnhigoaendIedhtwuairslnolh,en,'ddshiaryistiodyuarptahpsseehaaiorrtta*hbn.e'clrae,"c, k'wshmheeitrnhepylfoireuodmw--ahsthisaabtfoohuretgeh, adufprbioeennednhiCtsuhrabnrelieninsgg,.
                      ;a
     Mason was Woodwardian Lecturer for twenty-eight years.of
During that period he printed single Latin lecture* (in 1734).
Like Middleton, he devotes the greater part of to praise ofa

Woodward and his executors and then, after commendingit it,
                                                             of
        MSS. Cole xxxiii. 156 (Add. MSS. Mus. Brit. 5834). A full account of
1
        is  given in the Architectural History the University     Cambridge, ii.
Mason

674--677.           Richard Cumberland, 4to. Lond. 1806, p. 106.
         Memoirs
3"                of

        Oratio de Physiologic Explicandu: Muncre, ex celcberrimi Woodwardi Testa-
mento Instituto. Habita Cantabrigi,c in Scholis Publicis Carolo Mason, M.A.,

Coll. S. S. Trin. Soc. et Lcctore ibidem Woodwardiano. 4to. Cant. MDCCXXIV.

{sic).

                        AfR MICHELL.                             191

the clause in the above letter to the Vice-Chancellor which

makes the Lecturer's stipend depend on his reading lectures,

he ends with a promise to devote his best energies to the

work. Notwithstanding this engagement, we believe that all
he did was to make a considerable private collection of fossils,

which was sold by auction after his death. It is noteworthy
that he was Vicar of Barrington in Cambridgeshire from 1742

to 1747, and Rector of Orwell in the same county from 1747
to his death. As no man can be in two places at once, and

as Woodward had expressly forbidden his Lecturer to hold

any preferment, office, or post, which might interfere with his
duty as set forth in the Will, it is evident that Mason must

have neglected either his parish in favour of his lectureship, or
his lectureship in favour of his parish. In 1762, when he was
between sixty and seventy years of age, " he quitted Senior-

Fellowship, Professorship, and Liberty, for a Lady of small
Fortune, but of great Accomplishments1," and took up his
abode at Orwell, where he died, 18 December, 1770.

     On Mason's resignation, Colonel King, Woodward's last

surviving executor*, appointed the Rev. John Michell, B.D.
Fellow of Queens' College, a man of talent, who had already
distinguished himself by his scientific writings. In 1750,

while still a Bachelor of Arts, he had published a Treatise of
Artificial Magnets* ; and in 1760 he read to the Royal Society,
of which he became subsequently Fellow, Conjectures concerning
the Cause, and Observations upon the Phenomena, of Earth
quakes*, in which 'he advanced many original and philoso

phical views respecting the propagation of subterranean

movements, and the caverns and fissures wherein steam

might be generated6." At the outset of this paper he describes

1 MSS. Cole, ut supra.

a Cambridge Chronicle, 10 December, 1762. Mason's marriage had taken

place 5 November.                                         It was reprinted in full in

    * A tract of 81 pages, 8vo. Cambridge, 1750.
     4 Philosophical Transactions, 1760, pp. 566 -- 634.

Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, 1818, Vol. Hi.

8 Lyell : Principles of Geology, Ed. 1867, i. 61; ii. 150, 152.

192 MR MICHELL.

the general appearance and structure of stratified countries
with such remarkable accuracy that so far as principle is
concerned, a foremost place may be claimed for him among
the founders of modern geology. That he was acquainted
with the details also of the beds in certain parts of England
is proved by a memorandum in his handwriting discovered
in 1810 among the papers of Mr Smeaton, then in the posses
sion of Sir Joseph Banks. In this memorandum several of
the principal beds are enumerated, from the chalk down to the
coal ; and, in two instances, detached portions, several miles

distant from each other, are associated under the same name1.
On the other hand "he was ignorant of the importance of
organic remains, and did not use them as a means of identify
ing strata5." Michell vacated the Lectureship by marriage,
in September, 17643, having held it for rather less than two

years.
     We have not been able to discover that he ever delivered

lectures, much less published any. Cole says of him:
     " He is a little short Man, of a black Complexion, and fat, but

having no Acquaintance with him, can say little of him. I think he

had the Care of St Botolph's Church while he continued Fellow of
Queens' College, where he was esteemed a very ingenious Man, and
an excellent Philosopher4."

     After his marriage he held more than one piece of prefer
ment, and does not appear to have revisited Cambridge. Nor
did he continue the geological studies which he had com
menced with so much promise. His subsequent communica
tions to the Royal Society are on astronomical subjects. He
died 29 April 1793, atThornhill, near Dewsbury, in Yorkshire,
of which place he had been rector since 1767.

     1 This estimate of Michell's geological attainments is derived, in the main,
from Notes on the History of English Geology, by W. H. Fitton, M.D. in the
Philosophical Magazine, 1832, i. 268. The memorandum alluded to was first
published in Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, 1810, xxxvi. 102.

     2 Sedgwick's Address to the Geological Society of London, 18 February, 1831 ,
on announcing the first award of the Wollaston prize, pp. 4, 5, and note.

      3 Cambridge Chronicle, 8 September, 1764.
     * MSS. Cole, xxxiii. 156 (Add. MSS. Mus. Brit. 5834).

                            DR OGDEN.                            193

     The Lectureship being vacant for a fourth time, Colonel
King, now a very old man, appointed the Rev. Samuel Ogden,
D.D., Fellow and President of St John's College. Dr Ogden
had been master of the grammar-school at Halifax from 1743
to 1753, when he returned to Cambridge, where he resided
until his death, 22 March, 1778. He held the livings of
Stansfield in Suffolk and of Lawford in Essex, and was vicar

of St Sepulchre's, Cambridge, from March, 1759, to May,
1777. For his personal appearance we will again quote Cole :

     " Dr Ogden is a bald, swarthy, black Man : of a most extra
ordinary Turn of Humour, great Vivacity, odd, whimsical, and like
no one else : a great Epicure, and very parsimonious : a very in
genious Preacher, and on that account his Church of St Sepulcre at
Cambridge is usually so thronged as to be difficult to get a Place1."

     This summary of Dr Ogden's peculiarities may be sup
plemented by the following note by Gilbert Wakefield :

" I heard Dr Ogden preach most of those discourses, which were
afterwards made public. His manner, and person, and character of
composition, were exactly suited to each other. He exhibited a

large, black, scowling figure; a lowering visage, embrowned by the
horrors of a sable periwig. His voice was growling and morose, and
his sentences desultory, tart, and snappish. His sermons are inter

spersed with remarks, eminently brilliant and acute, but too epigram
matic in their close.... He was a good scholar, a liberal-minded

Christian, and an honest man.
His uncivilized appearance and bluntness of demeanour were the
great obstacles to his elevation in the Church. He kept a public
Act for his Doctor's degree at the Installation of the Chancellor, the
late Duke of Newcastle, in 1749, with distinguished applause. The

Duke was willing to have brought our divine up to Court, to prefer
                                  that the Doctor was not
him ; but found, as he expressed
*1
producible man*."
                                  i. of
                                                            it,

                                                                                           j is
                                                                                                                                   a
     Ogden had a turn for writing verse, and his name appears
in three of those volumes which, in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, the University used to address to

MSS. Cole, ut supra p. 137. The account dated 19 June 1770.

       Memoirs of the Life  Gilbert Wakefield, 8vo. Lond. 1792, p. 95. Gunning's
Reminiscences, ed. 1855,       pp. 215 -- 219, contain several amusing stories of

Dr Ogden. See also Sermons, by Samuel Ogden with Life, by S. Hallifax. 8vo.

Camb. 1814: and Whitaker's Loidis ad Elmete, p. 387.

                                                             13

194 MR GREEN.

the sovereign on important occasions. In 1760 he mourned
the death of George the Second in Latin elegiacs; in 1761
he hailed the marriage of George the Third in English
stanzas ; and, in the following year, the birth of George

Prince of Wales in Arabic. These curious changes of

language were satirised in the following lines1:

When Ogden his prosaic verse                              weak

   In Latin numbers dressed,

The Roman language proved too
   To stand the critic's test.

To English rhyme he next essayed
   To shew he 'd some pretence ;

But ah ! rhyme only would not do,
   They still expected sense.

Enraged the Doctor swore he 'd place
   On critics no reliance,

So wrapt his thoughts in Arabic,
   And bid 'em all defiance.

     The extraordinary caprice of choosing an eccentric divine

to fill a scientific Lectureship probably gave rise to the story

that Ogden had obtained it by a pecuniary gratification to

Colonel King, or to one of his female relatives*. It is almost

needless to add that the Woodwardian Lectureship was a
sinecure during the fourteen years that it was held by Dr
Ogden. For two or three years before his death he was
" much broken with Gout and other Complaints8".

    The next Lecturer was the Rev. Thomas Green, M.A. of
Trinity College, elected by the Senate 7 May, 1778*. Our
information about him is limited to the solitary fact that he
was Librarian to Trinity College from 1763 to his death. He
" added some valuable organic remains to the Woodwardian

    1 They were written, according to Cole (MSS. xxxiii.  157.  Add. MSS. Mus.
Brit. 5834) by R. Pepper Arden, of Trinity College,             1766, afterwards
Fellow, created Baron Alvanley, 1801.                     B.A.

a MSS. Cole, ut supra. Nichols, Literary Anecdotes, ix. 612. The sum

paid is fixed by the former authority at .150, by the latter at .105.
     8 MSS. Cole, ut supra, p. 157.
     4 Cambridge Chronicle, 9 May, 1778.

                               MR HAILSTONE.

cabinets",1 and at his death, which took place 7 June, 1788*,
when he was still a comparatively young man, he bequeathed
some books for the use of the Lecturer.

     On this occasion two candidates came forward : John
Hailstone, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, and the Rev.
Thomas Newton, M.A., Fellow of Jesus College. The election
took place on Saturday, 7 June, 1788, when the Senate selected
Hailstone by one hundred and twenty-seven votes to forty-
three. Hailstone was then in his twenty-eighth year--having
been admitted' in 1778, at the age of eighteen -- and he had
been second wrangler in 1782. The University had, therefore,
good reason to expect that a young man, who had taken a
distinguished degree, would apply himself with energy to the
work of his office. Nor did he wholly disappoint their hopes.

     He proceeded, by permission of the University, to study
the progress which Mineralogy, as he terms his science, had
made in Germany, where he attended one or two courses of
lectures by Professor Werner. In 1792 he published: A
Plan of a Course of Lectures on Mineralogy, to which is
prefixed an Essay on the different kinds of Mineral Collections,
translated from the German of Professor Werner. In the
preface he apologises for the defects in "the Geognostical
part" of the syllabus; "Geognosy, or the knowledge of the
Earth's internal structure", being "a Science yet in its
infancy, when ingenious Men may with much more ease
fabricate systems than confute them". The syllabus shows
that he proposed to lecture on minerals and rocks -- both
of which he calls fossils, just as Woodward did -- and on
their systematic arrangement. Under the head Geognosy,
"the Strata of the Earth", divided into Primary, Secundary,
Alluvial, Volcanic, are treated according to "their relative

      1 University Calendar, 1820. The article, by the style, is evidently written

by Sedgwick.
      * Cambridge Chronicle, 14 June, 1788. Green had proceeded B.A. 1760,

M.A. 1763. He was admitted Librarian of Trinity College 17 September, 1763.
      5 He matriculated as a pensioner of Catharine Hall 17 December, 1778, and

removed to Trinity College in the following year.

                                                                                          13--2

t96 MR HAILSTONE.

Antiquity and order of Stratification"; and "Petrifactions"

are considered separately, without any reference to the beds
in which they occur, unless we except the general statement
that " for the most part they appear to have been generated,
lived and died, in the beds wherein they are found"; and that
" the Fossil Bones of Siberia and the Ohio " are noticed under
the heading " Alluvial Strata ".

     Notwithstanding this elaborate syllabus, we believe that
Hailstone never lectured. In fact its publication was probably
not intended to serve any other purpose than " to excite the
attention of the University to a Branch of Knowledge, which,
although honoured with an establishment in this place for a
considerable number of years, has hitherto been suffered to

languish in unmerited obscurity".
     To the Museum, on the other hand, Hailstone paid con

siderable attention. He held that mineralogy was neglected
at Cambridge through " a want of opportunity to consult and
examine the different productions of Nature " ; an obstacle
which the "institution of a public Museum under proper
custody and regulations" would remove. "The Woodwardian
collection, which was made near a century ago", was, he
thought, "ill-calculated to promote the study of mineralogy in
its present state of improvement"; and, he might have added,
the restrictions imposed upon its inspection by Woodward

himself, must always have prevented its being generally

studied. Accordingly he procured in Germany a typical
series of rocks and minerals, and on his return home founded
a separate collection, assisted by " the munificence of various
friends of the University", among whom he gratefully com
memorates the Duke of Grafton, and Mr John Hawkins of
Trinity College, both of whom contributed specimens. The
accounts of the Woodwardian Estate show that during his
tenure of office nearly one hundred and fifty pounds were
spent on fossils, and nearly seventy pounds on books and
cabinets. When Sedgwick became Professor he found that
this collection was "composed of many rare and beautiful

                    NEW REGULATIONS, 1818.                            197

simple minerals, and of specimens illustrative of the physical

structure both of the British isles, and of some portions of the

continent1." Nor did Hailstone omit teaching altogether.

We are told that though

    "No systematic Lectures are delivered, but the Professor constantly

attends to demonstrate and explain the subjects of this Branch of
Natural History to such curious persons, whether residents or strangers,
as are engaged in the study of them. Much of his time is of course
devoted to this part of his duty, as applications to this effect are
numerous and frequent*."

     On Hailstone's resignation there was evidently a feeling

in the University that Woodward's bequest had not produced

the results which might have been anticipated, and, as it was

provided in his Will that new regulations might be framed
from time to time by the electors, advantage was taken of the

vacancy to appoint a Syndicate (8 May, 181 8), "to consider
what rules and orders should be framed for the development
of Doctor Woodward's intentions". The Syndics lost no time

in carrying out these instructions, for their report, which they

call Statement and Resolutions, is dated 19 May following.

    I. It appears, that the clear annual income of the Woodwardian
Estates is about^43o, of which the sum of ^108. 6s. $d. 3 is paid to

the Lecturer for his own use, and about fifty pounds are applied to
other purposes, in conformity with the Will of Dr Woodward.

    II. That there is an accumulation of about ^1200, which has

been invested in the public Funds.

    III. That the Room, in which the Fossils and Minerals are at

present kept being too confined to exhibit them to advantage, or to
receive many more with convenience, it is desirable that a larger
should be built with a contiguous room for the accommodation of the
Lecturer.

    IV. It is proposed, that to effect this object as soon as possible,

the surplus annual income shall be added to the above accumulation,
with the exception of such sums as it may be judged proper to apply

1 Cambridge Calendar, 1820. Compare also what Sedgwick says, Commission

Report, 1852, Evidence, p. 116.                                       until 1820,
     a Cambridge Calendar, 1803. This passage is repeated annually    written, as

when the whole account is replaced by a different article, evidently

mentioned above, by Sedgwick.
     * The 8. 6s. $d. is the surplus of the original rental (.150), left after paying

the other charges.

198 NEW REGULATIONS, 1818.

to the purchase of Fossils and Books, and to other necessary

purposes.

     V. That to entitle the Woodwardian Lecturer to the receipt of
his annual stipend, it shall be certified to the Vice-Chancellor, that

Lectures have been given.

VI. It is agreed, that the knowledge of Fossil organized bodies,
and of the Constitution of the Earth's Strata having been very much
extended since the time of Dr Woodward, it would conduce to the
diffusion of science, and to the credit of the University, as it would
certainly be in perfect conformity with the Will of Dr Woodward,
that a Course of Lectures should be read upon these subjects ; and
after new room has been built, the Professor, in addition to
a if,
             a it a

                    is
the lectures and duties prescribed by the Founder, should give such

course,                 proposed that his stipend be increased by one hundred
pounds year, and that all Members of the University have free

admission.

This "good and stringent" report, as Sedgwick terms it1,

was passed by the Senate without opposition two days
afterwards. The recommendation that the Lecturer's stipend

should depend on the delivery of lectures was merely
                                                                a
                                                                          a

                                                                                                   a
revival of what Woodward's executors had pleaded for so

far back as 1734. The affirmation of such condition in 1818
   therefore only proof that the University had determined
is
                          a

                                 a
to insist upon the performance of so special                    part of his

duties. The curious proviso that his stipend should not be

increased until proper building had been erected was soon

rescinded, as will be related in the next chapter.

                                    Evidence, ut supra, p. 16.
                                    1

CHAPTER VI.

(1818-- 1822.)

ExCursion to Derbyshire and Staffordshire (1818). First
     course of lectures. vlsit to isle of wlght with
      Henslow. Foundation of Cambridge Philosophical

      Society. Visit to Suffolk coast. Commencement fes
     tivities. Geological tour in Devon and Cornwall.

      Henslow's work in the Isle of Man (1819). Geo
      logical tour in Somerset and Dorset. Acquaintance

      with Rev. W. D. Conybeare. Death of his mother (1820).
      Visit to the Isle of Wight. Geological tour in
     Yorkshire and Durham (1821). Controversy respecting
     Professorship of Mineralogy (1822 -- 1824).

Whatever may have been the amount of geological know-                 1818.
                                                                           3*'
ledge which Sedgwick possessed when elected to the Wood-
wardian chair, it must have been derived from study, and
not from experience. But he was the last man in the world
to take facts at second-hand, and therefore, so soon as the
Easter Term was over, he set out to use his eyes in the
field. This excursion must not be confounded with his sub
sequent systematic explorations. In 1818, his object was to
learn, not to instruct others ; and it is not impossible that he
returned, as Darwin fancied he might himself return from
his first geological expedition, " very little wiser, and a good
deal more puzzled1," than when he started. We believe that

                                   1 Life of Charles Darwin, i. 189.

         200 EXCURSION TO DERBYSHIRE.

1818.    this first attempt at field-work is not alluded to in any of
Et- 33-  Sedgwick's scientific papers ; and that, in fact, the only record
         of it is contained in the following letter, the tone of which,
         it may be remarked, is very different from the depression to
         which his correspondents had lately been accustomed.

                       Trin. Coll. October 23, 1818.

         Dear Ainger,

         My excursion for this summer is ended. I have

         been about twenty four hours in Cambridge, during the greater
         part of which time I have been employed in packing and
         unpacking, till every table and chair in my room is nearly
         filled with the spoils of my labours this summer. I have once
         or twice thought of sending you some account of my opera

         tions ; but I have always been too lazy or too busy to take up

         the pen for any such purpose.

              I did not leave Cambridge before the 30th of July. The
         weather had been so dreadfully hot the early part of that
         month that I hardly ventured from under my own roof. After

         spending a day in the neighbourhood of Mount Sorrel, I
         advanced to Matlock, the immediate place of my destination.

         In that neighbourhood I remained about five weeks. My

         ;

                                                                               s
                                                                                                  is,

                                                                                              I
         mornings were spent in professional pursuits ; that       in

         following the strata of the different rocks, collecting specimens,
         and diving into the mines. The last operation was often

         attended with no little fatigue, for the rake veins, (i.e. vertical
         fissures, filled with spar and lead ore), are sometimes excavated

         to an enormous depth. What the miners call climbing shafts
         are formed in these veins, by which you descend to the

         works not in buckets as in the coal-mines in your neighbour

         hood, but on cross-bars of wood (called temples) which are
         placed, like two perpendicular ladders, on opposite sides of the

         pit. Between these you descend in a straddling position.

         let myself down in this way to the bottom of several of the

         most remarkable mines in the county. In one or two of them
         the works were nearly 1000 feet below the surface of the earth.

MA TLOCK.  20I

     Matlock is one of the most beautiful spots under heaven,              1818.
and was sometimes during my stay filled with very gay
company. After being there a day or two I was advanced by
the right of seniority to the chair, and in right of the same
office was Master of the Ceremonies at the balls which took
place every other evening. You see therefore that my employ
ments have been not a little diversified. On the whole, I
believe I got through my most arduous duties better than

could have been expected.

     After leaving Matlock I travelled on foot with a knapsack
to the copper-mines in Staffordshire, by far the most wonder
ful excavations of the kind I have ever seen. I afterwards

made Buxton my head-quarters for a fortnight, and finally
found my way to Dent by the way of Macclesfield, Chester,
Liverpool, and Lancaster. I remained one day at Northwich
to visit the famous salt-mines in that neighbourhood. But I

have no time to describe them.

     My Father is becoming very thin ; but his health is good,
and his spirits do not indicate any of the infirmities of old
age. I have not time for a word more, as I am off to a supper
party. Give my best respects to Mrs Ainger, and believe me

very busy, and very truly yours,
                                                             A. Sedgwick.

     The reference to Sedgwick's social duties at Matlock in the
above letter is thoroughly characteristic. He always contrived
to combine a large amount of amusement with business.
' That lively gentleman Mr Sedgwick,' as he was called by a
stranger who met him in a stage-coach, had a happy knack of

making himself agreeable to everybody with whom he happened

to be brought into contact, and his geological tours gave him
a wide and varied experience of mankind. With all sorts and
conditions of men, quarrymen, miners, fishermen, smugglers,
shepherds, artisans, grooms, inn-keepers, clergy of all denomi
nations, squires, noblemen -- he was equally communicative,
and soon became equally popular. He could make the most

         202 EXCURSION TO DERBYSHIRE.

1818.    silent talk, and could extract information and amusement out
Et- 33-
         of materials that seemed at first sight destitute of either quality.
         It may be questioned whether his adventures would have been

         as diverting had they happened to anybody else ; he had a
         happy knack of meeting with strange experiences and untoward

         incidents ; and his return to Cambridge, after a summer's

         excursion, was eagerly looked forward to by his friends, for

         the sake of the budget of fresh stories with which he was

         certain to regale them.

              The weeks spent in Derbyshire may be credited with at

         least one good result ; they convinced Sedgwick that in

         selecting geology as the work of his life he had made a
         wise choice. In a letter to one of his nieces, dated 12 August,

         1854, thirty-six years afterwards, he gives some interesting

         and amusing particulars of this then distant period of his life:
         " When I was a young man, this was always a joyful day, the

         opening day of the grousing season ; and for a week before

         the 1 2th of August I could hardly sleep for thinking of the

         coming sport. Why we should take such delight in killing

         God's creatures is more than I can tell you ; but so it was,

         and so it   and so will be.                     think proves that by
                     is,          it                 I     it
                       is                                            I
                             a           a              a
         nature man             savage carnivorous creature. Is he not  I?

         The last time ever fired gun at heath-cock was August
                     I

         1    17, thirty-seven long years since! The year following
           8

         threw down the gun, and took to the hammer, and enjoyed

         my new sport so much, that in 18 18 (my first year of pro

         fessional geology) heard the sportsman's gun on the heaths
         of Derbyshire without thought of regret or envy. And that
              I

                             a

                                 I

                                                  a
         year was dancing-man, and fell three-quarters in love
                                                     I                  ;

         but, as you know, did not put my head through love's noose.

         But alas times are sadly changed with me.             I  am now a
              !

         gouty old man in my seventieth year1." The bright parti

         cular star of the Matlock assemblies, whose charms had nearly

         deprived Cambridge of her new geological Professor, married a

         goldsmith in Glasgow, and when Sedgwick was there in 1848,

                     1  To Miss Fanny Hicks, 12 August, 1854.

                FIRST COURSE OF LECTURES.                          203

he called at her husband's shop, in the hope of renewing his            1819.
                                                                              3+-
acquaintance. But, as ill-luck would have                 the lady was
                                        1.

                                                    it,
away at the sea-side, and her former partner had to content

himself with an interview with her son

Soon after his return to Cambridge Sedgwick delivered the

first of those annual courses of lectures which became so
celebrated, and were never interrupted --except for very brief
intervals -- until 1872, when he was compelled, by failing

health, and the advance of old age, to appoint deputy.
                                           a

                                                         It

                                                                   is

provoking that no contemporary reference to this first course
should occur either in his letters, or in any other source of

information to which we have had access. In later years

Sedgwick was fond of enumerating the courses of lectures he

had given and he used to describe the one on which he was
engaged according to its place in the series. " am delivering
1                            it
                                              I
my 40th course," or "my 47th course," and so forth. Had hea8a
been man of scrupulous accuracy, would be easy, by merely
          ;
counting backwards, to discover in what year he began to
       It I ;
                          Ilecture but, unfortunately, we frequently find two different

courses denoted by the same numeral. On three occasions,

however, he tells his correspondents that he began to lecture

in 19, and in two of these letters he states explicitly thatI
the course was delivered in the spring. In 185 he says:         1
" The load of sixty-six years tells upon me, and am not so

fresh as was when gave my first course of geological

lectures in the spring of 1819*;" in 1859 he describes himself
as " toothless Professor who has been lecturing every year

since he began his first course in the spring of 18198";
"Iand in 1861 he says:
                             am trying to wind up my last

course.  may well be my last; for began to lecture in
                                        I

1819V These direct statements can hardly be erroneous,
and we may safely assume that his first course was delivered

         * 321  To the same, 21 August, 1848.
                To Miss F. Hicks, 12 December, 1851.
                To Miss Malcolm, 29 November, 1859.
                To Rev. B. P. Brodie, 29 November, 1861.

           204 EXCURSION TO ISLE OF WIGHT.

1819.      either in the Lent or Easter Term of 1819, probably in the
      34-
           former.

                The Easter vacation of 18 19 was spent in the Isle of

           Wight1. Sedgwick was accompanied by Mr J. S. Henslow

           of St John's College, who became, in after years, Professor
           first of Mineralogy and then of Botany, and who deserves
           grateful recognition as one of the founders of the modern
           school of Natural Science at Cambridge. As a boy he

           had achieved considerable distinction in zoology, and while

           still an undergraduate had found leisure to learn as much
           of chemistry and mineralogy as was then possible at Cam
           bridge. He had proceeded to the degree of Bachelor of Arts

           in the previous January, and had therefore leisure to learn
           something of the cognate science of geology. Mr Henslow's
           brother-in-law and biographer, Mr Leonard Jenyns, speaks
           of him as Sedgwick's pupil. In a certain sense this is un

           doubtedly true. Sedgwick was his senior by ten years-- and

           therefore superior to him in experience, and general know
           ledge both of science and of letters. As a practical geologist,
           however, he could have known little more than Henslow,

           while in the special subjects which the latter had already
           studied with success Sedgwick had much to learn. The

           expedition was successful in more ways than one. The
           characters of the two men were very similar: they differed

           for a time in politics, for Henslow began life as a conservative;
           but in religion, love of truth, and hatred of wrong, they were
           in exact agreement ; and their intercourse -- begun almost by

           an accident --ripened into a warm friendship which was termi
           nated only by Henslow's death. As regards the special

           science they went out to study, Henslow learnt enough to
           work out the geology of another part of England by himself
           in the course of the following summer -- a subject to which
           we shall return presently-- and Sedgwick brought home his
           usual practical result in the shape of "a very large collec

               1 Our principal authority for this tour is a Memoir of the Rev. John Stevens
           Henslow, by the Rev. L. Jenyns, 8vo. Lond. 1862, pp. 13-- 20.

PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.  205

tion " of geological specimens, intended for the Woodwardian                                     1819.
Museum, but for which at that time it was impossible to find                                           34-

room1.

      This short excursion deserves an honourable place in
the annals of Cambridge for another reason. In the course
of it the two friends discussed the want of some place to

which those interested in Natural Science might resort, with
the certainty of meeting men of the same or kindred tastes
with themselves -- and where they might learn what was going
forward abroad. In these days of cooperation, when there is
almost a plethora of societies and associations more or less
learned for the promotion of every sort of object, it is difficult

to realise that barely seventy years ago there was a complete
dearth of such bodies ; and that at Cambridge, which is now

taking the lead in Natural Science, there were only two lecture-
rooms for the scientific Professors -- the one appropriated to
chemistry, the other to anatomy -- no class-rooms, no museums,

no collections, except the Woodwardian, and the mineralogical
series then the private property of Dr E. D. Clarke.

     The project thus started was eagerly prosecuted, after their

return to Cambridge, by the two energetic men who had

originated it. At first they proposed to establish a Corre

sponding Society, and with this idea they not only consulted
the residents likely to favour such a scheme, but solicited by

letter the cooperation of men of science at a distance. At the

beginning of the Michaelmas Term they laid their views
before Dr E. D. Clarke, who gave them such cordial support
that Sedgwick always spoke of him as one of the founders of

the Society which was presently established. At his sugges

tion the following notice was issued :

                                                                    Cambridge, 30M Oct., 18 19.

     The resident Members of the University, who have taken their
first degree, are hereby invited to assemble at the Lecture Room

    1 Report of the Inspectors, May 7, 1819. It will be understood that these and
other similar documents are preserved in the Registry of the University, unless

otherwise stated.

          2o6 PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

   1819.  under the Public Library, at Twelve o'clock, on Tuesday, Nov. 2, for
          the purpose of instituting a Society, as a point of concourse, for
Mi. 34.   scientific communications.

               This notice was signed by thirty-three persons, among
          whom were the Heads of the following colleges : Clare,
          Gonville and Caius, Queens', Christ's, Magdalene, and Trinity ;
          Professors Haviland, Monk, Cumming, Sedgwick, and Lee ;
          and ten tutors, or assistant-tutors, of colleges. Among the
          latter occur the names of Peacock and Whewell.

               The proceedings at the meeting were not reported, but we
          learn from a second notice, issued on the day following, that
          the second Resolution : " That a Society be instituted as a
          point of concourse for scientific communication," was proposed
          by Sedgwick ; and that he was appointed a member of a
          committee to frame " such regulations as shall appear to them
          to be proper for the proposed institution." We can easily
          imagine, from the speeches made by him in after years, when
          he had to commend to audiences either lukewarm or hostile

          some scheme in which he was interested, the fire and energy
          with which he addressed the members of the Senate assembled

          on that November afternoon ; and we are not surprised to
          learn that the resolution entrusted to him was passed unani

          mously.
               The Committee lost no time in discharging the duties

          assigned to them. Their first draft of the rules, endorsed,

                '. Report of the Committee appointed to form the Regulations of
          a Society, to be instituted in this University, for Philosophical
          Communication, to be read at the first meeting of the Society, on
          Monday, November 15, at one o'clock, in the Lecture Room under
          the Public Library,"

          is dated 8 November, and, at the meeting therein announced,
          Sedgwick moved its adoption. This motion having been
          carried, those present voted themselves a Society, to be called,
          The Cambridge Philosophical Society, and the officers and
          Council were appointed. Professor Farish was the first Presi
          dent, Professors Sedgwick and Lee the first Secretaries. The

                                                                207

first formal meeting of the Society was held in the Museum                           1819.

in the Botanic Garden, 13 December, 18 19, when, by request                        Mt. 34-
of the Council, Dr E. D. Clarke read an address, explaining
the objects of the Society.

     The first rule had originally run as follows :

    "That this Society be instituted for the purpose of promoting
Scientific Enquiries, and of facilitating the communication of facts
connected with the advancement of Philosophy."

    At this meeting the words "and Natural History" were

appended to this sentence. The addition is important, because
it determined, for many years, in fact so long as Henslow
resided in Cambridge, the direction of the labours of the
Society. We may justly credit Sedgwick with disarming

opposition, and launching the Society so successfully, that
before the end of the year 1820 it could boast of 171 members ;
but it was Henslow's patient devotion to zoology which

enabled it to form an excellent Museum, long the only

zoological Museum in the University, and the legitimate

parent of that large family of Museums which have grown up,

and are still growing up, in the old Botanic Garden1.

Sedgwick always spoke with great delight of the share

which he had taken in the founding of this Society. The

annual dinner was one of his red-letter days ; and no matter

how ill he might be, or imagine himself to be, he made a

point of attending                      and of making speech after dinner.
          a                               it a
                            it,              is
This speech was one of the events of the academical year        ;

and was, with most of the members, the principal, not the
                                                          a if
sole, reason for attending the dinner. It no easy matter to
          speech --especially when
describe                                       depends, as those

delivered by Sedgwick did, on the personality of the speaker;

but these particular postprandial orations have found graphic
chronicler in the Lord Bishop of Carlisle
                                          :
                                                   :
                                                       a
This account derived from the following authorities       complete set of the
1
               's

                                is
                                     5
early notices, etc., of the Society, preserved by Prof. Sedgwick: Henslow's Life,

ut supra, pp. 17 -- 19: Otter's Life of Dr E. D. Clarke, ed. 1824, p. 649: The

Cambridge Chronicle, November, 1819: The Cambridge Portfolio,^. 121 -- 129;

Macmillan Magazine, April, 1880, p. 478.

          208 SEDGWICK'S SPEECHES.

  1819.   I" His speeches were the most remarkable things of the kind
          have ever heard ; they sometimes began with a wild exuberance that
/Et. 34.  nearly touched upon the region of nonsense, and then, apparently

          without effort, they rose to the solemn and almost to the sublime ;
          the combination, without incongruity, of lofty morality with almost

          boyish fun was quite wonderful, and almost Shakespearean. It must

          have been on getting up at one of these dinners, that he explained

          the nervousness often felt on standing up to speak by maintaining
          that the vital spirits were very much in the nature of a fluid ; as long

          as you were sitting all was right, but the moment you stood up they
          left your head and went down into your boots. He used to tell us
          that the first conception of the Society was that of an organisation

          for the study of natural history ; and he somewhat regretted that
          the overwhelming mathematical bias of Cambridge had, to a great
          extent, changed the original design, and that our Memoirs were so
          Iexclusively mathematical as they then were. He was, however,

          proud of Cambridge mathematics, and remember to have heard him
          Iexpress his satisfaction thus : ' I rejoice in the progress of mathemati
          cal science ;  measure it in this way ; I am a stationary kind of

          being with regard to mathematics; the progress of the science may

          be measured by the small amount of that which I am able to under
          stand ; and I give you my word of honour that I have not been able

          to understand a single paper that has been read before this Society

          during the last twenty years"."

              At the present day, when the study of Natural Science has

          been so long accepted in Cambridge, it is amusing to find
          Sedgwick recording the alarm which the establishment of this

          very harmless Society seems to have aroused.

             J.To F. W. Herschel, Esq*                                   26, 1820.

                                                   TRIN. Coll. February  to you the

               Dear Sir,                                                   It will be

                     I ought before this to have conveyed

          thanks of our Society for your communication*.

               1 Macmillan's Magazine, ut supra, p. 479.
               3 John Frederick William Herschel, Fellow of St John's College, B.A. 1813.
          Sedgwick informs him, 14 November, 1820: "The first meeting of our Philo
          sophical Society took place yesterday evening. We elected several new members,

          and among the rest the Rev. J. Wood, D.D., Master of St John's. This was

          more than we expected, and certainly more than Dr Wood intended last year. It
          seems as if we had risen in his good opinion."

               3 On certain remarkable instances of deviation from Newton's scale in the tints
          developed by Crystals with one axis of Double Refraction, on exposure to Polarized
          Light, read 1 May 1820, and printed Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc. i. 21.

            VISIT TO SUFFOLK COAST.                  209

read at our next meeting. Now that we are launched I have                                                                       1819.
little fear : we shall, I doubt not, go on and prosper. Among
                                                                                                                              Mt- 34-
the senior members of the University some laugh at us;

others shrug up their shoulders and think our whole pro
ceedings subversive of good discipline ; a much larger number

look on us, as they do on every other external object, with

philosophic indifference ; and a small number are among our
warm friends. We may count on the zeal of our members

for a sufficient number of communications; we may also

venture to found some hopes on an active spirit infused by a

new system. When you visit Cambridge, I shall hope to have

the pleasure of seeing you. Peacock presents his kindest

regards.

            Believe me, Dear Sir,

            Yours most faithfully,
                             A. Sedgwick.

    At the beginning of the Long Vacation -- in June, 18 19 --

Sedgwick went into Suffolk to study the geological structure
of the coast. Before he could set to work, however, he met
with a serious accident, the nature of which has not been

recorded, but the following extract from a letter, written in

1866 to the Reverend Osmond Fisher, then Vicar of Elmstead

near Colchester, shows that it must have been severe. It

we believe, the only record of the occurrence.
S. I
            Cambridge. Good Friday Morning.
    L

          a

        I

                                                 ;

                                                  a

                                                II

                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                          !)

                                                                        I a is,
                                                                   [30 March, 1866.]
" do hope within the next two or three months to see the

Chillesford beds, and to have look at the beds near Orford,

Aldborough, etc., where we have the lowest (so-called) Coral

line Crag.  had just touched these when nearly lost my

life, and, instead of working at Aldborough, was lying on

sofa for nearly three weeks, and only left the room to move

away in post-chaise and since then (i.e. June, 1819
have never seen these lower Crag beds. So bravo for merry

meeting, some time hence, at Chillesford, etc."

                                                 14

2IO COMMENCEMENT GAIETIES.

     Sedgwick was detained at Cambridge until the end of
July -- partly by the aforesaid accident -- partly by his social
duties at the Commencement, which was attended by the

Chancellor, the Duke of Gloucester, accompanied by his

Duchess, and his sister the Princess Sophia Matilda. Sedg
wick was appointed one of the " managers," as they were
styled, of the public breakfast given by the University to

these distinguished persons. It was held in Nevile's Court at
Trinity College, and Sedgwick presided at a table in the north

cloister1. When all was over he started for his summer's

work.

     This year, 1819, may be regarded as the commencement
of Sedgwick's geological career, not only as an academic
teacher, but as an original investigator. In the spring, as we

have seen, he began to lecture ; and in the summer he under

took the first of those tours, to which, either in England or on
the Continent, he usually devoted several months of each year

during the most active period of his life. These journeys
were undertaken on a regular system, for the investigation of
some definite group of rocks, and the results -- the most im

portant of which, as we shall hope to show, have been con
firmed, rather than shaken, by subsequent research -- were
duly recorded in a series of papers. In the present chapter
and the next we propose to consider the period from 18 19 to
1827, during which he explored the west of England in the
first instance, and next Yorkshire, Durham, and the Lake

District.
     The tour of 18 19 is described, in part, in the following

 letter :

              Tavistock, August 14, 18 19.

Dear Ainger,

           It is now nearly a month since I left Cambridge on
a mining expedition to the West of England. I have not yet

    1 Cooper's Annals, iv. 524; Grace of the Senate, 29 April, 1819; Report of
Syndics, 3 July, 1819.

               TOUR TO WEST OF ENGLAND.                                                                        211

reached Cornwall, the great object of attraction, though I have                                                          1819.

now for about a week been hovering on its confines. Before                                                             /Et- 34-

I proceed any farther, let me request you to write to me, at
Penzance, by return of post. I long to know how you all are,
and what has been the fruit of your last year's labours. I

shall probably be in the neighbourhood of Penzance in
Ifabout a fortnight, and shall remain there some time.
                                                                                                               your

letter should come after I have left that place, I may probably

      it,

                 I
                                   I
miss though shall order the Postmaster to forward to
                                          I
some town in the north of Cornwall.                  I

                                                             a
                                                                     it
Half-past ten o'clock.                am just returned from long and

fatiguing expedition to some mines on the banks of the Tamar.

A cup of tea has so far refreshed me that think may have

in my power to finish my sheet before my eyelids come
it
              I

                   I

                                  it
together.  started on my western course the week after our

Commencement festivities. The vicinity of Bristol detained

me four days.  saw in the company of Dr Gilby to great

advantage. He has paid great attention to geology, and

has published two papers on the structure of that neighbour

hood       was therefore enabled by his assistance to observe
      I
                                       I
everything best worth seeing.             afterwards rambled on foot

all over the Mendip and Quantock hills, and examined almost
all the cliffs on the north-west coast of Somersetshire. They

afford fine specimens of the contorsions exhibited by that

rock to which geologists have given the name of greywacke\
What delightfully sounding word It must needs make you
      a

                                                                                !

                                                     I
in love with my subject. The country have been just

describing wants some of the grander features, but in beauty,

luxuriance, and variety, yields to none. The rugged cliffs
which rise perpendicularly on both sides of the Bristol Channel

are in many places exquisitely contrasted with the fine lawns

and rich foliage which go sweeping down to the very edge of

W. H. Gilby, M.D. published A Geological Description of the Neighbourhood
of

    1

                                                                          of
                                                                                                         2 of
Bristol in Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, Vol. xliv. (1814); and On the

Magnesian Limestone and Red Marl or Sandstone, the Neighbourhood                                             Bristol,
Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond. 1817, iv. pp. 210 -- 215; besides other papers.

                                                                                   14--

           212 PLYMOUTH BREAKWATER.

1819.      the water. As for the people of Somersetshire, they seem a
      34-
           mighty stupid good sort of people, who have not wit enough

           to cheat a stranger. The men get drunk with cider, and the

           women make clotted cream. I remained a week with an old

           friend and relation of my father1, and then proceeded to

           Plymouth by the way of Exeter and Ivy Bridge.

           Devonshire has rather disappointed me. I had heard too

           much of and perhaps have not seen the finest part of the
           it
               iscounty. The country about Plymouth however, in its way
           of unrivalled beauty. You of course have often heard of
                            it,                 it
                                    a
                                                       is,
           the breakwater. When completed       will form a mound of

           solid masonry mile long, in many places seventy feet high,

           and more than five hundred feet wide. The blocks of which

           composed weigh from three to nine tons each, and are all

           procured in the quarries of limestone which fortunately

           abound immediately on the Plymouth shores. More than six

           hundred day-labourers, and upwards of forty transport-vessels,

           are employed in this enormous work.  was greatly delighted
                                                I

                                                             a
                                                                                       a
           in observing the operations of the workmen in the quarries.

           They commence operations by clearing away till they have

           kind of terrace. They then proceed to form hole in the rock

           in the usual manner, but not of the usual dimensions, for they

           penetrate to the depth of five or six feet, and run down eight

           or nine pounds of gunpowder into one opening. One of these

           blasts, when well-placed, will sometimes bring down as much

           as forty tons of limestone. It  sight well worth seeing to
                                       1

                                                 is
                                                       a
                                                                                                            a
           observe these masses rolling down into the lower part of the

           works from the height of 50 feet. The number of explosions

           adds greatly to the effect, for the fires are communicated by

           signal through the whole line of the works. These masses are

           elevated by cranes into low waggons which are conveyed by

           machinery into the vessels moored close by. They are in due

           time conveyed away to the breakwater, and discharged upon

           by appropriate machinery. You may imagine that no
           it

                 1
                                                                                                                                              a
                   The Rev. James Sedgwick, of Curry Rivell near Taunton,                                                                        descendant of
           the Sedgwick of Bankland. See above, p. 35.

             CORNWALL: MR J. J. CONYREARE.                                              213

time is lost when I tell you that in this way a mass of stone                                1819.
                                                                                                   34-
is daily deposited on the work equal to the burden of two

of our largest Indiamen.

     I have no time to tell you how an alarm of fire threw the
whole house in confusion --how I found my way to Tavistock
-- how I mean to get back again -- how I purpose to proceed
to Cornwall -- what I mean to see there &c. &c. So no more

at present.

             A. Sedgwick.

    At Penzance Sedgwick fell in with the Rev. John Josias
Conybeare--of whom and his brother we shall have occasion
to speak at length in connexion with the tour of 1820 --and

impressed him very favourably, to judge from the following
passage, which occurs in a letter from Conybeare to Buckland,
written shortly afterwards :

    I' In the line of Geology the best thing have done is to contract
Ia sort of liaison with the new Woodwardian Professor of Cambridge,

Mr Sedgwick, whom met here. He had in his company another
Fellow of Trinity College, Mr Gilby, cousin to Ur Gilby of Clifton.
Mr Sedgwick appears a remarkably clever, active man, and had done
all he had gone over in a very accurate and masterly manner. Having
been for some time head Mathematical Tutor of Trinity, he brings
to the study of Geology all the subsidia that a thorough knowledge
of mathematics and natural philosophy can give him1.'

     The geological results of this tour were communicated to
the Cambridge Philosophical Society in two papers in 1820
and 1 82 1, and from them we learn that it concluded with a
thorough exploration of a great part of Cornwall, especially
the district adjoining the Lizard. Unfortunately no hint is
given of the reasons which induced Sedgwick to select this
part of England for exploration, but it may be conjectured
that his friendship with the Reverend W. R. Gilby, who was
his companion throughout, may have had something to do
with it. Mr Gilby had relations at Bristol, and therefore
probably knew the West of England, or part of himself;

                          The letter dated Penzance, 25 September, 1819.
             1
                                   is

                                                                                   it,

         214 HENSLOW IN THE ISLE OF MAN.

  1820.  and, besides this, he would be able to urge upon Sedgwick
         the advantages to be obtained from his cousin's local know
Xt- 35-
         ledge.

              While Sedgwick was thus employed in Cornwall, Henslow
         was doing similar work in the Isle of Man. His visit to the
         island happened to coincide with the first discovery there of

         the great pre-historic elk--commonly called the Irish Elk

         (Megaceros hibernicus). One nearly perfect skeleton was
         sorted out from the mass of bones obtained, and passed into
         the hands of a local blacksmith. Sedgwick was eager to obtain
         it for his own museum ; and Henslow, no doubt at his sugges

         tion, returned to the island in the following March, in the
         hope of being able to buy it. After a stormy passage of 30
         hours from Liverpool he landed in Ramsay Bay, and on the
         following day-- having borrowed a horse of one man, and
         a saddle of another -- he rode to Bishop's Court. The ingenious
         possessor of the elk, though ignorant of anatomy, had put

         the bones together by comparing them with the mounted
         skeleton of a horse, and had placed his prize in a caravan
         for exhibition. After examining it Henslow wrote :

            I I" You know am not much given to the marvellous, but really

         think I never saw a more magnificent sight of the kind in my life,

         and doubt if the Petersburg Mammoth1 would surpass it. The only
         parts missing are half of one hoof, and the end bones of the tail ; the

         rest is in the highest preservation. I could not have conceived it

         would have cut half so good a figure, and the fellow has really put it
         together with very great ingenuity *."

              The negotiation to buy the skeleton failed, and it was
         ultimately acquired for the Museum at Edinburgh ; but the
         attempt to secure it for Cambridge forms an interesting epi
         sode in the early history of the Woodwardian Museum and

              1 The nearly complete skeleton of a Siberian Mammoth, acquired by an

         Englishman named Michael Adams in 1807, and mounted in the Museum of St
         Petersburg. It is described (with a complete history of the discovery) in the
         Mtmoires de rAcadimie Impiriale des Sciences de St Pttcrsbourg, for the year

         181 2, v. 406. The paper, published only four years before Henslow wrote, had
         greatly interested all men of science.

              2 Henslow to Sedgwick, 31 March, 1820. The letter is dated 1819, but that it

SECOND TOUR IN WEST OF ENGLAND.

shows that Sedgwick had already begun to pay attention to                        1820

Palaeontology.
     In the following summer (1820), Sedgwick resumed work

in the west of England.

To Professor Monk, Trin. Coll. Cambridge.

                                      Maidenhead Bridge, Monday Evening,

                                                     [17 July, 1820].

      Dear Professor,

               About the time that we parted I mentioned to you
a subject on which I am now requesting your good offices. I
am so much in want of money that without some assistance I
shall be obliged to abridge my summer's labours for want of
funds to carry me through them. By the Will of Dr Wood
ward, of blessed memory, I am entitled to a quarterly payment

of my salary1. The Vice-Chancellor knows the fact as well as

myself ; and will, I have no doubt, order twenty-five or thirty
pounds to be placed to my credit at Mortlock's Bank. That
sum, with what I now have, will enable me to pay my way

among all the Oolite Beds in the south-west of this island.
I hoped before this time to have been fairly at work, but a
violent diarrhoea has retarded my progress. I am half dis

posed to rejoice in my misfortunes as they have induced me
to spend a day (and God only knows whether I shall ever
spend another day), with our dear friend Mill*. He rejoices in

his appointment, because it holds out to him a rational expec

tation of being enabled to employ his great talents in pro
moting the highest interests of his fellow-creatures. He is

now dining with his Rector; I excused myself on the score of
bodily infirmity. Tomorrow I hope to be in travelling
condition, in which case I shall endeavour to reach Devizes.

should be 1820 is evident from Henslow's Supplementary Observations to Dr
Berger's Account of the Isle of Man; Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., 1821. Vol. v.,

p. 502, note.                                 College,  was at that time curate
     1 See above, p. 182.

    3 The Rev. W. H. Mill, Fellow of Trinity

of Taplow. His rector was the Rev. Edward Neale.

           216 SECOND TOUR IN WEST OF ENGLAND.

1820.      There I shall unpack old Thor, and commence a furious
      35-  assault on all the solid materials I may meet with on the
           surface of the earth.

               You will greatly oblige me by mentioning the subject I
           began to write about to the Vice-Chancellor.

                                                        Believe me, Dear Professor,

                                                                           Yours ever,

                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

           P.S. You fire your thunderbolts1 ; other men must be

           content with squibs and crackers.              I have several times

           thought of getting up a geological article for the Quarterly.

           Some interesting foreign works (French and Italian) have

           appeared on the subject, which might be made the foundation

           of a dissertation. My health is never to be depended on ; I

           have no facility of composition ; what is more I am much

           engaged ; still I think that I might be able to bring together

           some remarks not entirely undeserving of insertion in that

           Journal. Perhaps you would have the goodness some time or

           other to mention this to the editor. Vale.

           Dear Ainger,        Charlton Mackerel, September 5, 1820.

           I am now halting with my old friend Sharpe *, who

           has been married for several months, and is bearing him

                1 This expression refers to the controversy, in 1818 -- 19, between Professor

           Monk and Sir J. E. Smith, President of the Linnean Society. The latter had

           been authorised by the Rev. T. Martyn (who had been Professor of Botany since

           1761, but had not lectured since 1796, nor resided since 1798) to deliver a course
           of lectures on Botany. The Vice-Chancellor, Dr Webb, Master of Clare Hall,

           had given his consent, and the lectures had been announced to begin on Monday,

           6 April; when on    Saturday, 4  April,  a   remonstrance was forwarded to     th"e   Vice-
                               by eighteen  Tutors  of   Colleges, who objected to their        Pupils
           Chancellor, signed

           attending the Public Lectures of any Person who is neither a Member of the

           University, nor a Member of the Church of England." After this Sir J. E. Smith

           declined to lecture, and wrote an indignant pamphlet, which Monk answered. In

           July, 181 8, an article in favour of the course pursued by Monk and his fellow-tutors
           appeared in the Quarterly Review, Vol. xix. pp. 434 -- 446. Smith wrote a
           pamphlet in answer to it, and Monk a counter-pamphlet. Here the controversy

           ended.
               a William Sharpe, Trin. Coll., B.A. 1807.

MR W. D. CONYBEARE.  217

self with all meekness after his exaltation to the Benedictine             1820.
honours. Perhaps your brother will have informed you that I                      35-

started on an expedition to the West of England in the second
week of July. My first object was to examine all the strata
from the foot of the Wiltshire chalk-downs to their termination
in the ravines near Bath. This part of my summer's labours

employed me about three weeks. I was, however, interrupted
by a severe cold, which yielded immediately to the effects of
the hot bath. Though I started alone, this part of my expedi
tion has not been quite solitary. I was joined near Bath by
an Oxford gentleman with whom I formed an acquaintance
on the road. I also experienced the greatest possible kind
ness from Mr Conybeare, an Oxford Professor and a stone-
eater. After leaving Bath I went to the house of Mr William

Conybeare, brother of the aforesaid Professor (perhaps you

will like these men better when you know that they are grand
sons of Bishop Conybeare) ', who accompanied me in my

expeditions for three weeks, during which time we examined
the most interesting portions of the country to the north of

Bristol. If I were to give a minute account of our labours I

should be obliged to use language which would hardly be

understood, and, if understood, would not, I fear, be very
amusing. I must therefore leave the lower regions of the
earth and talk of its surface. The whole face of the country
north of Bristol, and up to the banks of the Severn, is most

lovely. The hills are not very lofty, but they are beautifully

broken, and the woodland scenery is among the richest in

the world. Part of the country you are, I believe, acquainted

with.

     About the time that I purposed leaving Mr Conybeare's
house I was attacked by my old enemy ; after being raked
fore and aft for eight and forty hours, I really thought that

the whole vessel was going to the bottom ; the internal hurri

cane, however, suddenly abated; a state of calm for three days

succeeded, and after that time I was able to spread my sails,

                  1 John Conybeare, D.D., Bishop of Bristol 1750 -- 1755.

         2.8 GEOLOGY OF THE MENDIPS.

1820.    and steer with a fair wind for the Mendips. Mr Conybeare
Et- 35-
         accompanied me in that excursion. We spent five days in
         examining a most interesting mountain ridge. We have
         here on a small scale examples of every variety of strati
         fication, and of almost every species of secondary rock. The
         great mass of rock is the same limestone we have about
         Sedbergh, and in the district of the caves. The strata of

         the Mendips are, however, much more highly inclined, being

         in some instances nearly vertical, and are surmounted by

         many newer strata which ride upon their edges in an
         horizontal position. This singular conformation is exhibited
         in many of the deep glens which traverse the strata near the
         eastern end of the chain.

              Mr Conybeare and I parted on the top of the Mendips on
         Saturday last. I descended to Wells. The Cathedral is small,

         but very perfect ; and the west front is ornamented by a great

         many good examples of ancient gothic sculpture, which the

         fanatical zeal of our blessed reformers has fortunately spared.

         All revolutions are accompanied with violence, which is an

         evil great enough in some instances to counterbalance the

         good of change. It was, however, better that our protestant
         ancestors should break the heads of stone images than of men
         and women, after the manner of our neighbours on the other
         side of the water.

         Sharpe is coming down to breakfast, so that I must cut

         short my narration. My next great move will be to the coast
         near Sidmouth, from which place I intend to face about, and

         trudge my way back by the coast as far as Portsmouth.

         Thence to Cambridge. Best respects to Mrs A. and the

         young ones.   Yours ever,

                       A. Sedgwick.

                       Tuxford, Notts, November 10, 1820.

         Dear Ainger,

         I wrote to you during the labours of the Long Vaca

DEATH OF SEDGWICK'S MOTHER.  219

tion, but from what place I do not at this moment recollect.     182
I presume that I gave you some account of what I had been
about, and what I intended to do. How uncertain are all
our expectations ! I have not yet reached the University.

     After an examination of some parts of the country near
Taunton, which I visited last year, I crossed the Black-

downs to Sidmouth, and there commenced a laborious

examination of the coast. The cliffs are on a most magnificent
scale, abound in organic remains, and are of great geological
interest. Almost the whole coast of Dorsetshire presents a
succession of rugged precipices of varied forms, arising from
the peculiar disposition of the strata. Weymouth detained
me three weeks. The geological map of that district is so

erroneous that I resolved to rectify it as far as my time would
allow, and I succeeded almost to the extent of my wishes.
From thence I found my way to the Isle of Wight by

Southampton, and there heard, from my brother James,
such an alarming account of my mother's health that I im

mediately recrossed the Channel, and hastened down to the
North with all the expedition which I could command.

     I should have been very thankful had it pleased God to

have allowed me to arrive in time to receive my poor mother's

last blessing ; but that melancholy satisfaction was denied me.
She died early on Sunday the 15th, after an illness of a week.

I rejoice to say that she possessed her self-possession almost
to the moment of her death, and expressed her entire resigna
tion to the will of God. We have all reason to thank Him for
His great mercy in so long sparing our dearest friends. This

is the first affliction with which our family has been visited.
My father and sisters are quite well. My father looks much

better now than he did last spring when I was in the North.
He is much afflicted at losing the companion of his old age,
but on the whole is less weighed down than I could have ven
tured to hope. It may still, I hope, please God to spare him

to our family for some years.

     I am now resting on my way to Cambridge with my old

          220 WILLIAM HODGE MILL.

   1820.  friend Mr Mason. I hope to be in Cambridge tomorrow, and
          shall find abundant employment for the term in my profes
Mu 35-    sional duties. My spirits are not good, but I hope to rally

          sufficiently to give a few public lectures before the Christmas
          vacation. My sister Ann was married about two months
          since to Mr Westall jun. I have no doubt you heard of the

          engagement when you were in the north. God bless you and

          yours.

                                                                 Yours ever,

                                                                 A. Sedgwick.

              The touching allusion in the first of the above letters to
          the Reverend William Hodge Mill, Fellow of Trinity College,
          then about to leave England as Principal of the newly founded
          Bishop's College at Calcutta, is a proof of the breadth of
          Sedgwick's sympathies, and of the strength of his affections.
          No two men could have differed more widely -- Mill was a
          High Churchman -- Sedgwick, if he belonged to any party
          in the Church, an Evangelical. Yet they exchanged letters
          frequently during Mill's absence in India, and after his return,

          when he resided in Cambridge as Regius Professor of Hebrew,

          notwithstanding the very decided attitude taken up by both
          in the religious controversies of that day, their friendship did

          not suffer any interruption.

               Sedgwick's meeting with the brothers Conybeare, briefly
          mentioned in the second letter, is specially noteworthy. With

          John Josias Conybeare, Professor first of Anglo-Saxon, and
          next of Poetry at Oxford, then rector of Batheaston, close

          to Bath, he had become acquainted while exploring Corn

          wall the year before, as mentioned above1 ; but his brother,
          William Daniel Conybeare, afterwards Dean of Llandaff, who
          then held a lectureship in the church of Brislington near Bristol,

          seems to have been unknown to him until this occasion*.

          1 See above, p. 213.
          * In a letter written to the Rev. John Charles Conybeare, second son of the

          Dean of Llandaff,  dated   15 October, 1858, Sedgwick   refers to his first acquaintance
          with the family :  " Tell                              all ladies who pass under the
                                     Mrs Conybeare that I love

            THE BROTHERS CONYBEARE.                                 221

The introduction led to important results. Not only was the                       1820.
foundation laid of a lifelong friendship, continued to the
younger members of the Conybeare family long after their

parents had been laid in the grave, but Sedgwick obtained so
large a measure of geological instruction that he used to speak
of Mr W. D. Conybeare as his master in the science. The

two brothers were both fond of geology, and while still at

Oxford, in conjunction with Buckland, had established a sort
of club for the study of it. Thus educated in the methods
of the science, and, we may be certain, well-informed respect
ing the geology of the district in which they resided, they

would both be eminently qualified to serve as guides to one

who until he met with them had had little except his natural
talent to help him. The extent of his obligations, as realised

by himself at the time, is forcibly expressed in the last letter

which he wrote to Conybeare from Weymouth, detailing his
discoveries and difficulties. " My Long Vacation is now ended,

and I go home with the conviction of having completely
accomplished the great objects of my summer's tour. I may
add, with great truth, that I consider the acquaintance I have

formed with you among the most fortunate and agreeable

circumstances of my vacation. If I had not been under your

tuition for three weeks, I should, I fear, never have been able

to disentangle the difficulties of this neighbourhood."
     By a strange coincidence this letter -- throughout which

Sedgwick expresses himself in a tone of elation at his well-
merited success -- was written on the very day of his mother's
death. How deeply he felt this sudden calamity -- 'the first
deep domestic pang I ever endured'-- is shown by the letter in
which he informed Ainger-- who must have known her well --
of his irreparable loss; but the depth of his sorrow may be

name of Conybeare; and tell little Mary that I mean to love her as dearly as
I loved another Mary [the Dean's only daughter] whom I first knew at Brislington
Iin 1820, when little Johnny was on the knees. It was the year first became
            with your Father. I
acquainted                         knew his brother John before,    having been
acquainted  with him in Cornwall.  But what ancient memories these  are now ! "

         222 WORK IN MUSEUM.

18ioto   estimated more truly still from the casual references to his
  l82 I
         mother which are scattered through his later correspondence.
Et       Thirty years afterwards, when one of his friends was anxious
   36.   about her own mother, he wrote : " The word Mother has a
         charm in its sound ; and there was a blank in the face of
         nature, and a void in my heart, when I ceased to have one;"

         and again, to the same ; " It was my first great domestic
         sorrow, and deeply did I feel it. I pity the man who has no
         remembrance of a mother's love. The memory of my dear

         mother and my dear old father throw a heavenly light over all
         the passages of my early life1."

              During the months which elapsed between Sedgwick's
         return from Dent in 1820, and the commencement of the

         Long Vacation of 1 821, he was fully occupied with what he
         termed ' professional pursuits.' Not to mention lecturing--
         digesting the information acquired in the course of the
         previous summer -- and writing at least one paper for the
         Philosophical Society -- he had plenty to do in his Museum.
         His report (dated 1 May, 1821) speaks of three months spent
         in arranging the contents of seven large cases of " specimens
         from all the strata of Somersetshire, Gloucestershire, and

         Dorsetshire which appear between the old red sandstone and
         the chalk ;" "the arrangement of a series of specimens from
         all the English strata, commencing with the granite of Corn
         wall, and ending with the alluvial deposits of Suffolk, which

         the Professor has employed three vacations in collecting;"
         and he gratefully acknowledges "the assistance of Mr Henslow

         in arranging the simple minerals8."

             It is pleasant to be able to record that Sedgwick's delivery
         of a course of lectures -- in excess of the minimum of four
         prescribed by Dr Woodward -- did not pass unrewarded. It

              1 To Miss Malcolm, 7 December, 1856; 21 December, 1859.
             a It must be remembered that the Woodwardian Audit, at which the Pro
         fessor made his annual report, was held on the first day of May. As Sedgwick
         usually left Cambridge soon after the commencement of the Long Vacation, most
         of the work chronicled in these reports must have been done between his return in
         October and May of the year following.

INCREASE OF STIPEND.                       223

will be recollected that on the day of his election the Senate 1820 to
had accepted a supplementary scheme for the government of Mt '
the Professorship. In this document three points were mainly
                                                                       36.

insisted upon : (1) that a Museum, with an apartment for the

Professor thereto adjoining, ought to be built without delay ;

(2) that the payment of the Professor's stipend should be
contingent on his delivering lectures ; (3) that if he gave
additional lectures, he ought to receive an additional stipend,
but only after the erection of the aforesaid buildings. Two

years had elapsed, but nothing had been done ; nor was it
probable that any building-scheme would be accepted for

some time. Sedgwick was naturally unwilling to see his

promised increase of stipend adjourned sine die, and therefore

addressed a letter, dated 22 June, 1820, to the Vice-Chancellor

and Heads of Colleges. This letter contains some interesting

biographical details, and therefore we may be excused for

quoting a considerable portion of it. After giving an analysis
of that portion of Dr Woodward's Will which dealt with the

annual income of his estate, he proceeds,

    "In consequence of the great change in the value of money since

1727, the Woodwardian estate now rents for ^430, but none of the
specific payments have received any augmentation whatever. The
present Lecturer does not therefore stand in the situation intended
by the Founder, the stipend he receives being virtually not much
more than one-third of the sum intended.

     In the same Will it is directed that the Woodwardian Cabinets
be 'reposited in a proper Room or Apartment allotted by the
University,' and, 'that the Lecturer reside in or near the said
Apartment.' When therefore the University accepted the Cabinets,
they contracted an obligation to find an Apartment, suitable at the
same time to the Collection and to the accommodation of the
Professor, out of their own funds. It certainly does not appear to
have been the intention of Dr Woodward that any part of the rents
of his estate should be held back as a building-fund. As however
there is at present an accumulation of fourteen or fifteen hundred
pounds out of the Woodwardian estate, the said accumulation might,
with the addition of such sums as the University shall think fit, be
employed in erecting a ' proper apartment ' for the reception of the
Geological Cabinets, in fitting up a Lecture-Room, and, if thought
expedient, in building rooms for the Lecturer, contiguous to the said

Apartment.

           224 INCREASE OF STIPEND.

 1820 to       It is further obvious, from the said Will, that Dr Woodward
    1821.  intended his Lecturer to perform important duties1.... In the year

>Et. 35--  1727, a salary of ^110 was a sufficient remuneration to a member
      36.  of the Senate for performing the conditions in question. At present

           the same sum is not sufficient.

                The Woodwardian Lecturer wishes finally to observe that, since

           his appointment, he has endeavoured to comply with the severest
           clauses of the Founder's Will.

                 1. He resigned, on his appointment to the said Lectureship,
           offices and employments in College of the yearly value of .200.

                2. He has read 22 public Lectures to the University and
           gratuitously, and will engage to give at least that number annually.

                3. He is preparing to print the substance of two of the said
           Lectures.

                4. He has been always ready to exhibit the Museum, and
           during term has spent more hours in it than are specified in the
           Founder's Will.

                5. He has, at a personal expense of between three and four
           hundred pounds, made a Geological Survey of several parts of

           England, by which he has been enabled to deposit large, and, he
           believes, important additions to the specimens in the University
           Cabinets ; for an account of which he refers to the report drawn up
           under the sanction of the Inspectors and presented to the Auditors
           on the first of May8."

               The persons addressed took six months to consider this

           letter, but early in the following year (24 January, 182
           Grace passed the Senate, by which, after several well-turned
                                                           it
           compliments to Sedgwick's energy and capacity,
                                                                  1),

                                                                    a
                                                           was

           provided that 100 should be paid to him for the extra
           lectures delivered in the past year; and 100 in each future

           year, on the condition that he delivered fifteen lectures, at

           the least, in each year, in addition to the four stipulated for

           by Dr Woodward.

               The next three letters describe the employment of the

           Long Vacation of 1821. For once, may be remarked, we
           hear nothing of his health -- perhaps he was too busy to
                                 it
           pay attention to it.
                                               is
                  In the omitted passage Sedgwick enumerates the principal duties imposed by*1
           Dr Woodward, as related in the previous chapter.

                  The only copy of this letter which we have seen in the rich collection of
           University Papers formed by the late Dr Webb, Master of Clare Hall 1815 -- 56,
           now in the University Library.

              BACHELOR GODFATHERS.          225

              Trin. Coll., April 13, 1821.                                           1821.

Dear Ainger,                                                                       xx. 36.

             Your letter was left on my table on Tuesday last.

When I saw the direction I believe I should have blushed if

my complexion would have allowed it. For my conscience

told me that I had been your debtor three or four months,

both for a letter and for a small book of goodly admonition.

Let me thank you for one or both of them now, if it be not
too late. I have myself turned author since we met last. I will

send you a copy of my paper in the Cambridge Transactions

when I have an opportunity. Not that I wish you to read it.

I will therefore give it to Mrs A. to tie up sugar-plumbs for
my god-daughter. But hold-- I am quite out of all order. I

must first congratulate you and Mrs A. on your new accession

of domestic honours, and then express my own joy in the

hopes of establishing this spiritual relationship with the young
stranger. Both my god-fathers are old bachelors, and my

god-mother (God be with her), is as arrant an old maid as
ever whispered scandal round a tea-table. My own destinies

were therefore fixed at the font, and I already feel myself fast
sinking in the mire of celibacy. I hope I shall bring no evil

on my charge. But do contrive to have some one joined with

me who is either married or given in marriage, otherwise we

cannot answer for the consequences. Experto crede.

    Geology has not, I hope, dried up all the social affections ;

it has, however, left me very little time for the exercise of

them. I am too much engaged to be down this short vaca
tion. The last week in May and the first week in June I shall
be engaged with our examination in Hall. A stupid com

panion you will find me if here at that busy time ; still let us
meet if possible. I will promise to do my best during the

intervals. Immediately after that troublesome business is

over I start for the Isle of Wight1, to relieve my brother who

   I1 Whewell, writing to his sister, 18 June, 1821, says: " am going for a short
time to the Isle of Wight. I expect to join there Professor Sedgwick, a very

intimate friend of mine." Life, p. 64.

        S. I.

          226 SUMMER TOUR.

   1821.  is going down to the North. In the months of July, August,

Mt. 36.   and September I must make a regular geological tour, but my

          actual destination is not quite fixed. You may suppose that
          my hands are full when I tell you that besides the care of our
          college examination I have to give public lectures four times

          a week during the next term, and that I am now preparing a

          syllabus of my course for the press. Present my kindest

          remembrances to Mrs Ainger, and believe me,

                                                                       Yours ever,

                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

                                                              Whitby, September 2, 182 1.

               My dear Ainger,

                     For the life of me I cannot tell when or where it was
          that I last wrote to you. It must surely have been since my

          return from the Isle of Wight. Let us now therefore take it

          for granted -- that I did return from the Isle of Wight-- that I

          did sojourn about three weeks in the University of Cambridge

          --that I then took a tour through Coventry, Kenilworth,
          Warwick, Birmingham, and Lichfield, where I saw churches,

          ruined castles, hardware manufactories, and Cathedrals -- that

          I attended an auction of old bones, of which I bought enough
          to fill fat Lambert's coffin -- that I then found my way thro'

          Derby, Nottingham, and Lincoln, to the residence of my

          brother John1 -- that after three days I left the lodgings of my

          said brother, and was conveyed in a steam-packet down the

          waters of the Humber as far as Hull -- that I left Hull on the
          top of a coach -- that I was set down by the said coach at the

          door of my old friend Gilby, who is now married and perform
          ing the duties of a parson and a magistrate in a small village

          about five miles from Bridlington. All this I give in the way

          of summary, because : 1st, it is no easy matter to give it in

          any other form ; 2dly, I do verily believe that I have given

          you the greater part of it before.

                                 1 At that time curate of Stowe in Lincolnshire.

COAST OF YORKSHIRE.  227

    With Gilby I remained three or four days, during which                                      182
time I made an excursion almost as far as Spurn Head.

Holderness is well cultivated and well inhabited, but as dull as
the fens of your native county. Its physical structure did not
supply me with a single new fact. The sea is making terrible
encroachments on the whole district. In one place the cliff
cuts through an ancient burial-ground, and the upper face of

the precipice is literally studded with human bones. Gilby
accompanied me on foot almost as far as Scarborough. North
of Bridlington the character of the country is completely
changed. We crossed the great chalk range, which at its
northern termination is nearly ten miles broad. As we went
along the top of the cliff we frequently had on our right hand

a naked precipice of chalk more than three hundred feet high.

The chalk cliffs of the Isle of Wight must, I think, yield to

these in grandeur. But in the wolds of Yorkshire we entirely
want that combination of woodlands which makes the scenery
in the Isle so peculiarly beautiful. North of the chalk range
the cliffs are of less elevation, but more varied in form, and
perhaps more beautiful than those of Flambro' head. The
bay of Scarborough viewed from the south is not inferior to

any part of the coast which I have seen. It is bounded to the

north by a fine mass of perpendicular rock, which is crowned

with the ruins of the Castle. So far I have got on without
taxing your patience with any account of my peculiar craft,
and I hope to finish without doing so. I am, however, partly
disqualified from enjoying the picturesque beauties of this
country, as I have nearly lost the use of one eye in my combats
with the rocks. A splinter struck it with such violence that it

has for the last three or four days been of very little use

to me1.

     I am sitting in the travellers' room, and they are beginning

     1 Sedgwick's eye never recovered from this accident. Writing to Lady

Augusta Stanley, 23 July, 1865, he says : "My old eyes -- I ought to say my old
Ieye, for one of my original pair has struck work ever since 1821, when offended
it by a splinter of rock which flew from my hammer in Robin Hood's Bay --

work badly by candle-light."

                                                                                         15--2

          228 WHITBY.

  182 1.  to be so noisy that I really hardly know what I write. Let
          me then tell you at once that I have paced my way to this
Ex. 36.   place along a most rugged coast, and that I hope to proceed

          with my tour on Tuesday next. Whitby is a dirty, stinking,
          town in a very picturesque situation, but I have no time to

          describe it. Pray write to me Post Office, Sunderland. Give

          my best respects to Mrs Ainger.  Yours ever,
                                               A. Sedgwick.

              P.S. Monday morning. I concluded last night rather

          bluntly. Wine and tobacco seemed to excite some of my

          companions above all measure. Among the rest an old, fat,

          deep-mouthed Scotsman became so enthusiastic in his admira
          tion of the native genius of his country, that he roared, ranted,
          or sung, whole pages of Burns. The entrance to the harbour

          of Whitby is by a narrow opening in the cliff. It winds up

          two or three miles into the country flanked on both sides by
          very steep hills. The town is disposed on both sides of this

          estuary just at its entrance into the sea. St Hilda's domain
          was on the south side of the estuary. The ruins of the abbey
          are still very imposing, and in a very beautiful style of

          architecture. The choir and transept are nearly perfect, and

          in the Early English order ; the nave is more ruinous, yet has
          some exquisite arches of the more modern Gothic. About

          two-thirds of the great tower is standing1. The old Scotsman

          is again come into the room coughing, and breathing hard, so
          I must conclude. I hope to emerge from this district to
          Stockton in about a week. I shall then go up the coast of
          Durham. The greater part of the expedition must be per

          formed on foot. Vale.

          Dear Ainger,                     Dent, October 16, 1821.

                       My memory does not improve, for I am as much
          abroad as I was before in regard to the place from which I
          directed my last letter. It was I suppose from some place or

          1 These remains of the great tower fell at 1 p.m. 25 June, 1830.

TEESDALE.  229

other on the Yorkshire coast. My sisters and Miss Davoren1

are so noisy that my poor confused brain is not much aided in

its recollection. I will not give you any details respecting the
cliffs of alum-shale, and the mode of extracting the salt, lest
I should bore you with a second edition of what I told you in
my last. These cliffs in some places rise to the elevation of

600 feet, and then take a sweep round into the interior,

forming a magnificent natural terrace overlooking the fine flat

district of Cleveland and part of Durham. From Stockton I

made a two days' excursion up the Tees, and called upon our
old friend Wallace8. He looks charmingly for a man of fifty,

and is as much alive as ever. Old time, that unmerciful
scratcher of faces, has, however, worn a few lines in his face
since you were of his household. The coast of Durham, in a
picturesque point of view, is very inferior to the north-east
cliff of Yorkshire. The rocks prevailing in that district are

composed of a magnesian limestone which performs more
freaks in its mode of aggregation than any mineral substance
I have yet examined. The mouth of the Tyne has an
interest peculiar to itself. The river finds its way into the sea
through a chasm in a rock which on the Northumberland side
is of great elevation, and crowned by a very picturesque ruin
of an old abbey. The eternal bustle on the river, which a
little above Tynemouth is wider than the Thames, reminds
one of the scene below London Bridge. I found my way up
this river to Newcastle in a steam-boat; and in getting out of
it had my ribs nearly staved in by a fall in the hatchway. Old
Robert Foster now lives there, and is very hoary. I returned
by Durham, and spent a day or two with Carr, who has now
three children, and will soon (D. V.) have a fourth. From

     1 Miss Jane Davoren, niece to Mrs Brownrigg, a lady who had resided for
several years at Broadfield in Kirthwaite, married the Rev. John Sedgwick in
April, 1822.

     a Dr Wallace, a physician who lived at Sedbergh when Sedgwick was a boy,

and was a great friend of his. Ainger boarded in his house. A few years before

the date of this letter Dr Wallace removed to the neighbourhood of Barnard
Castle.

         TEESDALE.

18s1.    there I went to Darlington, to take possession of a horse
Et. 36.  which the Doctor had bought for me ; on this beast I went up
         the higher part of Teesdale. It is perhaps more beautiful
         than any valley in the North of England. I had before
         examined the country on the borders of the river near Rokeby,
         which has been so well described by Scott. In the highest
         part of the valley, which is ornamented with foliage, the whole

         river is precipitated over a fine mass of columnar basalt, and
         forms a fall not inferior to any in the Lake district. The
         columnar basalt is also found on both sides of the valley for

         some miles above the High Force, and is arranged in magnifi
         cent clusters of pillars. I was driven from this interesting
         district by the most incessant rain with which I was ever
         persecuted, and found my way to Dent by the way of Brough
         and Kirkby Stephen. When I reached Sedbergh I was
         soaked with wet like a piece of blotting-paper.

              My friends here are all well, but complain of the shortness
         of my visit. I arrived last Friday morning and intend to

         start for Cambridge the day after tomorrow. Under the
         circumstances of my visit you will see that it was impossible
         for me to reach St Bees. I shall be happy to assist in the

         procession when you keep your Act1. The ladies, who are as
         noisy as ever, now desire their kind regards. For the last

         quarter of an hour I have not been able to see a word that I
         am writing, and Miss D. is just beginning to rattle the keys of
         the piano, so I must needs conclude. My best regards to Mrs

         Ainger and my love to my god-daughter. Yours ever
                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

              Mr Robert Foster, whom Sedgwick met at Newcastle, was
         a friend of his boyhood at Sedbergh, and he has sketched his
         portrait with singular vividness among his reminiscences of
         those early days.

             " The next person who rises before my mind's eye is Mr Foster
         of Hebblethwaite Hall, a beautiful property a little more than two

         1 Mr Ainger proceeded to the degree of B.D. in 1822.

                           ROBERT FOSTER.                        231

miles above Sedbergh. He was of the Society of Friends, and some-                1821.
times when he drove over to visit the brotherhood in Kirthwaite, or                    36.

at other times when tempted by the bright weather to make a short              -
cut over the hills to the old vicarage of Dent, he would halt a few
Ihours in friendly intercourse with my father.
                                                remember his
Ipresence well, when was but a little boy : his dark complexion

which had been made darker by a tropical sun; his small and regular
features ; his dark and bushy eyebrows ; his earnest and grave look,

which at first sight gave me an impression of sternness. But all

that feeling went off when he began to speak ; for his voice was

Ipleasant, and his discourse at once earnest and genial. Even in my
childhood felt joy whenever he came             to the vicarage  ; and I used
                                                hear him talk.    He wore a
to creep behind his chair that I might
broad-brimmed hat, and a grave outer garb of a quaker cut ; but I
never thought that he looked quite like a quaker. He had not the

soft, bland, expression of a good old quaker statesman ; and he had
a confirmed habit of slovenliness, which was utterly unlike the

precise and perfect neatness of all other men of his grade in the

Society of Friends.
     While at Sedbergh School he soon outstripped all the boys of his

class in making his way through the standard authors in Greek and

Latin; and he outstripped them quite as much in audacious deeds of
eccentric waggery. His mind became inflamed by dreams of foreign
lands, and thoughts of enterprise ; and while in such moods, spite of

the beautiful scenery of his native home, his yearnings were little

satisfied by the thoughts of settling down into the placid life of a

leading quaker statesman. So he one day packed up bag and

baggage, and walked off to seek his fortune ; and a few days after-

wards (I think at Liverpool) entered himself in a foreign-bound vessel
as a common sailor. He set to work in his new life with all the

energy of his ardent will ; and the master of the vessel, who was

a man of good sense and humanity, marked the boy's style and
manner, took him to his cabin, and drew from him his secret. 'You
Ihave done wrong in leaving your parents,' said the captain ; ' but
spite   of  that I   like  your spirit,  and     give you the choice of two
things      If you  have   the heart to  go on  with this profession you must
         :
leave this ship, and be rated as a midshipman in a man-of-war, and I
have a friend in the royal navy to whom I will send you, and you
will be put, as a young gentleman, in a right position. If this do
not suit you, I have no choice left but to put you under arrest, and

send you back to your father.'

There could be no doubt which alternative the boy would choose.
He was rated as a midshipman in a man-of-war; and by an
enthusiastic devotion to all the duties and studies of his profession,

III.he gradually became an accomplished sailor ; and during one of the
early wars of the reign of George               performed in the West Indies

Isuch acts of well-timed and daring courage, that he obtained the
commission of lieutenant much sooner,           believe, than would be
compatible with the rules of modern service.

         232 ROBERT FOSTER.

  1821.       Once or twice during the intervals of active service he came down
         to Hebblethwaite Hall ; and it is said that he appeared at Briggflatts
Mt. 36.
         Meeting-house, with his laced cocked-hat on his head, and a cutlass

         by his side; perhaps to the suppressed admiration of the younger

         Sisterhood, but certainly to the horror of the venerable and peaceful
         Fathers of the Society. Every effort was made to win him back to a
         peaceful life. He loved his friends, and he loved the Dales ; but he

         resolved to continue in that profession in which he had already won

         some glory.
         At another interval in the service he again came down to
         Sedbergh, and mingled once more with the tried friends of his early
                                                                                       person -- what he
         youth : and  then it was   that  ahnetiqpruoivtye--d tihnathliosveowisn      in conflict mightier
         had read of  in the poets   of

         than fire and sword. He was smitten by one of the youthful Sister

         hood, as by a fire from a masked battery, and brought to the ground,
         never again to rise in his former strength. His courage was gone,
         for no heart was left in him. His dearest friends seized the oppor

         tunity; and by every entreaty of duty, by the power of youthful
         passion, and by the prospect of realising new dreams of happiness in

         the immediate   possession of the family estate and the lady of his                         first
                         might of all these motives acting together, he                              was
         love -- by the
         conquered, and struck his flag for ever. His visions of future glory
         vanished like the colours upon an air-bubble, and he collapsed into
         the condition of a country gentleman, much honoured in the Dale,
         and of a leader in that Society in which fate had first placed him.

            IThese events happened long before was counted among the
         Iinhabitants of the Dales ; and after the lapse of many years, while

         boarded with a kind quaker family, we often saw Mr Foster ; and

         greatly rejoiced when we were invited to spend a half-holiday at
         Hebblethwaite Hall. He loved the society of boys who had risen to
         the upper classes of the school ; and he had resumed his studies of

         the classics, and become a very accomplished Latin scholar. Some

         times he half alarmed us, when he took down some ancient classic,

         and began to discuss a point of criticism. We thought we had
         enough of such matters when before our schoolmaster. But our fears

         were of short duration ; for he was soon carried on by his love of the

         author ; and then, in a way peculiar to himself, he would roll out a
         noble translation of some favourite passage. It might be from one
         of the orations of Cicero, or some pregnant and pithy chapter out of
         the works of Tacitus ; or it might be some burst of indignant scorn
         and mockery out of one of the old Roman Satirists. These were
         days of delight to the schoolboys who had the honour of being

         admitted to such genial and healthy visits.

               Sometimes, but rarely, he and my father had discussions at the

         vicarage on subjects of religious ordinances ; but I think I may say

         with full assurance that no word of bitterness ever escaped from the
         tongue of one or the other. They agreed in many of the great
                     orodfinaCnhcreisstiawnastrtuothbr:inagndthethheeyarta--gretehde
         essentials                                                                   that the end   of all
         religious                                                                    fountain-head  of all

                                 GEOLOGICAL WORK.                   233

true religious emotion -- into conformity, both in thought and outward                1822.
I Iact, with the revealed will of God.
                                                                    believe         ^Et. ^
    The last time saw Mr Robert Foster was at Newcastle,
in the year 1821, while I was upon a geological tour. The load of

years had then been resting upon him : but his heart had not

become cold; for the old man received me with the warmest

welcome ; and then he walked with me (no longer with his firm step
of former years), and shewed me some of the neighbouring establish
ments on the river Tyne. He seemed to be again in his own
element ; and all the persons connected with the shipping interests

of the river treated him with marked respect and confidence. After
a while he said, ' We will go and rest ourselves at the study of one of
my friends. You will like to know him, for he is a man of genius,

and a great humourist.' It was Bewick, the well-informed naturalist,

and celebrated engraver upon wood ; and we had a long and delight

ful interview with that great artist1."

    The geological work of the next four months -- as well as
the results of the tour of 182 1,-- are well described in Sedg
wick's report to the Woodwardian auditors dated 1 May,

1822.

     " The Professor spent the month of June and the early part of
July in examining the structure of the Isle of Wight, the coast of
Hampshire, and part of Oxfordshire. The spoils obtained during

this "eHxceursaifotnerwwaerdres  conveyed to the University in four large cases.
                                 went to Lichfield for the purpose of attending an
auction of fossils, and was fortunate in obtaining some very valuable

specimens at what he considered a reasonable price. They were

conv"eyHeed   to the University in one very large case.     in a geologi
             then employed between two and three months

cal survey of the coasts of Yorkshire, Durham, and Northumberland.

During this excursion (the greatest part of which was necessarily
made on foot) he collected many illustrative specimens, which were
sent off from Whitby, Sunderland, and Newcastle, in four large
packing-cases. He also succeeded, through the assistance of a
clergyman at Whitby, in purchasing some valuable spoils of the
Ichthyosaurus, which have been conveyed to Cambridge in three
large cases. On his return from the coast of Northumberland in the
month of October, he examined the basaltic and mining districts of

High"   Teesdale, and collected many     interesting specimens.     progress
                                         part is at present in the
       Of the preceding collections a

of arrangement. The remaining specimens must be returned to the
packing-cases until some more accommodation is found for their

reception : as there is at present hardly a single drawer in the

Museum which is unoccupied.

     1 Supplement to the Memorial, ut supra, pp. 54 -- 59.  The passage has been
slightly compressed in transcription.

         234 SEDGWICK'S VARIED INTERESTS.

  18?i.  "The Museum has also received a very valuable accession in a
Mt. 37.  collection presented by Mr Henslow, which consists of nearly 1000
         specimens carefully selected during a geological survey of the Isle of
         Anglesea, and illustrated by a memoir and sections which will be
         published in the next number of the Cambridge Transactions'. Mr
         Henslow has undertaken the arrangement of this collection, which

         occu"piTehs e  twenty-four drawers.    begs finally to add  that he has this
                         Woodwardian professor

         year read twenty-eight public lectures to the University, and that he
         is endeavouring to comply with a clause in the Founder's Will in
         preparing for the Press the substance of two of the lectures2."

                Most men in the position which Sedgwick now held, with
          an annual course of lectures to deliver, the value of which had
          received a substantial acknowledgment from the University --
          a Museum to maintain-- and the almost boundless field of
          geology before him -- a terra incognita of which he had just
          commenced the exploration --would have devoted themselves
          to their new duties with a singleness of purpose which would

          have excluded most other interests. But this was what

          Sedgwick never could bring himself to do. He had no

          intellectual self-control ; he could never shut his eyes and ears

          to what was going on around him ; and we shall continually

          find his geological work laid aside for long intervals, because

          he had allowed himself to be carried away by something
          foreign to what ought to have been the real purpose of his life
          -- something which others less occupied than himself would

          have done as well, or better, than he did. At one time he
          appears as a member of a Syndicate appointed to provide

          temporary accommodation for Viscount Fitzwilliam's collec-

         , tions, and to consult and report to the Senate on the erection

          of a permanent Museum, pieces of business which led those

          who took them in hand into long and tedious negotiations ;

          at another we find his name on The University Branch Com

          mittee for promoting a subscription in Aid of the Greeks*,

               1 Mr Henslow's Geological Description of Anglesea was read to the Cambridge
           Philosophical Society 26 November, 1821, and is published in their Transactions,
           Vol. 1., pp. 359--452-

                 * These lectures were never published.
                3 Address of the Committee, 20 Nov., 1823. The Rev. G. A. Browne, Fellow
           of Trinity College, was specially active in this matter, and it was probably through

PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.  235

whose 'holy cause,' as it is termed, was no doubt specially                       18m
dear to so true an Abolitionist as Sedgwick, and occupied a
proportionate space in his time and thoughts. The conse
quences of these distant excursions may be easily imagined.
Geological memoranda which ought to have been arranged
when the subject was fresh in his mind were laid aside;
specimens remained for months--sometimes for years --un
determined, or even not unpacked ; promised papers were
not finished -- perhaps not begun. These remarks, which
apply to his whole life, have been suggested by what took
place in 1822. Hardly had his report been laid before the
Woodwardian auditors when he felt it his duty to plunge
into a University controversy, which, between discussions with

friends, and pamphlets against opponents, must have occupied

a considerable portion of his time for nearly two years. The
matter --especially Sedgwick's share in it-- is of sufficient im
portance to demand a brief notice in this place.

     On the death of Dr Edward Daniel Clarke, Professor of
Mineralogy, 9 March, 1822, there was some difference of
opinion as to the expediency of continuing a Professorship of
Mineralogy in the University. The title of Professor, it should
be remembered, had been conferred on Dr Clarke in 1808,

but no Professorship had ever been formally established.
Meanwhile Sedgwick's intimate friend, Mr Henslow, had
announced his intention of becoming a candidate, should the
Professorship be continued ; and it soon became apparent

that, if he had a chance of coming forward, he need have no
fear of the result. At last, 15 May, a Grace passed the

Senate which may be thus translated :

     " Whereas by the death of Edward D. Clarke, late Professor of
Mineralogy, that office is now vacant : may it please you that another

his influence that Sedgwick, together with his friends Pryme, Romilly, Whewell,
and Lodge were all induced to join the Committee. In 1824 Pryme invited two
of the Greek deputies, who had come to England to negotiate a loan, to stay with

him at Cambridge for the Commencement, and Sedgwick met them at his house.

Recollections, p. 143.

         236 PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.

  1822.  Professor be elected by you to discharge the duties of the said
         office'."
Mt. 37.
              As this Grace was copied, verbatim, the name only being

         altered, from a Grace passed 23 January, 1732, for continuing
         the Professorship of Botany (which, like that of Mineralogy,
         had become vacant by the death of the first Professor),
         Members of the Senate assumed that the election of a Profes
         sor to succeed Dr Clarke would be conducted in the same
         manner as the election of the Professor of Botany had been,

         namely, by open poll. It was with great surprise, therefore,

         that they learnt, a few days after the Grace had passed,
         that the Heads of Houses, -- at the instigation, as it was
         believed, of Dr Webb, Master of Clare Hall, and Dr Chafy,
         Master of Sidney Sussex College* -- intended to conduct
         the election in the mode observed at the election of Vice-
         Chancellor -- in other words, to nominate two persons, one

         of whom the Senate would obviously be constrained to

         elect. Alarmed at what was certainly an innovation, and

         apprehensive that, if it were acquiesced in, a similar claim

         would be made respecting all Professorships founded by the
         University, a large number of members of the Senate met
         at the Red Lion Inn, and 'organised a very pretty rebellion".

         The sense of the University was evidently with them, for

         seventy-four signatures were immediately affixed to a dignified
         Representation to the Vice-Chancellor and Heads of Colleges

         (24 May), praying them to abandon a position which, as the
         memorialists clearly shewed, was contrary to all precedent.
         To this Representation, though those who signed it were
         among the most distinguished men in the University, and
         represented, in numbers alone, at least three-fourths of the

         resident academic body8 -- no reply was vouchsafed, but,

              1 As the subsequent controversy turned, in great measure, on the wording of
         this Grace, it shall be cited in the original Latin : ' Cum per mortem Edwardi D.
         Clarke nuper Professoris Mineralogiae munus istud iam vacans existit ; Placeat
         vobis ut alius ad idem munus exequendum a vobis eligatur.'

              3 Whewell's Life, p. 76.
             * Professor Christian, from whose Explanation of the Law of Elections in the
         University of Cambridge, 8vo. Camb. 1822, many of the facts here recited have

PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.  237

three days afterwards (27 May), a notice was issued by the                      18;
Vice-Chancellor, Dr French, Master of Jesus College, to the
effect that at the congregation on the ensuing day, a Grace
would be offered to rescind the previous Grace -- or, in other

words, to discontinue the Professorship. It is strange that

the Heads, who are said to have been by no means unani
mous in favour of the claim to nomination, should have taken

so high-handed a course when the Senate was so deeply
irritated. As might have been expected, the Grace was re

jected by forty-three votes to seven. Thereupon the Heads
at once nominated Mr Henslow and Mr Lunn, both of St

John's College, and the Vice Chancellor announced that the
election would take place on the day following, at two o'clock.
In the interval the members of the Senate who had drawn up

the Representation met again to consider their position. It
was determined to select a candidate of their own ; and,
in the event of their votes for him being rejected, to take legal
measures for the vindication of their rights.

     This conflict reveals a state of things so different from that

to which we are now accustomed to in the University, that
a few words of explanation are necessary. By the statutes of
the 1 2th year of the reign of Queen Elizabeth it was provided,
that when certain offices were vacant, the Heads of Colleges
should nominate two persons, one of whom was subsequently

elected by the Senate. Among the officers so nominated was

the Vice-Chancellor. By statute the Heads might nominate

whom they pleased, but in practice they invariably chose one

of their own body, who was only too glad, on all occasions of
difficulty, to shelter himself behind the other members of his

own order. Gradually, therefore, the Heads had acquired the
position of assessors to the Vice-Chancellor, and were, practi
cally, the rulers of the University. Whether they executed
these high functions moderately, or tyrannically, need not

been borrowed, has the following passage (p. 25): "The whole number of a

different opinion could not probably be 25, for the whole number who voted for

and against the petition against the late Catholic Bill were 66 to 33."

338 PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.

tin. here be discussed ; all that need be pointed out is that they

37- were regarded with jealousy by the Senate, as an oligarchy

anxious to retain privileges which depended on custom rather
than on statute, and eager to embrace every opportunity of

extending them.
     Through the whole course of the dispute Sedgwick was a

prominent member of the opposition. Que diable allait-il
faire dans cette galere? is naturally the first question of every
one interested in his more important pursuits. The answer is
not far to seek. In the first place, before the controversy
began he had had an interview with Dr French, on Henslow's

behalf, which seemed friendly enough at the time, but which,
as events proved, brought him into the very front of the con

troversy. Secondly, as has been already stated more than
once, Sedgwick had a horror of wrong, or even the semblance
of wrong, and he had succeeded in persuading himself that

the Heads were making an unjustifiable attempt to deprive

the Senate of one of its privileges.  It is impossible to
approve the whole of his subsequent conduct--especially his

personal controversy with Dr French; but in the initial stages

of the affair he showed an independence of spirit combined

with a courteous demeanour towards those who differed from

him, which cannot be too highly praised, and which is the

more striking when contrasted with the uncompromising de
fiance of his opponents.

Every effort was made by the opposition to avoid a con

flict. After their last meeting, a deputation waited on the
Vice-Chancellor, urging him to assemble the Heads, and
devise some plan of conciliation. He replied that it was now

too late to get them together before the election, but that

on the following day he would consult those who might be

present in the Senate House. Six Heads only came to the
Congregation, and after a long discussion, the Vice-Chancellor

decided to proceed with the election, with the proviso, it is
said, that if no member of the Senate voted for either of the

candidates nominated, the election should be adjourned to

           PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.                                                                           239

that day fortnight. The Senior Proctor having read out the                                                             18j

names of the persons nominated by the Heads, Sedgwick and

Mr Carrighan of St John's College handed in a written pro
test against the form of the election about to take place. A

single vote was then recorded for Henslow, and a considerable

number for a third person. These were disallowed. At the

close of the election the Vice-Chancellor declared Henslow

duly elected, and admitted him with the usual formalities.
     The Heads, as well as their opponents, must have known

that the matter could not end in this unsatisfactory fashion.

Two days afterwards (30 May) a committee of their oppo
nents met, and decided that any legal measures which they

might resort to against the Heads should be conducted 'in the
spirit of the utmost amity and courtesy '. Sedgwick does not

state explicitly that this proposal emanated from himself, but

the tone of his Letter to the Cambridge Chronicle, and some
expressions in his first pamphlet against Dr French, warrant
us in assuming that such was the case. At a subsequent
meeting, held 15 June, Sedgwick, Mr Carrighan, and Mr
Lodge were deputed to wait on the Vice-Chancellor, in order

to propose that the question should be tried by a joint appli

cation to the Court of King's Bench. The answer, however,

was not conciliatory, and therefore the Court was moved by

the committee alone, who obtained a Rule (21 June) calling
on the Vice-Chancellor to show cause why a Mandamus

should not issue for the admission of their nominee to the

Professorship. In these proceedings Sedgwick took a pro

minent part, with some unwillingness, as would appear from
what he himself says :

I" In the commencement of the legal proceedings, expected to
be called upon to make an affidavit on the intention of the party

which proposed the Grace (of May 15, 1822), and on the construction
           at the time,I it it,
                     I

                                        by

                                                                                                               ;
put upon                 the Senate. But the affidavit connected

with the general merits was prepared for another Member of the
Senate. In consequence of an unlooked-for delay in his arrival in
London,
accident,  was re-modelled and sworn by myself. Thus, by mere
           was placed in the position of plaintiff and in all the
                    have watched the progress of the cause with
future proceedings

          240 DR FRENCH'S ADDRESS TO THE SENATE.

  1823.   deep interest, but with no feelings of ill-will towards those who were
          oPPosed to the Senate '."
/Et. 38.

              The hearing of the case was not concluded until the end of

          April, 1823; and, for reasons into which it is needless to enter,
          judgment was neither given, nor applied for. At the moment,

          however, when the University seemed on the point of hearing

          the last of a painful controversy, a personal conflict broke out
          between Sedgwick and Dr French, which, though it extended
          through 1823 and into 1824, had better be disposed of in this
          place. In May 1823, shortly after the conclusion of the case
          in the Court of King's Bench, Sedgwick unfortunately thought

          proper to address a long letter to the Cambridge Chronicle,
          with the view, as he said, of supplying some omissions in his
          affidavit. In this letter, which had better have been never

          written, he gave his own version of his conversation with

          Dr French at Jesus College Lodge; urging particularly that
          no hint of doubt as to the mode of election had then been

          dropped, that the Senate had accepted the Grace of 1 5 May,
          1822, under the belief that it would be followed by an open poll,
          and, this being the case, that Dr French ought not to have
          joined those ' who endeavoured to force upon the University a

          construction of his Grace which was at variance with his own

                                    and with the understanding of
          meaning when he proposed  it,
                                                   is
          the Senate when they accepted and ratified it'. In reply to

          this letter Dr French issued (18 June) An Address to the

          Senate. This curious composition                       written in the third

          person, as though the author was in so exalted                                                         position
                                                                                                                 a
          that he could not even use the same pronouns as the rest of                                                    is
          the University -- an assumption of dignity which becomes

          ridiculous when  remembered that he was Sedgwick's
          1
                              :

                                 it
                                         a is

                                                                                                             by
          junior by three years. At the same time the pamphlet not

          deficient in ability. But, clever as the author certainly showed

          himself in handling bad case, he made one very damaging

          admission

                 A Reply to an Address to the Senate, published                                                  the Master ofJesus College,

          8vo. Camb. 1823, p. 78.

DR FRENCH'S ADDRESS TO THE SENATE. 241

     " Dr French neither intended that his Grace should give the         18:
right of Election more burgensium, nor did he intend the contrary.
Aware that a difference of opinion existed as to the proper mode of    jeu
Election in such cases as this of the Professorship of Mineralogy, he
intended simply to ascertain, without prejudice to the claims of any
party, whether the Senate were desirous of continuing the office.
When a Grace to this effect had passed, he determined, under these
circumstances, not to proceed further without the sanction of the
Heads. And, accordingly, as soon as there was a majority of the
Heads of Colleges in the University, Dr French, as Vice-Chancellor,
called a meeting, for the express purpose of asking their deliberate
judgment upon the proper method of proceeding1."

     This paragraph granted all that Sedgwick was contending

for, namely, that he had been allowed to carry away the
impression that the Grace to continue the Professorship of
Mineralogy, being in the same form as that used on a similar
occasion for Botany, would be followed, as that was, by an
open poll. Had Dr French been more cautious, or more
candid, he would have taken good care to avoid a mis

understanding on so important a question ; and, above all,
he would not have selected a form of words for his Grace

with which the very meaning he did not wish to convey
would infallibly be associated.

     Sedgwick's feelings on reading Dr French's pamphlet will
be best understood from the following letter, addressed to Dr
Monk, then Dean of Peterborough, one of those who had

signed the Representation.

               Trin. Coll., October 23, 1823.

Dear Mr Dean,

            I am just returned to the University after an absence
of more than five months. You will, I doubt not, have seen
Dr French's reply to the letter which I addressed to the

Senate. I am about to commence my reply to it this morning.
My opponent has come out with a bold tone, and has taken
a lofty flight. Unless I am most egregiously mistaken I can
easily bring him down from his perch -- not by swaggering

invectives and solemn asseverations, but by a plain unvarnished

       1 An Address to the Senate, p. 10.

S. I.                                      16

           -42 SEDGWICK'S ANSWER TO DR FRENCH.

1823.      tale which he will have reason to remember to the last day of
      38-  his life. I now formally accuse him of mental reservation
           towards myself, and of unfair and disingenuous dealing
           towards Henslow and the Senate. I am, however, resolved
           not to let the strength of my phrase go " beyond the staple of

           my argument", and to conduct the controversy with proper
           forbearance. On the abstract merits of the question in liti
           gation I shall not be able to speak at length, but I shall
           endeavour to notice them some way or other. Have you any
           information to communicate on the subject ? Would you
           have the goodness to give me a synoptical view of the proofs
           by which the rank of Professors is established, and their
           distinction from the Lectores of the 40th Chapter of Elizabeth's
           statutes is made out1 ? I am now very anxious to get forward
           with my pamphlet. You will therefore greatly add to the
           obligation by sending your information as soon as you can
           possibly make it convenient. Did I not know your zeal in a
           good cause I should not have ventured to trouble you.

                 Present my best remembrances to Mrs Monk, and believe
           me, Dear Mr Dean,

                                                                 Yours ever,

                                                                 A. Sedgwick.

                Sedgwick was as good as his word. Before the end of

           term he had produced a pamphlet of eighty-six closely-printed
           octavo pages, which may still be safely recommended to the

           perusal of those who care for University history. It is a straight

           forward, dignified, composition, with here and there some nobly

           eloquent passages ; contrasting very favourably, on the whole,
           with the strut and swagger of Dr French's laboured periods.
           There may be a few errors of detail, but the main arguments
           against the claim of the Heads are learned and accurate.

                1 This Statute directs that the election of lectores, bedelli, and other specified
           officers shall be conducted in the same manner as that of the Vice-Chancellor -- i.e.
           by open poll after nomination by the Heads. It was Sedgwick's object to prove
           that these lectores were quite different from the Professores, whose offices had not
           been created when the Statute was framed.

        DR FRENCH'S REPLY.                                                                     243

The personal question is ably managed. No railing accusation                                             1824.
is brought against Dr French, but the ' plain unvarnished tale '
                                                                                                       Mt- 39-
which Sedgwick tells leads irresistibly to a conclusion most
unfavourable to his reputation as a man of honour. But, on
the other hand, the whole pamphlet is far too long. This

defect is partly due to the fact that it was written in the
intervals of the author's lectures. As soon as the materials of

one sheet were brought together, he tells us, they were sent to

the printer ; and during their passage through the press, he
was employed in preparing matter for the next sheet1. But

this is a defect which detracted from all Sedgwick's writings,

except his scientific papers. He never knew when to stop.
     Dr French promptly published Observations upon Professor

Sedgwick's Reply (21 January, 1824), but prudently refrained
from comment on the personal question. His pamphlet is

almost wholly devoted to the legal difficulty, which depended,
in great measure, on the interpretation of the fortieth chapter
of the Statutes of Elizabeth. Sedgwick replied (25 February,
1824), in another pamphlet of considerable length3, confining
himself, like his opponent, to law and precedent. Neither of

these works need be examined in detail, and our account of

the controversy shall be closed with a single quotation from
Sedgwick's first pamphlet-- partly as a specimen of his style,
partly from the intrinsic value of what he says.

"Some one may, perhaps, contend, that the bustle of public
elections but ill accords with the tranquil habits of this seat of

science ; and that the question ought to be conceded to the Heads,
out of regard to the peace of the University. Words of peace are
always to be suspected when they are accompanied with acts of
aggression. By conceding this question, we part with our own

privileges without finding any remedy for the evil complained of.
For it is notorious to the Members of the Senate, that no ordinary
academical elections have been contested with more warmth, than

those   HinadwhitchheretheexHiseteaddsanhyavfelagnoramnint ataebduset--he htawdo  candidates.  a con-
     "                                                                            there been

    1 A Reply to an Address to the Senate, p. 79.
    a It is called : Remarks on the observations of Dr French : with an argument
on the Law of Elections to offices created by the Senate. 8vo. Camb. 1824.

                                                                         l6-- 2

         244 SEDGWICK'S SECOND PAMPHLET.

  1824.  spiracy on the part of certain colleges, to exclude others from their

Mu 39.   fair share of academical distinctions, there might have been some

         plea for introducing new customs into the University. But in the
         present case, no abuse was even pretended ; we were on the point of

         electing the very man, who was afterwards chosen by our opponents.
         And the lists of those who have filled our Professorships undeniably
         prove, that the Senate has, from time to time, selected out of its

         ranks the man who, by his zeal and his talents, was best qualified to
         promote the true interests of science, and to support the credit of our

         establishment.

             "It was on this principle that Martyn, Watson, Milner, Wollaston,

         and Tennant, were elected; and on the same principles their succes
         sors have been, and will continue to be elected, as long as the
         privileges of the Senate are unextinguished.
              "Had the Professorship        of Mineralogy been the first
         by   a Grace of the Senate,     I                                               office created
                                             should not have hesitated                   to pronounce

         an election by nomination, the worst form which was sanctioned by

         the usage of the University. It has all the evils of an open poll,
         with very little of the good. For it virtually gives the election to a
              "inWdievriedutahless, eanidndwivhidatuaisls
         few                                               worse, it   gives   it to them indirectly.
                                                             led by   their   known habits of life,
                                                                                                       and

         their high official duties, to watch the progress and to examine the
         refinements of modern science ; we might, perhaps, be content to
         surrender our privileges into their hands, and to repose with confi
                                                                                         to all respect,
         dence   on their wisdom. Collectively, they are                      entitled    guardians of
         as the  Heads of our venerable establishments                        --as the    our younger
         our discipline -- and as the directors of the studies of

         members. Still more they are entitled to our veneration for their

         virtues, and for their talents, by which alone many of them have

         reached the greatest academical elevation. But this very elevation
         removes them from direct sympathy with the Senate, and imposes on

         them such high and important duties, that they have but little time
         for the elaborate investigations of Physiology, of Botany, of Che
         mistry, and of Mineralogy. Nay, some of them may even think, that
         these subjects are unfit for a course of public lectures -- and that the

         Profe"ssLoerts'     chairs are   nothing          better  than an academical    incumbrance.
                          the Senate     look well          to     before, in any case,       surrenders
                                                           it
                                                              is it,

                                                                        I

                                                                                               a
                                                                                                       it

                                                                                                         of
         the power of election into the hands of those who, to say the least
         of may be indifferent to the office, and therefore can have no
              I it,

                             of
         deep"  interest in selecting an active candidate.                    an ideal   danger.           My
                  am not now warning the Senate against
         opponent has publicly told us, that he thought the continuance the

         Professorship         thMtihninoguegraahsltoogfydfiicffiuaenlrneenwcteliyssdsao--rmy.th--atantdhmeathyraettpeuhlblislihcoimwonfinospcriieenpniolcyen,
         that the Senate
         allows no such

         will be of little weight, unless be founded on deeper knowledge
         of the subject, than that which possessed by his opponents. As

         for myself, am well contented, on this question, to have acted with
                          I

         the majority.

SEDGWICK'S SECOND PAMPHLET.  245

     "Individuals there are, at all times, who, not considering that    1824.

improvement is innovation, oppose themselves to every change, and     /Et. 39.
think every new appointment unnecessary. But the University of
Cambridge has not acted on such heartless suggestions during the
last century; and as long as her constitution remains unimpaired she
will never act upon them '."

     One word more is necessary before we dismiss this tedious
affair. Three years after the publication of Sedgwick's last
pamphlet-- in which a decision favourable to the views of
himself and his friends was confidently anticipated -- the con
troversy was closed by an award of Sir John Richardson,
to whom the matter had been referred by the Senate. His

decision may be fairly described as a verdict for the defen
dants -- the Vice-Chancellor and the Heads -- for he directed
that future elections to the Professorships of Anatomy,

Botany, and Mineralogy, should be conducted according to
the method prescribed in the 40th Chapter of the Statutes.

1 Repiy, etc., pp. 75--78.

CHAPTER VII.

(1822-- 1827.)

Geological exploration of the Lake District (1822 -- 1824).
     Contested election for University (1822). Death of
      his sister Isabella (1823). Geological papers. Work
      in the woodwardian Museum (1823 -- 1827). Lecture
      to Ladies. Visit to Edinburgh with Whewell (1824).
     Visit to Sussex with Dr Fitton (1825). Contested
      election for University. Visit to Paris with Whewell
      (1826). Elected Vice President of Geological Society.

     Contested election for University (1827). Social life
     at Cambridge. Hyde Hall. Review of Sedgwick's

      geological work (1818 -- 1827).

Sedgwick's first geological work in the north of England1,

briefly noticed in the last chapter, was succeeded by a

thorough examination of the Lake District. "I spent the

summers of 1822, 1823, and 1824," he says, "entirely among
the Lake Mountains, and I made a detailed Geological Map
of that rugged region --including a considerable portion
of Westmoreland and Cumberland, and a small portion of
Lancashire*." The scientific value of these explorations

may be estimated from the papers read to the Geological

Society between 1826 and 1828, and from the five letters
addressed long afterwards to Wordsworth, of which the first
three embody the results of the work done between 1822

1 In that year, 1821, he began the researches into the relations of the Magnesian

Limestone which were continued during 1822 and  1823.  Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond.
Ser. 2. iii. 37.

    3 To Archdeacon Musgrave, 5 October, 1856.

      EXPLORATION OF LAKE DISTRICT.                                       247

and 18241. But of personal details the record is almost a

blank. A brief but pleasant glimpse of Sedgwick at his work

is afforded to us in one of Whewell's letters, written from
Kendal in 1 824 : ' I got here on Thursday last, and next day
saw Wordsworth at Rydal, and Southey at Keswick, by
whom I was informed where to look for Sedgwick. I found
him on Saturday at the base of Skiddaw, in company with
Gwatkin*, as I had expected3,' but after this the writer passes
on to other subjects. This dearth of information is the more

provoking, as we know that many agreeable memories, both
of adventures and of friends, clustered round these months in

Lakeland.

    It was then that Sedgwick formed an intimate friendship

with Wordsworth, at whose house he was always welcome,

and who, to a certain extent, directed and assisted his

explorations. Wordsworth has been credited with a cordial
dislike for men of science, who looked upon Nature with
other eyes than his ; and the first of Sedgwick's letters opens
with a sort of apology for writing on geology to one who had
uttered "a poetic ban against my brethren of the hammer":

He who with pocket-hammer smites the edge
Of luckless rock or prominent stone, disguised
In weather-stains or crusted o'er by Nature

With her first growths, detaching by the stroke
A chip or splinter, to resolve his doubts ;

And, with that ready answer satisfied,

The substance classes by some barbarous name.

And hurries on ; or from the fragments picks

His specimen, if but haply interveined
                                         or should crystal cube
With  sinpairtkslincgellsm--inearnadl,  thinks himself enriched,
Lurk
Wealthier, and doubtless wiser, than before ! *

    1 These three letters On the Geology of the Lake District, addressed by Sedgwick
to Wordsworth in May, 1842, were published in A complete Guide to the Lakes...

with Mr Wordsworth's description of the scenery of the country, etc., edited by the
publisher, John Hudson of Kendal. A fourth letter was added in 1846, and a

fifth in 1853.                                                B.A. 1814.
    * The Rev. Richard Gwatkin, Fellow of St John's College,
    3 Whewell's Life, p. 96.
    4 The Excursion, Book the Third.

         248 WORDSWORTH AND SOUTHEY.

18 to   This denunciation of a class did not prevent the poet from

  1824.  taking an interest in the pursuits of individual geologists ;

         and the gratitude and admiration which Sedgwick felt for
3|.7
                                                                    ;

                                                 I

                                                                                                    ;:
         him can fortunately be recorded in his own words. In the
         third of the above letters he says " Some of the happiest
         summers of my life were passed among the Cumbrian moun

         tains, and some of the brightest days of those summers were

         spent in your society and guidance. Since then, alas, twenty

         years have rolled away but trust that many years of intellec

         tual health may still be granted you and that you may continue

         to throw your gleams of light through the mazes of human
         thought -- to weave the brightest wreaths of poetic fancy -- and

         to teach your fellow-men the pleasant ways of truth and

         goodness, of nature, and pure feeling;" and again, in the last

         of the series, written in 1853, when Wordsworth was no more,

         after some regretful musings on his own enfeebled powers,

         should he ever revisit Lakeland, he led to speak of the

         friends of whom the district would remind him " It was near
         the summit of Helvellyn that first met Dalton1 -- truth-
                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                           :

                                                   I                                                                              a

         loving man of rare simplicity of manners who, with humble
                                                                                                        ;

         instruments and very humble means, ministered, without

         flinching, in the service of high philosophy, and by the

         strength of his own genius won for himself name greatly
                                                                                                                               a

         honoured among all the civilized nations of the earth.
             " It was, also, during my geological rambles in Cumberland

         that  first became acquainted with Southey, that some
               I                                                                                                                  I
                           I

                                                a
         times shared in the simple intellectual pleasures of his

         household, and profited by his boundless stores of knowledge.

         He was, to himself, very hard task-master: but on rare

         occasions (as learnt by happy experience) he could relax
         the labours of his study, and plan some joyful excursion

         among his neighbouring mountains.
              " Most of all, during another visit to the Lakes, should

         have to mourn the loss of Wordsworth for he was so far
         aI

                                                                        1
                                                                                                                            ;
         man of leisure as to make every natural object around him

                                                   See above, p. 66.

          DETAILS OF LAKE DISTRICT.                              249

subservient to the habitual workings of his own mind ; and he                       1822 to
                                                                                       39.
was ready for any good occasion that carried him among his
well-loved mountains. Hence it was that he joined me in

many a lusty excursion, and delighted me (amidst the dry
and sometimes almost sterile details of my own study) with
the outpourings of his manly sense, and with the beauteous
and healthy images which were ever starting up within his
mind during his communion with nature, and were embodied,

at the moment, in his own majestic and glowing language."
     Sedgwick frequently visited the Lakes again, sometimes

for geological study, sometimes for the pleasure of looking at
scenes in which he had taken so much delight, or of showing
them to others. Many opportunities of recording his im
pressions of the district will therefore occur, and it might
seem unnecessary to remove letters referring to it from their
proper chronological position. On the whole, however, having
regard to the dearth of contemporary information respecting
the visits of 1822 -- 1824, it seems best to print the two following
letters in this place, as they give, incidentally, so many details
respecting those years. Both were written for the instruction
of geologists who were anxious to explore the Lake district

for themselves.

To Rev. P. B. Brodie1.           Cambridge, September 10, 1854.
    My dear Brodie,

          First of all, find out my old good friend Jonathan Otley,
the author of the best guide to  the   Lakes that ever  was   written*.
Tell him you are my friend, and  that                   call  on him ;
                                       I wished you to
and you may read to him this letter. He will show you maps, &c.
He knows the physical geology of Cumberland, and all the Lake
Iland, admirably well. He was the leader in all we know of the
country.  wish, with all my heart, that my letters to Mr Words

worth on the Geology of Lakeland had been printed in Otley's

     1 Rev. Peter Bellenger Brodie, Trinity College, B.A. 1838, M.A. 1842.
    2 A descriptive guide to the English Lakes and adjacent Mountains: with

notices of the Botany, Mineralogy, and Geology of the district. By Jonathan

Otley. Eighth edition. Keswick, 1849. In earlier editions (the second was
published in 1825) it was called: A concise description of the English Lakes, etc.

           250 DETAILS OF LAKE DISTRICT.

  1822 to  Guide; but I promised Mr Wordsworth in 1822, before I knew Mr
           Jonathan Otley. Ask for a loan of my Letters to Mr Wordsworth ;
    1824.  Ibut they are printed   in  SeHcuonddsloyn: 'sfinGduioduet--CsheaerlelasstWeridgihtito--n,a  which
                                                                                                         guide
Mt. 37--   contains a 5th Letter.

      39-

           formerly ; and now, am told, a guide director. You must take what
           he says cum grano salis, for he is a bouncer. All Otley tells you, you
           may take for Gospel ; for he only tells what he knows. He is a very
           clever truth-loving old man. Look at the mining operations at the
           back of Skiddaw. About Hesket Newmarket you have good
           Mountain Limestone, and a touch of the Old Red. N.B. Old Red
           If ISandstone above Kirkby Lonsdale bridge, at bottom of Ulswater,
           near Shap Wells &c. &c. &c.                  you visit it look for fish-scales.
                                   fIiswheosrk; eadndLaIkethlaenredfo;rebutneavterthlaotoktiemde
           had good eyes when                                                                     we    knew
           not of the Old Red                                                                     for   them.

           No fossils in the Skiddaw slate, except a few graptolites and fucoids.
           Ruthven found them for me, and Otley will tell you the localities.

           IIf you could give me a list of the minerals turned out at the mines

           on both sides of Carrock Fell should be obliged to you for it. It
           might be of great use to me. Also I should greatly thank you for a
           good account of the cleavage planes of the slates in Binsey, at the
           bottom of Bassenthwaite Lake. Thirdly : my old heart-of-oak
           friend John Ruthven lives at Kendal. See him by all means. He
           has all Westmoreland at his fingers' ends, and will tell you of all the

           fossil localities between the Coniston Limestone and the Old Red

           and Mountain Limestone of Kirkby Lonsdale. No fossils have, as

           yet, been seen in the slates &c. which alternate with the porphyries
           between the Skiddaw slate and the Coniston limestone ; but if you

           Icross them   keep  your   eyIescroospseend  ; and  possibly you may                   find  some
                               when                      them  again and again                    (30   years
           rare fossil.   For

           since) was looking for sections rather than for fossils. And it is a
           Ifgood rule to keep a good look-out, and never to take for granted
           that no  fossils are  to   be had.           Mr   Gough1   (the surgeon) be at
           Kendal,               to   see him, but I        think he
           health.  you ought     to                        Museum.   is  now   away in bad
                     You ought                                                  President of
                                      see the Kendal                      I am

           the Society ; and this letter will secure you an introduction and all

           needful attention.
           IThere !
                         have done my best, in a rough way, to answer your
           Iquestions, and       must now complete my dress and prepare for

           morning Chapel.

                                                               Ever truly yours

                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

           To Professor Harkness.      Scalby near Scarborough, August 29, 1856.

           My dear Sir,

           information   Your letter   has been long in        reaching   me, so I fear the
                                         you may come          too late
                         I can send                                       to be of any use.

           1 Thomas Gough, of Kendal, an intimate friend of Sedgwick's.

                   DETAILS OF LAKE DISTRICT.                                                      251

(1) I advise you to go to Kendal and to call on John Ruthven -- the 18ji to
well-known collector of the northern palaeozoic fossils. He knows
                                                                                                             1824.
the country well, and is the only person (so far as I know) who has
found fossils in the Skiddaw slate. (2) You may procure Hudson's                                         Mt. 37--

                                                                                                         39-

Guide to the Lakes ; and in some letters published in an appendix to
it you may see a general account of the several formations, tho' I am
                                      notice of  the Skiddaw slate fossils and
not sure that      there    is  any   Jonathan   Otley, author of an excellent
their localities.      (3)       old
                            If

little book, be still living (I saw him last year when he was turned
ninety) he can give you good advice as to localities, and so can
Charles Wright, one of the Keswick Guides, who went with me in

some of my excursions in 1824. Since that year I have hardly

looked at the Skiddaw slates. You should look at the new black-

lead works somewhere behind Saddle               Back,  and see the manufactory
                                                 name
at Keswick. I do not remember the                       of the locality, though I
saw it (in 1823) along with Mr Otley. These works are, I suspect,
not in a vein, but in a variety of anthracitic slate. So they will give
you the term of comparison you are looking for. I found black
slates in the great Skiddaw Group, from which the dark carbonaceous
colours were discharged by heat. Hence I concluded that such
Ibeds

and
 very probably            w--ouglrdaptcoolintetas inanfodssfiulsco; idsso--nsoett  Ruthven    to  work,
he found fossils                                                                   far from  the  spots
I pointed out to him. But he found no shells or crustaceans.
Since then I have had some doubts about the age of the Skiddaw
Group. It is of enormous thickness, and may well contain one or
Itwo groups of very distinct epochs both physically and palaeontologic-

ally. (4) When you are seeking Skiddaw slate fossils recommend
you to take up your quarters at Scale Inn, at the foot of Crummock
Lake. Hammer well the gritty rocks which appear in the several

deep ravines which run up the mountains on the left side of the road

Ifrom Scale Inn to Buttermere ; they promise well for fossils.
Inever examined them for fossils in 1823 and 1824, because
foolishly                  that they were  all below   the region                  of animal life.
At that    ttimhoeughI t  had not quite    learned to   shake off
                                                                                   the Wernerian
Inonsense1 had been taught. (5) Visit Black Coomb in the S. W.
corner of Cumberland. It is of Skiddaw slate, brought up by
                                                       oanf dgopoodrpphryormyisez.oneT--o
enormous    dislocations, and its ravines are                                                      the
south it   is overlaid by the green slate                                                         well

marked, but of degenerate thickness ; and over the green slate you
have in the S. W. extremity of Cumberland the Coniston limestone,
I&c, and some appearances, in the cleavage planes, which                                          think

defy the mere pressure theory. That there has been enormous

compression, along with cleavage planes, no one can doubt, when

the fossils are flattened and distorted. But they are not always

distorted and flattened. You have to account for unflattened con
cretions, marking, though rarely, the average direction and dip of the

     1 In a letter to Lyell, written in 1845, Sedgwick speaks of himself as having
been, in 1819, "eaten up with the Wernerian notions-- ready to sacrifice my senses
to that creed -- a Wernerian slave ".

           252 JOE AND THE GEOLOGIST.

 1822 to   cleavage planes. You have to account for the frequent change of
           cleavage dip when there is no change of conditions of pressure
    1824.
           indicated in the sections ; and you have to account for a second
/Et. 37--
           cleavage plane among beds that are by no means crystalline.
      39-  (6) Visit Coniston, and look at the enormous dislocations &c. You

           have there (as also at Broughton in Furness, which you pass through
           on your way from Black Coomb to Coniston) the Coniston lime
           Ifstone, the Coniston flags,anandtdheasntehuehpipCnetosrnibssyetsotonefmug--sreitbsIy  which form the
                                                                                                  whatever names
           boundary between a lower                                                               shall rejoice.
           you choose to call them.

                                                         Yours very truly

                                                         A. Sedgwick.

                It will be readily conceived that a man so prominent as
           Sedgwick, and one endowed with so keen a sense of humour,

           became the subject of many jokes, both literary and artistic.

           His early visits to Lakeland recall one of the former, a

           humorous sketch, called Joe and the Geologist. The author

           has preserved a strict incognito, and mentions no names ;

           but Sedgwick's numerous friends in the north recognised the

           accuracy of the portrait at once, and he himself laughed

           heartily over  though he denied the accuracy of certain
           I

                                    it,
                                                        is ",

                                                It
                                                                 I

                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                    a ".
           details, as, for instance, the white neckcloth and the " specks
           " never wore such things he wrote, " while was holding

           hammer in Cumberland1."       should be mentioned that the

           tale, like other legends,     sometimes told with different

           ending. This second, and probably later, version states that

           the geologist, before he had travelled many miles, discovered

           the fraud that had been perpetrated upon him, and travelled

           back, in furious anger, to catch Joe and make him tell what
           he had done with the contents of the leather bags. The boy
           took good care not to be found, but the stones he had thrown

           away were discovered in a heap by the wayside.

                Ya het foorneun, when we war oa' gaily thrang at hekm, an oald
           gentleman mak' of fellow com' in tul oor foald an' said, whyte
           1
                                              a

                                               a
                                                                    2
                                                                                                                            it,
           To Rev. G. H. Ainger, September, 1866. Mr Ainger, son of his old

           friend, had sent him copy of the sketch. In writing to acknowledge                                                    Sedgwick

           says: "Thanks for your very amusing specimen of the Cummerland tongue, and

           the twit against the knights of the hammer."

                   JOE AND THE GEOLOGIST.                                                                               253

nateral, 'at he wantit somebody to ga wid him on't fells. We oa' 1822 to
                   sahagrupd-likleeu--k  at him afoor anybody spak ; at last fadder
stopt  an' teuk                                                                                                                    l82+-
said,  middlin'                          "(hWe eo'lvae's  speaks that way                  when we're owte
sae thrang, does fadder) --                               sum mat else to                  deu here nor to                     XX. 37--

                                                                                                                                     39"

ga rakin ower t'fells iv a fine day like this, wid neabody kens whoa."
                                                oald chap, wid a sharp leuk oot, grey
T'gentleman was    afeaqcueee--risdhristlikei'  black, wid a white neckcloth like a
hair and a smo'
parson, an' a par of specks on t'top of a gay lang nwose 'at wasn't

set varra fair atween his e'en, sooa 'at when he leuk't ebbem at yan
through his specks he rayder turn't his feace to t'ya side. He leuk't

that way at fadder, gev a lal chearful bit of a laugh an' said, iv his
oan mak' o' toke, 'at he dudn't want to hinder wark, but he wad

give   anybody 'at ken't   btn'aogfresl.lisvewr"et'eHhlo,ouwaawmyaastwtweidrurttohh'af,aivtJeohese,ha"millsien!z'"  to ga wid
him,    an' carry two lal                                                                                           fadder to
me,
       "it's a croon mair                                                                                             I mead
                      but gat me-sel' gud lump of stick, an' away
t'nea words about                                                                          a
                 o'
                          it,

                                            a

                              I
                                    I
                                       Ia
we set, t'oald lang nwos't man an' me, ebbem up t'deal.

     As we war' climmin' t'fell breist,                   he geh me     t"woI'seemgpatny                             bags to
carry, mead ledder. Thinks to                              my me-sel',                                              to eddle

me five shillin' middlin cannily."                        niver thowte he wad finnd owte

on fells to full his lal bags wid, but was mistean                         !                  body wad ha'
     He turn't oot to be far lisher oald chap nor                             a

thowte, to leuk at his gray hair and his white hankecker an' his

specks. He went lowpin' ower wet spots an' gurt steans, an'

scrafflin across craggs an' screes, tul yan wad ha' sworn he was
summat kin tul Herdwick tip.
               aa  a

      Efter while he begon leukin' hard at oa't steans an' craggs we

com' at, an' than he teuk till breckan lumps off them wid queer
lal hammer he hed wid him, an' stuffin t'bits intil t'bags 'at he geh                         a
me to carry. He fairly cap't me noo.                                                                  a
                                                              dudn't ken what to mak'
                           !
                                         ?

                                      I
                                              I

                                                             o'
                                                                     a
sec customer as t'is At last cudn't help axin him what mead
o'
            a

him cum sea far up on t'fell to lait bits                             steans when he may'd

finnd sea many doon i't deals                   He laugh't gay bit, an' than went
on knappin' away wid his lal hammer, an' said he was jolly jist.
Thinks to me-sel' thou's a jolly jackass, but maks nea matter to
if                                       a t'

   I                                         I

                                                     o'
                                                                 o'

                                                                            it
                                                                                       t'
me thou no'but pays me five shillin' thou promish't ma.
Varra weel, he keep't on at this feckless wark tul gaily leat at

on i't efter-neun, an' be that time day he'd pang't beath o't ledder

pwokes as full as they wad hod wid bits stean.

I've nit sea offen hed harder darrak efter sheep, owther at

clippin time or soavin time, as hed followin' that oald grey heidit

chap an carryin' his ledder bags. But hooiver, we gat back tul oor
                                                              oald jolly jist, as he co't
house afoor neeght. Mudder gev                            t'

his-sel', some breed an' milk, an' efter he'd tean that an toak't lal
                                                                                                                    a

bit wid fadder aboot sheep farming an' sec like, he pait me five

shillin' like a man, an' than tel't ma he wad gie ma udder five

shillin'  iIf      wad bring his pwokes full steans doon to Skeal-hill be
                                                          o'
nine o'clock i't' mwornin'.                                        it

                                                                                                                     ;
He set off to walk to Skeal-hill just as was growin dark an'

                       JOE AND THE GEOLOGIST.

 1822 to   neist mwornin', as seun as I'd gitten me poddish, I teuk t' seam
           rwoad wid his ledder bags ower me shoolder, thinkin' tul me-sel' 'at
    1824.
           yan may'd mak' a lal fortune oot o' thur jolly jists if a lock mair on
Mt. 37--   them wad no'but come oor way.

      39-      I IIt was anudder het mwornin', an' hedn't wok't far till begon
           Ito think that was as gurt a feul as t'oald jolly jist to carry brocken
           Isteans o't way to Skeal-hill, when may'd finnd plenty iv any rwoad
           side, clwose to t' spot I was tackin' them tul. Sooa I shack't them

           I Ioot o' t' pwokes, an' then step't on a gay bit leeter widout them.
           When com nar to Skeal-hill,               fund oald Aberram Atkisson
           sittin on a steul breckan steans to mend rwoads wid, an' I ax't him

           Iif med full my ledder pwokes frae his heap. Aberram was varra
           Ikaim't an' tell't ma to tak them 'at wasn't brocken if wantit steans,
           sooa I tell't him hoo it was an' oa' aboot it. T' oald maizlin was

           like to toytle off his steul wid laughin', an' said me mudder sud tak

           Igud care on ma, for was ower sharp a chap to leeve varra lang i'
           Ithis warld ; but I'd better full my pwokes as liked, an' mak' on

           wid them.
           T' jolly jist hed just gitten his breakfast when I gat to Skeal-hill,
           an' they teuk ma intil t' parlour tul him. He gurned oa't feace
           Iower when
           Ia neuk, an'
                         went in  wid   his   bags,  an' tel't me to set them  doon in
                       than ax't  ma           wad   hev some breakfast.       said I'd
                                        if I
           Igittan me poddish, but dudn't mind ; sooa he tel't them to bring in
           I Isome mair coffee, an' eggs, an' ham, an' twoastit breed an' stuff, an'
              gat sec a breakfast as niver seed i' my time, while t' oald
           gentleman was gittan his-sel ruddy to gang off in a carriage 'at was
           waitin at t' dooar for him.

           When he com doon stairs he geh me tudder five shillin' an'

           paid for my breakfast, an' what he'd gittan his-sel. Than he tel't
           ma to put t' ledder bags wid t' steans in them on beside t' driver's
           Ifeet, an' in he gat, an' laugh't an' noddit, an away he went.

                  niver owder seed nor heard mair of t' oald jolly jist, but I've

           offen thowte ther mun be parlish few steans i' his country, when he
           was sooa pleas't at gittin two lal ledder bags full for ten shillin', an'

           sec a breakfast as that an'. It wad be a faymish job if fadder
           could sell o' t' steans iv oor fell at five shillin' a pwokeful --
           wadn't it?

                Sedgwick capped this imaginary narrative with an equally

           amusing experience of his own :

               " Two or three times I went with Mr Hunter (a statesman

           at Mosedale) to break the syenites of Carrock Fell. On my
           second visit I found his old fashioned chimney-piece decorated

           with specimens of syenite. ' Do you think these curiosities ',
           I said. 'Not a bit', he replied, 'they are as common as

           cow-muck. But I put 'em here, aboon the chimlay, to tell my

               DETAILS OF LAKE DISTRICT.

nebbers what mak o' things a Cambridge skoller will laed 1822 to

his hors we.'  But old Hunter played no tricks. He     fed me                                 1824'
and my horse   well ; and he went with me and carried  a great
                                                                                          ^Et. 37--

sledge-hammer to break the hard syenites. The last time I

drove to Mosedale, he spied me before I reached his house,

and roared out : ' fain to see ye again ; how do ye cum on wi
                '"
yer  cobbles
              ?

     A suitable pendant to these anecdotes is a pen-and-ink

sketch of ' t'oald jolly jist', just as Joe might have seen him
sitting in his carriage, with the bag of fossils at his feet. It is

believed to have been drawn by Mr J. E. Davis, and, if so,

belongs to a period long subsequent to that we are now con-

                                      Sedgwick on a geological excursion, reduced from a
                                                                pen-and-ink sketch.

sidering. Fashions, however, did not alter rapidly in those
days, and it may well represent Sedgwick, hat (generally a
white one), coat, and all, as he appeared when exploring

2;6 SEDGWICK AT WASTWATER.

Lakeland in 1822. It was on one of these expeditions that

the following experience occurred, which shall be told, as
Sedgwick used to tell in dramatic form
S. S.

                            !
                                a

                                 it,
                                         a

                                                                     ?

                                                 it

                                         of I

                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                         :

                                                                   of
Scene. A room in a small wayside inn near Wastivater. Enter

Professor Sedgwick, dressed as in the above sketch, very hungry,

 calling for the landlady.

S. What have you got to eat
L. There's nothing in the house.

      Nothing What did you have today for dinner?
L. Potatoes and bacon.

S. Very well. You didn't eat all, suppose. Warm me up

what's left.                                                                                              the potatoes and

Exit Landlady, returning presently with the remains
                   bacon, and a pot ale. Sedgivick cats heartily.

    (having finished his dinner.) What's to pay, missus?
L. Happen eight pence wouldn't hurt ye
     S. Nay, here's shilling for ye.
Landlady takes the shilling, and produces four greasy pennies from her

                                                              pocket, which she lays on the table.

S. (pushing them back.) Nay, nay, you may keep them.
L. (after a long and earnest look at him.) I'm thinking that you've
seen better days.

1    On returning to Cambridge after the first of the above-                                                a
                                                                                                                              a
                 amentioned tours Sedgwick was fully occupied for time with
                               alectures and geological work generally. But before the end                  ;
of October serious interruption occurred, in the shape of
                                                                                                                            a
contested election for the University1. It was not natural for
him to keep long out of any political contest, and this par

ticular occasion offered irresistible attractions. The burning
question of the day was Catholic Emancipation, in favour of
which, as related in the third chapter, he had already taken

prominent and decided line in the University. The excitement
in the country was so great that a complete settlement of this

important matter could not be much longer delayed but the
conservatives had no intention of yielding without an obsti

nate struggle, and constituency such as that of Cambridge,
composed in the main of clergymen, was easily roused to

enthusiastic action by the cry that the Church and the Protest-

      John Henry Smyth, M.A. of Trinity College, who had been M.P. for the

University since 1812, died 20 October, 1822.

       CONTESTED ELECTION FOR UNIVERSITY.      257

ant ascendency were both in danger. Several candidates                            18.
                                                                                        37-
presented themselves, but these were presently reduced to
three : Mr Manners Sutton, Speaker of the House of Commons,
Lord Hervey, and Mr Robert Grant1. The success of the

Speaker, a conservative, was considered certain, when he felt

himself obliged to retire (2 November), in consequence of an
unexpected difficulty respecting his office. Two days after
wards Mr Scarlett* came forward. At this juncture it seemed

probable that the University would find itself in an anomalous
position. The three candidates now in the field were all in
favour of Catholic Emancipation, as was the sitting member,
Viscount Palmerston. Unless therefore a conservative could

be found, and returned, a body which annually petitioned the
House of Commons against the Catholic claims would

be represented by two members voting against its own
petition. Before long, however, Mr William John Bankes8
came forward, as determined an opponent of concession as
could be desired ; and, before the day of election Mr Grant

retired. The three candidates left after these various changes
were all of Trinity College. Mr Scarlett, whom the whigs

seem to have specially adopted, and for whom Sedgwick and

his friends exerted themselves to the utmost, was already

a distinguished advocate, and had had three years experience
of Parliament as member for Peterborough. But he was not
popular, and besides, he had not come forward until most
votes were already pledged. Lord Hervey, who had pro
ceeded to his degree as a nobleman only a few months before

the election, was called a whig, but could have had no recom
mendation whatever except his relationship to Lord Liverpool,
and this accident, it is whispered, caused several influential

whigs to support him ' for private and personal reasons.' As
one of the pasquinades of the day put it :

     1 Fellow of Magdalene College, third wrangler and second Chancellor's
Medallist in 1801. After a distinguished career at the bar and in parliament
he was knighted and made Governor of Bombay, where he died in 1838.

     a James Scarlett, created Lord Abinger 1835, of Trinity College, B.A. 1790.
     B.A. 1808, M. A. 181 1.

S. I.                                      17

258 WILLIAM JOHN BANKES.

Hervey, pushed forth by Bury School

And backed by noble Liverpool,
First made his bow to Heads of Houses

And canvassed all their lovely spouses ;

The Ladies smirked, the Doctors smiled :
"What?                                          child?"
          g"i--vequaotvhoteBlotomfaielmd--ere"            Sir,
"A child                                        mark me,

He's nephew to the Minister1."

     Mr Bankes, immortalised by Macaulay on a subsequent
occasion as "our glorious, our Protestant, Bankes" -- was a
well-known, witty, popular, man of the world, and at that

time specially interesting as a traveller in the little-known
regions of the East. His personal canvass has been described
as irresistible. " What could I do, Sir ? He got me into the
centre of the great pyramid, and then turned round and asked

me for my vote," was an unwilling supporter's description

of the way in which a promise had been extorted from him.
These pleasantries might suit the study of a college dignitary;
but for the main body of the electors he provided more sub

stantial fare. He had no particular claims to represent the
University, and therefore wisely presented himself as "an
appendage to the anti-catholic idea*." His printed circular

announced "the most steady and decided opposition to any

measures tending to undermine or alter the established
Church"; a well-selected phrase of no uncertain meaning,

the value of which became evident at the close of the poll

(27 November, 1822), when the numbers were: Bankes, 419;
Hervey, 281 ; Scarlett, 219. Sedgwick's views on the contest
and the result are summed up in the following passage from a

letter written two months afterwards :

     "You wanted to know something about our election.
Bankes was principally brought in by the interest of the
country clergymen, who came up from all parts of England to

     1 Lord Hervey was eldest son of the fifth Earl of Bristol, created first

Marquess of Bristol 1826. His aunt married the second Earl of Liverpool. The
family seat is at Ickworth, near Bury St Edmund's.

     a This phrase occurs in a long and ably- written article on the election in

The Times, 29 November, 1822.

WILLIAM JOHN BANKES.                                                       259

vote for the anticatholic candidate. Undoubtedly all this was                     1822
                                                                                .lEt- 3
the operation of principle (though I think a mistaken one),
because all the Government influence was exerted for Lord
Hervey, the nephew of the Premier. The highest of our

Cambridge high-church men (such as Rennell1, Tatham*,
Calvert8, Wood4, etc. etc.) all went for Hervey, and thereby,

in my humble opinion, did themselves no honor. If Lord

Liverpool supported a relation, though favourable to Catholic

concession, they ought not to have left their avowed principles
to follow him. The whig candidate was not a popular one,
and was not heartily supported by the staunch men of his own
party. Our representative Bankes is certainly a very extra
ordinary man, and possesses a wonderful fund of enter

taining anecdote. When an undergraduate he was half sus
pected of being a Papist: and he almost frightened Dr
Ramsden5 to death, by building in his rooms an altar at which

he daily burned incense, and frequently had the singing-boys
dressed in their surplices to chant services. For a long time,
while in the East, he wore a long beard, and passed as a
faithful follower of the law of Mahomet. I don't think we can
depend on him as a man of business, though as a literary
character, and a man of large fortune, he is a very proper
person to represent us in parliament. For several years he
had four artists in his pay in Asia Minor, and even now
he has men employed in his service in Upper Egypt, exca

vating tombs and temples, etc6."

     The year 1823 opened gloomily for Sedgwick. He was
spending the Christmas vacation in Cambridge, arranging,

    1 Thomas Rennell, Fellow of King's College; B.A. 1810, Christian Advocate,
1816 -- 21.

2 Ralph Tatham, Fellow of St John's College; B.A. 1800, Public Orator
1809 -- 1836, and Master 1839 to n's death 19 January, 1857.
* Thomas Calvert, B.A. 1797, Fellow of St John's College, and Norrisian
Professor of Divinity 1815 -- 24.
    * James Wood, B.A. 1782, Master  of St John's College     1815 -- 39.
5 Richard Ramsden, one of the Senior Fellows of Trinity College ; B.A. 1786,

D.D. 1807.
    6 To Rev. W. Ainger, 1 February, 1823.

                                                              17-- 2

      26o DEATH OF HIS SISTER ISABELLA.

1823. with Henslow's assistance, the collection which the latter had
. 38- formed in Anglesea, when he was hastily summoned to Dent.

       His favourite sister Isabella had been for some time in a
       declining state of health, but no immediate danger was
       anticipated. Perhaps Sedgwick was not told the full truth.
      At last, towards the middle of January, he learnt that she
       was sinking fast.

            " I left Cambridge without delay," he wrote to Ainger,
       " but in consequence of the great quantity of drifted snow,
       which detained us one day on the road, I did not reach home
       till Friday afternoon. Nor could I even then have completed
       my journey had I not left the coach behind, and pushed
       through the snow, for the last three stages, on post-horses. I
       did not reach home in time to see my poor sister, but I had
       the mournful satisfaction of accompanying her remains to
       the grave the day after my arrival. She was blessed with a
       quiet and affectionate temper which greatly endeared her to
       every one of us ; and during her painful illness she exhibited
       a humble resignation to the will of God ; bearing with patience
       her afflictions here, in the Christian hope of being received
       with favour by her Maker in a place where there is neither
       sorrow nor suffering. The shock produced by poor Bell's
       death had such an effect on our sister Jane that she was
       delivered of a daughter on the day following. She and the
       child, I am happy to say, are both doing well. The young
       one is to have the name of Margaret Isabella after my mother
       and sister, and I hope to take upon me the duties of sponsor
       before my return to Cambridge. My Father, who has now

        almost completed his 87th year, has borne his late affliction

       with that patience we all expected from him. His mind is
      better regulated than that of any man whom I have ever had
       the happiness of knowing ; and, so far, he is enjoying, even
       in this world, the fruits of a well-spent life 1 ".

              1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 1 February, 1823. The dates given in the letter shew
           that Sedgwick left Cambridge on Tuesday 21 January, and reached Dent on Friday
           24 January.

DEATH OF HIS SISTER ISABELLA.  261

     Sedgwick says nothing about his own feelings in the above 1823.
letter ; but we know from other sources how bitterly he Mt-
deplored the loss of a sister who had been the companion
of his childhood, and for thirty years in after-life the object of
the best affections of his heart1. To him --with his tender
and affectionate nature --her almost sudden death was one of
those calamities under which a strong man does not break
down, but which he can never forget. Sedgwick's affection for
his sister was transferred, so to speak, to the child-niece
whose birth coincided with her death, and who became, as she

grew up, his chosen friend and indispensable companion.
After the death of her own father and mother, she resided

with her uncle whenever it was possible to do so, and made

his declining years happy by her tenderness and care. She
might well have been, as he was fond of calling her, his own

child.

     After this long digression, which the sequence of events

has rendered necessary, we must return to Sedgwick's geo
logical work. In 1823 and 1824, as mentioned above, he
continued his exploration of " the most intricate portions of
Cumberland, Westmoreland, and Lancashire*," but he did not
commit any of his conclusions to paper until 1831. In 1825
and 1826 he made no fresh geological explorations -- unless we
class under that head a very brief excursion in Sussex with
Dr Fitton. During these four years, moreover, he worked out
the information gathered in the period preceding his length
ened exploration of Lakeland, and was continually employed

in writing papers3, either for the Cambridge Philosophical
Society, the Geological Society of London, or the Annals of
Philosophy.

     Nor, while engaged upon these works in his study, did
he forget his Museum. His own reports, or those of the

      1 These words are used with reference to his own sister in a letter (dated
5 November, 1855) to Mr Lyell, whose sister had just died. See above, p. 53.

     2 Report to the Woodwardian Auditors, I May, 1823.
    * A detailed list of Sedgwick's works, which we have tried to make complete,
is given at the conclusion of this Biography.

262 ADDITIONS TO MUSEUM.

1822-1825. inspectors, chronicle in each year some important work done,
     37-4- or some valuable specimens added. Among these additions
            should be specially mentioned Mr Henslow's Anglesea

collection, arranged by himself, as before mentioned, during
the Christmas Vacation of 1822 -- 23 ; a palaeontological series
from the bone-caves of Yorkshire ; and a cast of " one of the

finest fossils preserved in the Museum of the Jardin des
Plantes, Paris," presented by Mr Chantrey1. Unfortunately

the University was, for the time, but little the better for these

treasures, on account of want of space in the miserable room
in which the Woodwardian collections were then stowed -- it

would be absurd to say displayed. This subject is dwelt

upon again and again in the reports of the Inspectors to
the Vice-Chancellor. We select, by way of illustration, a

single passage from their report for 1825 :

" While we request your notice of the valuable additions which

continue to be made to this Collection by the indefatigable labours
of your learned Professor, and regret that the Museum should be
incapable of containing them, we cannot forbear expressing our
hopes that the result of the Syndicate appointed to treat for the
purchase of the buildings adjoining the Public Library will be
favourable to that enlargement of the Museum which has been so

long"  desired.  disadvantage  arising from the present crowded  state of

       Of the
this place it would be needless for us to remind you ; but we feel it
our duty to advert to an inconvenience which the Professor is
suffering from the necessity laid upon him of receiving in his private

rooms those specimens which have lately been received or collected

by himself."

     Sedgwick's other occupations during these years are best

introduced by the following letters. Unfortunately none of
those written in 1824 have been preserved. His work in
Lakeland in the summer of 1823 prevented his presence at
the ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of The King's
Court of Trinity College --better known as The New Court --
which took place on Tuesday, 12 August, in that year. His

     1 Sedgwick's Report to the Woodwardian Auditors, 1 May, 1823.         Un
fortunately this is the only report by Sedgwick for those years that has  been
preserved, but the series of those by the Inspectors is complete.

              LECTURE TO LADIES.                                263

name, however, appears in the list of subscriptions as a             ^1825.

donor of twenty-five guineas; and we learn, on the autho-

rity of Professor Pryme, that he wished the name to be St

Michael's Court1, obviously in commemoration of Michael

House, which had owned the ground on which the new

buildings were to stand.

Dear Ainger,                   Trin. Coll., February 19, 1825.

            I am really for once ashamed of myself, and acknow
ledge that I ought to have written to you some months since.

One who has so often offended in the same way must needs

be a merciful judge ; I therefore venture to anticipate your
forgiveness, and even to request that you will show your

Christian temper by sending me an immediate answer. Pray
tell me what you have all been about in the parsonage of
St Bees. The young ones are now, I hope, all well. Give

my very kindest remembrances to Mrs Ainger and every one
of them.

     Now for my own adventures. In about ten days after we
parted I bent my way to Dent and spent a quiet week with
my father. I then proceeded direct for Cambridge, and only
reached my chambers about two days before I commenced
my course of lectures. I had a very large class, and as usual
was very busy during the term. Just when I thought my
labours were happily terminated I found that the whole

University was likely to be thrown into the greatest conster
nation by the sudden appearance of a kind of philosophical
mania which broke out among the Cambridge Blues. Un

fortunately for me their madness took a geological turn, so

that I was obliged, out of pure compassion, to administer

to them a sedative dose in the form of a three hours lecture.

Peacock tells me that you were greatly scandalised at the
news of this event; and that the electrical horror at this
academical innovation caused your hair to stand erect, and

your shovel to unfold itself.

              1 Recollections, p. 143.

         264 VISITS EDINBURGH WITH WHEWELL.

  1825.      A day or two after this act of homage to the Blues,
         Whewell and I started by the mail for Edinburgh. No words
Mt. 40.  of mine can convey to you any notion of the pleasure which I
         experienced when I first saw this magnificent capital. The

         imposing flutter of the old town, which rises, in utter defiance

         of all regularity, along the sides of a steep declivity terminating
         in a perpendicular rock crowned by the battlements of the
         Castle ; the beautiful symmetry and neatness of the new
         town ; the happy grouping of great masses of building with

         natural features of gigantic magnitude ; the beautiful glimpses
         of the Firth of Forth which from every elevated point is seen,
         like a great inland lake, winding between the shores of
         MidLothian and Fifeshire ; these are the elements which go to
         the composition of a picture, at least in its kind, unrivalled
         in the whole world. I will say no more of dead things, but
         I will speak of the living. We had excellent introductions,
         and in two days after our arrival, were so completely in
         society that we had not a moment to call our own. We often

         went out to breakfast, and always found the tables covered

         with beefsteaks, ham and eggs, divers varieties of salt fish,
         marmalade, jellies &c. &c. In a corner of the table you might

         indeed see a tea-urn and coffee-pot ; but these things are non
         essentials in a Caledonian fast-breaking. Having out of such

         materials contrived to lay a good foundation, we sallied out,

         and spent the morning in running about the different lectures,

         examining the different institutions, making excursions &c.

         &c. At six o'clock we returned to some of our new friends,
         and had a second experience of Scotch hospitality, and a
         most sumptuous report I must give of it. Our labours did

         not always end here, as we not unfrequently went out to

          evening parties, where we met Belles, Beaux, Advocates,
          Savans, and Craniologists. In short we saw everybody and
         everything. Of the Savans, Leslie1 and Brewster8 are the

         1 Mr, afterwards Sir John,   Leslie, then Professor of Natural  Philosophy  at
                                      Brewster: born 1781 ; died 1868.
         Edinburgh.  He died 1832.

         a Mr, afterwards Sir David,

VISITS EDINBURGH WITH WHE WELL.  265

most distinguished. The former is a short fat butcher-like                        185
figure with a red nose, and may be considered as a singular
pachydermatous variety of the human species. He is, however,
a man of very original powers, and possesses a great mass of

curious information. Brewster is in many respects the converse

of this. He is a thin gentlemanlike figure, and is so sensitive
and thin-skinned that you cannot touch him without making

him wince. The two philosophers hate each other most

cordially. Jeffrey we met over and over again. He is on the

whole a very agreeable man ; but you may perceive, in most

things he says, the tartness and causticity of the Edinburgh

critic. Walter Scott was unfortunately away during the
greater part of our visit : what we saw of him made us long
for his better acquaintance. He talks exactly as he writes,

and before you have been two minutes in his company he

begins to tell good stories. Several of his portraits, and above
all the bust by Chantrey, convey a most correct notion of his
person. The advocates are a very agreeable set of men, not
half so much the slaves of their profession, and on that

account infinitely better informed on subjects of general
interest, than our lawyers. But of all the people we met, the

Craniologists afforded us the most amusement. They are

perfectly sincere in their faith, tho' I confess I could only
regard them as a set of crazy humourists. We met many of

the Edinburgh Belles, Blue, Red, and White. The Blues,
like the Blues of other countries, remind one of the Blue Boar.

But among the Reds and Whites are many delightful persons,

of whom I have no time to write.

      On leaving Edinburgh we proceeded by the mail to Carlisle
and Kendal. From Kendal I posted to Dent, and only re

mained a day or two, as I found by a letter that I was pre

sented by the College to a small living near Cambridge1, which

I can hold with my Fellowship. A few hours after I reached
Cambridge I went up to London to be instituted. Tomorrow

    1 Shudy Camps, a village in the S.E. corner of Cambridgeshire, 15 miles from
Cambridge. The population, in 1831, was 418 ; the value of the vicarage, .146.

         266 WITH DR FITTOS IN SUSSEX.

  1825.  I read in. Such is the history of my life and adventures for

Mt. 40.  the last five months. Now, my good Doctor, I have sent
         you a long letter which you must answer. Let me repeat my
         kindest remembrances to Mrs Ainger and your family.

                                                                  Yours ever,
                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

             P.S. I have accumulated so many materials that I must
         remain at home the greater part of this year to digest and
         write. I have no less than four memoirs on the stocks. One

         of these will run out almost into a volume. I fear I shall not
         have much time for sermons, but I have hired a curate.

                       Tr1n. Coll., August 16, 1825.

         Dear Ainger,

                      I reached College on Friday evening, and since that

         time have been employed in settling my last quarter's bills,

         reading Scott's last novels, and writing letters. It has long

         been a custom with me to answer all my friends' letters

         immediately on my return to College from my vagabondizing
         expeditions. The task must be performed some time, and in
         this way it fills up a day or two in which otherwise I might
         not be employed in anything, for after rambling about in the
         open air one always sets very reluctantly to work in a dull

         college room.

             A day or two after we parted I proceeded towards the

         coast, and on my way passed thro' Canterbury, where we had
         the good luck to fall in with Metcalfe, who looks charmingly,
         and has a fine family about him. He conducted Dr Fitton

         and myself over Becket's tomb, and the other ecclesiastical
         buildings, which in general have more historical than archi

         tectural interest. On the whole I was rather disappointed
         with them. From Shakespeare's cliff we worked our way

         westward, examining the successive cliffs, hammer in hand,

         and making short excursions up the country wherever it
         seemed to promise anything good to our geological eyes.

WITH JAMES SEDGWICK AT FRESHWATER. 267

The weather was beautiful, but so intolerably hot that Fitton                 1825
                                                                            yEt- 40.
took fright, and ran home to take shelter under his wife's
petticoats. I had no wife to spread out her nether garments

over me, so I was compelled, like my old namesake, by the
sweat of my brow to go thro' my daily work. An account of
my labours, would, I know, be devoid of interest to the
uninitiated. Suffice it therefore to say that I sweated my

weary way as far as Bognor in Sussex, where the rocky cliffs

have entirely disappeared, and are succeeded by nothing but

sand and shingles, which offer but little scope for the exercise
of the hammer. This induced me to hire a boat, and make a

run direct for the Isle of Wight. The weather was delightful,

and the wind so favourable that we did not shift the sails

during the whole day. I shall never forget the glowing
beauty of the shores of the Isle of Wight as we swept up
the channel. The ships of war at Spithead were firing the

evening gun just as we reached the pier head at Ryde.

    Next morning I pounded forward to Freshwater, and took
up my quarters with my brother, where I remained a month.

Between dinner-parties, water-parties with the ladies, and
geological expeditions to every corner of the Isle, I contrived

to pass the month most deliciously, and I left the place with
infinite regret this day week. As it blew a stiff breeze from
the right quarter I was induced to hire a boat, in which James
accompanied me to Portsmouth. At first we bounced over

the waves right merrily, but a heavy swell from the west
turned our mirth into sadness, and produced such internal

qualms that our stomachs almost came out thro' our teeth.
We therefore made for Cowes harbour, and "spliced our
main braces " with a glass or two of brandy, which acted like

oil on the troubled waters, and produced a dead calm in the
peristaltic regions. The rest of our voyage was performed

pleasantly enough.
     The following evening we spent in the dock-yard with Dr

In man1, who kindly showed us everything in his power. I

             1 One of Mr Dawson's senior wranglers. See above, p. 65 note.

         268 VISIT TO PORTSMOUTH.

1825.    have seen this great naval arsenal two or three times before ;

Et. 40.  but I rejoice to say that I am as much alive to its interest as

         ever. My bedroom windows looked over the harbour, and

         the old Victory with an Admiral's flag at the main-top was at

         anchor within 200 yards of the house. As I rose very early

         to see my brother off, and the coach for London did not start

         till ten, I had an opportunity of hiring a boat, and rowing
         about the harbour for an hour or two, during which time I

         flew off into a fit of heroics which it would be impossible to

         describe in less than another sheet of paper. The state of the
         elements kept up this fit for the rest of the day; for we
         travelled to Town in the midst of claps of thunder and flashes

         of lightning. Near Petersfield a house which had been set on

         fire by lightning was blazing as we passed.
              I only remained one day in Town, and here I am with

         plenty of employment for the next month. If I can finish a

         paper which I have on the stocks in a reasonable time I shall
         try to be at the York Meeting1, and from thence I shall (D. V.)
         proceed by Leeds to Dent. My kindest remembrances to
         Mrs A. and my young friends.

                                                                       Yours ever,

                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

                       Lord Palmerston's Committee Room.

         Dear Ainger,  December 29, [1825].

                      Strange things come to pass. I am now in the Com

         mittee room of a Johnian, a Tory, and a King's Minister; and

         I am going to give him a plumper. My motives are that he
         is our old Member, and a distinguished Member, and that I
         hate the other candidates -- I mean with public and political

         hate, without private malice. Bankes is a fool, and was
         brought in last time by a set of old women, and whenever
         he rises makes the body he represents truly ridiculous.
         Copley is a clever fellow, but is not sincere, at least when

                 1 The Musical Festival which took place at York, September 13-- 16.

   SUPPORTS VISCOUNT PALMERSTON.                                                 269

I pass him I am sure I smell a rat. Goulburn is the idol                                   1826.
of the Saints, a prime favourite of Simeon's, and a subscriber
to missionary societies. Moreover he squints. Now, my                                    Mi-
good fellow, though I believe you have the liberality of a
great Inquisitor, yet I think you will hardly vote against
your own college, your own friends, and the cause of common

sense.

                                                              Yours ever,

                                                             A. Sedgwick.

    P.S. If you don't give at least one vote to Lord Palmer-

ston, I shall think you have rusted in the country, and lost

your wits1.

Dear Ainger,  Dent, February 18, 1826.

             When we last parted I had no thought of finding
my way so soon to Dent, but here I am at the corner of a

breakfast-table in the old Parsonage, and the Pastor and his
wife are making such a noise that my powers of attention
must, I fear, be suspended, and my language incoherent. I

will, however, do the best I can in making my way through
three pages of this sheet. After I returned to College my

whole time was taken up with a dull geological paper* which

I was endeavouring to bring to a close, in order that it might

appear in the Annals of Philosophy for next month. But my

operations were interrupted by a letter from my sister, which

informed me that my Father was much debilitated, and that
he exhibited some symptoms of an incipient dropsy. I
showed the letter to Haviland, and he advised me to come

down, as a complaint of that kind would probably carry off a
man of my Father's very advanced age in a few weeks. In
consequence of this advice I met the Leeds coach at Alcon-
bury Hill on Saturday last ; spent the following day with my

     1 The poll-book shows that notwithstanding Sedgwick's efforts Dr            Ainger

voted for Sir J. S. Copley and Mr Bankes.

     a On the classification of the strata which appear on the Yorkshire coast.

.

270 VISITS PARIS WITH WHEWELL.

26. old pupil Charles Musgrave (who resides on his living near
       Leeds), and on Monday night reached my Father's house.

He am happy to say, very much better than expected,
   iIs,                                                           I
                                                                         I
          is
                      a                                                             is
and, on the whole, looks nearly as well as he did when left

him in the autumn. His legs are good deal enlarged, but
                                  is,
                                                   a
the disease makes very slow progress, and, thank God, he

quite free from pain. He however, languid and drowsy, and

sometimes for minute or two, even when awake, inattentive

to what   about him. On the whole, however, there                            is  no

sign whatever of any sudden change, and he should not get  it if
worse in course of next week shall return to Cambridge and
                                  II
finish my lectures. Indeed never expected that he would

live over the year, and the only wish which his dearest friends

have now any right to express         is,  that                   may please God

to preserve the faculties of his mind, and release him from

a  life, now only of labour and sorrow, without the additional

burden of much bodily suffering.

   After the illumination your mind received at Cambridge,

not to mention a conversation one evening at your Father's

house, you will, am sure, rejoice to hear that Lord Palmer-
   :
                                                           now quite certain. My
             it
                is I

                          a
                                                       is
ston's success at the next election

best regards and love to all your family. My sister says she

will cross the first page of my letter. She shall have her

mind but                 dangerous thing to drive fresh sentences

over my rugged text.                                       Yours ever,
                                                               A. Sedgwick.

                                  [Tr1n. Coll., February, 1827.]

   Dear Ainger,

              Whewell and left Cambridge the day after our

commemoration (the 17th December), and went as far as Hyde
Hall, where we spent the evening with Sir John Malcolm. Next
morning we posted to town with the old General in time for

breakfast procured our passports, and went by the night
coach to Dover. As soon as the tide served we embarked
         ;

                               I

CUVIER, HUMBOLDT, LAPLACE.               271

in a steamer, and in two hours and a half were at the pier        1827.
                                                                ^Et-
head of Calais. In two more days the diligence conveyed us

to the place of our destination. I intended to have written to

you, and I thought about it every day I was at Paris, but

I never had time. With the exception of two short letters to
my Father which I regarded as a matter of positive duty, I

did not write a line to any one.

    My time was spent in the French capital delightfully, and
I hope profitably. I attended public lectures, examined

public institutions, and became in some measure acquainted

with several men whom I before knew only by reputation.

Many of the leading literary and scientific men give soirees,

that is evening parties, once a week, at which any one may

attend who has been introduced. Three of these I regularly

attended : on Wednesday evenings at the old Marquis de

Laplace's, on Thursday evenings at Professor Arago's at the

Observatory, and on Saturday evenings at Baron Cuvier's.

These parties were delightful. They assemble about nine,

and break up about twelve. You meet there the first literary

men of France, and you may talk or not as you like, for there

is no restraint or ceremony whatsoever.  Baron Humboldt is

perhaps the most interesting character   I have met, and I

rejoice to think that I have in some     measure formed his

acquaintance. We have exchanged one or two letters, and I

will endeavour to keep the ball up. He gave me up two

mornings, which I considered a great compliment from one

who is so much engaged. The day before I left Paris I

called on old Laplace and had a long talk with him. He

is thin and emaciated ; but posessses great mental vigour

for a man of 78 years. He asked a great many questions
about Cambridge, and then began to talk of the Catholic

Question. 'A Roman Catholic priest,' said he, 'cannot be

a good man, for he is cut off from the rights of manhood,

has no sympathy with other men, and only plots for the

aggrandizement of his own order. He cannot be a good

subject, for he acknowledges an authority which is external

           272 LAPLACE, BISHOP LUSCOMBE.

1827.      and superior to the executive of his own country. You have
      42-  these fellows down -- keep them down -- if you admit them

           to power they will only endeavour to destroy those who lifted

           them  up  '    What do you think of this from a French Peer,
                      !!

           and a nominal Roman Catholic ? I talked to him in French,

           but I have translated what he said as literally as possible.
           I found many more men in Paris in the same mind. I also

           saw some good English society, and received very great

           civilities from Bishop Luscombe1. Pray what is the exact

           history of his consecration, and of his objects ? I did not

           exactly make them out. I have many other things to tell

           you, if I had time and paper-room, but I must leave some

           thing till we meet. When must that be ?

           On my return from Paris to London I was three successive

           nights on the road without being able to rest myself for a

           single hour. The cold in France was horrible*.

                Give my affectionate remembrances to your family. Take
           care of yourself*. I don't however think that writing a short

           letter would do you much harm.

                          Yours most affectionately,
                                                 A. Sedgwick.

               It is provoking that this letter should be the only detailed

           account of the six or seven weeks which Sedgwick spent in

           Paris. He always spoke of the visit as having been not only

           agreeable, but also extremely profitable. He learnt, at least

           to some extent, what continental men of science were doing
           and thinking -- for at that time Paris was unquestionably the
           scientific centre of Europe -- and so paved the way for the

                1 An English clergyman consecrated (20 March, 1825) by the Primus of
           Scotland, as ' a missionary Bishop for the superintendence of such of the English
           clergy and congregations in France, Belgium, and Holland as were willing to
           acknowledge his episcopate.' He also acted as chaplain to the British Embassy

           at Paris.
                * The Rev. Joseph Romilly, Fellow of Trinity College, whose diary will be

           frequently quoted in subsequent years, notes under 5 February, 1827 : ' Sedgwick
           came alone in the malle-poste from Paris, with hay twisted round his legs.'

                3 Dr Ainger had just recovered from a severe illness.

       RECOLLECTIONS OF LAPLACE.                                     273

researches into continental geology which he undertook soon                      1827.
afterwards. Moreover he added to the Woodwardian Museum
" a considerable geological series from the neighbourhood of                   /Et-

Paris, collected partly by his own hands, partly by the
kindness of his friends, and partly by purchase.1 "

     The above letter may be supplemented by a few details

derived from conversation :
     " Laplace was a rather small man, with a white neck-tie,

looking very like a parson, though he was reputed to be
almost an atheist, as indeed was the case. He was then very
old, and used an old man's privilege, retiring to bed at about
nine o'clock. Arago was a fine-looking man, with a very fine

wife, and a staunch republican. Laplace on the contrary

was weak, and always shifting his politics according to the
time. This led at last to such a quarrel between him and
Arago that it was not usual for persons to attend the soirdes
of both. When Laplace was near his end Arago saw a man

at his own soiree who usually went to his rival, and re
marked ' Ah ! he sees old Laplace is going, and so he has

come to me.' It was usual for a visitor, when once introduced,

to go regularly, and it was considered rude to cut many

soirees consecutively. Laplace gave only tea and coffee,
but Cuvier, after his soiree was over, would sit down with a

few friends to tea and apple-pie.

     " I believe that I was the last person (not of his own
family) who ever saw Laplace*. I called on him before my
departure, and sent in my card, as a formal leave-taking. To
my surprise he received me, and I saw that he was in the
humour for a good talk. He looked very ill, his voice was

broken, sounding shrill, like a whistle, and his chin rested on
his breast. He said he had desired above all things to visit
 Cambridge, the scene of Newton's discoveries, but that first
 want of means, and then the Revolution, had prevented him.

     1 Report to the Woodwardian Auditors, May, 1827.  March  1749,  and died
     3 Pierre-Simon, Marquis de Laplace, was born 23                 18
5 March, 1827, aged 78.

S. I.

         274 RECOLLECTIONS OF LAPLACE.

1827.    ' Are you a clergyman     '  he  inquired.  ' Yes.' ' A Protestant
                                ?
Et. 42.
         clergyman ? ' ' Yes.' ' Is there any objection to clergymen

         marrying ? ' ' On the contrary, a clergyman who does not

         do so is thought rather unwise.' Then, after some remarks

         about priests who could not marry, and therefore could

         not be good men in relation to humanity, and who obeyed

         a foreign despot and therefore could not be good citizens,

         Ihe proceeded : ' wish I could see your education at Cam

         bridge. I am convinced that you are right in entrusting it

         to protestant clergymen. English clergymen can be good

         members of society and good citizens, and I have found out

         late in life that it is impossible to govern without the help

         of some religion.' He referred to Catholic Emancipation,

         then occupying the attention of Parliament, and said it would

         be an unwise measure : ' You have your foot on the Catholic

         priests, and you  should     keep  it  there    '  This was called
                                                       !

         being ' liberal ' in those days. After a long and earnest talk

         he said 'Good bye,' and that night or the next day I left Paris.

         On arriving in London I heard that he was dangerously ill.

         The news had probably travelled in the same coach as I had.

         He died soon afterwards1."
              Sedgwick used to tell several other stories -- about Cuvier

         and his daughter Clementine -- Humboldt --and other scientific

         men whose acquaintance he had the good fortune to make,

         and very amusing and characteristic they were ; but un

         fortunately no one took the trouble to write them down.

         Dear Ainger,                       Tr1n. Coll., March 3, 1827.

                      Your letter reached me this morning, and I do
         most heartily congratulate you on your new elevation in the

         Church8. When I mentioned the circumstance in Hall, every

              1 This account is derived from notes of a conversation held in Sedgwick's rooms
         on the evening of Sunday, 6 November, 1870, written down immediately after
         wards by Dr Glaisher, Fellow of Trinity College, through whose kindness it

         is printed here.
              2 Dr Ainger had just been made Canon of Chester.

                     GENERAL ELECTION.                                                      27s

one who remembered you was quite delighted : and all agreed                                            1827.
that the manner of the appointment did the Bishop1 the

highest honour. May you long live to enjoy this and still
higher dignities. A thousand times greater than these things

   however, the blessing of health, and rejoice to hear that
is,                               I
               no longer withheld from you. Give my affectionate
      it                            I
           is                                     a
now                                                      is

remembrances to your sister and all your children.      I                               II  hope
                                                                    aI
they do not forget me.            must try to come down in course of

the year to rub up their memories.

On Saturday finished my lectures and immediately came
                  I

to Sir John Malcolm's to spend day or two.                                              only returned
yesterday, and am now looking forward to                                                good spell of

hard work. By the way, was made Vice-President of the

London Geological Society at the last annual meeting*. But

this honour brings no grist. There no manger in my stall,

so that notwithstanding my V.P.G.S. at the tail of my

signature,     I  may die of hunger. You plainly see                                        have

nothing to write about so, my dear fellow, let me once more

congratulate you and wish you a very good night.

                                    Yours ever,
                                           A. Sedgwick.

     The General Election of 1826, when Sedgwick was a

member of Lord Palmerston's committee, was fought on the

same general lines as the bye-election of 1825. The con

servative victory on that occasion had inspired hopes that the

second seat might be won for the anti-catholics, and every

nerve was strained to effect not only the return of Mr Bankes,
but the defeat of Lord Palmerston. " This once liberal Uni
versity," said a writer in The Times, " seized at this moment
it

      1

                       a

                                                                              a
                                                                                 3
                                                                                     7

                                                                  is
with such         violent horror of the Pope that in its panic

forgets the services of an old and tried member, and would

        Charles James Blomfield,  D.D., former Fellow of Trinity College, was
Bishop of Chester 1824 -- 1828.   He and Sedgwick were godfathers to Dr Ainger's
son.
                                                       February, 1827.

                                                                            l8--2

       276 RANKES AND GOULBURN.

1826.  fling him away with as much unconcern as an old glove1." In
Et-    addition to the sitting members, Mr Bankes and Lord Palmer-
       ston, two new candidates presented themselves: Sir John
       Singleton Copley, then Attorney-General, and Mr Goulburn.
       It soon became evident that Copley, from his brilliant legal

       reputation, added to an explicit declaration that he was, and
       always had been, " decidedly adverse " to the claims of the

       Catholics8, was certain to be returned, and it became a

       question whether Bankes or Goulburn would do well to retire.
       As the former wrote : " by our both standing it is obvious to

       everybody that we are weakening the Anti-Catholic Interest,
       and frittering away the strength of our great cause*." There
       upon he authorised his Committee to institute " a fair com
       parison of strength, upon the understanding that whichever of

       the two should prove to be the weakest, should give way to
       the other," but the suggestion was declined, as Goulburn had
       pledged himself under any circumstances to go to the poll.
       This episode inspired a clever ballad4, a few stanzas of which

       are still worth reading :

                     Bankes is weak, and Goulburn too,
                         No one e'er the fact denied;

                     Which is weakest of the two,

                        Cambridge can alone decide.
                     Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
                     Which is weakest, Cambridge, say.

                     Goulburn of the Pope afraid          is,
                        Bankes as much afraid as he;
                                                                         ;
                     Never yet did two old ladies

                        On this point so well agree.
                     Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
                     Which weakest, Cambridge, say.
                     a
                       is
                     Each different mode pursues,

                     Each the same conclusion reaches

                     Bankes  is  foolish in Reviews,

                     Goulburn foolish in his speeches.

                     Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,

                     Which weakest, Cambridge, say.
                             is
                                                  Sir John Copley's address,  19 December,
                                               *
       The Times, 13 June, 1826.
       4 1                                                                                 1825.

          ItMr Bankes to Mr Goulburn, 10 June, 1826.

                 is  printed at length in The Times, 16 June, 1826.

PAYMENT OF OUT-VOTERS.                      277

Bankes, accustomed much to roam,                                           1816.

   Plays with truth a traveller's pranks ;                               jEt. 41.
Goulburn, though he stays at home,

   Travels thus as much as Bankes.
Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
Which is weakest, Cambridge, say.

     Sedgwick never did anything by halves, and the few letters
from friends which he thought worth preserving show that he
left them no peace till they came round to his views. The most
liberal were evidently not a little scandalised -- complained
of being obliged to " pick the best out of a bad pack "-- and

the like ; but in the end they voted as he had suggested.
The result showed the unwisdom of divided counsels, for,

though Copley headed the poll with 772 votes, Palmerston
was second with 631, while Bankes and Goulburn had re

spectively 508 and 437 The poll-book shows that Sedgwick
ultimately voted for Copley as well as for Palmerston, as did
a large proportion of the members of Trinity College.

     Another matter connected with this election must be

briefly noticed, as it made a great stir in the University,
and Sedgwick's name appears in connection with it. For
some years the expenses of non-resident electors had been

defrayed by the candidate for whom they voted. It was

notorious that the last election had cost a vast sum, and
several stories were current of the way in which the liberality

of the candidates had been abused. It soon became apparent

that the practice would not be discontinued on the present
occasion ; indeed some leading members of one of the com

mittees had been heard to say, with cynical frankness, that
" whatever might have been the expenses of the last election,
they were nothing compared with those which would probably

be incurred at this." It was manifest that if such usage were

not stopped, not only would grave scandals arise, but the
choice of University representatives would be limited to men

of large fortune. Under these circumstances an attempt was

made to induce the four committees to agree in refusing to

                               1 The poll was taken 13-- 16 June, 1826.

         278 PAYMENT OF OUT-VOTERS.

  1826.  pay any expenses. The committees of Sir John Copley, Lord
         Palmerston, and Mr Goulburn agreed to do this, but that
Mt. 41.  of Mr Bankes declined even to discuss the subject. Some

         further negotiations were entered into, but without effect, and
         the subject would probably have dropped, had not Mr Lamb,

         Master of Corpus Christi College, and Mr Henslow, drawn up

         a " recommendation " to the following effect :

             "A very general expression of regret having manifested itself

         among the Members of the University at the practice of out-voters
         receiving their expenses from the respective Candidates for whom
         they voted ; the undersigned resident Members of the Senate
         earnestly recommend that this practice should not be renewed at the
         ensuing election."

              This document was signed by 102 members of the Senate,

         among whom were seven Heads of Colleges, the Proctors, ten

         Professors (including Sedgwick), several Tutors, and generally

         most men of consideration in the University. It was therefore

         easy to see on which side the opinion of residents, without
         distinction of party, had been enlisted : but with non-residents

         the case was far different, to judge by the literature which the
         movement called forth. Nor was their wrath appeased by
         the extraordinary conduct of two members of the Senate, who

         on the day of election insisted that the oath against bribery

         should be administered to each voter as he came to the Vice-

         Chancellor's table1.

              It was not long before Sedgwick had another opportunity
         of voting against Mr Bankes. The elevation of Sir J. S.
         Copley to the peerage as Baron Lyndhurst, in April, 1827,

         rendered one seat once more vacant. The candidates were

         Mr Bankes, Mr Goulburn, and Sir N. C. Tindal, but Goulburn

              1 The history of this question will be found in : Remarks upon the payment of
         the expenses of out-voters at an University election : in a letter to the Vice-
         Chancellor of Cambridge. By the Rev. John Lamb, Master of Corpus Christi

         College, and the Rev. J. S. Henslow, Professor of Botany. 8vo. Camb. 1826:
         Observations upon the payment of the expences of out-voters at an University

         election, occasioned by remarks upon the same subject, by the Rev. the Master of
         Corpus, and the Rev. Professor Henslow. By a non-resident Master of Arts.
         8vo. Camb. 1826 ; and several letters in The Cambridge Chronicle, 28 April --

         16 June, in the same year.

                         DEFEAT OF BANKES.                                    279

retired before the day of election. Both the remaining candi-                                        1817.
                                                                                                          *2-
dates professed the same principles on the question in which

the electors were most interested, and therefore all they had
to do was to choose the best man. Tindal, a former Fellow of

Trinity College, was personally popular, and had a brilliant

forensic reputation ; Bankes, now that the interest in his

travels had worn off, had lost the favour of residents, and in

his own college polled only 78 votes against 191 recorded for
his opponent. The country clergy, however, were still faithful

to him, and it was on this occasion that Macaulay wrote The

Country  Clergyman's Trip to Cambridge. An Election Ballad1.

         As I sate down to breakfast in state,

            At my living of Tithing-cum-Boring,
         With Betty beside me to wait,

         I Came a rap that almost beat the door in.

            laid down my basin of tea,
            And Betty ceased spreading the toast,

         "As sure as a gun, Sir," said she,
            "That must be the knock of the post."

         IA letter -- and free -- bring it here --
                 have no correspondent who franks.
         No ! Yes ! Can it be ? Why, my dear,
            'Tis
         "  Dear  our    glorious, our Protestant,  Bankes.
                   Sir,
                         as I know you desire

         I That the Church shall receive due protection

            humbly presume to require
            Your aid at the Cambridge election.

         It has lately been brought to my knowledge,

            That the Ministers fully design
         To suppress each Cathedral and College

            And eject every learned divine.
         To assist this detestable scheme

            Three nuncios from Rome are come over,
         They left Calais on Monday by steam

            And landed to dinner at Dover.

But, amusing as the whole poem      we have no space for
                                    is,

                                                                                                  :
further quotation. The result of the election was decisive

Mr Bankes polled only 378 votes against 479 recorded for his
opponent, and, as The Times anticipated, he did not again

offer to represent the University.

1  Miscellaneous Writings of Lord Macaulay, 8vo. Lond. 860, ii. 41
                                                    1                         appeared
                                                              9

                                                                          3.

                                                                      It
originally in The Times, 14 May, 1827. The Poll was taken -- n May, 1827.

         280 COLLEGE FRIENDS.

  1827.  Amidst the bustle and excitement of the election Sedg-

Mt. 42.  wick did not neglect his Museum. His next report (dated
         1 May, 1827) records the acquisition of "a large collection

         of very magnificent fossils, (chiefly the property of the late

         Mr Parkinson, author of a work on the organic remains of a

         former world1) which were purchased during last month at a
         public auction ;" and "a collection consisting of more than a

         thousand specimens of fossil shells, collected in the Isle of
         Wight by the Woodwardian Professor, and arranged by Mr

         Sowerby of London."

             It will be remembered that when Sedgwick first became a

         Master of Arts he found the society of the Fellows somewhat

         uncongenial. There is happily no evidence that such feelings

         were of long duration, nor do his subsequent letters betray

         any hint that he was otherwise than happy in his college

         surroundings.  Besides, in no place does society change so

         rapidly as in a University ; and in the years which intervened

         between 181 2 and 1827 the Fellowships at Trinity College
         had been filled by a succession of very remarkable men. Most

         of them, when their worth became known, attained to high

         distinction in the University, in the Church, or in the world ;

         but, while they remained in Cambridge, they formed a society

         whose social charm and intellectual brilliancy has never been

         surpassed. They differed widely in tastes, in politics, and

         in intellectual pursuits; but they were united by common

         interests, by a common devotion to their College and their

         University, and not only lived together harmoniously, but in

         many instances formed intimate friendships. Some, like

         Sheepshanks, Thirlwall, Macaulay, Airy, stayed for only a

         short time ; others, like Robert Wilson Evans, Peacock, Hare,
         Thorp, gave many of their best years to College and Uni

         versity work ; while Romilly and Whewell devoted their

         whole lives to the same objects.

              1 Organic Remains of a former World: an examination of the mineralized
         remains of Vegetables and Animals of the antediluvian World, generally termed
         extraneous Fossils. By James Parkinson. 3 vols. 4to. Lond. 1804 -- 11.

COLLEGE FRIENDS.  281

     Among the Fellows here named Sedgwick's dearest friend                      1827.
was undoubtedly Romilly, whose diary is nearly as full of                              42-
Sedgwick as it is of himself. Next to him we would place
Whewell, whose insatiable love of knowledge, especially scien

tific knowledge, led him to add geology to the other depart
ments of his omniscience. He therefore entered heartily
into Sedgwick's pursuits, and for many years they were
inseparable friends -- not only seeing a great deal of each
other during term, but travelling together in vacation. After
wards, when Whewell became Master, they drifted apart, and
their friendship was interrupted by more than one misunder
standing ; but it is pleasant to be able to record that their
quarrels were not of long duration, and that in any serious
difficulty, or grave sorrow, Whewell always turned to the

ready sympathy of his old friend. But Sedgwick could be

approached from many other sides than geology ; he was no

specialist, in the modern sense of the word, and those we
have mentioned had no difficulty in finding a large space of
common ground on which to build their friendship. He was

probably the most popular man in the college, and his rooms
the chief centre of attraction. Intimate friends were glad,
when their own work was over, to enjoy his original conver
sation, and not seldom his extravagant fun : while strangers
delighted to make the acquaintance of a learned Professor
who could talk on general subjects as well as they could

themselves, and who was always ready to lay aside his own
occupations for a while for the sake of their profit and

amusement. It is not too much to say that of the leading

men in Cambridge sixty years ago, no one made so lasting or
so favourable an impression on all who were brought into
contact with him as Sedgwick.

     Genial as he was to all-comers, his special pleasure was to

entertain ladies and children, whom he amused in all manner

of quaint ways, and sent home with a store of memories that

    1 An account of the diary kept by the Rev. Joseph Romilly has been given in
the Preface.

          282 FONDNESS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

1827.     never faded from their minds. One of the first of these
          incidents which has been recorded befell in 1825. Mr
     4J-  Leonard Horner, the geologist, had come with his family
          to Cambridge, and the whole party, including the children,
          breakfasted with Sedgwick. It was his first meeting with
          Miss Frances Horner, afterwards Lady Bunbury, then a
          pretty child of ten. When breakfast was over, he declared
          that she should be made a Master of Arts. So she was
          decorated with a cap and gown, which of course trailed
          far behind her on the ground, and thus attired, ran across
          the college grass-plots. Forty years afterwards Lady Bun-

          bury reminded him of the incident, and quoted a passage
          from her childish journal : " We got a most delicious break
          fast -- muffins, tarts, all sorts of nice things. Mr Sedgwick
          was so kind as to give us some minerals." Another wel

          come, in which Sedgwick took part, equally warm-hearted,
          though less boisterous, has been commemorated by Lord
          Macaulay's sister, Lady Trevelyan. She went to Cambridge

          in 1 83 1 with her sister and brother: "On the evening that we
          arrived we met at dinner Whewell, Sedgwick, Airy, and
          Thirlwall : and how pleasant they were, and how much they
          made of us happy girls, who were never tired of seeing, and

          hearing, and admiring ! We breakfasted, lunched, and dined
          with one or the other of the set during our stay, and walked

          about the colleges all day with the whole train1."
               What has been said of Sedgwick's college friends leads us

          naturally to Hyde Hall, and its hospitable tenant, Sir John
          Malcolm, who has been already alluded to in a letter. Sir

          John, after a distinguished career as a soldier in India, and

          a diplomatist in Persia, had returned to England in 1822,
          and for a time fixed his abode at Hyde Hall, a large and

          commodious mansion near Sawbridgeworth. During the five

          years that he inhabited it it was the favourite resort of Hare,
          Whewell, and Sedgwick, who have all, in different language,
          sung the praises of the master and mistress, and of the society

                                           1 Life of Lord Macaulay, ed. 1881, p. 129.

SIH JOHN MALCOLM.                       283

they gathered round them. Hare, speaking of what conversa-      1827.
tion ought to be, described Hyde Hall as "a house in which I
hardly ever heard an evil word uttered against anyone. The
genial heart of cordial sympathy with which its illustrious

master sought out the good side in every person and thing,
seemed to communicate itself to all the members of his

family, and operated as a charm even upon his visitors1;"
Whewell spoke of his acquaintance with the Malcolms as
one of the bright passages of his life8; and Sedgwick, as

might be expected, was even more enthusiastic and out

spoken. After one of his early visits he wrote :
     " Sir John has more of the elements of a great character

than any other man I have had the happiness of knowing.
As a mere author his rank is high, but with all this he is a
great oriental scholar, has been three times ambassador at the

Persian Court, has ruled empires with wisdom, and com
manded victorious armies ; and, what is of more consequence
in his own house, he is one of the most rationally convivial
men that ever sat at a table, or romped with a family of

smiling children*."

    It is not improbable that in Sedgwick's eyes the smiling
children were not the least attraction that Hyde Hall had
to offer. He at once established an intimacy with all of

them ; but his particular friend was the third daughter
Kate. He won her affection in the first instance by carrying

her on his back, and as she grew up he established a cor
respondence with her, which was carried on regularly until

his death. His letters were all carefully preserved, and it is
from this series that some of the gravest, as well as some
of the most amusing that he ever wrote will be selected.

     In the next chapter we shall describe the geological work
which Sedgwick undertook in conjunction with Murchison,

first in Scotland, and then in Germany ; but, before entering

1 Guesses at Truth, ed. 1871, p. 528.
 Life, p. 239.
3 To Rev. W. Ainger, 27 October, 1826.

284 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.

upon this new field, it will be well to review what he had
accomplished alone in the nine years which had elapsed since

he was elected Woodwardian Professor.
      When Sedgwick began to work, geology was still in its

infancy. Until recently, theory, rather than induction based
upon the observation of facts, had held undisputed sway ;
and, after the publication of such works as Woodward's
Theory of the Earth, the rival opinions of the Wernerians and
Huttonians had divided so-called geologists into opposing
camps. While these profitless battles were proceeding,
William Smith, whom Sedgwick rightly termed " the Father
of English geology1," had shown that the proper sequence
of the strata might be readily ascertained by observation of
the fossils characteristic of each, and that by this means the
composition of the crust of the earth might be arrived at--a
pursuit likely to lead to more valuable results than theories of
the forces by which that composition had been moulded. This
discovery-- the importance of which it is difficult to realise at
the present day -- worked a revolution. Theory was aban
doned -- the mineral composition of rocks, together with the
whole science of mineralogy, ceased to be studied by geo
logists pure and simple-- but, instead, a number of accurate
and painstaking observers set to work in different parts of
England to note the sequence of the strata, their relations
to each other, and above all their characteristic fossils.
Sedgwick became an ardent member of this band of ex
plorers. His earlier papers, and some of his admissions
in conversation or at lecture, show that, like many of his

predecessors, he had once been a mineralogist, and a staunch
Wernerian. In his first paper, for instance, several pages are
devoted to an enumeration of the mineral constituents of the
Cornish rocks ; but this does not reappear in any subsequent
treatise, and as for Werner, we find him dismissed with a
jest : " For a long while I was troubled with water on the

    1 In his eloquent Address on handing him the first Wollaston Medal, 18 Feb

ruary, 1831.

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 18 18--1827.  2S5

brain, but light and heat have completely dissipated it ;" and

on another occasion he spoke of "the Wernerian nonsense I

learnt in my youth." The first of these utterances might be
understood to imply an allegiance to the rival views of

Hutton ; but such was by no means the case. Throughout
his geological life Sedgwick -- thanks no doubt to his mathe
matical training --was no theorist. He held firmly to induc
tive observation, and, if he did advance a view, he took care
to avoid the dangerous position of those who "view all things
through the distorting medium of an hypothesis1."

    It must not be thought, from what has been here advanced

respecting the changes in geological methods, that geology
had been made an easy study. The right road had been

pointed out, but there remained many a tangled forest to
pass through, many a steep mountain-side to scale. And, as
we review Sedgwick's share in geological progress, it will be
found that he always aimed at that which was most difficult,

and that he did not often stop until he had reached a point
beyond which, even at the present time, our data do not

warrant us to advance.

    Sedgwick's first paper, On the Physical Structure of those
Formations which are intimately associated with the Primitive

Ridge of Devonshire and Cornwall, recording the observations
made during the summer of 18 19, was read to the Cambridge

Philosophical Society 20 March, 1820, and published before
the end of that year.

     He begins with a short notice of the New Red Sandstone,

a deposit with which he was no doubt already familiar in the
Eden Valley. He points out that these New Red conglomerates

and sandstones are distinct from those which underlie the
Mountain Limestone on the Banks of the Avon ; but he does

not deny that sandstones of this earlier age occur among the
schistose rocks of Devonshire ; thus, seventy years ago, sug
gesting, contrary to the opinion of all previous writers, the
equivalence of some of the Devonian Rocks with the Upper

    1 Letter to Ed. Annals of Philosophy, 11 March, 1825. Vol. IX. p. 250.

286 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.

Old Red. He collected fossils from the Devonian limestones,
and from their character, and from a consideration of the
stratigraphical position of the beds in which they occurred, he
arrived at the conclusion that they might be referred to a
formation distinct from the Mountain Limestone, and be

longing to an earlier epoch.

    It would be hard to find a better description of the physical
geography and general structure of the part of Cornwall
examined than that given by Sedgwick. He points out that

the surface of the moors where the granite rocks predominate
is covered " by granite boulders, the remains of larger masses
of the same kind which have gradually disappeared, through
the corrosive action of the elements," and explains the
Loggan-stone as one of such spheroidally-weathered masses.
Then, after describing the granite as a crystalline aggregate
of quartz, felspar, and mica, he points out-- with reference to
some of the elvans which often resemble outwardly a fine
sandstone -- that " varieties, arising from the loss of one of
these ingredients, or from the addition of some other mineral,
are by no means uncommon ;" notices and comments on the
microliths in the felspar crystals, and the doubly-terminated
crystals of quartz from other similar rocks ; and, lastly,
contests the opinion of De Luc that the great divisional
planes of the granite represent lines of bedding. Having
enumerated the different varieties of granite, he concludes
in general that the granite of Cornwall " is a true granite,
the oldest primitive rock of the Wernerian series"-- an ex
pression that does not convey any very clear idea to a modern

geologist.

     When he comes to the question of the relation of the
granite to the overlying rocks, he is hampered by the then
prevalent views of both Wernerians and Huttonians. The
position Sedgwick takes up is this. The granite is the most
ancient rock, because the killas, and other rocks, rest on it.
The granite-mass and its veins cannot have been thrust into
the killas because there is no displacement along the junction,

                    GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818--1827.                                 287

such as would necessarily result from protrusion of the granite.

The killas seems to have been deposited on the granite mass,
and the dykes must be contemporaneous with the killas --
                Ifmust represent some portion of it.
thatit                                                 he had ex
        is is,
plained that the only way in which this was possible was

by the dykes, or some of them, being portions of the killas

assimilated to the granite by alteration along the more open

divisional planes, he might have gained much support for his

views at the present day. But he has left this not very clear,

for impossible to imagine that he could have supposed

that the killas was laid down among number of preexisting
                      it
protruding dykes.
     His description of the mode of occurrence of the granite,a
                                        it
the elvans, the killas, and all the associated phenomena, can

hardly be improved as far as goes.

     The relations of the rocks known as the Old Red were not
clearly understood seventy years ago-- can hardly be said
that they are beyond controversy at the present time -- and

sufficient data had not yet been collected for establishing or

refuting the various explanations suggested by Sedgwick. But,

whatever may be thought of the results of the paper, everyone

who reads must be struck by the author's familiarity with
                it

the methods of field geology, with mineralogy, and with

the general literature of the subject. It was written too with

no external help, so far as we know, except what he might

have obtained from Mr Gilby and his cousin, and before
he had had the benefit of Mr Conybeare's experience. We

are fully prepared to admit that, taken by itself, this paper

throws considerable doubt on the truth of the story that

Sedgwick knew no geology when he was appointed to the

Woodwardian Chair in  but, when we consider by the
                it

                                             1
                                            18
                                                 8
                                                         ;

                                                                             a it
light of the evidence which we have collected in favour of

that view,          proves that by steady application                            man of

talent may be able to make observations of the first order

in the field two years after commencing the study of the

subject.

288 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-1827.

     The memoranda which Sedgwick made on this expedition
supplied him with materials for a second paper, On the

Physical Structure of the Lizard District, read to the Cam
bridge Philosophical Society 2 April and 7 May, 1821. It
discusses the relation of serpentine to the adjoining rocks,

and, it should be noted, suggests that its origin may be meta-
morphic, but without expressing any definite opinion on the
subject -- a position he would have been justified in taking
up even after much fuller investigation than he was able
to bring to bear upon it -- as may be inferred from the
fact that the origin of serpentine is still considered a matter
of such doubt and difficulty that at the International Geo
logical Congress held at Bologna in 1881 it was the subject

set apart for special consideration.

    In 1 82 1 Sedgwick published a Syllabus of a Course of
Lectures on Geology, for the use of his pupils. The older
palaeozoic rocks had not been yet worked out -- he was
himself the first to put them in order some ten years later--
but he gives a classification of the sedimentary rocks which
holds good in all essential points at the present day. It is
very interesting to compare the syllabus of 1821 with the
second edition of 1832.

      Both commence with an introductory chapter, dealing
with the history and progress of Geology -- the distinction
between Natural Philosophy and Natural History -- ancient
speculations on the Theory of the Earth -- and the connection
between Geology and other branches of Natural History. In
the first syllabus it struck him as more important to empha
size the connection of Geology with Mineralogy, in the second
their separation. In 1821 the views of Werner and Hutton
were still subjects for difference of opinion, and consequently
in the first syllabus prominence is given to the old cata
clysmic theories, but in the second they are very briefly
noticed under the heading " Ancient Theories," and the first
chapter ends with " True mode of conducting geological
speculations." This is succeeded by seven pages of notes

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.                                                    289

which might form a rough index to Lyell's Principles. A

section headed : " The great inequalities presented by the
surface of the earth," is succeeded by another : " On the great
agents by which the earth's surface is modified, and on the
effects which have been produced by them during known
periods." Among the examples of such agents it is interesting
to find "Coral Reefs" enumerated, when it is remembered that

in this very year Darwin began to work in South America,

where, as he tells us1, he first thought out his theory of their
formation. The last division of this introductory portion is
headed : " Ancient alluvion (" Diluvial detritus ")--including
all superficial transported aqueous deposits which are un

connected with the present mechanical action of the waters."

It is obvious that alluvium could not be considered without
some notice of the organic remains contained in it; and,

having regard to the very decided attitude taken up by
Sedgwick afterwards in the discussions relating to the An
tiquity of Man, the following headings are worth transcription,

as shewing that even at this period of his scientific life he had

begun to pay attention to this question.

     Organic remains. (1) In rolled masses derived from older
formations. (2) Land and marine shells. (3) Bones of mammalia
of extinct and living species, &c., &c. No human bones (?).

     Description of some remarkable species.
     Great local deposits of bones, formed before or during the period
of the ancient detritus. Examples.
      Ossiferous caverns, osseous breccias, etc.

     Sedgwick always paid great attention to palaeontology, and

we find him recurring to the subject of organic remains in the

same syllabus, Part II. (p. 13), concluding with "Importance
of organic remains -- in the identification of contemporaneous
deposits -- in determining the successive conditions of the
earth." He fully recognised the value of palaeontological
evidence. As early as 1822 he insisted upon the importance
of an intimate acquaintance with certain branches of natural
history. "Without such knowledge it must be impossible to

    1 Life of Charles Darwin, i.  70. The theory was     communicated to           the
                                  Proceedings, ii. 552.                        19
Geological Society 31 May, 1837.

         S. I.

290 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.

ascertain the physical circumstances under which our newer

strata have been deposited. To complete the zoological

history of any one of these formations, many details are yet
wanting1." He always carefully collected fossils, and referred
them to the best authorities he could find on each special group

for determination ; but, while he appealed to palaeontological
evidence whenever he could, he always maintained that the
first thing was to get the rocks into the right order in the field.

     Sedgwick's arrangement of stratified rocks in the two
syllabuses shews his gradual emancipation from the theories
of Werner. In the first the term "transition rocks" stands as

the heading to a chapter ; in the second he discusses, at the
end of a chapter : " Origin of the term Transition -- with what
limitations it is applicable to the upper series -- no clear line
of separation between the two." Again : in the first he

worked up from the transition rocks through the stratified

series in ascending order. It is true that while treating them
he pointed out the "great variety of fossil species", and taught

the "principles of classification of organic remains founded on
the classes of recent species", and dwelt upon the "connection
of fossil species with particular strata*;" but it is a very

suggestive fact that in the second syllabus he reversed the
order, and worked down from the better known to the more

obscure, shewing that he now more fully realised the truth

that the history of the earth must be deduced from a study
of the operations of nature which we see going on around us

at the present time. A sketch pasted into his own copy of

the second syllabus shews that among other illustrations he
cited in his lectures the floating island of Derwentwater, and
the sources of springs in the neighbourhood of Cambridge.
The execution is better than that of the sketches which
ornament some of his letters in later life, the rudeness of

which he used playfully to deplore.

    1 Letter On the geology of the Isle of Wight, 17 March,     1822.  Annals of
Philosophy, N. S. iii. 329.

     8 Syllabus, ed. 182 1, Chapter IV. Transition Rocks,  a.

              GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.  291

    It is pleasant to read a good practical paper founded on
original observation in which the character of dykes is so well

discussed as in the paper on the Association of Trap Rocks
with the Mountain Limestone Formation in High Teesdale

which Sedgwick read to the Cambridge Philosophical Society
in 1823 -- 24. He points out that dykes are of all ages,
and refers them to an igneous origin in the following passage :

" It is a matter of fact, which is independent of all theory, that
an enormous mass of strata has been rent asunder ; and it is
Ifprobable that the rent has been prolonged to the extent of fifty or
sixty miles.  we exclude volcanic agency, what power in nature is
there capable of producing such an effect? By supposing such

phenomena the effects of volcanic action, we bring into operation no
causes but those which are known to exist, and are adequate to

effects even more extensive than those which have been described."

     In describing the columnar structure it did not escape his

notice that the prisms were arranged at right angles to the
cooling surfaces. He mentions also the common mode of
weathering into great balls by the exfoliation of successive
layers from the joint faces.

    Sedgwick contributed a paper to the Annals of Philosophy
for April and July, 1825, on the Origin of Alluvial and
Diluvial Formations, in which he distinguishes the older

formations, which we should now call " drift ", from the

generally newer alluvial deposits. He points out the anoma
lous position and irregular distribution of the boulders which
occur in the drift; but that glacial conditions had once been

prevalent in our island, and over extensive tracts throughout
the northern part of our hemisphere, had not at that time been
recognised. There is still much difference of opinion as to
whether the "drift" of certain districts is due to land-ice, or to
icebergs ; and, if we translate the views of those who hold the
iceberg theory into the language of Sedgwick's time, we shall
find that the observations which he records are not far wrong
as to the direction of the currents which distributed the "drift".
That he did not recognise the exact mode of transport is only
to say that he had not that familiarity with glaciated districts

                                                                    19 -- 2

2'J2 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.

which enabled Agassiz to suggest the agency of ice. He
referred the accumulation of the diluvial detritus to the
action of water ; he concluded that the floods which produced
it " swept over every part of England -- that they were put in
motion by no powers of nature with which we are acquainted
-- and that they took place during an epoch which was pos
terior to the deposition of all the regular strata of the earth."

     As this question has acquired fresh importance from the
recent invocation of a flood of waters as the sole agent in the
deposition of the drift, the following passage, written it will
be remembered sixty-three years ago, will be read with
interest. Sedgwick maintained that while the evidence for the
truths of revealed religion was of a totally different character
from that by which physical laws are established, still the con
clusions at which we arrive in the two cases should not be con
tradictory ; and his statements on these questions are always
fair and liberal, and far in advance of the age in which he lived.

     " As we are unacquainted with the forces which put the diluvian
waters in motion, we are also, with very limited exceptions, unable to
determine the direction in which the currents have moved over the
earth's surface. Many parts of the north of Europe seem to have
been swept over by a great current which set in from the north. In
some parts of Scotland there has been a great rush of water from the

*******north-west. The details given above, show that the currents which

have swept over different parts of England have not been confined to
any given direction. It may, perhaps, be laid down as a general rule,
that the diluvial gravel has been drifted down all the great inclined
planes which the earth's surface presented to the retiring waters.

    I"The facts brought to light by the combined labours of the

modern school of geologists, seem, as far as comprehend them,
completely to demonstrate the reality of a great diluvian catastrophe

Iduring a comparatively recent period in the natural history of the
earth. In the preceding speculations I have carefully abstained from

any allusion to the sacred records of the history of mankind ; and
deny that Professor Buckland, or any other practical geologist of our
time has rashly attempted to unite the speculations of his favourite
science with the truths of revelation1.

     1 Professor Buckland's Reliquiae Diluvianae ; or. Observations on the Organic
Remains contained in Caves, Fissures, and Diluvial Gravel, and on other Geological
Phenomena, attesting the Action of an Universal Deluge, had been published
in 1823.

          GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818-- 1827.                             293

     " The authority of the sacred records has been established by a
great mass of evidence at once conclusive and appropriate ; but

differing altogether in kind from the evidence of observation and

experiment, by which alone physical truth can ever be established.

It must, therefore, at once be rash and unphilosophical to look to
the language of revelation for any direct proof of the truths of
physical science. But truth must at all times be consistent with
itself. The conclusions established on the authority of the sacred

records may, therefore, consistently with the soundest philosophy, be
compared with the conclusions established on the evidence of

observation and experiment; and such conclusions, if fairly deduced,
must necessarily be in accordance with each other. This principle
has been acted on by Cuvier, and appears to be recognized in every
part of the "Reliquiz Diluviana". The application is obvious.
The sacred records tell us -- that                                    ago "the
fountains of the great deep were    a few   tuhpou"s--anadnd  years
                                    broken                      that  the earth's

surface was submerged by the waters of a general deluge ; and the
investigations of geology tend to prove that the accumulations of
alluvial matter have not been going on many thousand years ; and

that they were preceded by a great catastrophe which has left traces
of its operation in the diluvial detritus which is spread out over all

the "stBraettaweoefnthetheeaserth.conclusions, derived from sources entirely in

dependent of each other, there                  general coincidence
        it                          therefore,
            is
                                              is

                                                              is,
                                                                             :a
                                                                                                                          a:

                                                                                                                   it
which     impossible to overlook, and the importance of which

would be most unreasonable to deny. The coincidence has not

been assumed hypothetically, but has been proved legitimately, by an
immense number of direct observations conducted with indefatigable
labour, and all tending to the establishment of the same general

truth1."

    At the end of the paper an appendix, giving an account
of some changes in the channels which drain the fen-land an

account full of interest to those familiar with the Humber

and its tributaries, and all the phenomena of silting-up and

warping. Sedgwick concludes as follows

    " If such extraordinary effects as those described in this note be

produced by the accumulation of alluvial matter in course of few
hundred years, we may be well assured that the whole form of the
neighbouring coast must have been greatly modified by the same
causes acting without interruption, and without any modification
from works of art, for 3000 or 4000 years."

     The letter On the Classification of the Strata which appear
on the Yorkshire Coast, which, like the last, was addressed to

the editors of the Annals of Philosophy, 20 February, 1826,

          Annals Philosophy, N. S. 1825, x. pp. 33 -- 35.
          1

                          of

294 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818--1827.

must not be wholly passed over in silence. It is based on

observations made in 1821, but which, after Sedgwick's
fashion, were not worked out for five years. His object in
writing it was to connect the phenomena observed in York
shire with those observed in other parts of England ; and it
contains, parenthetically, a good deal of information on the
geology of Weymouth and its neighbourhood.

     The value of the work done in Yorkshire appears again
in the splendid monograph On the Magnesian Limestone and

lower Portions of the New Red Sandstone Series, which was

read to the Geological Society at various intervals between
November, 1826, and March, 1828. Whatever turn geolo
gical research may take, this, with some other papers which
followed it in quick succession, must always be referred to as
standard works, which settled some of the disputed questions

of English geology. It is at once broad and minute : broad
in its generalisations -- for it places in order a complex group of

rocks which, until it was written, were in complete confusion ;
and minute in working out, through the whole of the district
selected, from Nottingham to the southern extremity of North
umberland, the boundaries of the different formations, and their
relations to each other. The labour which this research implies
is almost incredible ; the whole district appears to have been
gone over, probably on foot, and compass in hand. Every
quarry, cliff, and scar is made to bear its part in the general
result. In carrying out these researches it must be remem
bered that hardly any help was at that time available. Mr
Smith's geological map of Yorkshire had been published and
is constantly referred to, but Sedgwick notes that "geological
maps of the other counties through which the magnesian
limestone passes were not published at the time the observa
tions were made on which the greatest part of this paper is
founded1." Moreover, the Ordnance Survey was not yet in
existence. On this account it will be interesting, we think, to

     1 On the Geological Relations and Internal Structure of the Magnesian Lime
stone, etc., p. 43, note.


                                                                                            I

                Suction in the Direction of the Ltne, ab .\fAP .v-/.

                              MAP OF PART OF YORKSHIRE.

         lTo illustrate Sedgwick's paper on the Geological Relations anil Structure
                                                 of the Magnesian imestone.
                         (Trans. Gcol. Soc. I.ond. Ser. II. Vol. iii. Plate 4.)
To face pay 295, Vol. I.

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818--1827.  295

reproduce one of the maps which Sedgwick drew and mea
sured for himself. Difficult as his task must have been -- for

he could hardly have known much about practical surveying
-- it will be found that in accuracy of detail his unaided

efforts have only been superseded by the elaborate work of

the Geological Survey.

     The paper opens with the following prefatory sentences :

     "After the production of the rocks of the carboniferous order, the
earth's surface appears to have been acted on by powerful disturb
ing forces, which, not only in the British Isles, but through the
greater part of the European basin, produced a series of formations
of very great extent and complexity of structure. These deposits,
known in our own country by the name of new red sandstone and
red marl, and, when considered on an extended scale, comprising all
the formations between the coal-measures and the lias, notwithstand
ing their violent mechanical origin, have several characters in
common, which enable us to connect them together, and, for general
purposes of comparison, to regard them as one group. Great beds
of conglomerate, coarse sand, and sandstone, frequently tinged with
red oxyde of iron ; and of red marl, associated with innumerable beds
and masses of earthy salts, constitute, in many countries, the principal
portion of the group we are considering. Many of these salts,
though of almost constant occurrence among the rocks of this epoch,

have been developed with so much irregularity, that the attempts to
arrange them in distinct formations (when used for any purpose
beyond local description) have sometimes, perhaps, served to retard

rather than to advance our knowledge of the earth's history. The
great calcareous beds which were produced during this period form,
however, an exception to the last observation. They appear to have
been chiefly developed in the upper and lower portions of the system
we have been considering; and, though possessing some characters
in common, are sufficiently distinguished by their position and their
fossils to be separated into two distinct formations. The higher of
these (the muschel-kalk stein of the continental geologists) has no
representative in the series of rocks which have hitherto been
observed in our island ; the lower is represented by the great terrace
of magnesian limestone which ranges from Nottingham to the mouth
of the Tyne."

     In the next place, after noticing the "general want of

conformity to all the inferior formations" observable in the

magnesian limestone series, he cautions his readers against

pushing this kind of evidence too far:

     " We have no right to assume, nor is there any reason to believe,
that such disturbing forces acted either uniformly or simultaneously

296 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818 -1827.

throughout the world. Formations which in one country are uncon
formable, may in another be parallel to each other, and so intimately
connected as to appear the production of one epoch."

     Throughout the paper we find great care bestowed upon
the determination of the fossils found in the different deposits,
and a good many of the most characteristic are figured.
Sedgwick was of course very much excited by the discovery
of fossil fish in the marl-slate ; and he hunted up the speci
mens and fragments of specimens which had found their way
into private collections all over the country. When sub
mitted to De Blainville it was decided that they were almost
identical with the celebrated fish from the copper-slate of

Germany. At the end of the paper we find a short descrip
tive notice of three species, Palceothrissum magnum, P. macro-
cephalum, and P. elegans, illustrated by some excellent figures,

one of which is here reproduced, to shew the care with which
he elaborated his papers. Sedgwick followed up the study of
fossil fish in subsequent researches, and succeeded in getting
Alexander Agassiz, the Cuvier of ichthyology, to come to
Cambridge and examine his collection.

     The following classification of the rocks investigated, in
descending order, is given at the end of the paper :

      1. Upper red marl and gypsum.
      2. Upper red sandstone.
      3. Upper thin-bedded limestone.
      4. Lower red marl and gypsum.
      5. Yellow magnesian limestone.
     6. Marl and thin beds of magnesian limestone.
      7. Lower red sandstone.

     Sedgwick's account of the lowest beds of the group, as
thus arranged, is not always clear, but it may be explained,
we think, in the following manner.

      The Lower Magnesian Limestone passes down into red
or yellow sandy beds at Pontefract. So, in the Eden Valley,
the brockram or basement conglomerate of the Poikilitic
series rests on red and yellow sandstones. But these are of



PAL/EOTHRISSUM M ACROCEPH ALU M.
(Trans. Geol. See. Loud. Ser. II. Vol. iii. Plate 9.)

Vol I.


    GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1818- 1827.                 297

totally different age. In the sandy beds of the roadside cliff

near the great quarries just outside Pontefract Schizodus

obscurus has been found. These beds undoubtedly belong

to the Magnesian Limestone series. In the Eden Valley, on

the other hand, it was found by boring near Appleby that the

red colour did not extend farther into the rock than a little

over one hundred feet. The colour was obviously a stain

produced by infiltration from above. Again, there
       it                                          in the
                             a is,
Woodwardian Museum, a collection of fossil plants from the
                                                      :
north-west margin of the same area, obtained from red beds

formerly referred to the Poikilitic series, but which contain

nothing but carboniferous species. These facts obviously

account for the difficulties which have arisen from some

observers recording that the base of the Poikilitic series

graduated into the carboniferous, while others saw strong

discordancy between the two. The confusion has been

increased by an attempt to force the English classification

into harmony with the as yet unestablished sequence of

Germany, or the still less known deposits of Russia. On

this point Sedgwick makes the following admirable remarks

in   " Each country ought to be described without any accommodating
hypothesis, according to the type after which has been moulded.
But, comparing the unconnected deposits of remote countries, we
must act on an opposite principle; learning to suppress all local
phenomena, and to seize on those only which are coextensive with

the objects we attempt to classify."

     Whatever therefore may be convenient in respect of thea
Dyas of Germany, or the Permian of Russia, all attempts to
bracket the Magnesian Limestone of England and its asso
ciated red marls with the carboniferous rocks, instead of

making them the beginning of new series, forming the base
of the Secondary rocks, have been founded on stratigraphical
mistakes, and tend to perpetuate an unnatural classification.
Sedgwick's grouping of the New Red rocks of Britain, which
brackets the whole Poikilitic series together, will undoubtedly
stand the test of time.

                  CHAPTER VIII.

                                      (1827-- 1831.)

The Geological Society. First acquaintance with Mur-
      chison. Tour with him in Scotland. Office of Senior
     Proctor (1827). Joint papers with Murchison. Summer
      in Cornwall. Dolcoath Mine. Visits Conybeare in
      South Wales (1828). Sedgwick President of Geological
     Society. Divinity Act. Mr Cavendish elected Uni

       versity representative. Summer in Germany and the

     Tyrol with Murchison. Joint paper on the eastern
      Alps (1829). Address to Geological Society. Summer
      in Northumberland. Contested election of President
      of Royal Society (1830). Addresses to Geological

       Society (1831).

Sedgwick had been elected a Fellow of the Geological
Society of London in November, 1818. He could not have
attended the meetings regularly -- at any rate at first -- but
when he did go he thoroughly enjoyed them. In those early
days of the Society's existence -- it was but eleven years old
in 1 81 8 -- it was composed, as he has himself recorded, "of
robust, joyous, and independent spirits, who toiled well in the
field, and who did battle and cuffed opinions with much spirit
and great good will. For they had one great object before
them, the promotion of true knowledge ; and not one of them

was deeply committed to any system of opinions V In such

      1 A Synopsis of the Classification of the British Palaozoic Rocks, p. xc.

GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.                            299

an assemblage Sedgwick was sure to take a foremost place,
and we are not surprised to learn that some of his " most

honoured and cherished1" friendships originated in the Society.
Before long the value of his cooperation, from a scientific
point of view, came to be recognised; in 1824 he became a
member of the Council; and in 1827 a Vice-President. His
friend Dr Fitton, then President, in announcing his election to
the latter office, assures him that he feels " no small gratifica
tion in the prospect " of having him as a colleague ; and that
he will be most happy "to receive any suggestions for the
advancement of the subject or the welfare of the Society1."
This language affords conclusive evidence of the favourable

judgment which capable men of science had by this time
passed on Sedgwick ; before long the Society accepted him
as a leader, and much of " the generous, unselfish, and truth-

loving spirit that glowed throughout the whole body" was

probably due to his influence.
     Sedgwick soon became on excellent terms with the

fathers of the Society ; but it was with Roderick Impey
Murchison, then one of the junior members, that he con

tracted the closest alliance. The origin of this alliance, like
the origin of many great things, is shrouded in obscurity ;

but before we proceed much farther we shall find them

taking long geological expeditions together, and collaborating
in the Transactions of the Society. Murchison says that
" from his buoyant and cheerful nature, as well as from his
flow of soul and eloquence, Sedgwick at once won my heart,

and a year only was destined to elapse before we became
coadjutors in a survey of the Highlands, and afterwards of
various parts of the Continent8." Mr Geikie, on the other
hand, while fully admitting that his hero admired and

respected Sedgwick, gives a more practical reason for the
selection of him as a travelling-companion. Murchison was

1 Ibid. p. xcii.                        1827.

8 From W. H. Fitton, M.D., 8 February,
3 Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 124.

          3oo FIRST ACQUAINTANCE WITH MURCHISON.

   1827.  then a beginner in geology, and in 1826 had found himself

Mt. 42.   thoroughly puzzled by the problems presented to him in
          Arran and other parts of Scotland. He therefore "deter

          mined to return to the attack, bringing with him a geologist

          of ampler knowledge, and specially experienced in the
          complicated structure of the older rocks1." The geologist

          selected was Sedgwick, to whom he must have suggested a

          joint expedition to Scotland soon after his own return from
              for early in 1827 he writes: " Dinna forget the land of

          cakes, whiskey, and hospitality, where hope to act as your
          I it,                                          I
                 Iaide-de-camp which having been my old trade beforeI                                                                      if I
                      Ia
                                                                     I
                                                ;
          took to the road, enables me to say without presumption that

          am not bad caterer;" and Sedgwick replies (20 May):
            " am most anxious to accompany you to Scotland, and

          possible will be ready by the time you mention.                                                                   think told
                                                                                                                                        I

          you that am out at elbows, and that this sorry condition of

          my garments prevents me from going to Germany. You,                                                                              it

          seems, have lately been breech-less. So on the whole we shall

          exhibit good specimens of denudation.                                                                             hope the country

          we pass through will be induced to sympathize with us."

          Nothing happened to interfere with the proposed col

          laboration, and at the beginning of July, 1827, they started.

          The expedition was thoroughly successful. If Murchison

          gained an instructor, Sedgwick gained an agreeable com

          panion, whom, before they got home, he called his intimate

          friend, though                           may be doubted whether this friendship
                                                   it

                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                         ;
          was based on a surer foundation than mutual convenience.

          They wrote affectionately to each other Murchison signs
          himself " Rodericus," and Sedgwick replies with " Yours to

          the earth's centre," and so forth but, with the exception of

          one remarkable letter in which Murchison confesses his reli
          gious belief, or rather disbelief, to " the man of my heart8,"

          they wrote on geological subjects exclusively. Nor have we

          any evidence, either from personal recollection or from tradi

          tion, that Sedgwick ever spoke or wrote of Murchison in

          Geikie's Life Murchison,                                                                                          Ibid. 261.
          1

                                  0/
                                                             i.

                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                            i.
                                                   137.

               TOUR IN SCOTLAND.                                        301

the warm enthusiastic language he was in the habit of using                    1827.
towards those whom he really loved. Murchison, on the other
                                                                             ^t. 4
hand, sat for a time at Sedgwick's feet, and got twitted for his
hero-worship by those who adored less fervently. " Perhaps                    J
you know," writes Lyell to Scrope, " that he idolises even
more than the Cantabs ' the first of men,' as Adam is usually

styled there V It need not surprise us that such a friendship

came to an end as suddenly as it had begun ; and that the

closing years of both were saddened by an estrangement
which each regarded as due to the vindictiveness of the other.

     The special object of this first journey " was to ascertain,
if possible, the true relations of the red sandstones of Scotland8."
For this purpose it was agreed to commence with Arran, to
pass through Mull, Skye, Sutherlandshire, and Caithness, and
thence southwards by Elgin, Aberdeen, Forfarshire, Edin
burgh, Dumfriesshire, Carlisle, and Newcastle, to York. The

progress of the travellers as far as Rosshire is agreeably

related in the two following letters to Whewell, who seems to
have had, at one time, some intention of joining them.

Dear Whewell,                    Brodick, Arran, July 15, 1827.

              Men who work fifteen hours a day cannot easily

find time to write long letters. I am stealing a minute at the

breakfast table in a pretty Highland village under Goatfell,

or Gengevane. We arrived at Edinburgh without any

accident; not even the adventure of a bout of sickness. I

slept like a top within three feet of the engine during the

three nights we were out, and during the day we were

geologising the coast from the deck of the steamer. I only

remained one day in Edinburgh, and heard many tender

inquiries after yourself.

We coached to Glasgow, where we remained all night,

and next morning we steamed to Lock Ranza on the

north point of Arran. Here we have been nine days, with un-

1 Life of Sir C. Lyell, i. 310.  2 Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 139.

302 ISLE OF ARRAN.

7. interrupted fine weather. We have fairly done the island, and
42- have found a complete series of the Old Red, coal measures,

and Young Red.       The details have cost us some hard labour.

I hoped to have     run across to the coast of Ayr, but it was
                     Tomorrow we are off" for Bute-- thence to
quite impossible.

Oban and Mull, where we shall remain about a week. Then

we shall start for Portree in Skye. On this island we shall

remain a week or ten days. If you have a notion of joining

us, you may find your way by steamers from Glasgow to any

of these places with as much ease as you travel from London

to Liverpool ; and indeed with much greater ease. All the

lochs and arms of the sea are covered with steamers plying

in all directions.

I am delighted with what I have seen of the Highlanders.

They are good-humoured, high-minded, well-informed, racy,

and dirty. The day before yesterday at Loch Ranza I

asked a fine dark-eyed lass for a pair of slippers. She

immediately pulled off her own shoes and offered them to me,
saying : " I dinna want 'em. You may wear 'em yoursel

while I clean your ain." On returning yesterday over the

mountains we passed two fine lasses ; one had a green veil,
and the other a velvet reticule. Yet both were walking

without shoes and stockings. Our guide is a fine old man

whose mind is stored with traditions respecting all the

families in the Highlands. He told Murchison many

circumstances respecting his family history which quite

astonished him. He (Mr M.) said that he did not believe

any man in the world had known them except himself, and

he had only learned them from an old manuscript of his

grandfather's. My best regards to every body. Yours ever,

                    A. Sedgwick.

                    Ullapool, August 11, 1827.

Dear Whewell,

              We are waiting at a small inn on the north-west
coast of Ross, in hopes of better weather. Should it clear

ISLE OF MULL.  303

up, in a quarter of an hour we are off. I have only time for    1827.
a few lines which may give you some notion of our intended            42-
motions. Tomorrow and the next day we shall probably be
at Assynt ; Wednesday or Thursday we shall, if possible,
spend at Tongue (the seat of Lord Reay), from whose house
we mean to make an excursion to Cape Wrath. Afterwards
we turn to the north-east, and shall probably be at Thurso in
ten days from this time (on the 21st). From Thurso we
propose to coast by John o' Groat's, and to walk along the
shores of Caithness, Sutherland, and Rosshire, to Inverness.

This place we hope to reach in the second week of September.

If you have any disposition to join us we shall rejoice to see

you, and I can promise you a most hospitable reception from
the Highland Lairds. I will also promise you fair weather;
for I am quite sure that all the rain must fall on the west

coast. We have so much here that the clouds can have none

to spare for the east coast.

     I have neither time nor space for any description of what

we have been about ; but I will give you our track, and it may

serve as a text for some talk when we meet. We spent nine
active days at Arran, and from thence found our way through
the Kyles of Bute to Loch Fyne. We then crossed the Mull
of Cantyre, and coasted up to Oban and Ballachulish ; and

from the latter place we made an attack upon the primitive

chain, but were driven back by bad weather, and obliged to

take shelter in a steam-boat, which took us down Loch Linnhe

to Oban. From Oban we proceeded by the same conveyance
to Tobermory, on the north point of Mull. The weather then
cleared, and we had three or four glorious days at Staffa,

Iona, and the south coast of Mull. If ever you come among

the western Isles be sure to see the south coast of Mull.

The basaltic cliffs are most gorgeous. They are more than
equal to Staffa piled ten times upon itself. From Carsaig
Bay we crossed through the centre of Mull in a most dirty
condition ; the two shirts I had with me would have fetched
a good price from a tallow-chandler : but at Torliusk we

          304 ISLE OF SKYE.

1827.     again embraced our portmanteaus, and found a stock of soap.
          After spending two days with Lord Compton we started by
     4J-  the Maid of Islay up the magnificent Sound of Skye, waiting
          for a few minutes by the way under the lofty Scuir of Eig.
          We landed at Portree, and proceeded forwards along the north
          coast of Skye to the utmost limit of the great basaltic chain.
          The character of the coast is this : a base of lias and oolite,
          sometimes forming a cliff five or six hundred feet high ; over
          them great stacks of basalt rising several hundred feet above
          the horizontal beds. The tops of these form a kind of table

          land, at the back of which is a great basaltic chain rising
          about a thousand feet above the plateau. From some points

          you take in at a single view from a boat, the stratified rocks,
          the superincumbent columns, and the bristling top of the
          chain, and the effect is glorious. This is a dreadful country

          for storms ; you have such howling blasts along the coast
          that you might fancy that the gigantic columns of basalt
          were organ-pipes, and that the devil was blowing a tune
          through them. We examined the islands of Raasay, Scalpa,
          etc., and made some excursions to the south-west coast of

          Skye. Our attempt to cross the Cuchullins almost ended
          fatally. Lord Macdonald's forester was our guide ; but in a
          dreadful storm of wind and rain, accompanied with the usual
          mists, he lost his way. After wandering many hours in a
          state of great misery we at length escaped from a labyrinth of
          precipices by the help of my needle, and found our way to a
          farm-house. Since leaving Skye we have been working our
          way, hammer in hand, up the west coast of Ross. The
          country is magnificent, and the weather, till this morning,
          has been highly favourable. Fish is so abundant that we

          have nothing to do but light a fire and put on a frying pan,
          and the salmon find their way into it without help. My
          paper is out. My best regards to all Trinitarians. Yours

          ever,

                      COAST OF ROSS.                              y>5

off. How goes on the Translation1 ? Murchison is walking                         1827.
about with a cigar. He sends you his regards between the                               42-
puffs. Yours, A. S.

A third letter, written to Ainger three days later from

Assynt, where they were detained by bad weather, gives a few

additional particulars. Sedgwick was evidently thoroughly

happy. Everything was new, and strange, and delightful.
He enjoyed the geology, he enjoyed the scenery, we might

almost say that he enjoyed the bad weather and the rough
travelling. " Arran," he says, " is a geological epitome of

the whole world, and  moreover, eminently picturesque.
                      is,

                             it

                                                               I
                                                                  I
was greatly delighted with as the first place in which saw

the Highlanders in their native habitations. These indeed

are none of the best. Those of the lower orders have often

neither chimney nor window, and from the distance of two

hundred yards might be mistaken for peat-stacks." In Mull

they experienced some striking contrasts. One night they
" slept at whiskey-shop, and breakfasted in the same room
a

with the pigs"; the next they dined with laird, who gave
them venison and claret. Rosshire they found " very wild, no

roads, and what to us of much greater moment, no bridges.
                      is

                                    ;

                                                      is
                                                               a
The mountain-streams have become torrents, and some of the

rivers impassable, so that we have been exposed to much

fatigue, delay, and vexation and, what worse than all, we

have in one or two instances, after walking twenty or thirty

miles, returned without effecting the purpose for which we

started. One day we crossed upwards of forty streams, some
of which took us up to the middle and several times
                      a

                                                ;
yesterday our horses were nearly off their legs." Such were

some of the difficulties which geologist had to encounter in

the Highlands sixty years since.
     Mr Geikie, in his account of this journey, points out, as

indicative of Sedgwick's power of acute observation, that

        In 1828 Mr C. Hare and Mr Thirlwall published the first volume of their
translation of Niebuhr's Geschichte Horn's.

         S. 20
1

        I.

                J.

         36 CLEAVAGE.

1827.    he had already recognized the peculiar structure of rocks
         called " cleavage ", as distinct from stratification. When the
Et. 42.  travellers were examining the slate-quarries of Ballachulish
         they fell in with two German geologists, K. von Oeynhausen,
         and H. von Decken, whom Sedgwick tried in vain to convince
         on this point. The argument was long, and the rain heavy,
         but the Germans could not be made to see that there
         was any difference between the two classes of phenomena.
         This accidental meeting was the beginning of much agree
         able intercourse, which was continued in Germany two

         years later.

              Having seen as much of the west and north-west of Scotland
         as the weather would allow, the geologists explored the coast
         of Caithness, and thence made their way down the east coast,
         according to their original plan. On their way home Sedgwick
         at least paid a visit to Lyell at Kinnordy1, and then went for
         three days to Dent, before returning to Cambridge for the
         Michaelmas Term.

                          Trin. Coll. October 28, 1827.

         Dear Murchison,

         I received your letter on Monday last, and was

         greatly delighted with the account you have given of your

         proceedings. In return I have no news to tell you. My
         father I found in a state of extreme debility, and worn to a
         perfect anatomie vivante, but still without pain, and I might

         perhaps say in good health.

             After remaining with him three days I posted up to Cam
         bridge with all the expedition I could command, and only

         arrived just in time to be enthralled in my new office. Behold

         me now in a new character, strutting about and looking

         dignified, with a cap, gown, cassock, and a huge pair of
         bands ; the terror of all academic evil-doers-- in short a
         finished moral scavenger. My time has been much taken

         up with the petty details of my office, and in showing the

         1 Life of Sir C. Lyell, i. 199.

OFFICE OF SENIOR PROCTOR.  307

lions to divers Papas and Mammas who at this time of the                          1827.

year come up to the University with the rising hopes of their
family. Dr Greville and Co.1 spent two days in Cambridge

on their way to the south coast, where the Doctor means to

settle for the winter. Oeyenhausen and Decken have also

been here for two days, and seemed much pleased with their

visit. I wish I had been more perfectly disengaged for them ;
but Henslow helped me out. This week I have to make a

Latin speech to the Senate, not one word of which is yet
written ; I mean to write a new syllabus of my lectures, which
commence in about a week -- in short my hands are as full as

they well can be. I will, however, do the best I can for our
joint-stock work, and indeed I should not be afraid of what is

before me were it not for the weakness of my eyes. They

have been much worse since we parted, and have almost

entirely prevented me from doing anything by candle-light.
For some days I have abstained from wine, and have dined in

my own rooms in order to avoid the temptations of a College
Hall. In consequence of strict regimen, and cooling medicines,

I am now much better, but I am obliged to read and write as
little as I can help. Fitton wishes me to write a kind of

notice (I suppose in form of a letter) of what we have seen.
What do you think of this ? It might be put in, in our joint

names, as the harbinger of our joint-stock papers. In the
present state of my eyes, and with my 1001 engagements, I
fear you will find me a bad helper. I can only promise to do

my best, and this promise I make quite honestly.
    I fear you will have a long bill against me, but I must

cash up out of the profits of my new office. It was sheer

poverty which drove me into harness. My eyes ache with

what I have been writing ; and from the way in which I have

written I fear your eyes will be as bad as mine, before you

make out my hieroglyphics. Give my kindest regards to Mrs

     1 Robert Kaye Greville, LL.D., of Edinburgh, author of The Scottish Crypto-

gamic Flora, and other works.

                                                                         20 -- 2

       3o8 OFFICE OF SENIOR PROCTOR.

1827.  Murchison, and my congratulations on the good work she
Et-    has done during the summer1.

                                                       Dear Murchison,

                                                                 Yours ever,
                                                                   A. Sedgwick.

       The laborious office of Senior Proctor, to which Sedg

       wick refers in the above letter, had been offered to him by

       Trinity College ; and moreover he had been specially solicited
       by the Master, Dr Wordsworth, to accept it8. A certain

       amount of unruliness, not to say dissipation, had made itself

       apparent among the undergraduates, which could only be put

       an end to by severe measures carried out with discretion and

       strict impartiality. It was felt that Sedgwick, with his peculiar
       geniality, and known sympathy with the younger members of

       the University, had special qualifications for such a task.

       Proctorial stories have a strong family resemblance, and there
       fore we need not repeat any of those which still survive

       respecting his administration.  We will only say that he

       fully justified the hopes that had been formed of him. He

       detected several evildoers, flagrante delicto, and had them re

       moved from the University, without either losing his personal
       popularity, or imperilling the dignity of his office. With

       Sedgwick, however, even serious duties had their comic side,

       and many were his jokes at his own expense. Let us quote,
       as a specimen, the following description of his personal appear

       ance, which he sent to Murchison at the end of a string of

       reasons for not attending a particular meeting of the Geo
       logical Society: "You and Mrs Murchison would have laughed

       had you seen me enter the Senate House this morning at

       eight. I had a cap, bands, gown, and cassock --so far all was
       regular -- but under my silk petticoats appeared an enormous

            1 Mrs Murchison took a keen interest in her husband's pursuits, and frequently

       gave him considerable help by collecting fossils, and making drawings.

           2 This statement is made on the authority of W. H. Thompson, D.D., late
       Master of Trinity College.

                   JOINT PAPERS WITH MURCHISON.                                                           309

pair of mud boots, and I had a great woollen ruff about my                                                       1827.
neck as big as the starched cravat of my Lord Bacon. At nine                                                   .lEt-
the Examiners adjourn to breakfast, and I provided a large
pitcher of true old man's milk1, which operated delightfully, and
took the frost out of all our noses. We had kippered salmon,
and many other good things, which will make my Proctorate
quite celebrated ; and the remembrance of it will, for ages
unborn, continue to rise like a sweet odour in the nostrils of

our Alma Mater. I am sitting at the top of the Senate House

in an elevated arm chair, looking like an Inquisitor General,
and scowling down on two hundred and fifty poor devils who
are squeezing their brains to get out a few drops of mathe

matics8."

     Would that one of the two hundred and fifty victims had

occupied a few spare moments in executing a pen-and-ink
sketch of the Grand Inquisitor, that posterity might have
realised more vividly the truth of the above description ! As
it we must be content with silhouette of Sedgwick taken

during his year of office3. It gives good general notion of

his dress and figure, as he may have stood, watch in hand, to

announce to those who were being examined, that the clock
was about to strike, and that they must fold up their papers.

     The joint labour of Sedgwick and Murchison in the field
was to be succeeded by joint labour at the desk, -- the "joint-
stock" work alluded to in the letter of October 28th -- by which
they were to put the results of their tour into shape for presen

tation to the Geological Society at as early date as possible.
   was decided to write two papers: the one on the structure of

the Isle of Arran the other on the Old Red Sandstone of the
is,
                                                       a
                                                                  a

It                 ;                                                 a

      3a1                      a                                                                       a

               I.
        Sedgwick's name for the then popular combination of port wine, spice, etc.,

commonly known as "Bishop".
        To R. Murchison, 15 January, 1828. At that time the Senate House was

not warmed.

        The Cambridge Chronicle for 29 February, 1828, records: "Monsieur
Edouart, whose arrival we announced last week, has already met with con
siderable patronage from the gentlemen of the University." The silhouette from
which our copy was reduced was given to the Registry of the University by the
Rev. Romilly.
J.

310 JOINT PAPERS WITH MURCHISON.

north of Scotland. This proved a tedious and difficult matter.

If the two writers could have retired together to some lonely

spot, at a distance from all interruptions, their work might
have proceeded smoothly and rapidly to its conclusion. This,
however, they could not do, and therefore it had to be got

                  Sedgwick in 1838; reduced from a silhouette by Monsieur Auguste Edouart.

through by snatches, with the result that the summer of 1828
was far advanced before the second paper could be read to the
Society. This long delay was quite unavoidable, partly from
causes personal to the two writers, partly from the complexity
of the subject with which they had to deal. Murchison, as
will be seen presently, was not a little annoyed at it. He had
no distractions to take him away from geology. He was ten
years younger than Sedgwick ; he was the fortunate possessor
of a strong constitution ; he was ambitious, and eager for

         JOINT PAPERS WITH MURCHISON.                    3n

distinction in his new pursuit. Had he been left to himself            1827.
he would probably have written both papers in a very short                  *2-
space of time. But it must be recollected that he had not

Sedgwick's experience ; he had as yet published only one
paper -- and that not a long one ; and he could have had but
little idea of the labour of reducing extensive field-observa

tions. It is perhaps fortunate for his reputation as a geologist

that he had to submit to an enforced delay in coming before

the public.
     Sedgwick -- as our readers know already -- worked under

very different conditions ; and it was only when he was away

from Cambridge that he could give undivided attention to
geology. In this year too he was more than usually occupied.
His duties as Proctor ; his lectures ; his museum ; his parish ;

his ailments ; were all so many barriers to a speedy completion

of his share in the joint task. Moreover, his own paper on
the Magnesian Limestone, begun (as we have seen) in 1826,
had yet to be finished. This, however, he generously laid
aside, and proceeded as fast as he could with the paper on
Arran. The series of letters he wrote to Murchison while it

was proceeding is tolerably complete, and affords a more
graphic illustration than will again occur of the way in which
Sedgwick's work used to be hampered and impeded by in
cessant demands upon his time. The letters are valuable too
for another reason. They show how cordial the relations

between him and Murchison were at that period ; and how
anxious he was to give full credit to his friend for his share in
the field-work. The first extract refers to what Murchison

calls " a tiff I had with our warm-hearted but hot-headed
President Fitton, who had suspected that I was not doing

justice to Sedgwick1."

respect                                 Trin. Coll. November 3, 1827.

          "Your letter both vexed and surprised me. ..In one
         I am almost certain that you are labouring under a

         1 Note by Murchison on the back of the letter.

          MURCHISON'S SHARE OF THE WORK.

  1827.   false impression. I have again looked at Dr Fitton's letter,
^Et. 42.  and I cannot persuade myself that anything unfair was in

          tended towards yourself. He merely wished to give me a

          nudge on the elbow, knowing my habits of delay. At all

          events you may depend upon me, that nothing shall be done

          by myself without consulting you. Indeed, were I so disposed,

          you have me on the hip ; as all notes, sections, and indeed

          everything from which our future papers must be compiled,
          are in your possession. You worked harder in many respects

          than I did myself; and, till we reached the east coast, and

          indeed there also, you were my geological guide. I should

          therefore be an ass indeed if I thought of anything beyond

          what we meditated. On the whole, perhaps it is better to put

          in our papers one by one, and leave the results to the end,

          which may be exhibited in the form of a rhume' generate. I
          shall rejoice to see you here ; perhaps I may be in town next

          week to consult the cunning eye-man you mentioned. My
          eye is however much better. I have been water-drinking,

          and dephlogisticating, and certainly have reduced the inflam

          mation. My kindest regards to Mrs Murchison."

                                                   Senate House, Tuesday morning.

                                                                                        [13 November, 1827].

                        " Last week my eyes were in such a state that it was

          quite impossible for me to look over your penmanship1. Our

          Professor of Physic ordered me to abstain from strong drink,

          which I most religiously avoid, like a true Rechabite. He

          also recommended me to use animal food very sparingly ; and
          not content with this he put twelve leeches on my left temple.
          This treatment has produced a good effect, and if properly

          followed up will, I hope, put out the fire of my eye. I think I

              1 A sentence in the earlier part of the letter shows that Sedgwick here refers to
          the MS of Murchison's Supplementary remarks on the Strata of the Oolitic Series,
          and the Rocks associated with them, in the Counties of Sutherland and Ross, and in
          the Hebrides, read to the Geological Society 16 November, 1827. It is a con
          tinuation of the paper On the Coal-field of Brora, read 5 January and 2 February,

          1827.

ACADEMIC ENGAGEMENTS.  313

told you in my last that I don't look in a book by candle
light, and as my mornings are sufficiently taken up with lec

tures, and various other academic employments, I have truly

very little time for many things about which I wish to employ

myself. The whole of yesterday I was employed in attending
certain formal academic meetings. Today I had just com

menced, under the genial influence of the tea-pot, to read over

your notes, when, to my great horror, I was summoned to the

cold marble pavement of our Senate House, to administer the
matriculation oaths to the freshmen of this year. The men
are brought up, about twenty at a time, and swear in volleys.
While a fresh set are signing our books, paying fees, and

priming for the next broadside, I dip my pen in the inkstand,
and try to write a word or two ; in this way I have got so far

over the sheet at a rather hobbling pace ; but still I make

way.

     As soon as these swearing manoeuvres are over I will get

one of my friends to read over your paper to me, for I fear

my eye-sight will not bear the work, if I am obliged to put

it off till the evening. I will add tomorrow morning a few

notes if necessary, and forward it by "The Telegraph1" at

 10 o'clock."

                                            Senate House, Monday morning.
                                                              [13 January, 1828.]

     " It is not from want of inclination that I keep away from

town ; but of all the days of the year 1828, Friday is the one
on which I shall be most completely nailed down by engage
 ments. Our annual examination is going on, and does not
 end till Friday night, when the Moderators, and other exami

ners, will meet at my rooms to give in the final result which I

 shall have to publish in my capacity of Senior Proctor. On

 Saturday the degrees are taken, and I shall again have to
 officiate. I am truly sorry that I was not at the last meeting
 from the account you give of it ; besides, I was doing no good

          1 One of the coaches which then ran between Cambridge and London.

           314 PAPER ON ARRAN FINISHED.

1828.      here. My cold is better, or rather I am now going on with a
      43-
           second edition, which is not so voluminous as the first. My

           eyes, I am sorry to say, are no better, and plague me sadly.
           I set to work the evening of the day I last wrote to you and
           finished the peroration of our Arran Paper. It is cram-full of

           hypotheses, and truly may want defending; but you must
           stand up for me. I really think we shall between us set the

           coast-section at rest. I was, however, severely punished for

           my exertions ; for my eyes were so enraged at this treatment,

           that they gave me no rest for nearly a week after. Since I

           recovered I have written a few pages of the concluding part

           of my Magnesian Limestone paper ; and I can have some
           thing ready against next Friday fortnight, when I will, if

           possible, attend in proprid persond. Can you contrive to find
           a corner that evening for my gab ? I truly hope Mr Pentland

           will not have left London, as I want very much to talk with
           him about the fish1. Don't prepare any map, as I have a

           beautiful one by Decken, which he made at my rooms ex

           pressly for our Arran paper.
                I wish I had been at your soiree to have had a fight with

           Buckland ; at the same time I can't help saying that the fight

           against the footsteps is almost to destroy the evidence of our
           senses ; and this is going a long way. In plain truth I don't

           in this case know any better argument than that clencher of
           my uncle Toby, viz. -- " By G-- they are not footsteps*."

                                          Senate House, Tuesday evening.
                                                                    [14 January, 1828].

           Dear Murchison,

                       I am greatly obliged to you for your kind invitation,
           and truly mortified that I have it not in my power to avail

           1 Mr J. B. Pentland was a travelled gentleman of scientific and antiquarian

           tastes, who made himself useful to geologists by helping them to determine their

           collections. He knew Cuvier, and took the fish in question to France for his

           examination.     by Murchison  : " Alludes to an experiment  I made at a soirie with
                a Endorsed

           live tortoises on paste."

SECOND PAPER BEGUN.  31S

myself of it. But my letter of yesterday will have informed           1828.
you how I am circumstanced. It is literally impossible for me
at this time to leave Cambridge. I fear you will think me a
sorry coadjutor; for all the work is left to yourself. This is
not as it ought to be ; but I am at present almost a lame
soldier ; at least, till my eyes are better, I shall only be fit for
invalid duty. You see I am trying to revenge myself for the
unlucky blow you gave me in Carsaig Bay1. It must be rather

a queer spot this weather. I wish I could transport myself

there for half an hour, and then come back again. The rust
of a spear is said to have healed the wounds inflicted by it.
Perhaps the sight of the Carsaig pitchstone would set my eyes

right. If you don't write sooner pray let me know how all

goes off on Friday night. I only ask this on the supposition

that you have five minutes to spare, and that you don't think

writing a bore.
     The next thing for us to do is to give the structure of

Caithness, and the coast of the Murray Firth, and then to add

some general details on the conglomerates of the west coast.

The paper need not be very long ; at the same time it cannot
be very short, for it will be a sort of omnium gatherum, in which
it will be necessary to speculate de omnibus rebus et quibusdam
aliis. And surely on such a text we may fairly be allowed to

preach our sand out. I started with a good pen, and through

the first page contrived to make a fair fist ; but I am getting
worse and worse. My ink is thick, my brains are frozen, and
my time is up. So no more at present from yours till death

                                                        A. Sedgwick.

     The first part of the Arran paper was read 18 January,
1828, and concluded 1 February. Sedgwick then set to work
to finish his own paper on the Magnesian Limestone, but here
again ill-health stepped in, and March came before it could
be read, and even then it could hardly be called finished. But

                                       On the south coast of Mull.

316 PAPER ON MAGNESIAN LIMESTONE.

1828. for this, and his delay in beginning work on the second Scotch
   43- paper, he shall make his own excuses to Murchison.

                                 Trin. Coll. Monday morning.

" Many thanks for your last parcel.                     [February, 1828.]

                                                   I will use it as soon

as I can, but I am out of sorts, and really dare not work at

present. Since we parted I have had a short visit from an old

and very unwelcome acquaintance, which has affected my

arterial system, and produced a throbbing in my head which

I must get rid of before I can fairly set to. Yesterday I did

duty about sixteen miles from hence ; and on my return I was

frequently obliged to pull up, because my head would not bear

the motion. The only radical cure for such feelings is exer

cise and abstinence, which I must practice forthwith. Your

account of Mull delights me above measure. Mrs Murchison's

picture is now framed, and looks magnificent. When will she

do me the honour of coming to see it ? My lectures begin on

Wednesday next. Of course they will take up a considerable

portion of my time."

                                                                           March, 1828.

" I send you the end of the paper : and those parts which

you may omit in reading I have marked at the side with a

pencil line. You will probably on looking it over see other

matter which may be left out. When you have finished, just

say to the Society that the sections, and one or two small

maps, are not finished ; but that a description of them, together

with a list of minerals and fossils in the formation, will be

given in an appendix, not of course of a nature to be read.

If I can get a drawing out of the hands of the man who was

to do it for me I will send it up by the mail tonight directed

to the Society's rooms, Bedford Street. If I send the abstract

in a day or two I hope it will be in time1."

"A1 The paper was read 7 March, 1828. The Proceedings of the Geological
Society record under that date:  sketch of the subjects contained in this paper

was laid before the Society in 1826 (Nov. 17). They were resumed in a more
systematic and detailed form during two meetings in 1827; and are now terminated

by the observations read at the present meeting."

ACADEMIC ENGAGEMENTS.  317

     This work off Sedgwick's hands, his friend naturally                          1828.
                                                                                         43.
expected that he would find leisure to attack their second

paper. But by this time he was immersed in the work of

the Lent term, and moreover the President of the Geological
Society had set apart the 16th May for the joint production --

an unfortunate step when he had one so dilatory as Sedgwick

to deal with, for it doubtless gave him a further excuse for

delay.

                                       [Tr1n1ty College, 12 March, 1828].

     " I have received a letter from the President, who sends

me the following programme of the order of papers to the
end of the session. March 21. Dr Richardson. April 4.
Blank. May 2. Buckland and Clift. May 16 and June 6.
Murchison and Sedgwick. June 20. Tag, rag, and bobtail &c.,

&c. I am not sorry for this delay, except on your account.
It will give us time enough, and I shall be much more dis

engaged. My Proctorial duties and lectures have pressed

rather hard upon me, and left me for the last three weeks

hardly a spare hour. This week I hoped to have made some
progress with our joint papers, when to my dismay I found

that I had, in right of my present dignity, to dance attendance

upon my Lord Judge. I am off to church with him this

morning, and then I go in the tail of his robe to hear him
address the Grand Jury, &c. &c. ; and as for my poor lectures

they are for the time sent right about. But I hope to resume
on Friday morning. By the way I gave our men a platoon

fire about Scotland after one of the meetings of our Philo

sophical Society. I don't care one farthing how my paper

went off when it was read, provided it read well when it is

printed. It is necessarily dry, being so much in detail ; but I

think that the facts are important, and at least some of them

are new. Pray did you get your friend Pentland to look at
Mr Witham's big fish1? Does he consider it a Palceothrissujn?

    1 A fossil fish from the Magnesian Limestone, sent by Henry Witham, Esq. , of
Edinburgh. He had already supplied Sedgwick with other specimens from this
same locality. Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond. Ser. 1, iii. 116.

          3i8 MURCHfSONS IMPATIENCE.

  1828.   It seems to me to be a distinct species, but of the same genus
^Et. 43.
          with the Palceothrissum magnum of De Blainville.

             IMy abstract is as short as possible, at least so think. It

          will serve to convey a general notion of the whole paper, and
          that is what it ought to do. No abstracts were made of the
          parts read last year, because it was thought better that the
          whole of it should appear together. I have scribbled it in a
          hurry ; pray make any verbal correction you see fit.

                                                                    Yours ever,
                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

                                                       Trin. Coll. 15 March, 1828.
               " I have not been lazy, but I have really had no time for
          our joint work. As soon as I get quit of the engagements of
          the term I can set to work in good earnest ; for my health, I
          am happy to say, is just now very good, and I think that
          my eyes are getting quite well. I will very carefully look

          over all the papers, and make a string of notes ; we can then

          divide our labours, and, though separate from each other,

          shall, I doubt not, get our separate columns into position, so

          that they may, at word of command, be made to deploy into
          line, and be ready for action. By the way, I am to blame to

          think of using military tropes to a soldier, as I shall thereby

          only show my own ignorance."

               The term came to an end, but still Sedgwick was not

          ready. Murchison was then planning a journey to France
          -- his first attempt at continental geology-- and not unnatu

          rally wished to see the paper completed before he set out. A

          stronger appeal than usual to Sedgwick elicited the following

          answer; a gentle rebuke which may be profitably laid to

          heart by anybody who advocates speed without making

          proper allowance for difficulties.

          Dear Murchison,  Trin. Coll. April 7, 1828.

          You call upon me " for my own reputation, and your

          peace of mind, to make ready." I promise, if God spare my

   PROCTORIAL DIFFICULTIES.                            3'9

health, and preserve me of sane mind, to have all in good                         1828.

state before the reading; but to expect that our documents                      *t-43-

should exactly tally, so that we have only to stitch them

together, is to expect impossibilities. One is making a key,

and the other a lock, which never can fit till the wards are

well rasped and filed. To rasp and file will be a part of my
office, as well as to fit on a head and tail. All the specimens

we mean to exhibit must be arranged before any good

description can be given of the several sections. The general

facts may be stated, but the skeletons must be clothed with

flesh by the help of the specimens. I have tried my hand at

the description of the Tarbet Ness1 coast-section, but I cannot
satisfy myself without the specimens -- the subject seems to

elude the grasp. I find the introduction, or discours prd-
liminaire, excessively difficult -- not from want of matter,

but from having too much. If I could make up my mind

what ought to be said I could take it at a canter.

    My mind, ever since we parted, has been in a muddy
state, for I have been living in a troubled atmosphere. A

most painful case of ungentlemanlike profligacy has come

under my official notice, and worried me almost out of my

senses. For the soul of me I cannot take matters of this

kind calmly. Till last Saturday night I had for a week

hardly an hour of refreshing sleep. Three men have been

expelled from Trin. Coll. Two or three of other colleges will

be sent away from the University. These are the bitter fruits

I have been gathering during the week. Thank God this
harvest is over ! and I hope we shall have no second crop of

this kind during the season of my Proctorate. My head  is,

however, beginning to cool, and my sight to become more

clear, so that in some measure see my way through my
   I

                       it
work, and hope to lick     into form before we meet. Be

therefore, my good fellow, in good cheer, and rejoice with me

1      A promontory in Ross-shire, forming the north side of the Moray Firth.
The section in question described by Sedgwick and Murchison, Trans. Geol. Soc.
Ser. 2, iii. i}o. Plate 14, tig. 4.is

         32o BABB AGE ELECTED LUCA SIAX PROFESSOR.

1828.    that my wits have not been scared away for ever from their

Et- 43-  domicile.

              During the few hours we spend together in Town we
         must devote one or two to the final arrangement of the
         specimens -- both with a view to the Society and also to the
         systematic descriptions of the paper. As for the tail, it ought,
         like a spider's web, to be spun out of the body ; it therefore

         can have no real existence before your work has assumed a

         substantial form. At present I can hardly form a guess

         about its length, curvature, or joints. When we have once

         determined what the head and body are to be there can then

         be no difficulty about it. This morning I have made a few
         notes upon the sandstones of the western coast ; but I cannot
         make up my mind where to introduce them. At present I am
         disposed to throw them into the latter portion of the paper.
         I have no more time to tell you what I am doing, or what I
         am not doing, for in a minute or two the post closes. It is
         quite impossible for me to think of France for the present.
         My kindest regards to Mrs M.

                                                                   Yours ever,

                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

              Another matter, more agreeable than proctorial duties,
         had occupied Sedgwick during part of the Lent Term. The
         Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics had become vacant,
         and some of the friends of Mr Charles Babbage considered

         that he was the most proper person to fill it. The matter

         required very delicate handling ; for Babbage was on the

         continent, and could not be communicated with. It was

         obviously impossible to announce him as a candidate unless

         it could be ascertained privately that his election would be
         certain. The electors were the Vice-Chancellor and Heads of
         Colleges --a body whose opinions it was not easy to discover.

         Babbage however was elected, and it appears that Sedgwick
         had had no small share in bringing about this result. Dr

         Fitton writes, 8 March, 1828 :

       SECOND PAPER READ.      321

   I congratulate you very cordially on Babbage's election ; which                    1828.

is not less creditable to the University than to him. And you                       Mt. 43.
certainly must have great satisfaction in feeling that your own efforts
have so much contributed to the spirit that has produced this event.

     The next letter describes the favourable reception of the
long-expected paper, the first part of which Sedgwick read
to the Geological Society on the 16th May.

                                                         Cambridge. 25 June, 1828.

     My dear Murchison,

          If you have thought me worth thinking about, I will

venture to say that you will have accused me of breaking my

promise. In this instance, however, I have not to plead
guilty to any great offence ; as I have been much harassed in

mind, and somewhat also in body, by circumstances over

which I have had no control. Our paper on the conglomerates

increased to such a size that it was obviously too large to be
taken in at one meeting. When all the details were left out,
and almost every portion of the two coast-sections of Caithness,

there was enough remaining to produce that peculiar oscilla
tory motion in Fitton's lower extremities which you have

often marked on like occasions. All went off well, and ended
with the dish of Caithness fish, which were beautifully cooked

by Pentland, and much relished by the meeting. Greenough,
Buckland, Conybeare, and all the first performers were upon
the boards. The account of the conglomerates of the Murray
Firth and the Old Red of the north-west coast, together with
certain speculations and corollaries, were put off till the

following meeting.

    A most delightful party was next day organized at

Greenough's. Pentland was about the middle of the week
following to come from Oxford with Buckland, and Greenough
at the same time was to start with Conybeare from London,

and the party was then to bear down upon Cambridge, and
spend three or four days with me. Our plans were, however,
defeated by a melancholy event which we have long been

S. I.                      21

          DEATH OF HIS FATHER.

  1828.   looking forward to. Before my return to College I received
^Et- 43-
          the news of my Father's death, and in consequence hurried
          down to the North with all the expedition I could command.

          I felt a great pang at being separated from so old and dear a

          friend ; but the blow fell upon us as lightly as it could fall.

          For he was in his 93rd year, and died without any pain
          or illness whatsoever, of pure exhaustion ; and retained his

          intellects till within a few minutes of his dissolution. I never

          knew a man of purer principles and warmer heart ; and since

          the time I was a boy I never have heard a word pass his lips

          which implied a want of confidence, or was addressed to me
          in anger. But enough of this -- I have no right to obtrude my

          own feelings on a subject like the one of which I have been

          speaking.

              I remained about a fortnight in the North, and returned

          to London in time to attend the next meeting of June 6th.
          Our paper was concluded, and Buckland had a short paper

          on the fossils of the Isle of Portland. I had theory enough

          for a long discussion, and fairly threw down the gauntlet to
          old Mac1. No one, however, thought of taking it up for him.
          In short, the meeting was thin, and the discussion meagre.

          Greenough, however, spoke very handsomely of our labours....
               I shall be extremely busy till the 4th of July, after which

          I shall start for Cornwall, and join Whewell and Airy, who

          are going to repeat their pendulum experiments. After they

          are over we shall visit the granite veins, and make one or two

          transverse sections. On my return I shall cross to South

          Wales, and visit Conybeare, make arrangements for our joint

          work (I think I told you we were going to scribble in com

          pany), and try to have a run through a part of North Wales.

          I must be in Cambridge by the beginning of October to resign
          the keys of my office, and I shall hail that day with rapture.

          During the Commencement festivities the Duke of Gloucester

              1 John Macculloch, M.D. author of A Description of the Western Islands of
          Scotland, including the Isle of Man. 8vo. Lond. 1819.

         DEATH OF HIS FATHER.                          323

is coming down, so I fear I shall be half killed with hard-work           ^1828.
                                                                                   43-
and hard-eating. I wrote the other day for three bucks.

                            Believe me, Dear Murchison,

                                       Yours to the earth's centre,
                                                            A. Sedgwick.

In writing to Ainger, who knew well what the home-life at

Dent had been, Sedgwick was naturally less reticent about his

own feelings :
     " In that humble but useful station in which God placed

him, he has enjoyed an unusual share of health and happi
Ifness.  I could feel as I ought to do, I should rejoice and

not mourn at this event, for surely no man could be better

prepared for this great change. His mind was spared, and

his kindly affections remained warm to the last ; and by the
operation of pure Christian principle he seems for years past

to have triumphed over all the moral infirmities of his nature ;

so that he became an admirable example, and an endearing

motive for virtuous life, to all those who were nearly con

nected with him. In this respect I feel as if I had sustained

an irreparable loss. For years past I have never visited the

old man without feeling better for it1."

Sedgwick has sketched, in a letter to one of his nieces, his

father's personal appearance on that momentous evening when
he himself came into the world : " He was then about fifty
years of age, of robust frame, and of a rosy and cheerful

countenance. He sat on the right side of the fire, wore his

large well-powdered wig, his white cravat fixed behind with a
large silver buckle, and he had a pair of large bright silver

buckles to his shoes. The chair in which he sat was the very

chair represented in the lithographic drawing taken about

forty years after, which I dare say you have seen, so I need
not describe it5." Mr Sedgwick had been blind for many

years before his death, and his frame had shrunk a little as he

         1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 4 June, 1828.
         5 To Miss F. Hicks, 28 March, 1841.

                                              21 -- 2

           324 INTENDED WORK WITH CONYBEARE.

1828.      grew older ; but in other respects (save the wig), Mr Westall's
      43-  drawing -- a copy of which, slightly reduced, is here given --

           coincides exactly with the above description. In the year

           after his death a monument was erected to his memory on

           the south side of the chancel of Dent Church. The inscrip

           tion, written by his son Adam, recounts the leading points of

           that character which has already been so graphically set

           before us by the same hand1. One sentence will fitly close
           this portion of our narrative : " He lived among his flock for

           fifty-four years, revered as their pastor and loved as their

           brother."

           Sedgwick's allusion to a project for writing a geological

           work in conjunction with Mr W. D. Conybeare deserves more

           attention than such projects usually do ; for though it was

           never really begun, yet for some years Sedgwick was always

                                                              it,
                                                                                                             a
           intending to begin                                 and we believe that the needful pre

           paration determined the direction of several of his geological
           tours. The scope of the proposed volume -- continuation of

           the Outlines of the Geology of England and Wales, published
           by Mr Conybeare in conjunction with Mr William Phillips in

           1822-- will be best explained by the following letter*:

                                                                     Bath, April 14, 1828.

           Dear Sedgwick,

                       Your letter gave me sincere pleasure. Nothing would be
           more agreeable to me than embarking in joint voyage with you
                                                              a                                                             if
                                                                  a                                                                  ;;
           and indeed nothing but some proposal of this kind would have held
           out to me the prospect of accomplishing second volume.
           The materials, as sketched out in my own mind, comprised these
                       A description of the older rocks, throwing the transition
           divisions.  I.

                                                      :

                                                           a
           and primitive classes together. The arrangement to be similar to
           that of the former books first, general account of the formations
           secondly, the topographical detail of their distribution. All this

           part must principally                              a ifdevolve on you, and more                      assistance  could
           be had, more would                                                                                   la Beche,        he
                                                              be desirable -- especially De
           would undertake any portion of the unexamined districts, would be

           very useful ally. We ought also to make push to urge Aikin8 to
           a
                 821

                                       1.
                                                     38
                                                           a
                  Chapter pp. -- 44.
                  The letter has been slightly compressed in transcription.
                  Mr Arthur Aikin, distinguished mineralogist, and one of the founders of

           the Geological Society.


.I

                    REV" R iK 3('.'A': C K. M.

7b  /(TfC 324.  /.


INTENDED WORK WITH CONYBEARE.                                    325

publish his Shropshire materials, which would be very important.               1818.
IHe means to do so in our Transactions, but wants stirring up.
                                                                 The         jt. 43
         consider our materials at present as standing thus.
Cumbrian district you have done, the Cheviot you will do; of the

insulated Midland districts enough has been said of Malvern ;

Charnwood requires doing, but might be accomplished in a fortnight;
of Cornwall there exists a great quantity of scattered information,

and your next visit may easily put it all together. Wales is the most
unknown, and from all its local circumstances the most difficult.

One ought, like Chalmers, to adopt the district plan. If Henslow
would take the Caernarvonshire range, and indeed the whole ground

Inorth of Aikin's observations in Shropshire, you and I and De la

Beche might easily accomplish the southern part; but shall not be

very efficient in the field, for I have not, from the demands of a

large family, either time or funds for much touring.

II. The second division of my volume respects the collection of

those phenomena which are perhaps more important as to the
foundation of geological theory, comprising all the heads of my

Introduction from  6 to  12.    This  would be    more closet  work than
any other part of the subject,          should sit  down to it   con amore,
                                and I
because I feel it easy to assemble such a mass of facts mutually
illustrative of each other as I conceive must materially tend to
establish on more positive bases the theory of our science.

    III. The third division would be the corrections and additions
to the former volume. Here I should principally depend on you.
You see therefore, from this general outline, that you would have

Ia large half of the labour, and of course ought to have of the credit,

such as it might be, which would result. But fear that the work
Iwould hardly hold out a commensurate prospect of repayment in
this way; for while you would deserve most, should probably,     from
the earlier connection of my name with the work, get most.
                                                                 I do
not know, however, that either of us can be more usefully employed

for the advancement of our science, and I don't think we are either

of us likely to quarrel for our slices of praise. Very sincerely yours,

                                        W. D. CONYBEARE.

     We have now reached a point at which it will be well to
pause for a moment and examine the first joint work of

Sedgwick and Murchison more closely.
    The paper on Arran is a good example of the old strati-

graphical methods -- a well-kept diary of excursions made in
a very interesting district ; and, as an examination of the
island from a new point of view by observers trained in other

fields, it is a useful contribution to Scotch geology. The
authors begin with a description of the sequence of the

326 VALUE OF THE SCOTCH PAPERS.

rocks observed ; this is followed by a determination of the

fossils by the best authorities on the subject ; and from these

data they attempt a correlation of the deposits with those of
other areas already examined. It would be out of place here

to go into details and criticise the succession inferred in each

case, or to point out the corrections shown by later work to be

necessary in the determination of their fossils. Such modifi

cations are necessary from time time in the progress of all
such descriptive work. This paper is a fine example of the

way to set about the examination of a district, and is full

of wise observations. The Islands of Scotland did not,

however, offer new ground. That shrewd observer Macculloch1

                   and had clearly recorded the results of his
ahad been over
         it,
work, though his credit was damaged by his too blind ad
                        aherence to the tenets of the Wernerian school. He did not
                                a
take in quite good part the work and criticism of Sedgwick

and Murchison, for he was man whose health and tempera

ment made him impatient of contradiction, and inclined to

resent as personal injury any attempt to trespass upon

ground which he had come to regard as his peculiar province.

Sedgwick and Murchison recognised that in this outlying

fragment of a continental area, which once extended further

west, they might find key to the phenomena observed on
the mainland, and rightly thought that their work would " not

only assist in completing the natural history of Arran," but
would help " to fix the true epoch of all those interrupted

fragments of secondary formations'" which are found along

the West and North of Scotland.

The reader of these early papers must be cautioned that

he will meet with some old-fashioned phrases, now changed,

though not perhaps in all cases for the better. According

to the old nomenclature the Primary Rocks included the

Archaean, and, speaking generally, the great masses of crys

               1  See above, p. 322, note.
                   Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond. Ser. 2, iii. 22.

VALUE OF THE SCOTCH PAPERS.                                                                                                          327

talline schist of unknown age1. Flanking these " Primitive
ridges " were the rocks of intermediate character, in those
days called " Transition Rocks," including the series which
Sedgwick and Murchison afterwards made so well known

under the names Cambrian and Silurian. Resting upon the
upturned edges of these older rocks comes the Old Red
Sandstone, which forms the base of what were then called the

Secondary Rocks, and to this their attention was chiefly

directed.

    The local importance (for purposes of classification) of such
an unconformity, as indicating lapse of time, is of course
recognised, but the authors insist upon the fact that such phe
nomena are of limited geographical extent, and clearly state
that they "do not think that a want of conformity is one of
the elements which will much assist us in grouping together
or in separating contemporaneous deposits in distant parts of

the earth.'"
     The second paper is a continuation of the first, and, like
    refers chiefly to the Lower Secondary Rocks that is, in

the nomenclature of the day, to the Old Red Sandstone and

overlying deposits.
     They noticed among the older rocks the fan-shaped

arrangement of which we have heard so much lately. They
also distinguished the Old Red Sandstone from the Red Sand
stone of Cambrian age, and drew attention to the fragments
of older deposits which were found imbedded in the intrusive
rocks. They considered that the Old Red beds had been
accumulated between ancient ridges of crystalline schist,
and pointed out that the basement beds were made up of
fragments of the nearest Primary rocks. Above this lower
conglomeratic stage they placed middle flaggy stage, with
fish remains. When wandering along the shore among these
flags with their fish scales and bituminous patches, they
it,

     1

      It

              is
                                                                                   *

                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                  ;
worthy of note that the age and genesis of these                                                                                    rocks formed the
                                                                                                                                   Congress held this
principal subject of discussion at the International Geological

year in London.  Ibid. p. 33.

328 VALUE OF THE SCOTCH PAPERS.

thought at first that some one had dropped tar here and
there on the rocks. The occurrence of fish remains in these

Caithness flags had been already recorded from one locality,

but they found that they were far less uncommon than had been

supposed, and traced the fish-bearing strata right across the

country, and even into the Orkneys. Some of the specimens

were referred to Cuvier, and his description is given verbatim.

Some good figures, with a restoration by Cuvier, are published

with the paper. Sedgwick's old work among the fish-bearing

beds of the Magnesian Limestone must have made him

take a special interest in this successful search for fossil fish

of another and older type. In the middle flaggy stage they
saw a connection with the Carboniferous System -- a view not

now accepted in the sense in which they understood
                                   :                                        namely

that these rocks were the equivalents of rocks known as cara
                                                                       it,
boniferous further south. Their view has, however, an element

of truth, in that the beds they were examining undoubtedly
form a basement to the carboniferous rocks of Scotland, and

exhibit the incoming of the characters by which they are

distinguished. It was an interesting observation of theirs that

the pholas-borings followed the calcareous bands everywhere

along the shore.
    They did not attempt to map the district in detail, but only

proposed to indicate the distribution of the beds described.
When we recollect this the map they give will compare not

unfavourably with others published half century later, after

the country had been well worked out. They did not attempt
to trace the "faults," but realised the probability of the

occurrence of many lines of disturbance which had escaped

detection in the rapid survey which they were making.
They suspected their existence, among other reasons,

because the thickness of the series would be so enormous

were the beds in true geological sequence all along the sec

tions examined.
     Sedgwick's employments during the summer of 1828 are

described in the following letter

                 DOLCOATH MINE.                                           329

                                       London, October 8, 1828.

Dear Murchison,

   Your letter of August 18th reached me in South

Wales about ten days since. No one knew how to forward

it from Cambridge before Whewell's return. He started it on

a venture ; and when I received        had been doubling in so
                    it
                                it

                                       it,
                                        it
                                                 it
many directions that was blackened from one side to the

other with addresses. When did come was most welcome,

and made me almost envy you for the delightful work which

you have gone through. Give my best regards and con

gratulations to Mrs M. and to Lyell, on the discoveries they

have made, and on the dangers they have escaped. God

preserve you all from the fury both of fire and water till you

are by your own fire-sides in this murky capital and will
                                       I                                  I
contrive to join you as soon as can find moment's leisure,a                 I
            I                                  I
                                                                       ;
                       I

                                    a

                                  I
in order that may have vivd voce narrative of the news

you bring from the lower world. But what account have to

give of myself? Not fear a very satisfactory one.

Immediately after the business of the Cambridge Com

mencement was over (during which festival was figuring in

processions, creating Doctors of Divinity, and going through

many ancient monastic evolutions)      started pell-mell for

Cornwall, and about the 8th of July contrived to join the

pendulum party.  think you have heard of our expedition
                 II
for the purpose of swinging pendulums at the bottom of theI

Dolcoath mine. Had imagined what time the experiments

would have taken should certainly have kept far away from

them we remained nearly two months at Camborne, during
;

which time     indeed contrived to make              few interesting
            I                          I

                                              a
excursions, re-examined the principal junctions, and settled

some of my notions but all the work did in the county
                 :

might have been completed in ten days. After all we had                        a

good deal of amusement out of the pendulums. Our ups and

downs upon the ladders, which between the higher and the

lower station amounted to more than fifty in number, and

           330 D0LC0ATH MINE.

1828.      extended to a length of nearly one-third of a mile; our young
      43-
           attendant with a great belt stuffed with chronometers ; the

           dirt and the tallow ; the uncertainty of the result ; the

           speculations of the mining-men and mining-women ; these
           were the materials out of which we extracted our share of

           amusement. We had two beats, continued without inter
           ruption night and day for more than a week each -- during

           which two of Kater's pendulums were running against each

           other for more than 600,000 beats. Whewell and Airy out of

           these materials hoped to have reached a result against which

           it would have been impossible to take any exception. I am,

           however, sorry to say that in consequence of an unlooked for
           fault in the instrument, which is called " invariable" the

           successive results have been in some measure variable. We

           have therefore after all only gained an approximation.

           Whewell visited with me some of the finest junctions, and

           has sketched some of the magnificent granite veins which are

           found on the coast. I was very much surprised to observe,

           what had before escaped me, that several of the metalliferous
           deposits of Cornwall are true Stockworks. The great mass of

           granite north of St Austell is traversed by innumerable con

           temporaneous veins, some of which bear oxide of tin, and
           where they abound the metal is extracted, as far as I under

           stand the case, exactly in the manner of the German Stock-

           works.

              As soon as the pendulum-party broke up I turned my

           face towards the east ; just looked at the Exeter conglomerates;

           then ran down to Ilfracombe, and crossed by a packet to

           Swansea. From Swansea I ran down to Sully, the rectory

           where our friend Conybeare has incarcerated himself. The

           situation     is,however, most delightful, and he has about him
                                  a
           the society of charming family.  contrived to poke him
                                            I

                                                                       is
           out of his den, and had a run of about three weeks with him

           through part of the South Wales coal-basin. It a highly
                      a

           interesting region, and exhibits the secondary rocks of the
           older series in every variety of combination. After doubling

                DOLCOATH MINE.                     331

out of the coal-field I visited one or two friends with whom I              ^1828.
have been eating and drinking to my heart's content, and I                          *3-

am now in admirable condition for the winter work at

Cambridge. Yesterday I visited, for about an hour, the noble
collection at the Bristol Institution, and last night I came by

the mail to this place. I have all day been doing a great

deal of little business, and among other persons contrived to

see Greenough.  He says that our Scotch paper wants

rasping, and has reported to that effect ; but he says that the

authors must do it themselves. I have no doubt he is right,

for it was a cobbled business. I will take it down and try

my hand at docking and cropping. But really it must all

be written over again, or we shall drive the printer's devils to

despair. Tomorrow morning I return to my den in Trin.
Coll. It is time for me to retire, and make up for my loss of

sleep last night. As good a repose to you and Mrs Murchison
as I am myself looking for.

                Yours to the centre of the earth,

                A. Sedgwick.

     The experiments at the copper-mine of Dolcoath, in which
Sedgwick bore a somewhat reluctant part, had been com

menced by Whewell and Airy in 1826. "The object was to

determine the density of the earth, and the essential part of
the process was to compare the time of vibration of a
pendulum at the surface of the earth with the time of
vibration of the same pendulum at a considerable depth
below the surface. The experiment failed to lead to a

satisfactory result1," because, as Sedgwick says, the pendulum
could not be trusted ; and also because, on each occasion, a

serious accident occurred. In 1826 Whewell and Airy had

conducted the experiment alone; but in 1828 it was thought

     1 William Whewell, by I. Todhunter, 8vo. Camb. 1876, i. 37. The only
printed record of what Mr Todhunter calls "a very arduous experiment," is
contained in an anonymous pamphlet, known to be by Mr Whewell : Account of
Experiments made at Dolcoath Mine, in Cornwall, in 1826, and 1828, for the
purpose of determining the density of the Earth. 8vo. Camb. 1828.

           332 DOLCOATH MINE.

1828.      desirable to enlarge the party, so as to carry on the observa-
      43-
           tions without intermission day and night. By this means

           some members of the party could take an occasional holiday,

           and Sedgwick was probably absent when the accident of this
           year --a subsidence of a portion of the mine --took place.
           His account of the experiments, as given in the above letter,

           may be supplemented by what he told Mr J. W. Salter :

                "This mine had a great advantage for our purpose.

           Besides being one of the deepest in Cornwall, it is overhung
           by a steep hill 700 feet high, so that we got the means of
           measurement to a greater extent than would have been

           possible elsewhere.
                " We went down in summer-time, and enjoyed ourselves

           very much. The weather was propitious ; the company

           excellent. But the natives evidently thought us no better

           than we should be, bringing, as we did, strange instruments,

           and strange earnest faces to such a spot, and taking down

           uncouth-looking packages and baskets to all the deepest and

           most dangerous-looking places. We often overheard their

           remarks. One morning I listened to two men who had
           watched our descent the day before : ' I think they're no
           good. There must be something wicked about them -- the
           little one (that was Airy) especially. I saw him stand with

           his back to the Church, and make strange faces.'

               "We gave them some cause for their suspicions. Our

           lamp-box, marked outside ' Deville, Strand,' stood well for

           a formal address to his infernal majesty. We were clamber

           ing down one day, when, to keep up the joke, I asked a

           sturdy miner who was guiding us, ' How far is it to the
           infernal regions ?' He was a match for me-- for he replied--
           ' Let go the ladder, Sir, and you'll be there directly.' "

                The party were most hospitably entertained by the neigh
           bouring gentlemen --with some amusing results. On one
           occasion Sedgwick, Whewell, and Airy presented themselves
           at the front door of a house, where they had been invited to

           dine and sleep, in their working-dress. The butler thought

PRESIDENTSHIP OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 333

that they were real miners, and had just exclaimed, somewhat                         1828.
gruffly, " You go round to the back-door," when their host                         ^Et- 43-

came forward to greet them. At another house the host

himself is said to have mistaken the same party for agricul
tural labourers in distress, and was just intimating to them, by
a shake of the head, and a wave of the hand, that it was no

use begging of him, when his friends revealed themselves by a
loud burst of laughter. We do not vouch for the absolute

accuracy of these stories. Sedgwick always found Cornwall
a land of humorous adventure, and other tales will have to

be related in connection with his subsequent visits to it.
     In the autumn of this year, while Sedgwick was tranquilly

lecturing at Cambridge, Dr Fitton, whose term of office as Presi

dent of the Geological Society was drawing to a close, came to

the conclusion that the Woodwardian Professor was the proper

person to succeed him. A certain amount of difficulty seems

to have been anticipated in persuading one so full of engage
ments elsewhere to accept an office which would entail regular
attendance in London at stated intervals ; and the task of

sounding Sedgwick, and of obtaining, if possible, a favourable
reply was entrusted to Whewell. His letter is endorsed To

be opened immediately, an amusing indication of Sedgwick's
habitual carelessness with regard to his correspondence.

                8 October, 1828.

Dear Sedgwick,

               Fitton will come to you on Friday to try to persuade you
to be President. Pray do not refuse. Make it possible, somehow
or other, for the thing is every way in the highest degree desirable.

It is clear, from what he says, that he has spoken of it to so many

people in London, that it will be generally known that the offer has
been made you ; and after Buckland had found it possible in his

case it will not be easy to make them comprehend that it is not
ungracious in you to reject the proposal. Fitton is very earnest on
the subject for the sake of the Society, and with great reason. He
says that having just received favors from government1 it is very

    1 "The Society, at a special Meeting on the 18th of April, 1828, was informed

of the grant from the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, through the
mediation of the President and Council of the Royal Society, of apartments in

m.Somerset House." Report of Council, 20 February, 182S: Proceedings, i.

          334 PRESIDENTSHIP OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

  1828.   desirable and important to have a person at your head who is sure
                                                       He adds too that a new
/Et. 43.  to be independent and straight-forward.
                                                         can fill his place
          /era of the                                  am very anxious that

          distinction.
                    Society requires    a leader who                               with
                                                                                    you
                      All this is very  right -- but
          should take the office for our sake and yours. It will undoubtedly
          give a degree of prominence and attraction to the science at
          Cambridge which you cannot give it in any other way, and will add
          weight and popularity to all your sayings and doings on the subject.
          Without this we are hardly on a level with the Oxford men, which

          Iwe have a right to be, and which it is your business to make us.

                You will tell me of your lectures, but am persuaded they will
          gain more in effect, than they will lose by any curtailment or
          inconvenience. Then consider ; this business will not interfere

          with the course of this term. You have often made your second
          term somewhat irregular; it must be possible by some contrivance of

          time or place to manage it again. Consider too that every such

          inconvenience is a practical argument for new rooms, and will I

          hopeI  soon produce its impression.  a very  formidable  consideration.
                 do not think the expense is
          Fitton says he shall suggest to Gilbert1 the advisableness of trans
          ferring his parties to Sunday night. This would make them a
          Icontinuation of Fitton's, and might be very good.
          Find the will, and make the way.         am sure you will not repent

          and will be an excellent thing for all of us.
          it,
                     it                                Ever yours,

                    I                                     W. Whewell.

          These excellent arguments did not have the immediate

          effect intended by their writer others had to try their hands
                                        I;
          at persuasion, before Sedgwick yielded. At last, 18 November,I
          he wrote to Murchison " My reluctance in accepting theif
                            is

                                     :
          office of President by no means affected.                 value the
                                                                   I
          honour as ought to do, and should delight in                             had
                                                                       it

                                                                        I iIf
          all the accomplishments. But am an absentee, and am

          poor. These are sad drawbacks. My friends here, however,

          will not hear of refusal. So, you appoint me, must
                         a                                                      I

          promise to do my best. It will be sad falling-off after
                                                       a

          Fitton, who has done the thing magnificently." We do not

          know what verdict was passed by Sedgwick's contemporaries

          upon his performance of the duties of President but
                                                                    ;

                                                                              it

                                                                                      is

          clear, from various allusions in his correspondence, that he

                 1  Davies Gilbert, Esq., then President of the Royal Society.

                  VISIT TO MILTON HOUSE.                     335

was not himself displeased with the work. He grumbled now         1828.
and then, and vowed that he was " nearly ruined " ; but when            43-

it was over he admitted that he had found the employment

agreeable, and had liked the friends to whose society he had

been introduced.

    Christmas was spent, in company with Whewell, at Viscount

Milton's house near Peterborough. At that time many of the

Fellows of Trinity used to find their way to that hospitable

mansion, and Whewell spent his Christmas there for many
years in succession. On one of these occasions -- possibly in

1828 --he was asked if he would like to go out hunting. Of

course he said " Yes ". Mounted on a first-rate horse, well

up to his weight, he inquired how he could see most of the
run. " Keep close to Sebright (the huntsman) " was the
reply. Whewell did as he was bid, and followed that

splendid rider over everything.  They had an unusually

good run, over a difficult country, in the course of which

Sebright took an especially stout and high fence. Looking

round to see what had become of the stranger, he found him
at his side, safe and sound. "That was a rasper, Sir", he

exclaimed, in admiration at his pluck. " I did not observe

that it was anything more than ordinary," answered Whewell.

Sedgwick was either less inquisitive, or more prudent, and

while the rest of the party were out hunting, rode quietly

over to Whittlesea to have a chat with the Aingers. The

Tory sympathies of his particular friend in that family were

so strong that he could not be persuaded even to write to

Sedgwick so long as he stayed with so pronounced a Whig as
Viscount Milton1 -- an amusing illustration of the strength of

political convictions, not to say prejudices, at that time.

    The Lent Term of 1829 opened with an event which must
have given Sedgwick unmitigated satisfaction. As soon as

it became known that the Duke of Wellington and his

colleagues intended to introduce a bill for the relief of

Roman Catholics, the University decided to petition par-

                  1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 20 May, 1829.

          336 CATHOLIC EMANCIPATION.

  1829.   liament against it. In former years, as already related, the

'Et. 44.  opposition which liberal members of the Senate offered to

          such petitions had been defeated ; but on this occasion it
          achieved a signal success, and the Grace to affix the Uni

          versity seal to the petition was rejected by fifty-two votes
          to forty-three1. As the Cambridge Chronicle naively records:

          "the result appears to have been principally owing to the

          somewhat unexpected arrival of several members of the Inns

          of Court, who came down for the express purpose of voting

          upon the occasion ; two Paddington coaches with full com

          plements of inside and outside passengers arrived between

          one and two o'clock, and returned to London the same

          afternoon." The writer should have added that they dined
          in Trinity before they started. The fact was, that the
          Cambridge Liberals, chiefly Fellows of Trinity College, had

          written to their London friends ; among whom Macaulay,

          then resident in the Temple, had energetically exerted

          himself in marshalling a number of barristers*. That Sedg

          wick would be among the promoters of these tactics might

          be guessed without evidence; but a contemporary ballad
          supplies distinct proof of his activity :

          Oh Sedgwick, Oh Peacock, Oh Whewell, Oh Romilly,
          I'll preach you a ballad, I'll sing you a homily;
          Come hear the prophetical words of a Daniel,
          They were uttered at Clare, they were heard at Emmanuel.

          When devils to Cambridge shall Paddington marry
          And St Pancras shall send an express to St Mary,
          When the Bank shall go down with four horses to meet her,
          Then down goes St Paul, and up goes St Peter.

          The cat's in the larder, the wolfs in the fold,
          The rat's in the garner, the thief's at the gold ;
          Oh Journal, and Standard, and John Bull, and Age,
          The lawyers are come in the Paddington stage.

          Come down to the Senate, come up to the vote,       moat;
          From fen, and from dyke, and from ditch, and from
          Come darker and blacker, and thicker and faster,
          Come web-footed parson, come well-landed master.

              1 Cooper's Annals, iv. 559. The Grace was offered to the Senate 1 1 February,

          1829.

              * Trevelyan's Life of Lord Macaulay, ed. 1881, p. 106.

            CATHOLIC EMANCIPATION.                            337

Oh ! were there no powers to check the Iscariots,                  1829.
To hamstring their horses, to shatter their chariots ?                   44
There sprung not a spring, and there split not a spoke,

Though the Journal protested the compact was broke.

All Cambridge crowds round them, both gentle and simple :
"Now are ye for Church, Sirs, or are ye from Temple?
            of beast are ye, or what
What sort   is it mitre, is it lawn, is  kind of vermin?
Is it wig,                               it ermine ? "

"We come not for Church, and we come not for stall,
But we come for a dinner in Trinity hall ;
We come not for King, if your commons you'll dish up,
We come not for Church, but we'll thank you for Bishop."

     This victory in the restricted arena of the Senate House
proved only a foretaste of the pleasure which those who
sympathised with the Catholics had in store for them. In the

following month the House of Commons accepted Catholic

Emancipation by large majorities at each stage of the mea

sure ; nor did the Lords offer any serious opposition. Sedg
wick was present when the Duke of Wellington introduced
the second reading in a speech which has become historical1 ;
and listened with natural enthusiasm to the brilliant debate

that followed. " I have hardly yet come to my sober senses,"

he wrote on his return to Cambridge, " after the stimulus of
my last visit to London. Lord Grey's speech seems still to
be ringing in my ears*." Sedgwick's convictions, one would

have thought, hardly needed stimulating ; but, possibly, the
general acceptance of principles which had hitherto been
held by a minority may have urged him to advocate with
even greater earnestness than heretofore the removal of

similar restrictions at Cambridge. At any rate we shall

find him, a few years later, taking a prominent part in the
great controversy respecting the admission of persons to
degrees without regard to their religious opinions.

      On February 20, 1829, Sedgwick was formally installed

President of the Geological Society. At the anniversary

            1 To Mrs Norton, 5 September, 1863.
            3 To R. I. Murchison, April, 1829.

S. I.                                                     22

a338 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.     it
                  a
dinner, which then, as now, succeeded the general meeting,it
                   it,there was a full attendance of members, and the newit
President, according to Lyell, who was present, "quite
astonished them. Among innumerable good hits, when pro;
posing the toast of the Astronomical Society, and Herschel,
1their President, then about to be married, he said : ' May thei.
house of Herschel be perpetuated, and like the Cassinis, be
           ofillustrious astronomers for three generations. May all the
constellations wait upon him ; may Virgo go before, and
Gemini follow after1.'"

     How singularly pleasant the meetings of the Geological
Society must have been when it was still a coterie of brilliant,
enthusiastic men, who knew each other intimately ; and how
mortifying it is that we should have to be content with far-off
glimpses, and faint echoes of what they said and did ! Would
that we could recall, not merely Sedgwick's post-prandial fun,
but his mode of delivering one of his scientific papers, or of

handling the discussion which it was sure to elicit. Mr Geikie
tells us that "by a few broad lines" he could "convey even to
non-scientific hearers, a vivid notion of the geology of a wide

region, or of a great geological formation. Embalmed in the
Society's Transactions, the paper, as we read it now, bears
about as much resemblance to what it must have been to
those who heard as the dried leaves in a herbarium do to
the plant which tossed its blossoms in the mountain-wind.
Brimful of humour, and bristling with apposite anecdote, he
could so place dry scientific fact as to photograph on the
memory, while at the same time he linked with something
droll, or fanciful, or tender, so that seemed, ever after, to
wear kind of human significance. No keener eye than his
ever ranged over the rocks of England and yet, while noting
each feature of their structure or scenery, he delighted to carry

       Life Sir C. Lyell, 8vo. Lond. 1881, 251. There were four Cassinis, not
three, who were successively Astronomers Royal at Paris. The last, John Dominic

Cassini, succeeded his father in 1784. Sedgwick had probably met him in Paris
in 1826.

                    DIVINITY ACT.                                                                                          339

through his geological work an endless thread of fun and                                                                        1829.
                                                                                                                                      44-
wit1."

While Sedgwick was President he did his best to attend

the meetings of the Society with regularity, but, as he said
when his two years of office were over, his had been " an

interrupted service." The next letter enumerates the inter

ruptions in a single month, April, 1829 :

    " My hands at present are sufficiently tied. I am in the

first place reading the Fathers and School Divines by way of

preparation for my Divinity Act, which I must keep on the
30th of this month. In the meantime I have a rascally

examination to superintend which will nail me down for a

whole week*. Lastly, we shall soon have a contested election,

and they have already requested me to become chairman of

the Committee which will sit at Cambridge. I shall not

refuse if they come to the scratch, tho' it will be a tiresome
business. It is a strange thing that good Christians can't

keep out of troubled water*."

    At that time Divinity Acts were held every fortnight

during Term. Every Master of Arts of four years standing

complete was obliged, under rather severe penalties, to be

a Respondent, that  to maintain thesis against three
                    is,
                                                   a
                                                                     a
Opponents. The proceedings were similar to those which

preceded the Bachelor of Arts Degree, and therefore need no

further explanation. If the regular days appointed for the

keeping of Acts happened to be all engaged, private Act

was allowed, at which some Doctor in Divinity, other than

the Regius Professor, might preside. A letter to Mill shows

that Sedgwick had adopted the latter course.

                                              Trin. Coll. April 15, 1829.
          " expected from what you said, when we last met in
the Athenaeum, that you would have been in Cambridge
* *1

     I. of I
                                    i.
                                                                                                                        2
Life Murchison,  pp. 138, 195.

The scholarship examination at Trinity College.

To R. Murchison, without date, but endorsed by him "April, 1829."
                                                                        22 --

         34o FOREIGN TOUR WITH MURCHISON.

  1829.  before this. My Act comes on on the 30th of this month.

Mt. 44.  if yOU cannot conveniently preside, Dr Lamb1 has under

         taken to perform the task for me. Pray write to tell me

         what you intend to do. My questions are :

         1. The Divinity of Christ.

         2. A denial of the Millennium ; perhaps in the words of

         our expunged Article.

              By opposing me, and pronouncing a determination, you
         will get over two of your exercises, which will be some
         advantage. In regard to arguments, you may bring as many
         or as few as you please. In case of a private Act it is not

         however customary to bring many.                         If you
              Pray let me hear what is your final determination.

         can't come I must settle with Dr Lamb. Though I have not

         the honor of knowing her, I hope Mrs Mill will accept my

         kindest wishes."

             Murchison had found his foreign tour of the previous year
         so instructive, that before he had been many weeks abroad
         he had urged Sedgwick to come and do likewise. Writing
         from Nice, he describes what he had seen, and adds :

              We left various things undone, consoling ourselves with the
         parting reflection that such a case was to be worked out by Sedgwick
         next year. And here let me, by way of parenthesis, invoke the
         philosophical spirit of inquiry which prevails at Cambridge, and urge
         you, who are really almost our only mathematical champion, not to
         let another year elapse without endeavouring to add to the stock of
         your British Geology some of the continental materials. Pray do it
         before you marry and settle for life; pray even do it before you
         bring forth that long-expected second volume on the Geology of
         England and Wales'. Your comparisons will then have a strength
         and freshness which will quite electrify us'.

              These arguments, enforced by conversation after his
         return, had convinced Sedgwick, and he agreed to accom
         pany Murchison on a second journey, so soon as he could

             1 John Lamb, D.D. Master of Corpus Christi College.
              8 The work which Sedgwick and Conybeare were supposed to be writing

         together. See above, p. 374.
              * Murchison to Sedgwick, 18 August, 1828.

CONTESTED UNIVERSITY ELECTION.             341

get away. They were to leave England towards the middle        1829.
or end of June, and explore the northern flanks of the Alps,         44-
with the central parts of Germany, Bohemia, and Saxony --
"a glorious field for a knight of the hammer1." Meanwhile,
Sedgwick had plenty of work to do in presiding over the

Geological Society, and in putting the final touches to the
three papers read the previous year -- "the rasping and
trimming of which, before they were finally delivered over
to the devils, was no small labour*." But other matters were

soon to interfere with his preparations for his journey. Be
fore May was over Sir N. C. Tindal, one of the University

representatives in Parliament, was made Chief Justice of the
Court of Common Pleas, and his seat had of course to be
filled without delay. No burning question was agitating the
country, and it was hoped that some distinguished person
might be found, who would satisfy both parties, and a contest
be thus avoided. This hope proved delusive. Two candi
dates appeared in the field on the same day: Mr E. H.
Alderson, of Gonville and Caius College; and Mr George
Bankes, of Trinity Hall*. Alderson had been senior wrangler,
first Smith's prizeman, and senior Chancellor's medallist in

1809; Bankes had taken an ordinary law degree in 1825.
Alderson, moreover, besides his brilliant degree, could show

a distinguished career at the bar. Bankes had had some
parliamentary experience as member for the family borough
of Corfe Castle, and had filled a subordinate post in the

government of the Duke of Wellington, which he had re

signed when Catholic Emancipation became a government
measure. After that measure had been passed, however, he
had resumed his place -- a step which said but little for his

consistency. Meanwhile a feeling had gradually spread
through the University, that it would be well to elect Mr
Cavendish -- now our honoured Chancellor -- who in the

1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 4 June, 1829.
* To the same, 20 May, 1829.
8 Their circulars are dated 29 May, 1829.

         342 MR CAVENDISH BROUGHT FORWARD.

1829.    previous January had been second wrangler and first Smith's
Et- 44-  prizeman ; and besides, had won general admiration " by his
         superior talents, by his studious and reflective habits, and by
         the unimpeached regularity of his University life1." But an
         unexpected difficulty presented itself. Mr Cavendish, though
         himself willing to come forward, was for nearly a week pre

         vented from entering the field by the head of his family,
         whose objections were only overruled by " a public address,

         signed by many distinguished members of the University."
         Mr Alderson then retired ; and a canvass commenced for
         Mr Cavendish "unexampled for the energy and heartiness
         of those who were engaged in it*." That he was supported
         by the liberal party cannot be denied. The chairman of
         his Cambridge Committee was Dr Lamb, well-known for

         his liberal opinions, and in consequence one of the tory
         organs nicknamed him " Lamb's adopted"; but, on the other
         hand, many of the most decided tories voted for him. That
         Sedgwick was foremost in the fight will readily be believed.

         He "personally worked day and night so as almost to destroy
         his health8"; he marshalled the supporters who could be

         relied on ; he stimulated the lukewarm ; he exposed and

         controverted the tactics of the other side with a headstrong

         energy which in some cases lacked discretion. It was soon
         found that Mr Bankes had obtained numerous pledges of
         support before the resignation of Sir N. C. Tindal had been

         made public; and moreover the whole influence of the govern
         ment was exerted on his behalf. " Not one member of the
         Senate," we are told, " who was placed directly, or indirectly,

         within a minister's influence, escaped an official canvass4."

         Not only did his brother, once member for the University,
         write to his former supporters ; but Mr Goulburn, now Chan

             1 From A letter to a Member of the Senate of the University of Cambridge, by
         Robert Grant, M.A., M.P., Fellow of Magdalene College.

              a These quotations are from an article in The Times, 19 June, 1829, which is

         known to have been written by Sedgwick.
              3 To Dean Monk, 1 November, 1829.
               * The Times, ut supra.

      LETTER TO MR GOULBURN.                                                                                                                                 343

cellor of the Exchequer, wrote to many resident members of                                                                                                          1829.
the Senate on his behalf. These tactics were controverted by
Sedgwick in a letter to Goulburn which was printed and                                                                                                            Sx- **-

circulated in the University. It is signed A resident member
of the Senate, but there could never have been any doubt
about the authorship. It was evidently written under the

influence of strong excitement, and had it been merely an
ephemeral composition dashed off to serve the purpose of
the hour, the obvious course would have been to leave it in

the oblivion into which it has long since fallen ; but it is so
vigorously written, and throws so much light on the Uni
versity politics of that day, that it has been decided, after

much hesitation, to reproduce it.

To the Right Honourable Henry Goulburn.

Sir,
       I expected before this time to have seen you at Cambridge ;
Iand when at length found that a reluctance to meet your old
partisans, or some other motive well understood by yourself,
                                                                 for the vacant seat
ipnretvheentUednivyeorsuityf,romI    again being a   candidate  would at least know
                                   took for granted   that you

Iwhat was due to your former supporters, and that you would preserve

a dignified neutrality. In this expectation have been disappointed.
You have condescended to become the bustling advocate of Mr G.

Bankes ; and in a position so unnatural, the result has been what
you ought to have anticipated. Your letters from Downing-street to
certain resident members of the Senate, have done no good to the

cause of which you have so unexpectedly become the advocate, and
have been received only with expressions of contempt and resent
ment. Your personal elevation prevents you from hearing at all
times the language of truth ; but it is well that it should sometimes
Ibe spoken, and so loudly too, that even those who sit in high places
should not find themselves exalted above its influence.         beg leave,

crSehirpa,rmetspoeionntraetmiooinfntdheoyfoPurootuetrhsatatUnntyiovuearsschietanyvd,e--antctwhya,icte--yabonuedenstthoaaotdcaynofdouirdwareatecredivfeaodsr  the
                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                              on
that ground the support of many high-minded and honourable men.
There is a vulgar proverb of very obvious application, which may,
perhaps, explain the rancorous bitterness which existed between
some of your friends and the party which supported Mr W. Bankes.
Your person and your conduct were assailed by that party with
long-sustained invectives, conveyed in language such as English
gentlemen are not often in the habit of giving or of receiving. You

received these assaults with exemplary calmness, and endured them

         344 LETTER TO MR GO ULB URN.

  1829.  Iwith a patience which was the admiration of your friends, and was

Mx. 44.  worthy of the high religious ground which you had then taken.

         may, however, remind you, that although our religion commands us
         to forgive our enemies, it never enjoins us to be the patrons of those
         by whom we have been vilified, or the champions of those whose
         principles are in open hostility with our own. Mr W. Bankes is not,

         indeed, in the field ; but his brother professes (how consistently is
         not now the question) to be the representative of the same party,
         and of the same opinions, and on this ground alone comes forward
         to ask for our support.
              During the last session of Parliament your opinions underwent
         one of those sudden
         physical or the moral              revolutions which, whether they                uhsa. ppeInwaisn  the
                                             world, astonish and confound                                    not

         Iyamouorngmotthiveesn.umbI ebr elioefvethoyoseu,    who  made     an unfavourable analysis of
                                                             and    still  wish to believe you, sincere.
         If you were not sincere in the line of conduct which you have
         recently adopted during the agitation of one of the gravest questions
         which ever came before Parliament, you must be content to find
         your name written in the list of those men who barter themselves
         and their faculties for office and emolument, and who hold to no
                                                                                           approach of a
                                                                                           and cannot
         Iprinciple with a grasp which

         vulgar temptation. Of this
                                                              does not     relax at the
                                                             baseness
                                                                           I dare not
         accuse you ; but if you escape from this imputation, I would tell
         Iyou, in the language of our schools, that you are still on the horns

         of a dilemma ; and would ask you, in the name of the Senate, by
                                                                              the champion of Mr G.
         what new metamorphosis you                          are  I  become      whose only pretension
         Bankes, whose only pretension,                               repeat
                                                             --
                                                             a;

                                                                         I

                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                        is
         is, that he opposed you and your colleagues on that great question
         to which have alluded, and who, had he succeeded, would have
         I
         contributed to thrust you out from that office which you now fill
                    is
         through the kindness of your Sovereign. If you were in the right,
                      a; I
         Mr Bankes was in the wrong and for this wrong he to have your;
                                         a
         support, and appear among us backed and recommended by yourI
                                                                     But Mr G. Bankes has returned
         autographs from Downing-street.
         to the party which he once vilified and opposed, and he must be
         treated with the affection of brother, because he also now wears

         the semblance of an apostate. Whether am right in this conjecture
         know not but do know that the members of the Senate are

         justly indignant at any direct interference with the freedom of their
         elections that they believe themselves to be the proper judges of
         who the best person to represent them, and that they are not yet

         reduced so low as to supplicate at Government office for the
                                                           is
                                                                             a

                                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                                                                aa
         nomination of candidate.

             In what you have done, you have not appreciated our character
         or our sentiments. The resident members of the Senate, by their

         votes on late occasion, did good service to the Government and
         by way of return for this, you now endeavour to force upon us

         rpeoplriteisceanltactoivnesistwenhcoy,do--eswhnoot  himself   stand upon    the   high ground       of
                                                               almost   unknown    to us,  -- who not

                         LETTER TO MR GO ULB URN.                345

member of our Senate, -- who is decorated with no academic honours,                    1829.
-- whose name is associated with no pleasant recollections, -- and
                                                                                     jEt. 44
who, by his only public acts connected with our body, encouraged

and vindicated a combination of the Undergraduates, avowedly
made in a violation of all discipline, and in contradiction to our

Iexisting authorities1. I do not wish to speak harshly of Mr G.
Bankes, because I think that he does not deserve it : but am bold
to say that he comes forward with no high pretensions, and that he

has done nothing to entitle him to the honour of being thrust upon

us by all the forcing power of Government influence. If he consults
his own honour and the dignity of the University, he will imme

diately withdraw : and you, Sir, if you have any regard for your own
consistency, and the good opinion of those distinguished and honour

able men by whom you were once supported, ought to be among the

very first to recommend this measure to him.
     Mr Cavendish is this moment arrived amongst us. He is urged
forward by no party and no faction. He was put in nomination
(without his own knowledge or participation, and against the wishes
of the highest members of his family) by many distinguished resident
members of the Senate, who, however they may differ on other
questions, think it for the honour of our establishment that on this
they should be united. They come forward to support Mr Cavendish
                                                                 temper, and of
because    he is      a  young man of     modest and    amiable
unsullied    life,       because, during    the years  he lived  among us, he
                    --

conformed himself in the purest and highest sense to the true spirit
of our institutions, -- because he has proved, by his academic dis
tinctions in literature and in science, that he possesses talents of no

ordinary kind, and habits of application which even in early life
Ihave resisted extraordinary temptations.              have now lived more
Ithan twenty years in the University.
                                          can assert without the risk

of contradiction, that during this long lapse of time, no young
nobleman has appeared amongst us who could have been brought
before the Senate with such high and unsullied pretensions.                   a If,

from his youth, he has been hitherto prevented from exhibiting his

powers as senator, at least he has been saved from error during
;

               a
times of no ordinary difficulty, and comes before us without any
tarnish of inconsistency.  He has reaped his first laurels amongst
us they sit fresh upon him, and they will wear well, and they will
for ever be associated with the ardent recollections of early life.

Under these circumstances, we may safely count upon his lasting
attachment to us and to our venerable institutions, and upon that
consistent and dignified exercise of his great talents which will be for
his honour and for our own.

     With such qualities, cannot for an instant doubt the success of
Mr Cavendish. All the high aristocracy, belong to what party they
1

                        I
       Mr George Bankes presented to the House of Commons, 23 March, 1829,

petition signed by about 600 Bachelors and Undergraduates, against any further
concessions to the Roman Catholics. Cooper's Annals, iv. 560.

         34^ CANVASS FOR MR CAVENDISH.

  1829.  may, are interested in his success : for he stands forward as the
         representative and the ornament of their order, and has assisted to
Mt. 44.  keep alive in a great public body that constitutional respect for

         dignity and for rank, in the absence of which the highest privileges
         would lose all their grace and much of their importance.

             I cannot believe that the illustrious individual who is now at the
         head of administration can have given his sanction to a canvass from
         the Treasury, which is so plainly against the best interests of his
         own order. Be this as it may, the University of Cambridge can and
         will judge for themselves; and are, notwithstanding your humble
         opinion of them, placed far above the reach of improper influence,
          quarter from which                   it
         performed the task                        may descend.
                                               I    have undertaken.
         IhoweI vehravehighnotwhe                                     could
         Ihave wished to have had more time for its performance, but hope
         I II have made myself understood.
                                   believe have fairly represented
         Ithe motives of a great body of the Senate, and the feelings which
         your unexpected canvass has excited.      therefore leave this homely

         I Iexpression of truth to its proper influence ; and, notwithstanding the

         strange revolutions have witnessed in the conduct of others,
         venture still to subscribe myself, with great respect, Sir,

         Your most obedient and humble servant,

         A Resident Member of the Senate.

         Cambridge, June 3, 1829.

             A few extracts from letters to private friends show better

         than any description Sedgwick's feverish condition during the

         first fortnight of June --divided as he was between the election,

         preparations for his journey, and his duty to the Geological

         Society.

         To R. I. Murchison, Esq.

                                   TR1N. Coll.     Tuesday Morning,
                                                                2 June, 1829.

         " We are up to the ears in politics. Bankes has started

         for the University, and we have pitted Cavendish against

         him. I hope to God we shall succeed. I shall take care to

         be up in time for the Council on Friday ; but in our present

         disturbed state I don't know that I can be with you sooner.
         I am sorry for it ; as I should have rejoiced to meet your

         party of Wednesday. This hurly burly at this time is
         unfortunate, but I can't help it. Pray can you do us any

         service ? If you know any voter, or any one who can

CANVASS FOR MR CAVENDISH.        347

influence a vote, at him by all means. Our cause is good                    ^1829.
in both ways. Cavendish is a man who would do us great
honor -- Bankes is nobody, and wishes to ride upon the
shoulders of the ultras. No Popery was a grand stalking-

horse ; but I hope it has now broken its knees, and will not

carry weight."
     During this visit to London Sedgwick tried to secure Mill,

who had returned from India for a short holiday, and was
staying at an hotel. Mill was out when he called, but he intro
duced himself to Mrs Mill, and left with her the following note,
endorsed, " From Adam Sedgwick, Professor, canvassing for
Cavendish. Written with his heart's blood." The pollbook
shows that the appeal was successful.

Dear Mill,  Geological Society.

             By your love of virtue-- of Trinity College-- and of

literature, and of science, come and vote for Cavendish. He

has committed no political sin. If this will not do -- by your

friendship for myself and for the other residents who were
the academic companions of your early life, do not vote

against him. I wish I had time to see you, but I am

engaged here from three till half-past eleven.

            Yours ever,

            A. Sedgwick.

To Rev. William Ainger.
                                                Trin. Coll., June 4, 1829.

    " I dare not canvass you for Cavendish, because I know

that you see things with eyes so different from mine that we

hardly on some matters can find a starting-point from which
we may begin an argument. He is one of the most amiable

and accomplished young noblemen whom we have had among
us in this last century, and has been started by men of all

parties, purely on his personal merits. I dare say you don't

like his name, and think it sounds Whiggish. Bankes has no

           348 CANVASS FOR MR CAVENDISH.

1829.      merit that I know of except that he pretended to go out on
      44-  the Catholic question. It was all mockery, he never was out

           or he would not now be in. The cast-off rags of No Popery

           won't cover his nakedness. But enough of this. If Cavendish
           come in the University will have an honourable rest. All I

           ask is that you do not come against us."

           To R. I. Murchison, Esq.

                                                              Committee Room, June 11.
                " I have not one thought, word, or deed, except for
           Cavendish. Pray do what you can in the way of preparation

           for our tour. The election ends on Thursday week. On

           Friday morning following I shall come up to Town to attend

           the meeting of the Geological Society. But I fear it will be

           impossible for me to be ready by the Wednesday following.

           By Saturday I should be able to start. Coddington1 means

           to accompany us up the Rhine. His German will be of
           great use to us. I don't think he will go very far. Whewell
           will if possible join us in the Thiiringerwald. Excuse this

           hurry."

           To the same.
                                                                      Cambridge, 15 June, 1829.

               " Good God ! you will have to do everything for me. To

           start at six o'clock in the morning of Friday, immediately

           after the election, and to be off on Wednesday ! But I will

           do my best. Pray look out some papers for me to read, e.g.

           Bout's &c. ; enquire about maps, and other geological neces

           saries. If these be in readiness, I hope I may be ready

           myself by Wednesday. How abominably unprepared I shall
           be. My mind will be like white paper -- ready for any im
           pressions. Be it so. The election is horribly inconvenient.
           I am sitting on the edge of a razor. At 8 o'clock tomorrow

           we start. Both sides are confident."

                The Poll closed on Thursday, 18 June, when Mr Cavendish
           was elected by 609 votes to 462 -- a majority of 137. When

           1 Rev. Henry Coddington, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College.

            CONTINENTAL TOUR.                               349

the result was declared an undergraduate in the gallery shouted :                 1829.
                             to all -- the             "
" Farewell, a long farewell                 Bankeses      The day
                                                      !

ended, according to Mr Romilly, with "a huge dinner" in the

Hall of Trinity College, at which Sedgwick "spoke finely."

The next morning Sedgwick was off to London, hurried

through his preparations, and started with Murchison for the

continent on the appointed day. The route followed up to the

middle of September is described in the next letter1.

            Gmunden near Salzburg, September 14, 1829.

My dear Ainger,

I have for some hours been twirling my thumbs and

watching the weather ; but there is no longer a gleam of

hope. The spirits, under such circumstances, undergo a

kind of recoil. When a man cannot move his body forward,

he casts his thoughts backward, and thinks of those who are

behind him. If this letter deserves thanks, you must thank

the weather and not me. In some respects I am still to be
envied. While I wield a pen in my right hand, I hold a

German pipe in my left, and the images of past scenes are

floating before my mind's eye among the fumes of Hungarian
Iftobacco.
            the elements were less turbid, I should have

before me one of the most lovely lakes in the world, backed

by peaks of the Saltzburg Alps. I am too much a man of

business to write much ; but I always intended to send you

one sheet full of such matter as I could scrape together. So
here I take up my parable.

   I left England on June 24th, steamed to Rotterdam, and

after a delay of a few hours not ill employed in that truly

Dutch city, continued my journey up the Rhine, by the same

conveyance, to Bonn. There we halted, and took in a quantity

of geological ballast from sundry German Professors. We

again embarked, and landed at Andernach ; and made an

excursion on foot up the country to visit some very interesting

     1 Our account of this tour should be compared with that in Geikie's Life of
Murchison, i. 157 -- 162.

          NORTH GERMANY.

1829.     extinct volcanoes. We traced lava-currents to their craters,
     44-  Iand travelled for miles upon pumice, scoria, and ashes.
                                                                    was

          bewildered and confounded at the sight, for these fires have

          never smoked within the records of mankind. We then

          travelled along the lovely banks of the Rhine to Maintz, and

          crossed to Frankfort, where Murchison and myself purchased

          a carriage ; and since that time we have been travelling by

          post, always excepting excursions over hill and dale, above

          ground and under, in places where horses have never trodden.

          Our first excursion was to Cassel, a beautiful capital ; from
          thence we walked over some of the Hessian mountains, and

          met our carriage on the south edge of the kingdom of

          Hanover. We halted one day at Gottingen, and were above

          all measure delighted with old Professor Blumenbach. Thence

          we posted to the Hartz mountains. They detained us some
          days; but I will not torment you with geology. We then

          posted to Eisleben, famous for fossil fish and copper, and

          after angling, or more properly haggling, for these fish, we

          went to Halle, and again rested one day, and smoked with

          German Professors. From Halle we posted across the sandy

          plains of Prussia to Berlin. It is a fine modern capital, but

          is devoid of any venerable monument of former times ; and,

          after the first flash which astonishes you, ceases to give any

          pleasure. We found some very well-informed persons there,

          who gave us the kind of information we wanted, and after a

          halt of four days we started for Saxony. I do wish that I could

          take you by the skirts of your coat and place you upon the

          Bastei, a perpendicular rock on the banks of the Elbe, and I

          would show you one of the finest views in the world. From

          thence we would walk over the field of battle, pause at the

          spot where Moreau fell (marked now by a small granite

          pillar)1; thence we would track our way through the defiles

          of the Bohemian mountains; sleep at a small inn close by

               1 Moreau, the celebrated French republican general who joined the Allies after
          Napoleon's defeat in Russia, was fatally wounded at the battle of Dresden,
          27 August, 1813.

VIENNA. THE ARCHDUKE JOHN.                               351

Culm, where Vandamme was defeated1 ; and next day we              1829.

would visit Toplitz, a broiling hot city where the streets      Mt-

during the season are filled with German Barons and Counts,

Bohemian and Polish princes, and where you might walk in

the public rooms cheek by jowl with the King of Prussia.
All this I cannot do ; I must therefore be content to tell you
that this was my track : that from Toplitz I went to Prague,

Ione of the most magnificent cities ever beheld ; and from

thence posted through southern Bohemia and Moravia, a

dull and dismal long journey, to Vienna. We were rather

unfortunate, as the most eminent men of science, at least in

Aour way, were gone out of the city.  few Professors were,

however, left ; and our ambassador very politely invited us

to his country-house, and we spent a delightful day with him.
His house stands upon the site of the old Turkish camp

occupied during the siege of Vienna. It commands a view

of the Danube, the fatal plains of Aspern and Wagram, the

city, the Hungarian mountains, and the Styrian precipices

which form the eastern termination of the Alpine chain.

On leaving Vienna we took the road towards Trieste,

and, after crossing a corner of the Alps, descended by the

banks of the Mur, and spent about ten days in lower Styria.

It is full of interest, moral and physical ; a most lovely

country peopled by a most beautiful race, who are simple

and kind-hearted beyond anything I have ever seen. We

had some excellent introductions, and saw everything we

wanted, with one exception. We had letters to the Emperor's

brother, the Archduke John, the Governor of Styria, and he

was unfortunately absent. He is one of the most extraordinary

men in Europe; accomplished as a man of science, kind-

hearted, liberal, and of extraordinary simplicity of manners.

He was unfortunate in the wars against Napoleon, and,

perhaps in some disgust with a court life, retired to his
government ; adopted a simple style of living ; visited every

corner of his extensive province, and almost every family,

1 At the second battle near Culm, 30 August, 1813.

         352 TRIESTE.

  1829.  often travelling on foot without a single servant. He has
         established museums and scientific institutions, encouraged
Mt. 44.  everything good and liberal, and has gained such influence

         that in case of need he could raise up the whole population

         by a motion of his finger.

              We crossed the desolate mountains of Carinthia, and at

         length reached their southern limit and found ourselves in

         one moment looking over the blue waters of the Adriatic. I

         dare not attempt to describe my sensations when the rocky
         shores of Idria, the plains of Italy, and the great wall of the

         Alps burst upon the view ; I should fly into heroics which

         would be out of keeping for a geologist who travels with

         stones in his pockets, and is therefore kept from soaring.
         We spent a day at Trieste, among surly English captains,
         sleepy Dutchmen, and Levant merchants in oriental dresses.

         We crossed the sultry plains of Italy among olive-groves and

         vineyards, and then plunged into the defiles of the Taglia-

         mento, and, after wandering several days among the southern
         flanks of the Alps, crossed the axis of the chain at the Tauern,

         a pass which is at the elevation of about 6500 feet above the
         level of the sea. We then descended by some gorgeous

         defiles to Salzburg, and here I am, as I before said. My

         pipe is out and my eyes are nearly out....

             I am now going to zigzag along the north flank of

         the Alps, and sometime in October hope to hammer my

         way to Paris. In the meantime I wish you a very good
         night. My kind regards to your sister, and my love to your

         children.

         Yours most affectionately,

                       A. Sedgwick.

              On entering the Tyrol from Italy they fortunately fell in
         with the Archduke. Already, though they had not seen him,
         they had profited by his presence in the country ; for, writes
         Sedgwick, " wherever we went in the valleys of Styria with

       THE ARCHDUKE JOHN.                             353

our hammers, we were set down at once as odd fellows who         1829.
were friends of the Archduke John1."                                   44-

     "We first saw him at a little village of the higher Alps

called Bad Gastein ; and in five minutes found ourselves as
much at home with him as if we had known him twenty
years. He had received the letters we intended to have
presented to him, and therefore knew our objects of search
and who we were. He proposed an excursion to the glacier
and waterfalls [at Nassfeld], to which we of course joyfully
assented ; and added most courteously that it would give
us an occasion of talking of many things by the way, and
this would be the only opportunity, as the day following he
was going to cross the great chain on foot to visit a friend in
the southern Carinthian Alps. We started in a machine

with two seats, but in every other respects like a Dent's

shandery-dan; and, after going as far as this machine would
go, we scaled the precipices on foot, and traversed one of

those magnificent amphitheatres of ice and snow of which

no written language can convey any adequate description.

We descended in the evening to a little tidy alehouse [at the
village of Bockstein] where we supped upon trout and bottled
ale, and we finally tracked our way by the light of a lantern

to the village from which we started.
     " Everything we had heard of this excellent man was

more than realised. He is sensible, liberal to a degree which

offends the despotic Emperor, accomplished as a man of
science, of most amiable temper, and wonderful simplicity of

manners. The moment the girls of the little alehouse knew
who he was, I thought they would have gone into fits through

joy. They seized his hands, kissed them a hundred times,
and, if he would have allowed them, would have gone down

on their knees before him. He talked with great freedom ;

spoke of the partition of Poland as an iniquity which
he feared would some day bring down a great national

punishment, and frankly pointed out many existing evils in

       1 To Rev. John Sedgwick, 10 August, 1829.

s. i.                                             23

           354 THE ARCHDUKE JOHN.

1829.      the system of government. I before told you of the way
      44-
           in which he passes his time among the people whom he

           governs. Everybody seems happy under him, and all insti

           tutions flourish. There was one subject on which I dared

           not speak to him, and that was religion. He is a catholic,

           and assuredly is a liberal one. Where the people wanted

           ministers and chapels he has built them, in several parts of

           Styria. All this is right, for the country is entirely catholic ;

           but about matters of faith he did not seem inclined to speak.
                "The morning after our excursion I called on him just as

           he was about to start. He was dressed in worsted stockings,

           hob-nailed shoes, and jacket, with a little green hat and

           feather, the costume of Styria. Three men in a kind of

           uniform, with rifles, followed him, for the purpose of shooting

           chamois, wild-deer, or other animals they might meet with.

           His parting was like the rest of his manner; simple, kind-

           hearted, and unceremonious. We saw him start, and ascend

           towards the higher Alps on foot1."

           The travellers next made a rapid exploration of the Salz-
                                                                         " The
           kammergut, with which Sedgwick was delighted.

           whole region," he wrote, "is of exquisite beauty, and the

           inhabitants have the same honest, simple, kind-hearted

           character which I praised and admired so much among the

           StyriansV Letters from the Archduke gave them ready

           access to the salt-mines; and at Berchtesgaden they came in

           for the close of a grand hunting-party given by the King of

           Bavaria to some foreign princes.

           II.1 To Rev. John Sedgwick, 31 August, 1829. The Archduke John was the
           sixth son (born 20 January, 1782) of the Emperor Leopold      He commanded

           the Austrians at Hohenlinden, where he was defeated by Moreau (3 December,

           1800), and his subsequent military career was equally unfortunate. Throughout

           his whole life he took great interest in the Tyrolese and Styrians. The former

           were incited by him to the unsuccessful revolt under Ilofer (1809). In after-life
           he resided in Styria, chiefly at Gratz, where he married the daughter of a postmaster.

           He had no official post in Styria, but employed himself, as Sedgwick says, in the

           improvement of the people. In 1848 he became vicar-general of the Empire, an

           office which he held for only a few months. He died in 1859.
               a To Rev. John Sedgwick, 26 September, 1829.

ROYAL SPORT AT BERCHTESGADEN.  355

     " The sport was nearly over before we arrived, but we saw                                   1829.
the company, and the manner of the chase, which was all we                                             44-
wanted. The scene altogether reminded me of some of Sir
Walter Scott's f1nest descriptions, but was upon a scale more
grand than Scotland could ever boast of. For some weeks
before the visit of the royal party many hundred persons are
employed in driving the deer, chamois, and other wild animals
into a particular part of the Bavarian forests just under the
snowy Alps. They form two great lines on the opposite
extremes of the great forests, at the distance of twenty or
thirty miles from each other, and by means of dogs, horns,
etc. drive the affrighted beasts towards the central region.

It is so contrived that these central forests are under a

long succession of precipices, through which there is no escape
to the Alpine summits, except by a few ravines and narrow
gorges. On an appointed day the king and his attendants
place themselves in these ravines accompanied by soldiers
armed with rifles ; and on an appointed signal thousands of

persons, some employed by government, others led by curiosity
and love of the sport, rush into the forests, and drive out the
wild inhabitants from their hiding-places. The poor animals,
thus beset on all sides, become frantic, and rush out of the

forest, sometimes singly, sometimes in large herds, and, having
no means of escape except through the narrow defiles I have
mentioned, scores of them are brought to the ground before
they can get out of the reach of the riflemen. The different
ranks and costumes of the assembled multitude, the shouts

of the hunters, the echoes of the guns among the great
precipices of the Alps --produce a combination of circum
stances well fitted to excite the imagination1."

     From Salzburg they went to Munich, and thence by

Ulm, Stuttgart, and the Lake of Constance to Strasburg. A

letter from the latter place to Whewell, who had been dis
porting himself in Switzerland with Mr Coddington, enters so

    1 To Rev. John Sedgwick, from Stein on the Lake of Constance, 26 September,

1829.

                                                                                          23--2

          356 GEOLOGICAL DETAILS.

  1829.   much more into geological detail than any of the other letters
^Et. 44.  of this year, that, at the risk of some repetition, we will give
          a few extracts from it. After describing their visit to the
          Hartz, Eisleben, Halle, etc. Sedgwick proceeds :

               " This is the focus of Wernerian geology, and to my
          infinite surprise it is the most decidedly volcanic secondary
          country I ever saw. The granite bursts through on one side,

          sends out veins, and along the whole eastern flank the

          secondaries are highly inclined and often absolutely vertical.
          Near Goslar they are absolutely heels over head....

               " In Styria we found a great deal of good tertiary geology.

          Our Styrian tertiaries led us down into the edge of Hungary,

          from which we doubled to the great road, and beat our way
          down to Trieste. Dull geology, but the finest caverns in the

          world.... From Trieste we crossed the plains of Italy to the
          Tagliamento, by which we entered a great gorge in the Julian
          Alps. We emerged from these gorges at Bleiberg, and began
          to ascend the primary axis. To our great surprise found the

          oldest rocks of the calcareous zone full of gryphites, and not

          older than our lias, though crystalline as white as sugar !

          We crossed the axis at the top of the great Tauern Alp

          amidst mica-schists and crystalline marbles, serpentines, etc.,

          etc., and, what do you think ? in this series we found beds

          top-full of encrinites. I could hardly believe my eyes. Thence

          down the high road to Werfen, from which place we again

          doubled, and ascended to the primary axis by a parallel

          valley.... On our return to Werfen we set off to Salzburg,

          and afterwards threaded our way among the links of the

          great southern calcareous zone. And how shall I describe

          the wonders we here saw ? The tertiary deposits resting on

          the outskirts of this calcareous zone are thicker than all our
          secondary formations put together. For scores of miles they
          are in a vertical position. In many places the Alps, in rising
          through them, have lifted great rags of them into the regions
          of snow. Some of these rags are 3000 or 4000 feet thick, and
          stuck on like great poultices on the bruised pates of the older

GEOLOGICAL DETAILS.                           357

rocks. From Salzburg to Innspruck. Thence once more                                 1829.
over the calcareous chain --top-full of fish, and stinking of                             44-
fish-oil, which in many places trickles out like tar. From the

fish-beds to a bed at Munich. Pictures and antiques one

day--off to the great tertiaries on the Bavarian flanks -- so
to the Lake of Constance. Two noble sections linking in
our work with the tertiaries of Switzerland. Thence to

Oeningen, Murchison's fox-cover1. Thence to the Danube --
Ulm. N.B. Freshwater hills all around the city. From Ulm
we visited the famous field of Blenheim on our way to

Solenhofen ; a wonderful place for lithographic stone and

fossil fish. From this depot we crossed the Jura limestone,
through some beautiful freshwater basins, to Stuttgart, and so
down the Neckar to Heidelberg. This outline will give you

some notion of what we have been about. I think we have
done some good work. I am anxious to be home again, but

we must go by Paris. We have some work by the way, and
may not be there before the 17th or 1 8th. My kindest
regards to all who regard mea."

     Lyell tells us that Sedgwick returned "full of magnificent
views ; throws overboard all the diluvian hypothesis; is vexed

he ever lost time about such a complete humbug ; says he
lost two years by having also started as a Wernerian, etc.3"

He did not himself admit that his conversion was so complete
as this report of his conversation would imply ; but no doubt

his views had been greatly modified and extended by what
he had seen on the continent, and by his intercourse with

foreign geologists.
     On this occasion Murchison had no cause of complaint

against Sedgwick on the ground of delay in getting their
joint work ready for publication. In about a fortnight after

1 In the previous year Murchison had obtained from this celebrated quarry a

unique skeleton of a fossil fox (Galccynus oeningensis) now in the British Museum.

He described it in the Transactions of the Geol. Soc. iii. 277. Compare also his

Life, i. r54-                          1829.
    a To Rev. W. Whewell, 10 October,

    ' Life of Sir C. Lyell, i. 256.

           358 SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF TOUR.

1829.      their return (6 November, 1829) their first paper On the
      44-
            Tertiary Deposits of the Vale of Gosau in the Salzburg Alps,
           was read to the Society ; and, wonderful to relate, in spite of

           Sedgwick's occupations and ailments, which appear to have

           been unusually severe, it was succeeded, at the two following

           meetings (20 November and 4 December) by a second, On

           the Tertiary Formations which range along the Flanks of the
           Salzburg and Bavarian Alps. The method of setting about
           the work, and the value of the results, do not call for much
           comment. It was not a new and unexplored district, such as

           Sedgwick loved, and yet it was an area where great problems
           were suggested, and it formed a fine field for a holiday tour.
           Murchison, as was his very useful custom, "got the subject up"

           before starting ; he read what had been written on the
           district, corresponded with the authors and authorities upon

           it ; and, thus furnished, the colleagues started to examine for
           themselves, and to criticise the interpretation of the geological
           structure of the country given by Boue and others.

                In the summary given by Sedgwick in his presidential

           address to the Geological Society, we have as clear an
           account as we can desire of what was proposed and what was

           done. It was a question of identification and correlation, and
           Sedgwick and Murchison were among the great host of
           explorers and authors who have treated of the bands of

           calcareous and arenaceous rocks, with nummulites in the

           newer beds, and hippurites in the older, which flank the
           Alpine ridges from the Rhone to the Danube. They did not
           collect materials for a minute classification -- indeed it would
           have been impossible for them to do so -- but they gave a
           good account of the district, with much new work ; and they
           brought the whole subject before English geologists for the

           first time.

                The principal points established are thus stated by

           Sedgwick :
                " We have shewn that several transverse sections from the

           central axis of the Alps to the basin of the Upper Danube

SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF TOUR.  359

would present a succession of phenomena in very near accord
ance with those of other transverse sections from the same
axis to the tertiary formations at the other base of the chain
in the North of Italy. On both sides of this chain, after

passing over the great secondary calcareous zones, we meet

with the lower tertiary strata -- always highly inclined, some
times vertical, and occasionally conformable to the beds
of the older system. We contend that this remarkable
symmetry confirms the hypothesis of a recent elevation
of the Eastern Alps ; and makes it probable, independently
of arguments derived from organic remains, that the tertiary
deposits of the Sub-Apennine regions and of the basin of the
Upper Danube belong to one period of formation.

    "Thick masses of strata full of organic remains, and often

occurring at low levels near the northern foot of the chain,
are sometimes also found (e.g. in the valley of Gosau) in
unconformable positions, caught up among the serrated peaks
of the Alps, four or five thousand feet above the level of the
sea. Such a disjunction of corresponding strata is inexplic
able on any hypothesis which rejects the theory of elevation.

We have concluded, chiefly on zoological evidence, that the
unconformable beds of Gosau are more recent than the chalk.

We believe that they contain neither ammonites nor belem-
nites, nor any other known species of secondary fossils ; and
on the whole we regard them as a term of that unknown

series of formations which may hereafter close up the chasm
between the lowest beds of the Paris basin and the chalk.

     "We have pointed out the limits of the old chain of the
Salzburg and Bavarian Alps, and traced the direction of its
valleys anterior to the tertiary epoch : and we have described
a great deposit of lignite far up the valley of the Inn, contain
ing fresh water and marine shells, which seem to connect it
with the period of the London clay. We have further shewn
that there are within the basin of the Upper Danube two or
three higher zones of lignite separated from each other by
sedimentary deposits of enormous thickness.

          SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF TOUR.

1829.         "The tertiary system of Bavaria is shewn to pass into,
     44.  and to be identical with, the molasse and nageljlue of Switzer

          land. The higher part of this series must therefore be of the

          same age with some of the formations of the Sub-Appennines.
          We have proved that enormous masses of sandstone and

          conglomerate many thousand feet in thickness, stretching
          from the base of the Alps to the plains of the Danube, are

          chiefly derived from the degradation of the neighbouring
          chain -- that many of these masses cannot be distinguished
          from the newest detritus which lies scattered on the surface
          of the earth -- that in their prolongation into Switzerland
          they sometimes contain bones of mammalia -- that they are

          regularly stratified, and alternate with beds containing marine
          shells -- and that they cannot have been caused by any
          transient inundation.

               " Finally, we point out the probable effect of debdcles

          which took place when the basin was deserted by the sea.

          We shew that the excavations produced by the retiring
          waters have been augmented by the bursting of successive
          lakes, of which we found traces in all the upland valleys
          of Bavaria ; and that these excavations have been since
          carried on by the erosive power of the streams which roll
          down from the sides of the Alps to the plains of the Danube1."

               To read an elaborate paper is one thing ; to make it fit

          for publication is another ; and it was soon found that some
          very hard work had yet to be done. When the abstracts
          appeared in the Proceedings of the Society, the views therein
          advanced -- especially those relating to the Valley of Gosau --

          were combated both in England and abroad, notably by

          Dr Ami Boue. It became therefore necessary to test con

          clusions by a second visit to the ground. Sedgwick, ap
          parently, had no wish to leave home again so soon ; and the
          task therefore devolved on Murchison, who devoted the

          summer of 1830 to with complete success. On his return
          i.
                1

                                              it,

                                                                                                                                        p.
                                                                                                                           9.

                                                                                                              I
              Address to the Geological Society,  19 February,  1830,  Proceedings,
          193.

             PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.

he read a separate memoir to the Geological Society, in                                      it                                 M
                                                                                                 if

                                                                                                                           1830.
which the old conclusions were fortified with fresh facts.

After this the Council of the Society decided that would

be more instructive, and save repetition and correction,                                     the

whole subject were treated in single memoir. This was no
                             it

                                  a
doubt wise decision, but entailed the re-writing of both

memoirs, so as to weld them properly together. A good deal
is
of this labour fell to Sedgwick's share, and occupied him,
      ;
conjointly with other work, for several months in 83 1. The                               1
         aavolume in which the paper appears in its final form was not

published until 1835.        it

    At the beginning of 1830 became Sedgwick's duty to

deliver, as President of the Geological Society, the customary

address at the Anniversary Meeting. Perfunctory work of

this sort rarely repays careful analysis. Questions which the
author weighs in the balance of good-natured criticism
                             it

                                                    a
                                                              is

                                                                                    ;
have long since been settled, or forgotten and praise or

blame when delivered from the Chair                                                  apt to lose in

sincerity as much as         gains in authority. Sedgwick --

always honest and straight-forward -- avoids these defects as

far as the nature of the case permits. He passes in review

what had been accomplished during the previous year the
                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                        ;
papers by Lyell and Murchison by Murchison and himself
                             ;
                                          ;
by Dr Fitton, and others and these works lead him to

discuss the action of river-currents, with his own views there

on the true sub-divisions of the tertiary strata the import
                                                                                       ;

ance of the study of organic remains, etc.; so that the speech

lifted above the accidents of the moment, and possesses

permanent value. These diverse subjects are not only clearly

and eloquently treated, but what in other hands would have

been         dry discussion  enlivened with graphic similes --
                             is
                                   a

                                                                                    a
humorous touches -- inspiriting appeals to unwearied labour,
especially in the field of English Geology -- and hints at the

true method of correlating facts, and establishing correct
induction from them -- in
                             manner well worthy of the

" mathematical geologist." The concluding paragraphs are

           362 PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.

1830.      devoted to a piece of criticism as severe as anything that
      45-
           Sedgwick ever penned. A member of the Society, Andrew

           Ure, M.D. had lately published A New System of Geology,
           " in which the great revolutions of the earth and of animated

           nature are reconciled at once to modern science and to sacred

           history." This " monument of folly," as Sedgwick calls
           pulled to pieces without mercy, and some of its worst
           blunders exposed. Into these we need not enter -- indeed the

           subject would not have been alluded to at all had not given
           occasion to passage so noble, and of such general applica
           tion, that we cannot resist the pleasure of quoting it.
           a
                                                                               it
                                                                                            it,
                                                                                                is

           Laws for the government of intellectual beings, and laws by

           which material things are held together, have not one common
           element to connect them. And to seek for the exposition of the
           phenomena of the natural world among the records of the moral
           destinies of mankind, would be as unwise, as to look for rules of

           moral government among the laws of chemical combination. From

           the unnatural union of things so utterly incongruous, there has from
           time to time sprung up in this country                   deformed progeny of
                                                                    a
           heretical and fantastical conclusions, by which sober philosophy hasis

           been put to open shame, and sometimes even the charities of life

           have been exposed to violation.
           No opinion can be heretical but that which not true. Con

           flicting falsehoods we can comprehend, but truths can never war

           against each other.  :I  affirm, therefore, that we have nothing to fear

           from the results of our inquiries, provided they be followed in the
           laborious but secure road of honest induction. In this way we may

           rest assured that we shall never arrive at conclusions opposed to

           any truth, either physical or moral, from whatsoever source that

           truth may be derived nay rather, (as in all truth there                      common
                                                                    a
                                                                                 is
                                                                                     a
           essence) that new discoveries will ever lend support and illustration
           to things which are already known, by giving us larger insight into

           the universal harmonies of nature1.

                The first half of 1830 was fully occupied with the pre
           paration of the above address (delivered 19 February) -- with
           journeys to London on the business of the Society, and other

           matters which his recognised position as one of the first of
           English geologists imposed upon him-- as, for instance, exami

           nation before Committee of the House of Commons on the
           Coal Measures, and attendance at " Committee appointed
           a

                                        1
                                                                p.

                                                         a
                                    Address,    23.

WOODWARDIAN MUSEUM.                                  363

to direct a Survey of the Thames1." In the midst of all this      1830.
                                                                       4;
he found time to congratulate his friend Dean Monk on being
promoted from the Deanery of Peterborough to the Bishopric
of Gloucester. " We all rejoice at this event," he wrote, " from

feelings of personal regard, founded in a long experience both

of your unwearied kindness and of your great services rendered

to ourselves and our Society while you were one of our

resident members : we all rejoice on public grounds, for we
see in yourself an instance of honourable distinction, founded,

as it ought to be, not on party interest, but on high literary

claims*."

     May brought the usual preparations for the Woodwardian
audit. This year he had plenty of additions to record :
"specimens from the extinct volcanoes near Bonn;" from
nearly every district visited in 1829, including "a very fine
series of organic remains from Solenhofen," and several
geological maps purchased at Berlin. As usual he laments
" that want of room prevents him from having the pleasure of
exhibiting many of these additions," but " hopes that before
long he shall have an opportunity of unpacking them, and of
arranging them in a Museum of the University3" -- a sanguine
aspiration which was not realised for more than eleven years

after this report was written.
     Murchison had started early in the summer to " riddle the

Alps in all directions," as he said ; and he kept Sedgwick
constantly informed of all that he was doing -- of the help
he obtained from continental geologists, and of the new facts

he was ascertaining in support of their common position.
His letters, interesting and valuable as they are, are too
technical for a biography; and indeed, would be hardly
intelligible without the maps and sections to which they refer.
Of Sedgwick's letters to him one only has been preserved --

perhaps only one was written. It is occupied chiefly with a

1 To R. I. Murchison, May, 1830.              1X30.
2 To Dean Monk, 14 February, 1830.

3 Report to the Woodwardian Auditors, 1 May,

          364 STARTS FOR THE CHEVIOTS.

  1830.   very severe criticism on the abstract of their joint papers

/Et. 45.  which Murchison had sent to the Annals of Philosophy, and

          which Sedgwick had fortunately intercepted before it was

          printed off. Murchison calls the letter "very cross," and
          declares that Sedgwick must have been " in a mathematically
          exact humour " when he wrote it ; but he concedes all that
          was wanted when he speaks of the paper in question as " my

          very careless abstract1." This matter despatched, Sedgwick

          proceeds to tell him that he had stayed in London for some
          time, " being in daily expectation of the commencement of a
          canvass for a new contest in the University;" that "fortu
          nately the storm had blown over," and that he was then " in

          all the press and confusion of a man who is going to desert
          his quarters. Tomorrow morning I am off on my way to

          Northumberland. I shall halt at Newcastle, and try to lay

          in a stock of information ; and then, as soon as possible, bear

          down upon the Cheviots. If I knew how to hit you I would

          send a fly-leaf after you when I had properly pounded the
          porphyries. I am delighted with your account of the Low

          Countries; you have done some excellent work there.... Lyell

          has been off about three weeks, and has not been since heard

          of. His book has a hard delivery ; it is not yet out. This is
          very vexatious, as I wanted to take it with me. The King's

          death ; speeches in the House of Commons ; the fear of a

          contested election; these have been the chief topics.... Give
          my best regards to Mrs Murchison. How does she bear the

          fatigues of your campaign*?"

              A letter to Mrs Murchison (21 October) records a few

          particulars of the summer's work, which had proved some

          what disappointing: "Among the Cheviot hills I worked

          hard for about ten days ; and I did some good work in a

          small way on the Scotch borders. Soon after I was attacked

          with indisposition ; and in a great measure driven off the

          1 From R. I. Murchison, Ischl, 15 August, 1830.
          2 The first volume of his Principles of Geology.
          1 To R. I. Murchison, Cambridge, 15 July, 1830.

ROYAL SOCIETY.                                       36s

field. After making one or two vain efforts among the                                1830.
                                                                                           45-
Cumberland mountains I finally took shelter in my native

valley." There he was detained by a long spell of bad
weather: "all the powers of the air," he says, " were in league

against me." He was therefore obliged to give up a projected

excursion to North Wales and Ireland, and content himself
with Ingleborough. In that district he " ransacked the hills

from the ridge of Stainmoor to the heart of Craven." By the

end of October, as usual, he was back at Cambridge.

Towards the close of this year certain Fellows of the Royal

Society let it be known that, in their opinion, His Royal

Highness the Duke of Sussex was a fit and proper person to

be President ; that he was willing, not to say anxious, to accept

the office ; and that he did so with His Majesty's approval.

Thereupon the actual President, Mr Davies Gilbert, retired.

The scientific section of the Fellows, indignant at what they

regarded as an interference with their independence on the part

of the Court, persuaded Mr Herschel to allow himself to be

nominated in opposition to the Duke. Murchison took an

active part in getting up the requisition to Herschel, which was

signed by Sedgwick and most of his Cambridge friends. He

had been for some years anxious to see Herschel President1,

but, being out of London, did not work himself up to the

white heat of anger that seems to have been there prevalent.

At the same time he did what he could to stop the Duke's

pretensions in his usual straightforward fashion. He wrote
"Ito Murchison (21 November):
                               did sign a paper requesting

Herschel to come forward. What this new paper is I don't

exactly know, and I don't intend to take any more public

     1 In 1827, when he had heard of a suggestion to elect Sir R. Peel, he wrote to
Murchison (25 November) : "The republic of science will indeed be degraded if
the Council of the Royal Society is to become a mere political junta, and we are
to sit under a man who condescends to be our patron. The Institute of France

have not yet learned to degrade themselves by placing in the chair a man who has
no other recommendation than that of having been a King's Minister. Why don't
some of you propose Herschel? He is by far the first man of science in London,

and would do the work admirably." Sedgwick became F.R.S. in 1820.

         366 PAPER ON LAKE MOUNTAINS.

1830.    steps. But I intend to take a private step, and a very strong
Et- 4S-  one. By this post I shall write to the Duke of Sussex, and
         explain my views to him very plainly. I shall then have
         liberated my conscience. In case of a contest I cannot come

         up. Whewell and some others will come up -- Coddington,
         Willis, &c. Whewell wishes me to impress upon you the

         very great importance of inducing Herschel to come forward

         as a candidate. Many men will tail off if they have an
         excuse, and Herschel's unwillingness is a good apology for

         weak minds. Indeed it is no bad apology for any one."

             At that time the Duke was a frequent visitor to Cambridge,

         where he greatly enjoyed the hospitalities profusely laid at his
         feet by the Fellows of Trinity College, two of whom, Sedgwick
         and G. A. Browne, had been appointed his chaplains1. On

         these occasions he would breakfast with one, dine with an

         other, sup with a third, and in general behave as if he were

         "Ione of themselves. He was evidently not displeased with
         Sedgwick's boldness, and wrote in reply:    thank you for

         your candour, and whether our opinions may differ on this or

         any other subject, I know how to respect the talents as well
         as the motives of any individual "-- but he persisted in his

         III.candidature, and was elected by 1 19 votes to

             At the beginning of January, 183 1, Sedgwick read to the

         Geological Society his first paper On the General Structure

         of the Lake Mountains of the North of England, the materials
         for which had been collected several years before. For the

         present, we merely note the fact, reserving for a subsequent
         chapter an account of his views on the geology of Lakeland.

              In the following month he concluded his two years of
         office as President of the Geological Society ; but, before

         retiring from the chair (18 February, 1831), he had a singu
         larly agreeable duty to perform. Three years before, Thomas

         Hyde Wollaston, M.D. had transferred one thousand pounds

         to the Society, the dividends on which were to be applied

         after his death, "in promoting researches concerning the

         1 Sedgwick's patent is dated 10 May, 1819.

WILLIAM SMITH.  3^

mineral structure of the earth, or in rewarding those by whom      1831.
such researches may hereafter be made." Dr Wollaston died

22 December, 1828, just a fortnight after executing the above
transfer. The first year's income was devoted to the purchase

of a die, designed by Chantrey, "bearing the impress of the
head of Dr Wollaston" ; in order that a commemorative gold
medal, value ten guineas, might form part of the annual
donation; and it was not until early in 1831 that the Council
met to decide upon the first award. They resolved unani
mously that the medal should "be given to Mr William Smith,
in consideration of his being a great original discoverer in
English Geology ; and especially for his having been the first,

in this country, to discover and to teach the identification
of strata, and to determine their succession, by means of
their imbedded fossils."

     The conscience of any other President than Sedgwick
would probably have been satisfied by declaring this award
in a few well-selected phrases at the begining or the end of

his own address ; for, he might well have argued, the merits
of " Strata Smith " are by this time fully recognised by
geologists. But Sedgwick was too generous, too warm
hearted, to adopt so selfish a course. " I for one," he said

" can speak with gratitude of the practical lessons I have

received from Mr Smith : it was by tracking his footsteps,
with his maps in my hand, through Wiltshire and the

neighbouring counties, where he had trodden nearly thirty
years before, that I first learnt the subdivisions of our oolitic
series, and apprehended the meaning of those arbitrary and
somewhat uncouth terms, which we derive from him as our

master, and which have long become engrafted into the
conventional language of English Geologists." He determined
to publish to the world, with all the authority of the position
he then held, the wonderful story of that humble land-
surveyor who, in the course of his professional work, had

discovered the key, if we may so speak, to the geological
cipher. The result is a rapid, but singularly clear and

         PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.

1831.    appreciative sketch of a remarkable life, interspersed with
         some nobly eloquent passages, the effect of which, as
Et. 46.  originally delivered, with all the force of Sedgwick's energy

         and enthusiasm, may be measured by that which they still
         produce upon a reader. Towards the close of his speech he

         demanded from his hearers their approbation of the Council's
         award : " I would appeal " he said " to those intelligent men
         who form the strength and ornament of this Society, whether

         there was any place for doubt or hesitation ? whether we

         were not compelled, by every motive which the judgment can
         approve, and the heart can sanction, to perform this act of
         filial duty, before we thought of the claims of any other man,
         and to place our first honours on the brow of the Father of

         English Geology.

             " If in the pride of our present strength, we were disposed

         to forget our origin, our very speech would bewray us ; for
         we use the language which he taught in the infancy of our

         science. If we, by our united efforts, are chiseling the

         ornaments, and slowly raising up the pinnacles of one of the
         temples of Nature, it was he who gave the plan, and laid the
         foundations, and erected a portion of the solid walls, by the
         unassisted labour of his hands1."

              In the evening of the same day Sedgwick delivered his
         own address as President. As in that of the previous year,

         he reviews the progress of stratigraphical geology, with even
         more than his former felicity of treatment, and clearness of
         exposition ; while the publication of Herschel's paper On

         the Astronomical Causes which may influence Geological

         Phcenomena, of the first volume of Lyell's Principles of
         Geology, and of the papers contributed by M. Elie de Beaumont
         to the Annales des Sciences Naturelles, gave him an opportunity
         of dealing with the fundamental theories of the science.

             Of Lyell's work he spoke with genuine admiration.
         " Were I to tell him," he said, " of the instruction I received

              1 Proceedings of the  Geological Society, i.  1 10, 970 -- 279.  Memoirs of William
                                    Phillips, 8vo. Lond.
         Smith, LL.D., by John                              1844.

       L YELL'S PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY.                                                                  369

from every chapter of his work, and of the delight with which                                                  ^1831.

I rose from the perusal of the whole, I might seem to flatter

rather than to speak the language of sober criticism;" but,
when the criticism came, it struck at the very foundation of
the author's theory. He "could not but regret" that Lyell
seemed to stand forward as " the champion of a great leading
doctrine of the Huttonian hypothesis ", and that " in the
language of an advocate he sometimes forgets the character
of an historian." Sedgwick had not time to deal with the
whole of even the single volume then published ; but

addressed himself, in the main, to the theoretical portion.
The following paragraphs are, we think, of especial value,
as the truth of the doctrine of Uniformity has again been

called in question.

   jAccording to the principles of Mr Lyell, the physical operations

now goin on, are not only the type, but the measure of intensity, of

the physical powers acting on the earth at all anterior periods : and
all we now see around us is only the last link in the great chain of
phenomena, arising out of a uniform causation, of which we can
trace no beginning, and of which we can see no prospect of the end.
And in all this, there is                                                             For               all
                              much   othf atnaitsurbeeauatriefulimamnudtabtrluee.--                we   we
allow, that the primary        laws                                                  that          all
now see is subordinate        to those immutable laws -- and that we can
only judge of effects which are past, by the effects we behold in
progress. ... But to assume that the secondary combinations arising
out of the primary laws of matter, have been the same in all periods
of the earth, is an unwarrantable hypothesis with no a priori

probability, and only to be maintained by an appeal to geological

Ifphenomena.               I  am combating be  true,  the  earth's                                 surface
           the principles
                                     succession of similar phenomena.
ought to present an indefinite
                                     the book of nature, I would invert
But as far as I have consulted
the negative in this proposition, and affirm, that the earth's surface

presents a definite succession of dissimilar phenomena. If this be

true, and we are all agreed that it is ; and if it be also true, that

we know nothing of second causes, but by the effects they have
tphreodu"cuendif;ormthenord"etrheofupnhdyesviciaaltinegveunntsifo"r,m"ittyheofinsveacroinadbalery
                                                                                                    causes ",
                                                                                                   constancy
in the order of nature", and other phrases of like kind, are to
me, as far as regards the phenomena of geology, words almost
without meaning. They may serve to enunciate the proposi

oftions of an hypothesis ; but they do not describe the true order

      nature.

S. I.                                                                                              24

         ALTERED VIEWS ON DILUVIUM.

  1831.       We are not surprised that Lyell should have written :
         " Sedgwick's attack is the severest, and I shall put forth my
Mt. 46.  strength against him in ' " the second volume.

              But, cautious as Sedgwick was in expressing agreement

         with Lyell's theory, he accepted, almost without hesitation,
         the startling views of M. Elie de Beaumont on the elevation
         of mountain-chains, and exhausted the vocabulary of praise
         on his "noble generalisations," "admirable researches", and
         so forth-- because " his conclusions are not based upon any
         a priori reasoning, but on the evidence of facts ; and also,

         because, in part, they are in accordance with my own

         observations." It is only just, however, to mention, that

         Sedgwick warned his hearers that even these generalisations
         had been " already pushed too far."

             This careful study of M. de Beaumont's work led Sedgwick

         to one important conclusion, which has by no means lost its
         interest at the present time, namely: "that the vast masses
         of diluvial gravel, scattered almost over the surface of the

         earth, do not belong to one violent and transitory period."
         And then he had the courage to proceed as follows :

         It was indeed a most unwarranted conclusion, when we assumed
         the contemporaneity of all the superficial gravel on the earth. We
         saw the clearest traces of diluvial action, and we had, in our sacred

         histories, the record of a general deluge. On this double testimony
         it was, that we gave a unity to a vast succession of phenomena, not
         one of which we perfectly comprehended, and under the name

         diluvium, classed them all together.
         To seek the light of physical truth by reasoning of this kind,
         in the language of Bacon, to seek the living among the dead, and                 a is,
         will ever end in erroneous induction. Our errors were, however,

         natural, and after the same kind which led many excellent observers
         of former century to refer all the secondary formations of geology
         a

               I
                  I

                                                a

                                         I

                                                                       it

                                                      Ia
         to the Noachian deluge. Having been myself believer, and, to

         the best of my power,  propagator of what                         now regard as

         philosophic heresy, and having more than once been quoted for
         opinions do not now maintain, think right, as one of my last
         acts before quit this Chair, thus publicly to read my recantation.

         We ought, indeed, to have paused before we first adopted the
         diluvian theory, and referred all our old superficial gravel to the

         Life Sir Charles Lyell, 318.
         1

                    of
                                                        i.

ALTERED VIEWS ON DILUVIUM.                                     371

action of the Mosaic flood. For of man, and the works of his                       1831.
hands, we have not yet found a single trace among the remnants of                       46.
a former world entombed in these ancient deposits. In classing
together distant unknown formations under one name ; in giving
them a simultaneous origin, and in determining their date, not by
the organic remains we had discovered, but by those we expected
hypothetically hereafter to discover, in them ; we have given one
more example of the passion with which the mind fastens upon
general conclusions, and of the readiness with which it leaves the
consideration of unconnected truths. '

    It is strange that so cautious a writer as Sedgwick should

have written the last paragraph, even in 1831. But he lived
long enough to make a second recantation, and to admit that

Man had appeared upon the earth at a period long anterior
to that for which he had previously contended.

1 An interesting account of the way in which Sedgwick was led to change his

"Ifviews on diluvium occurs in a letter to Murchison,  dated 17 November, 183 r.

     I have been converted in part from the diluvian   theory (which by the way I

never held to the same extent with Buckland, as you may see if you read the last
page of the only paper I ever wrote on the subject) it was. ..by my own gradual
Iimproved experience, and by communicating with those about me. Perhaps

may date my change of mind (at least in part) from our journey in the Highlands,

where there are so many indications of local diluvial operations.. ..Humboldt
ridiculed [the doctrine] beyond measure when I met him in Paris. Provost

lectured against it."

                                                       24-- 2

            CHAPTER IX.

                         (1831--1834).

The Reform Bill. Contested election for University.

      Geological papers. Tour in Wales with Charles Darwin
      (1831). Declines the living of East Farleigh. Mrs
      Somerville's visit to Cambridge. British Association

      at Oxford. Summer and Autumn in Wales. President
       of Cambridge Philosophical Society. Discourse on the
      Studies of the University (1832). British Association
      at Cambridge. The Beverley Controversy (1833). Dis
      locates right wrist. Petition against Tests. British
      Association at Edinburgh. Made Prebendary of Norwich

(i834).

WHEN Sedgwick ceased to be President of the Geological
                         " exchanged dignity for liberty,"
if

                             it,
                                           a
Society, and, as he put

he probably looked forward to spell of leisure, during which

he might work at geology without interruption. Such hopes,

however, he ever entertained them seriously, were doomed to

disappointment; and we shall find that during 1831 and the
three succeeding years he was more than ever absorbed in

University and College occupations.

In less than fortnight after the annual general meeting of
         a

the Geological Society at which Sedgwick delivered his

farewell address, Lord John Russell introduced the Reform

Bill into the House of Commons. A man of letters or of

science, whichever side he took in the controversy which

                      THE REFORM BILL.             373

thenceforth divided England, might well have exclaimed,                                            1831.
' O now for ever farewell the tranquil mind, farewell content' ;                                        *6-

and therefore it need not surprise us that Sedgwick should

complain shortly afterwards : " I am sadly out of sorts, and

involved in politics, which are dividing old friends, and

playing the devil amongst us1." More than half a century has

elapsed since these words were written, and few are left in

Cambridge who can remember the state of feeling which

justified them. But there are still some who can recall

the after-effects, and can truthfully describe the Reform Bill

as the nightmare of their childhood. It appeared to them,

from the way in which they heard their elders speak of to
   is
            a

                    is

                                               ;

                                                                                a
                                                                                                a

                                                                                           it,
have been     maleficent influence -- an embodiment of the

spirit of evil -- which had brought discord into peaceful

society, and had left to the next generation an inheritance

of sundered friendships and bitter feuds. When     child

inquired, "Who that?" he was not unfrequently answered,
" That Mr So and So we used to be very intimate before

the Reform Bill, but we never speak now." But nothing of

this sort could be said about Sedgwick. He was an ardent

reformer; but his high personal character, his great popularity,

and his uniform kindliness and good humour towards those

who differed from him, enabled him to pass through the ordeal

unscathed. It has been often said that he and Mr Pryme

were the only liberals in the University who took prominent
                                                a

part in favour of reform, and yet neither made an enemy nor

alost friend.
     Soon after the introduction of the Reform Bill, the

University sent petition to the House of Commons against
           a
                   a
it. The promoters were evidently by no means sure of their

ground, for contemporary fly-sheet records that the petition
" was carried through with haste extremely indecorous and
                           a
reprehensible the notice to the Senate having been barely ofa
           ;

the legal extent, and given on day on which the post did not

              To R. Murchison, 24 March, 1831.
           1

                       I.

         374 THE REFORM BILL.

  1831.  leave Cambridge; the previous meetings of the Heads having
         been held with the shortest possible notice ; some of their
Mi. 46.
         deliberations having taken place on a Sunday; and the petition

         having been agreed to by them in the two hours preceding

         the congregation at which it was offered at the Senate1."
         Under these circumstances it was of course impossible to give

         notice to non-residents ; and the grace to affix the University
         Seal to the document, though opposed, was carried in each
         of the houses into which the Senate was then divided.

              The petition having been carried, Sedgwick tells us that

         he and his friends are setting to work "to remedy the evil
         of it as well as we can, by getting a Declaration up in favour
         of the sitting candidates*." This Declaration was supported

         by some of "the original promoters of the recent petition
         to the House of Commons against certain provisions in
         the Reform Bill ; " and was probably suggested by the

         knowledge that the success of the petition would be followed
         by an attempt to unseat Lord Palmerston and Mr Cavendish,

         in the event of a dissolution of Parliament'. The Declaration

         is dated 23 March, and is signed by thirty-six members
         of the Senate, among whom, in addition to Sedgwick,
         are Smyth, Cumming, Whewell, Henslow, Airy, Worsley,

         J. C. Hare, and Thirlwall. It was promptly succeeded (28

         March) by a counter-declaration, the signatories to which,
         forty-two in number, bound themselves "to promote the

         return of two representatives entertaining more moderate

             1 Reasons for regretting the University Petition of March 21. This fly-sheet
         is dated "Trin. Coll. March 23, 1831," and is believed to have been written

         by the Rev. W. Whewell. Notice was given on Saturday, 19 March, for a Con
         "Ifgregation to be held on Monday, 21 March, at 11 A.M. A letter from Cambridge
         printed in The Times of 23 March says :           two days' notice had been given, we

         should have had twenty or thirty Masters of Arts from London, who would have

         thrown the petition out, as we did in the case of the Catholic Petition [in 1829]."

         See above, p. 336.                                "The petition will, I fear, create a

             2 To R. I. Murchison, 24 March, 1831.

               Sedgwick says, in the last-quoted letter:

         contest at Cambridge, in case of a dissolution, and such an event would be almost

         the death of me."

CONTESTED ELECTION FOR UNIVERSITY.  375

views than those of the present representatives of the Uni

versity upon the vital question of Parliamentary Reform."

It became evident, therefore, that, whenever a dissolution

should occur, there would be a contest, and probably a

severe one, for the honour of representing the University

in Parliament.

     When the dissolution took place (22 April) the con
servatives brought forward Mr Goulburn and Mr William

Yates Peel, who declared themselves, in the most unqualified

language, opposed to the Bill, though not averse to the

consideration of reform in general. Neither said a word on
any subject except reform -- an omission of which Sedgwick
was not slow to take advantage. He printed a short address

(2 May), signed, like his letter to Mr Goulburn, A Resident
Member of the Senate. After pointing out that the two

candidates had rested their claims to election solely on

their opposition to the Reform Bill, he proceeds :

    And why, may I ask, have they reduced the question within

these narrow limits ? because that they are well aware they have
nothing else to produce as a recommendation to any part of the
University, except their pledges in opposition to the Bill brought
forward by Ministers.

    How far these pledges are likely to be fulfilled, I will not now
stop to inquire ; but I wish to put this question to every Member of

the Senate, "whether it is consistent with the dignity of the Uni
versity to select two Members to represent them in Parliament,
on account of the Vote which they may give upon a particular
question, without considering their general qualifications for defining
the interests, and maintaining the character, of this Learned Body?"

      With regard to the measure of Reform, the result of the
Elections which have already taken place, must convince every
impartial mind that its success is no longer doubtful. The ground,
therefore, upon which the new Candidates lay claim to your favour,
is fast crumbling beneath their feet, and when the Reform Bill has

passed, I defy the most zealous Anti-Reformer to point out a single

advantage which the University can derive from this change in its
Representatives.

     This appeal to what might happen in the future met, we

may well suppose, with but little consideration in those stormy

times. A large majority of the electors were satisfied with

           376 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS.

    1831.  the knowledge that Lord Palmerston and Mr Cavendish were

Mt. 46.    both reformers. The former, as Secretary of State for Foreign
           Affairs, was a member of the Government, the latter had

           voted for the Bill. The non-residents flocked to the Poll,

           and at its close Mr Goulburn had polled 805 votes, Mr Peel
           804, Mr Cavendish 630, and Lord Palmerston 6101. When

           the election was over, Sedgwick wrote : " I was extremely

           fatigued with last week's work, and mortified at the result

           more than I can find words to express ; and it certainly does
           not take away from the painful feelings when I reflect that

           the defeat was courted by the vacillation of our own party*."

                Amidst this excitement Sedgwick found time to write a

           second paper in continuation of his work on the Cumbrian

           Mountains -- a Description of a Series of Longitudinal and
           Transverse Sections through a Portion of the Carboniferous
           Chain beween Penigent and Kirkby Stephen, read to the
           Geological Society in March, 183 1. With this -- and his
           usual share in the Scholarship Examination at Trinity

           College, he was fully occupied till the middle of April, when
           he set to work on the revision of the paper on the Eastern

           Alps, which, as previously explained, had now to be recast,
           and almost re-written. He had hoped to get this work

           rapidly off his hands, and to be ready to start for Wales at
           the beginning of the Long Vacation. But, when June came,
           he was out of sorts, his time had been cut up by a succession

           of visitors, and, as he went on with his work, he found it

           increase, rather than diminish.

                Early in June Murchison started to commence those
           investigations into the then little known Transition Rocks,

           as they were called, which ended in the publication of The
           Silurian System. Sedgwick had been invited to accompany

                1 The poll was taken 3-- 6 May, 1831. An analysis at the end of the Poll-
           book shews that the number of voters was 1450 -- a strong proof of the excitement
           of the hour -- for it exceeded by 157 the largest number polled on any previous
           occasion.

                 To Mrs Murchison, 11 May, 1831.

        TOUR IN NORTH WALES.                                    377

him, but his plans were made, and he declined to alter them.           1831.
As events turned out it was an unfortunate decision. Had he          yEt-
said " Yes " instead of " No," how different the future of the

two men might have been ! They would have commenced
their exploration of Wales from the same point, instead of

from opposite sides of the principality ; they would have
worked out the proper sequence of the rocks together instead

of separately; Siluria might never have had an existence

independent of Cambria ; and no misunderstanding need ever

have arisen between the two explorers.

     The next letter describes Sedgwick's difficulties with the
paper, and at the commencement of his survey of North

Wales.

                 Llanllyfni, near Caernarvon,

Dear Murchison,                         September 13th, 183 1.

                  Had the elements been more favourable you
might have waited long for an answer. But I was driven
by stress of weather to Caernarvon on Saturday, and on

Sunday morning found a packet of letters waiting for me,

and yours among the rest. Yesterday was fine and I did

some work here ; today everything is wrapped in mist,
and the rain is falling in buckets. I did not get from
Cambridge before the 1st of August. The Alpine paper was
infinitely more troublesome to reduce than I expected. The

fossils, I took for granted, would fall into their right places,
and, as their determination was not a part of my labour, I
hoped simply to have the trouble of writing out the lists.
You may therefore judge of my vexation when I tell you

Ithat was stopped by the fossils over and over again ; that I

had two journeys up to London, and that Lonsdale had
one down to Cambridge arising out of them. This was not

as it ought to have been. The lists ought to have been
settled for better for worse sooner. And, after all, the result

is far from satisfactory. I last year actually bullied Boue

about the lowest strata in Styria, assuming that the fossils

         378 TOUR IN NORTH WALES.

1831.    were those of the London clay. Now it turns out, after the final
Et. 46.
         revisior1) that in the lowest Styrian clays there is not a single
         London Clay fossil ascertained. There is one with a query,

         and that is all : in fact, I do not believe now that the London

         Clay is found in Styria. But enough of this.

             I spent one day at Dudley and two days at Shrewsbury,

         and finally entered North Wales on the 5th August. As the

         Prince of the Air would have   I iIt,  was almost drowned in                  a

         thunderstorm the very morning commenced my labours.

         As the greywacke hills continued in cloud crossed to the
                                                    II
         vale of the Clwyd, hoping at least to do some work among
         the secondaries1. It would have delighted me to have

         attacked the Mold district, but knew that had no time,
                                        I

         so confined myself to the vale. The day following was
         II
         beautiful, and worked my way down to Denbigh. Next
             a

               I
         day made traverse, and descended to St Asaph, thence

         in my gig to Conway. The Old Red all round by Orm

         Head &c. &c.  pure fiction. At least can't see trace
                       is is                    it
                           a
                                                       I
                                     a
                                                                                    a
         of it. There  not particle of between Denbigh and

         the Isle of Anglesea. There are, however, some red beds

         (which may pass for Old Red for want of better) in a ravine
         west of Ruthin, and in one or two places near Llangollen

         under the Mountain Limestone escarpment. The band of

         limestone on the east side of the vale of Clwyd      not,
                                                          is
         believe, continuous -- there are,  if      mistake not, several
                                                                   ;I
         interruptions in it. spent some days in the Isle of Angleseais I
         if

                 is
                            is

                                I

                                I
         in the hopes of learning my lesson for Snowdonia. Henslow's

         paper* excellent, but the lesson worth next to nothing

         for Anglesea almost as distinct in structure from Snowdonia,

         as they had been separated by the Atlantic sea rather than

         the straits of Menai.          have now been at real hard work,

         cracking the rocks of Caernarvonshire for rather more than

         three weeks, and can report progress. My health muchis

         better, but am liable to rheumatic attacks at night, after
         a1

                   I
         This term includes the carboniferous rocks, as was usual at that time.
         See above, p. 34.

CHARLES DARWIN.                 379

the fatigues of the day, and truly fatiguing work it is to climb              183

these mountains ; but nothing can be done without. Already

I have been upon all the most elevated summits in this

county. This is pretty well considering the many inter
Ifruptions from mist and rain.
                                my health continue, and my

limbs are not jostled out of their sockets, I shall remain here

as long as the weather will let me, or at least till I have

finished this county. I can then quit the country with a good

conscience, and if I live till next year, can come back to the

Principality in good hope of finishing my work in another

summer.

     Under these circumstances York is quite out of the
question. I should be a traitor to quit my post, now that I
am keeping watch among the mountains. It would be very

delightful to meet the philosophers, and commence deipno-

sophist, but it would be very bad philosophy in the long run.

You may tell Mr Vernon1 that keeping away is a great act
of self-denial on my part, and that I am in fact doing their
work by staying away. I shall rejoice to meet you and

Mrs M. at Cambridge on your return ; you may then tell me

all about it. If you write, address me still at Caernarvon. I
consider it my head quarters, though I may not be there
again for a fortnight or three weeks.... I have no room for a

Snowdonian transverse section. The structure is on the whole

regular, and the strike longitudinal ; I have nearly completed

one base line to work upon ; the rest must be done by
traverses. My best regards to Mrs M.

Yours ever, A. Sedgwick.

     For two or three weeks, at the commencement of this tour,

Sedgwick was accompanied by Charles Darwin, then a young

man of twenty-two. It is provoking that neither should have

written down his impressions of the other at the time ; for

     1 The Rev. William Vernon (afterwards Vernon Harcourt) third son of the
Archbishop of York, zealously promoted the first meeting of the Association.

Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 185.

         3S0 DARWIN'S RECOLLECTIONS.

  1831.  it is evident that from this time forward Sedgwick took a
         keen interest in him. In 1835, while Darwin was absent on
Xx. 46.
         board The Beagle, Sedgwick wrote to Dr Butler of Shrews
         bury : " His [Dr Darwin's] son is doing admirable work in
         South America, and has already sent home a collection

         above all price. It was the best thing in the world for him

         that he went out on the voyage of discovery. There was
         some risk of his turning out an idle man, but his character
         will be now fixed, and if God spares his life he will have a
         great name among the Naturalists of Europe1." In after life,
         though they differed widely, Sedgwick always spoke of his

         geological pupil, as he may be termed, with cordiality and

         kindness; and Darwin, replying to a note received from

         Sedgwick not very long before his death, could write : "I am

         pleased that you remember my attending you in your
         excursions in 1831. To me, it was a memorable event
         in my life: I felt it a great honour, and it stimulated me
         to work, and made me appreciate the noble science of
         geology." In 1875, in answer to an inquiry from Professor

         Hughes, Darwin wrote down all he could remember about
         the tour of 183 1.

                       Down, Beckenham, Kent,

         My dear Sir,  May 24, 1875.

                       I understand from my son that you wish to hear about
         my short geological tour with Professor Sedgwick in      North Wales
         during the summer of 1831 ; but it is so long ago that
                                                                 I can tell you

         very little.
         As I desired to learn something about Geology, Professor Henslow

         asked Sedgwick to allow me to accompany him on his tour, and he
         assented to this in the readiest and kindest manner. He came to

         my father's house at Shrewsbury, and I remember how spirited and

         amusing his conversation was during the whole evening; but he

         talked so much about his health and uncomfortable feelings that my

         father, who was a doctor, thought that he was a confirmed hypo

         chondriac.

         We started next morning, and after a day or two he sent me

         across the country in a line parallel to his course, telling me to
         collect specimens of the rocks, and to note the stratification.  In

                       1 To Dr S. Butler, 7 November, 1835.

             DARWIN'S RECOLLECTIONS.                                                 381

Ithe evening he discussed what       had seen; and this of course                             1831.
Iencouraged me greatly, and made me exceedingly proud ; but
                                             the sake of                                    jt, 4g.
now suspect  that it was done merely    for  could have   tteoladchhinimg .meI,
and not for  anything of value which
                                         I
remember one little incident. We left Conway early in the morning,

and for the first two or three miles of our walk he was gloomy, and
"Ihthaerddly--sdpofekelloawHe
             word.          then suddenly burst forth :   know that
              never   gave  her the sixpence. I'll go back at once;"
Iand turned round to return to Conway.       was amazed, for I never

Iheard before, or since, anything like an oath from him. On inquiry

  found that he was convinced that the waiter had not given to the
chambermaid the sixpence which he had left for her. He had no

reason whatever, excepting that he thought the waiter 'an ill- looking
fellow.' On my hinting that he could hardly accuse a man of theft

on such grounds, he consented to proceed, but for some time he
grumbled and growled. At last his brow cleared, and we had a
delightful day, and he was as energetic as on all former occasions in
climbing the mountains. We spent nearly a whole day in Cwm

Idwal examining the rocks carefully, as he was very desirous to find

fossils.

   I have often thought of this day as a good instance of how easy
it is for any one to overlook new phenomena, however conspicuous
they may be. The valley is glaciated in the plainest manner, the
rocks being mammillated, deeply scored, with many perched boulders,
and well-defined moraines ; yet none of these phenomena were

Iobserved by Professor Sedgwick, nor of course by me. Never

theless they are so plain, that, as saw in 1842, the presence of a

glacier filling the valley would have rendered the evidence less

distinct1.
    Shortly afterwards I left Professor Sedgwick, and struck across
Ithe country in another direction, and reported by letter what saw.
IIn his answer he discussed my ignorant remarks in his usual

generous and frank manner. I am sorry to say that can tell you
Inothing more about our little tour.
      find that I have kept only one letter from Professor Sedgwick,
                                        omfemqyuitOe riaginfairofonSep,ecbieust '.I    His
which he wrote after  receiving a copy                                               think
judgement naturally   does not seem to
that the letter is characteristic of the man, and you are at liberty to
publish it if you should so desire.

                            Believe me, my dear Sir,

                                        Yours sincerely,

                                             Charles Darw1n.

     1 These phenomena are described in a paper by Darwin in the Philosophical

Magazine for 1842, xxi. 180. See Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, i. 57.
     a This letter, written in 1859, will appear when we come to speak of

Sedgwick's attitude towards Darwin's great work. It has already been printed
in Darwin's Life, ii. 247.

         382 DR MILL.

  1831.       Sedgwick got home sooner than he had intended, driven
         out of Wales by bad weather. His letter to Murchison,
Mt. 46.  announcing his return to Cambridge, indicates a certain
         amount of disappointment.

                                                      Trin. Coll. October 20, 1831.
             " I came here the night before last. The weather be
         came so bad that I was driven out of Caernarvonshire before

         I had quite finished my work ; but, God willing, I hope to be

         in North Wales next year before the expiration of the first
         week in May, and with five months before me I shall perhaps
         be able to see my way through the greater part of the

         Principality. If I live to finish the survey I shall then have

         terminated my seventh or eighth summer devoted exclusively
         to the details of the old crusty rocks of the primary system1.
         What a horrible fraction of a geological life sacrificed to the

         most toilsome and irksome investigations belonging to our

         science ! When I finished Cumberland I hoped some one
         else would have done North Wales -- but I have been dis
         appointed. N'importe. I am now in for and must go on

              Many thanks for your account of the York meeting.

         suppose must enrol myself one of your body corporate,
                  II                        it it it,

                                                                 I!
         though shall certainly not be able to attend the next
         meeting at Oxford. But we will talk of when we meet."

              Before the Michaelmas Term was over fell to Sedgwick's
         lot to urge the claims of his friend W. H. Mill to be chosen

         the first Boden Professor of Sanscrit at Oxford. Mill had

         written to him from Calcutta expressing his anxiety to obtain

         an office which, while  is it  took him away from  noxious
                                                            a
         climate, would enable him to "prosecute the Indian studies
                                                                       ;
         most like in an academic retirement which, though not the
         I                            that of her venerable sister " and
         abode of my mother,
               a
         in style not unlike Sedgwick's own, proceeded to claim his

         good offices  :

                             of
         1       He told Lyell that their investigation was like "rubbing yourself against  a
         grindstone." Life Sir C. Lyell, 367.
                                        i.

LIVING OF EAST FARLEIGH.                                          383

I" Now do not suppose, my dear Professor, that your ad eundem'1                 1832.
Idegree gives you           in
                                                                              /t. 47.
you, and implore           if I
                   a vote        Convocation ; nevertheless  one  do canvass
                    you,           have appeared to you             on whose

behalf such things may be done or attempted without unjust
partiality, and acceptation of persons such as Scripture and sound
reason do condemn -- by the memory of old times, and our several
meetings and crossings in France, Switzerland, and Alsace -- by the
                   of 1818 and 1829, diverse
canvassing scenes  from this -- that you will  though  they be    in many
material respects                              wisely  bethink    yourself

how you may befriend me in this affair. Perhaps your friends
Professor Buckland (to whom you introduced me at Somerset House),
and Mr Lyell, and other scientific men of the other University might
be induced to lend me their powerful aid by your mentioning my
name to them*".

    Sedgwick did as Mill suggested, and at once wrote to
Professor Buckland, who entered warmly into his views. His
letter " transcribed in a fair hand " -- a preliminary step which
was doubtless necessary if it was to have any effect upon the
University --was placed in the hands of the Vice-Chancellor,

together with the testimonials of the other candidates ; and at

first Buckland seemed sanguine of success ; but, when the day
of election came, an Oxonian was preferred to a member of

another University, and the Professorship was conferred upon
Horace Hayman Wilson.

     In March 1832, Lord Chancellor Brougham invited Sedg
wick to accept the living of East Farleigh in Kent. The

offer was probably prompted by personal feeling as much as
by the wish to reward a political supporter, for Brougham
had sought Sedgwick's cooperation in his schemes for the
diffusion of knowledge, and we believe that the correspond

ence had led to more than one interview. Sedgwick declined,
apparently without hesitation ; a refusal which was much
deplored by several of his friends, and especially by Lyell,
who records in his diary (16 March) his own conviction that,
were Sedgwick to leave Cambridge and marry, " he would be
much happier, and would eventually do much more for

     1 Sedgwick, Peacock, Whewell, Airy, Henslow were all admitted ad eundem
gradum at Oxford, 17 June, 1830.

    s From Dr Mill, 6 June, 1831.

            384 LIVING OF EAST FARLEIGH.

1832.       geology1." Lyell states that it was Murchison who advised
       47-  Sedgwick to decline ; but, had this been the case, Sedgwick
            could hardly have written the following letter :

            To R. I. Murchison, Esq.
                 " I returned this morning from the little living of Shudy

            Camps, from which I used to derive 40 or 50 per annum,
            but which now is worse than nothing. Under such circum
            stances you will think it strange that I have been mad

            enough to refuse the living about which you wrote, but so it

            is. I cannot accept it without my Professorship being vacant,
            and breaking off my work in the middle. I do not think

            this would be to my honour, or that it would add to my

            happiness. Many thanks for your kind note. I have written

            to Le Marchant*, and also to the Lord Chancellor ; to the
            former yesterday between services, to the latter to-day. I
            fear they will both set me down for an egregious fool3."

                If Sedgwick was serious in thinking that the Chancellor

            would ridicule him for saying " No," the answer which he was

            not long in receiving must have caused him considerable

            pleasure.

            My dear Sir,

            I read both your letters to the Chancellor yesterday.
            IHe more than once interrupted
            When I had done, I asked him
                                             me to  express his warm approbation.
                                             what    was to say to you. "Say to
            him," the Chancellor answered, "all that is kind and respectful on
            my part"; and he then proceeded in very forcible terms to eulogise
                                     He also descanted upon your claims, and
            your disinterestedness.

            trusted something would turn up that would enable him to prove
            Ithat they

            warm in

            Ihe said.
            had not been overlooked.         I       have seldom heard    him more
            his commendation, and                                       tell you all
                                                only regret I cannot
               hope however that I
                                             have recollected enough to satisfy
            you that you have been dealing with a person capable of appre

            ciating merit.

                                                    Yours very truly,

                                                            D. Le Marchant.

            1 Life of Sir C. Lyell, i. 374.  2 The Lord Chancellor's principal secretary.
            * This letter bears neither date nor postmark.

                LIVING OF EAST FA RLE IGH.                                                                 3S5

     Soon afterwards Sedgwick had an interview with Lord                                                          1832.
Brougham, and it was probably in consequence of what was                                                        .^-t- 47-
then said that he wrote with even more than his usual

vivacity to Ainger :

" What  strange                               London, March 17, 1832.

                       things are in the womb of Time !

Who would have thought that the Lord Chancellor would

ever offer me a living worth perhaps 1000 a year, and that

I should refuse it ? But this very event has come to pass

within the last week. You may well think, as some of my

other friends have done, that I am raving mad. No matter.

The Chancellor thinks me in my sober senses, and has
promised me one of the very first stalls which is vacant --

which I can hold both with my Fellowship and Professorship,

and make my hammer ring more merrily than ever against

the rocks....

    On Monday I return to Cambridge, where I have some

geological papers to finish, and about the first week in May

I hope to be off for North Wales, when I shall, I hope, be

following my vocation for five months. On my return I shall

begin to write a book with which I have been pregnant for

seven or eight years."

    It was to be expected that the high spirits which

prompted this letter would not be maintained for long at the

same level. On the very next day a reaction had set in,
as Lyell tells us. His estimate of Sedgwick is severe, but

events proved him to have been right.

     " Sedgwick asked  me   to walk home with  him. I found a gloom
upon him, unusual      and
                             marked. I most     carefully avoided all

allusion to the rejected living, but now, when the first excitement

of the declining the boon is over, and that others have expressed
their wonder at and that he finds himself left alone with his glory,
is
                      a it,

                 I

                                                        is

                                           iIf

                                                                                                    a
he dejected. He told me, Thursday last, that he wished before
he left Cambridge to do something. 'Now
                                               take living instead

of going to Wales, abandon my Professorship, and cannot get out
the volume on the primary rocks with Conybeare,' etc. Then he

hinted that in  year, when this  done, he may retire on some

                                                                                                       25

         386 LIVING OF EAST FARLEIGH.

  1832.  Iliving, and marry. But know Sedgwick well enough to feel sure

Mt. 47.  that the work won't be done in a year, nor perhaps in two ; and then
         a living, etc. won't be just ready, and he is growing older. He has
         not the application necessary to make his splendid abilities tell in a
         work. Besides, every one leads him astray. A man should have
         some severity of character, and be able to refuse invitations, etc.
         The fact is that to become great in science a man must be nearly as
         devoted as a lawyer, and must have more than mere talent '."

              On reviewing the whole case--with the help of what we
         know of Sedgwick in the closing years of his life--we are
         inclined to agree with Lyell, and to decide that he was wrong
         in refusing Farleigh. No doubt he would have regretted

         Cambridge at first ; but he had a happy capacity for accept
         ing new surroundings and new occupations. In a few months
         the rector of Farleigh would have been as much at home
         there as the Prebendary of Norwich became afterwards in
         the Cathedral Close. Nor would he have found the duties of a
         parish clergyman -- especially as those duties were understood
         fifty years since -- incompatible with the pursuit of geology.
         His best geological friends, the brothers Conybeare, were

         both beneficed clergymen, and we believe that they did not
         neglect either parish or science. Lastly, Sedgwick made a

         fatal mistake, when he cut himself off, irrevocably, from
         marriage ; and that he deliberately chose a bachelor life is

         evident from what he says about his readiness to accept a
         stall which he could hold with his Professorship and Fellow

         ship. We are not aware that he ever owned to regrets for
         Farleigh ; but in the loneliness which is inseparable from old
         age within the precincts of a college he not seldom dwelt
         upon what might have been, had he been blessed with a wife

         and children.

              Sedgwick must have needed some distraction after the
         excitement of such a decision as has just been recorded ; and
         he found it in the entertainment of the celebrated Mrs

             1 Life of Sir C.  Lyell, i. 375. The above extract is from Lyell's diary for
                                The passage immediately preceding the extract speaks of a
         Tuesday, 20 March.
                               on the previous Sunday, i.e. 18 March.
         party at Murchison's

MRS SOMERVILLE AT CAMBRIDGE.                  387

Somerville and her husband, whom he persuaded not only to                          183
spend a week with him, but to occupy rooms in College.

To Dr Somerville.

My dear Sir,       Tuesday morning,

                            [3 April, 1832].

Your letter delighted me, and I am sure you have

decided wisely not to rusticate at the Observatory1.
     The time you have fixed is the best of all possible times,

and I hope you will write as soon as possible to finally fix
the hour of your arrival. I have a plan in my eye which I

think quite excellent. Mr Sheepshanks' rooms, on my stair

case*, are now empty, and I believe he does not return into

residence next week. In that case we will mount a regular

matrimonial four-posted bed, and try to domesticate you and
Mrs Somerville within the College walls. This experiment

was tried and approved of by Mr and Mrs Murchison. The

rooms in question are very good ; have a dressing-room with

a fireplace attached to them, and a small mathematical
library in which Mrs S. may disport herself when she is tired

of duller subjects. The day you arrive I can either give you
a quiet dinner, or ask a few friends to meet you. I mention

this alternative because Mrs Somerville may perhaps antici

pate fatigue, and not wish to meet a party the first evening.

Only express your wishes on this matter, and they shall be

law. I shall write by this post to Sheepshanks, and if by

any mischance I should be disappointed in my present plan

I will secure rooms for you opposite Trin. Coll. Give my

    1 Then occupied by Geo. Biddell Airy, M.A., Plumian Professor of Astronomy
1828 -- 1836. He and his accomplished wife were intimate friends of Dr and Mrs

Somerville.

    a At this time Sedgwick occupied the rooms in the Great Court, on the upper

floor of the building between King Edward's Gate and the Master's Lodge,
which he held till his death. He succeeded Professor Clark, who accepted a

college living in 1825. Sedgwick's rooms as an undergraduate were between the
Chapel and the Great Gate, as mentioned above (p. 78). We do not know
where he lived between his degree, when he would probably change, and 1825.

                                                                          25 -- 2

        388 MRS SOMERVILLE AT CAMBRIDGE.

832.    kindest greetings to Mrs Somerville  and your family,         and
   47-  believe me most truly yours,             A. Sedgwick.

             Dr Somerville replied that he and his wife had "no
        habits in hours, food, or in any other circumstances. Dispose
        of us as you list ; we are ready to feed in seclusion, petit
        comiti, or in any party you like to form on Monday, meaning
        not to be fatigued by the journey, which rather recruits
        Mrs Somerville." To this communication Sedgwick promptly

        replied :

        To Dr Somerville.  TR1N. Coll. Thursday evening,
                                                    [5 Aprii, 1832].
            My dear Sir,

        Your letter delighted me. I have ordered dinner on

        Monday at half-past six, and shall have a small party to

        welcome you and Mrs Somerville. In order that we may not

        have to fight for you we have been entering on the best

        arrangements we can think of. On Tuesday you will I hope
        dine with Peacock -- on Wednesday with Whewell --on Thurs

        day at the Observatory. For Friday Dr Clark, our Professor

        of Anatomy, puts in a claim. For the other days of your
        Avisit we shall (D.V.), find ample employment.
                                                        four-posted

        bed (a thing utterly out of our regular monastic system) will
        rear its head for you and Madame in the chamber immediately

        under my own; and your handmaid may safely rest her bones

        in a small inner chamber. Should Sheepshanks return we

        can stuff him into a lumber-room of the Observatory; but of

        this there is no fear, as I have written to him on the subject,

        and he has no immediate intention of returning. You will of

        course drive to the great gate of Trinity College, and my

        servant will be in waiting at the Porter's Lodge to shew you

        the way to your academic residence. We have no Canons at

        Trin. Coll. others (sic) we would fire a salute on your entry.

MRS SOMERVILLE AT CAMBRIDGE.                                              389

We will however give you the             warmest greeting we can.                           183
Meanwhile give my best regards           to Mrs S. and believe me
most truly yours,                                                                         XA-
                                                    A. SEDGWICK.

     The visit lasted for a week, and though Sedgwick un
fortunately was "sadly out of sorts" during part of the
time, he evidently enjoyed himself thoroughly. Whewell,

whose health and spirits were always in good order, was quite
as enthusiastic in his commendation of the lady. Before she
came to Cambridge, he had probably known her only as the

authoress of The Mechanism of the Heavens, and was somewhat
surprised to find her not only accomplished in music, drawing,
and various languages, but "a very feminine, gentle, lively
person, with no kind of pretence to superiority in her
manners or conversation1." In consequence, she soon be

came a great favourite with the ladies of Cambridge, and a
tradition of her grace and affability long survived among
them. When the week was over Sedgwick and Whewell
escorted their friends to Audley End, where they enjoyed
their society for four days more, and then, as Sedgwick put
" they moved to London, and we returned to our respective

dens in College." A few days afterwards Mrs Somerville

expressed her satisfaction by letter
                                         :

                                                                                     it,

My dear Sir,                             Chelsea, April 25, 1832.

Fruitless as the endeavour would be to express how

highly we have been gratified with the delightful week spent within
the hospitable walls of Trinity College, still feel
                                         by                               to be due

                                             I

                                                                      it
to you, and all our kind friends, to assure you in language as

rigorously true as ever was conveyed     x, y, that our reception has

made an impression upon us not to be forgotten. Our anticipations
were sanguine, but they were surpassed by the reality, and you will

only do us justice by believing that the attentions so liberally
bestowed are duly appreciated. That my studies should merit the

notice of such men as adorn your University,  would have been
                                              it
                                                                     a
presumption to expect their approbation therefore, so handsomely
given, the more gratifying. The two acts of our little drama, the
is

              1
                                      ;
first at Cambridge, and the second at Audley End, form very
agreeable episode in our life.

Whewell's Life, by Mrs Stair Douglas, p. I42.

         39 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD.

  1832.  I Itrust you have completely recovered from the cold which fear
         Ivou caught while kindly devoting your time to me, and that we shall
Mx. 47.  soon have the pleasure of seeing you in town.  beg you will let me

         Iknow of your arrival before you have made engagements among the

         numerous friends who are so desirous of your society, for can assure
         you there is no one who will value the privilege of being included

         among them more than yours very sincerely,

                                                     Mary Somerville.

              Sedgwick started for Wales towards the end of May, as
         he had proposed ; but, anxious as he was to complete his
         work there, he allowed himself a week's holiday in June at
         Oxford, where the British Association held its second meeting.
         He had rather sneered at the notion of such a gathering when
         it was first started, and had protested that he would not leave
         Wales for either York or Oxford. Murchison, however, made

         him break his resolution in favour of the latter city, and

         Buckland clenched the matter by a humorous invitation

         which nobody could well have refused. " I exhort you," he

         wrote, "by all your love for Professorial Unity and the
         eternal fitness of things, to locate yourself in a fraternal
         habitat within my domicile during the orgies of the week
         beginning on the 3rd of June1," and then went on to tell him
         of the arrangements that Mrs Buckland had made for his
         comfort, and the friends whom he would probably meet.
         Still he went unwillingly, and, not many days before the

         meeting assembled, wrote to Murchison :

                                         Caernarvon, June 5, 1832.

         ...I shall be glad to make myself of use [at Oxford],

         but in the bustle of the meeting, and among friends, philo

         sophical reporters, blue-stockings, and big-wigs, I shall not
         Iffind much time.
                            I say anything it must be extrumpery,

         and I suppose about Snowdonia, which I now know something

         about. It however, a terrible hard crust for sucking geo
         I
                          is,

                                    1

                                               I
                                                                                                                                     !)
                                                                                                  it
         logists to mumble, and as for the ladies (God bless 'em

         will fear turn their stomachs.  am, in short, willing to be

         From Rev. W. Buckland, 19 April, 1832.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD.                        391

of use, but I have not good cards in my hand ; and if other               1832.
people are there who are better prepared (and I defy them to                    47-
be worse) I shall be very glad to have an excuse for sparing

my breath.... Yours to the top end of his hammer,

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

     Sedgwick's reluctance vanished in the congenial society
he found at Oxford. The Report of the meeting shews that
he not only took an active part in the business of the geological
section, but accepted without a murmur the office of President
for the following year, when the Association was to meet at
Cambridge, saying in a public speech " that it would be at all
times and in all situations one of his greatest pleasures to
contribute his assistance to the British Association1." Six

weeks afterwards, writing calmly and deliberately to a friend,
he admitted that the meeting had " gone off admirably." As
soon as the meeting was over Murchison hurried back to his
work in Wales, and Sedgwick, after a short excursion with
Whewell " to Stratford on Avon and other not distant
places," followed his example. He was evidently anxious
that their separate investigations should become part of a
common whole, and therefore kept his friend informed of his
whereabouts and his plans, while, with indomitable energy,
he followed the strata over hill and dale, principally on foot,
through a wide extent of rugged country. The rough pen-
and-ink sections which illustrate the first of the next two
letters are of especial value as exhibiting the views which
he held when it was written.

Dear Murchison,  Barmouth,/^ 23, 1832.

           On Saturday the 30th of June, I had from Rodney's

pillar a glimpse of you and the Colonel on the summit of

Moel-y-Golchfa. I landed that evening at Llanymynach, and

1 Second Report of the British Association, p. 10 .
a Whewell's Life, p. 141.

           GEOLOGY OF NORTH WALES.

1832.      spent next day with my friend Evans in a proper clerical
      47-
           manner. I did, however, after church, go up on the hill north

           of the town, and enjoyed what I think one of the very finest
           Iviews I ever beheld.
                                  was certain, at the first glance, that

           there was a great deal of work before me in Montgomeryshire

           which I had very little expected. The porphyritic system of

           Snowdonia is there told over again, as I made out from the

           look of the country, and the information I obtained from

           Evans. The next day, July 2, very early, we started for

           Llanrhaidr, where we breakfasted ; then visited the celebrated

           Pistill Rhaidr, which is caused by great ribs of porphyry

           passing through the greywacke, which it binds together and

           saves from degradation. The water tumbles over the grey
           wacke' and porphyry through a perpendicular height of about

           230 feet. It is a gorgeous fall for a geologist, though the

           artists think it formal and unpicturesque. We then scaled

           the Berwyns, and went along the top as far as the highest

           point (Gaderferwyn), and descended by a tributary valley to
           Llanrhaidr. Thence I drove to Llangynog late in the evening.
           The Berwyns for many miles N. and S. dip to the W. or
           W.N.W. ; there must therefore be an anticlinal line in Mont
           gomeryshire ranging somewhere N.E. and S.W., and probably
           passing near Llanfyllin. E. of that town the beds again roll

           over to the S.E. so as to bring in the newer rocks between the

           Vernwy and the Severn which form the base of the system in
           which you are working. Before the end of the summer I shall
           endeavour to make traverses on the line of Llanidloes, New

           town, (perhaps Pool and Montgomery), Llanfair, Llanfyllin,

           and Llangollen ; and, if I have time, I shall then make a long

           run towards the south, so as to make one or two long
           traverses in South Wales. In this way our work will link

           together.

               Next day, July 3, I crossed the Berwyns to Bala. Through
           the whole ascent, and nearly to the base on the W. side of the

           chain, the dip is about W. by N., working gradually to N.W.
           in the prolongation of the chain towards Corwen. On the

GEOLOGY OF NORTH WALES.  393

western side of the chain an anticlinal line strikes through the  1832.
region about N.N.E. and W.S.W., in consequence of which                 47-
some bands of black shelly limestone I found at the top of the

Berwyns are brought out again with an opposite dip, viz.
E.S.E. These bands of black limestone are absolutely

identical with the transition lime which separates the greywacke

of Westmoreland from the great system of greenslate and
porphyry of the central mountains of Cumberland. They form
a very grand base-line, which I have now traced from Glyn-
Diffws (five miles N.W. of Corwen) to Dinas Mowddy, a
distance, as the crow flies, of about 30 miles.

     From Bala I examined the range of the limestone, and
made excursions to the Arenig chain, extending my rambles

almost to the great Bangor road. The whole region forms the
side of a great saddle, dipping about E.S.E., much interrupted
by vast unstratified masses of porphyry, which are, however,

more or less tabular, and range with the strata, without

altering their dip. A little to the W. of Penmachno the great

Merioneth anticlinal strikes in, ranging N.N.W. and E.S.E.

(i.e. geometrically parallel to the four Caernarvon anticlinals,
and also to the beds of shell limestone above mentioned).

This line I have traced into the sea near Barmouth, and I

have examined all the country on the W. side of it. In short,

I have toiled like a slave, and have made myself ill, so that I

am now almost confined to the house. Tomorrow I hope to

be in working condition again. There are no porphyries on

the W. side of the great Merioneth saddle between Festiniog,
Harlech, and Barmouth, but an enormous fault, which cuts slap
through Caernarvonshire from Llanllyfni to Tremadoc, strikes

in three miles N. of Harlech, and may be traced into the sea

two miles from Barmouth. It is a very grand geological
phenomenon, connected, as I believe, with the vast eruptions
of syenite in the S. parts of Caernarvonshire. The country S.
of the Barmouth river I hardly know anything about, having

for the two last days been laid up by a very feverish cold and
sore throat. This is very provoking, as the weather is glorious,

         394 GEOLOGY OF NORTH WALES.

1832.    and the porphyritic peaks are glittering in the sun as if in
         mockery of my infirmity. I have, however, once scaled Cader
Et- 47-  Idris. It forms a portion of the eastern side of the great

         Merionethshire saddle, and differs in no essential respect from

         other parts of the county. The crater on its southern side is

         nothing more than a deep pool of water in soft calcareous

         greywacke ! !
         I did not intend to make you pay for a double letter, but I

         have already scrawled over the last page before I once thought

         of the direction. You must see, by what I have written, that
         I have had a good harvest ; its reaping
                                               I                  however, most

                                                         is,
         laborious, as the tracing the geological parallels compels me to

         climb almost every mountain. When have worked down

         through the Cader Idris region to Machynlleth, my labours

         will become more light, as the hills are much lower, and there

         are great uninteresting tracts shall not be compelled to look
                        is

                                   I
         at. now understand what formerly was puzzled with
         I                                     I                                   it ;

         the transition or primary system of North Wales, though

         enormously thick, not one tenth part the thickness one

         might at first imagine. In consequence of the anticlinal lines,

         the system of rocks three or four miles S.E. of Bangor
         reappears in the centre of Merionethshire and the shell
                                               iIf
         limestone E. of Bala lake reappears,                  ;
                                                  mistake not, near

         Meifod in Montgomeryshire. Pray write to me at Machynlleth,

         and tell me what you think of this notion, and how far

         agrees with what you have seen. The dark calcareous beds

         near Meifod &c., &c., have not yet seen so am arguing
                        II
                                                                                ;
                                                             I
         on an imperfect case. will fill up this sheet with one or two

         sections for your amusement.  Most truly yours,
                                                 A. Sedgwick.

                                       Machynlleth, August 10.

         To the same.

         "I am just arrived here, and have got your letters,

         which have read, or rather tried to read, with much interest.
         I

                                   it
                                          is

                                                                           I
         You must see at once  impossible we should meet.                          am



Mt. 47.

       EXPLANATION OF SECTIONS.

       SECTION. No. 1.

1.     Porphyry of the Menai.
2.      Slate and Porphyry.
3.
        Porphyry.
4~
       Great zone of roofing slate and coarse grey-
5.
6-10.   wacke'.

       Porphyry of Mynydd Mawr.
       Slate and Porphyry blended together in endless
       confusion, but not destroying the traces of strati
       fication : in consequence of the 5 anticlinals the
       same stratified masses are repeated again and
       again, so that at the Merioneth anticlinal [x, y)
       we are on the parallel of No. 4-

                                                SECTION. No. 2.

 a = Bands of black shell limestone,
a' = Do. at the top of the Berwyns.
a" = Supposed reappearance of the same beds of lime

      stone on the East side of Montgomeryshire.

                                                SECTION. No. 3.

 a = The great fault above described,
  b = The great Merioneth anticlinal,
  c = Black shell limestone near Llany Mowddy.

To face page 394, Vol. I.

   GEOLOGY OF NORTH WALES.                                         395

off for Towyn, and hope in two days to finish Merionethshire.                    183

I shall then work into Cardiganshire as far as Plinlimmon and

the Devil's Bridge. For this I will hypothetically allow a

week. Then I double back, and make traverses in Mont

gomeryshire, partly to work out the anticlinals, partly to lock

my work into yours. I don't quite twig your sections ; indeed
I can't read 'em, but I see you have done excellent work.

    I find, as a general rule, that the moment I get into a low

country the strata begin to roll and reel about, but while they

are in elevated ridges they keep their strike, and dip beauti

fully, the changes being produced by parallel anticlinals. I

hope before this sun is down to trace the great Merionethshire

anticlinal into the sea, north of Towyn. I shall then have

followed it over hill and dale for more than 50 miles."

     To Ainger, as usual, he wrote in more general terms.
After describing himself as "burnt as brown as a pack-
saddle, and a little thin from excessive fatigue," he proceeds :

   " I have been rambling in various parts of North Wales,

for days, and almost for weeks, together, as much secluded as

if I had been in the centre of New Holland. Now and then

I stumbled on a struggling Cantab, with whom occasionally I

also contrived to spend the evening. These were, however,

rare occasions. North Wales is Cumberland over again,

only on a rather larger scale, and expanded over a wider

surface. The valleys of North Wales are many of them

glorious; but they want the beautiful lakes of your county.

After all, the Lake Mountains for my money. The Welsh

are a kind-hearted, but rather dull set of people ; just made to

be beaten by the Saxons. It however, wrong to judge of
                      is,

                                        I
a  people whose language one does not speak.                       like to talk

to country people, and to see their humours, but from this
                                                                   it
am shut out among these children of Caractacus. This
                                                                     is I

which has made my solitude doubly solitary. As soon as the

weather changes, for  now detestable, shall look again
                      it
                          is

                                             I

                                                                a
towards the south, and endeavour to effect series of long

           396 CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

1832.      traverses in South Wales ; but in what direction, you know
      47-  at this time pretty nearly as much as I do myself. In short,
           I shall hoist sail, and sail before the wind. Before my final
           return I hope to spend a week with my friend Conybeare in

           Glamorganshire ; this will, however, depend on the cholera,

           which is raging not far from him, and may frighten me from

           my present purpose1."
                Sedgwick's share in the foundation of the Cambridge

           Philosophical Society has been already related. His sanguine

           anticipations of success had been more than realised in the

           thirteen years which had elapsed since 18 19. The members
           were numerous ; the meetings well attended ; the papers
           valuable, and of varied interest. Moreover the Museum,

           begun in the very first days of the Society's existence, had

           assumed respectable proportions, through the exertions of
           Professor Henslow, Mr Leonard Jenyns, and their friends ;
           and the reading-room-- which was not restricted to Fellows
           of the Society -- had become a place of popular resort. This

           rapid development might of itself have warranted a new
           departure in the position of the Society, even if an accidental

           circumstance had not rendered immediate action necessary.
           The meetings were held, for the first few months, " in the

           Museum of the Botanic Garden," and afterwards in rooms in

           Sidney Street, facing Jesus Lane. These were commodious,
           and well-suited to the purposes of the Society ; but their

           tenure of them was limited, and early in 1832 it became
           known that the owner declined to extend it. Thereupon, at

           a special General Meeting held 7 April, 1832, it was decided,
           on the motion of Mr Peacock, to be "expedient that the

           Society should possess a house of their own, built expressly
                                                        "
           to suit  the objects  of the  institution       and,  as  a  preliminary
                                                      ;

           step, that a charter of incorporation should be obtained*.

               It happened that these important measures, amounting

               1 To Rev. W. Ainger, dated "Llansilin, near Oswestry, 29 August, 1832."
                2 We believe that the Cambridge Philosophical Society was the first Society,
           out of London, that obtained the distinction of a charter.

CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.  397

almost to a second foundation of the Society, were adopted          1832.
during Sedgwick's tenure of the office of President, to which             47-

he had been elected in May, 1831 ; and further, his name
appears alone upon the charter. As President, he was, for
the moment, the head of the Society ; and the adoption of a
single petitioner, in lieu of several, diminished the fees exacted

by the Stamp Office. But, whatever may have been the

reason, it must be esteemed a fortunate circumstance that

he, who took so deep an interest in the Society, should be

for ever associated with its permanent establishment. It is

almost needless to add that he was himself especially delighted
at being placed in such a position. Writing to Murchison,

7 November, 1832, he says:

    "Yesterday after lecture I presided at a public meeting
held by our Society for the purpose of accepting a Charter.

We afterwards adjourned to an Inn and had a blow-out.
Finally three or four of my friends came to my rooms and

kept me up till two this morning -- for which I do not now

much thank them."

     We can readily imagine Sedgwick's enthusiasm on this
occasion, probably the first of those annual celebrations in

which he bore so jovial a part ; and among the reminiscences

with which he used to amuse the company, none recurred so
frequently as the story of the charter, when, as he used to

say, " I was the Society."
     Two other matters, of very diverse nature, occupied much

of Sedgwick's time and thought during the Michaelmas Term
of 1832. The first was a movement -- as we should now call
it-- to call forth " some expression of national gratitude to the
memory of Sir Walter Scott." Sedgwick became a member
of a committee appointed for that purpose, and did his best to
rouse the enthusiasm of his Cambridge friends -- but without

success. The scheme proposed, to purchase Abbotsford, and
to secure it to Sir Walter's children, did not commend itself
to the common-sense of those to whom he tried to recommend

it. It was in fact, as he himself said --" a strange round-about

         398 CONTESTED ELECTION FOR UNIVERSITY.

1832.    way of shewing respect1" -- and before long he found that a
Et- 47-
         few very modest subscriptions, given probably more out of

         regard to himself than from any other motive, would represent

         the generosity of Cambridge.
              This was succeeded, after a brief interval, by a contested

         election for the University, in which Sedgwick, Thirlwall, and

         a few other ardent spirits made an energetic but unsuccessful
         effort to persuade the constituency that Mr John William
         Lubbock, Vice-President of the Royal Society, as "a man

         distinguished for his literary and scientific attainments," would
         be a more suitable representative for a learned body than a

         mere politician. Sedgwick became chairman of the Cambridge

         Committee, and an active canvass was set on foot. But the
         " vehemence of some of his Whig friends*," and the lukewarm-

         ness of others, who agreed to vote but declined to canvass,
         boded ill for the success of the attempt. After a ten days'
         struggle Mr Lubbock withdrew, and Mr Goulburn, with the
         Right Hon. Charles Manners Sutton, late Speaker of the
         House of Commons, were duly elected. The following letter
         from Dr Samuel Butler reached Sedgwick soon afterwards :

         My dear Professor,              Shrewsbury, December 10, 1832.

                    It is better to retire in time than to give a great many

         friends an expensive and hopeless journey at such a season of the

         year, and    when many  I  of them have their votes   and interests pre
         occupied   elsewhere.      had written this morning  to bespeak chaises
         Iall along the road, especially for the

         anxious about. By to-morrow's post
                                         Inicgahnt  hours, which was     very
                                                    rescind the order.
         I Iam almost sorry that Lubbock offered. I am no cynic ; hate
         Ito snarl and not to bite ; a grin and a growl does nothing but make

         one laughed at. Another thing which have observed in the course
         of this canvas was, that people did not like to be called upon for so
         Ilong and expensive journies with apparently so little prospect of
         success. It is an unwise waste of strength and interest.  should
         not be surprised if some of our well-wishers took their names off the

         I Iboards to avoid such frequent solicitations, especially when they find
         themselves on the losing side.  say this because hope that on

         some future occasion time and man may be well chosen, and that we

                    1 To R. I. Murchison, 7 November, 1832.
                    2 Whewell's Life, p. 149.

                COMMEMORA TION SERMON.                                   399

shall act with good hope of success, and not without at least a fair                    1832.

chance of it. Nothing should have kept me, or any persons whom                        /t. 47.

I could influence, from the poll on this occasion, but physical

impossibility ; but wavering or luke-warm persons will not be equally

zealous, and the oftener they are called upon without any prospect

Iof success, the less inclined will they be to serve us. Therefore,
say, look for influential candidates, and magna
     To all that can be said of Mr Lubbock's             nomina.   most  willingly

                                                         merits I
subscribe. But look at the array against him. All the force of Eton

from attachment to the Speaker ; all his family connections ; and all
the Speaker's parliamentary friends. He was a well-chosen opponent,

whom no private person, however high in character for talents or

virtues, could hope to conquer, and I have no doubt he would have

headed the poll. We could not conquer even Goulburn, who has

a powerful party among the Saints, and whose interest is increased

by the talents of his son. Now look at the last election. Many

voted for Lord Palmerston from old connections, who would not
have voted for us now. The high connections of Mr Cavendish

were all on the alert, and stood him in more stead than his own high
merits, and made many take the trouble of coming to serve him,

especially among the aristocracy, who would not stir a step for any
individual of
                private family.
    All this I    say, that you
                I                may  ponder             and either keep to your

                             is

                                 if

                                                    it,
self, or communicate to the confidential friends of our party, as you
may judge best. But repeat my exhortation that you will carefully

look out for highly connected, and, you can, highly popular, as well

as highly gifted, candidates. Let us give them no possible advantage

that we can help. There          time to look about before the next

election. Let those of our friends who can be depended on, be

prepared in time, and be secret.
My dear Professor, have one grand article of faith that no
                ;                                                  :

                 I                                                                it
speech of four hours in either House ever did good to the cause

presumed to advocate and that no sermon should be above half an

hour long the preacher means to carry with him the good will and
attention of his congregation. Now am afraid my preachment to
is                                    S. I

       if
you thirty one and half minutes. God bless you. We shalla

meet triumphant yet. Truly yours, Butler.

     Before the year ended, fell to Sedgwick's turn to preachit
the sermon at the annual Commemoration of Benefactors in
                   ;
Trinity College, on Monday, 17 December. It seems at first
                           a
sight impossible that such sermon, preached every year in

the same place on the same subject, could ever be treated with

any marked originality and in fact, allusions to the founders,
benefactors, distinguished members of the college, and those

who have passed away since the last occasion, with the obvious

                               COMMEMORATION SERMON.

1832. lessons to be drawn from such occurrences, form the staple of
Et- 47- these discourses, which vary only with the rhetorical power of

          the writers. Sedgwick, however, struck out a new line, and
          produced a work which not only made a sensation at the
          time, as is proved by the fact that it ran through four editions
          in two years, but which still possesses an historical interest,
         not merely as evidence of the breadth of his own studies and
         speculations beyond the range of his particular science, but as
           a protest against the metaphysical and ethical doctrines then
          commonly accepted. Unfortunately it is now presented to us
          in a form so different from that in which it was originally
          delivered, that it is impossible to realise the effect produced

        on those who heard it. The subject, The Studies of the

          University, had probably occupied Sedgwick's thoughts
          for a long while ; but, with more than usual procras
          tination, he did not put pen to paper until the Thursday
         preceding the day of delivery1. In consequence, when asked
         to publish, he found himself in a considerable difficulty. As
          he says in the preface : " having animadverted with much
          freedom on some parts of the Cambridge course of reading,
          [the author] felt himself compelled, before he dared to give
           what he had written to the public, to enter at more length on
         a justification of his opinions. On this account, his remarks
         on the classical, metaphysical, and moral studies of the
         University were cast over again, and expanded to at least
        three times their original length." In fact, only one-third of
         the work remains as it was originally written ; and this, it
         must be reluctantly confessed, is not in Sedgwick's happiest
         vein. The style is heavy and laboured, and there are none of
          those eloquent passages which made his speeches so animated
         and so delightful. The matter, therefore, rather than the
         manner, must have caused those who heard it to wish to read

             1 To R. I. Murchison, 8 December, 1832. " I cannot be up in Town on
         Monday the 17th,. ..when I have to preach the Anniversary Sermon. How I shall
         get through I don't know, as I have not yet written it, and till next Thursday

           night shall not have much time to think about Divinity."

                   COMMEMORA TION SERMON.                            401

it quietly at home. This wish, expressed to Whewell as                               183
Senior Tutor, reached Sedgwick in the following letter :

From Mr Whewell.

                            Trinity College, December 23, 1832.

My dear Sedgwick,

                  When you had scribbled down the last sentence of your
sermon after the bell had stopt, and had succeeded by a sort of

miracle in reading your pothooks without spectacles, omitting how
Iever half the sentences, and a quarter of the syllables of those which
remained,          daresay you thought you had done marvellously well,
Iand had completed, or more properly had ended, your task. In this,

however, you were mistaken, as hope soon to make you acknow

ledge.

   IThe rising generation, who cannot err, inasmuch as they will

discourse most wise and true sentences when you and are laid in
Ithe alluvial soil, declare that their intellectual culture requires that
you should print and publish your sermon.      will give you a list on
the other side of the names of the persons who have joined in
Iexpressing this wish. I undertook very willingly to communicate
this their desire to your reverence, inasmuch as  thought your
sermon full of notions, as the Americans speak, which it will be very

useful and beneficial to put in their heads; or rather to call them
out, for a great number of those good thoughts are already ensconced
in the excellent noddles of our youngsters, like flies in a bookcase in
winter, and require only the sunshine of your seniorial countenance

to call them into life and volatility. I do not know anything which

will more tend to fix in their minds all the good they get here than

to have such feelings as you expressed, at the same time the gravest

and the most animating which belong to our position, stamped, upon
a solemn and official occasion, as the common property of them and

us. And I also think it of consequence that when they on their side

                            ;                                    in the

                                   I

                                               It

                                                              is

                                                           I is,

                                                                                 it
proffer their sympathy in such reflexions, we, on ours, that

present case, your dignified self, should not be backward in meeting
them, by giving to all parties the means of returning to, and dwelling

upon, these reflexions.

Such               my thinking about this matter, and therefore      have
        S.
undertaken to urge their request and hope you will be able to
           I.
extract from some abysmal recess your manuscript, and to placeis

before the astonished eyes of the compositor.     probable that he

will look, as Dante says the ghosts looked when they peered at him,
like an old cobbler threading his needle, but never mind that. The

fronts of compositors were made to be corrugated by good sentences
written in most vile hands so let him fulfil his destiny without loss
                         ;

of time....

                            Yours ever,

                                               W. Whewell.

                                                                 26

         402 COMMEMORATION SERMON.

  1832.  Petitioners for the printing of Professor Sedgwick's sermon :

Mt. 47-  Ld Lindsay     Monteith          Cator       R. Morgan
         Blakesley                        Childs      Whiston
         Spedding       Forsyth
         Kemble         Merivale          English     Seager
         Garden                           Phelps      Potts
                        Campbell          Good
         Tennant        Brookfield        E. Morgan   Scratchley
         Alford                                       Newton.
                        Wright

         To this cordial request Sedgwick no doubt gave an equally

         cordial assent, and prepared to print without delay. But ill-

         health (as usual), and other occupations, intervened, and

         November, 1833, came, before the Discourse, as it was then

         termed, saw the light. It will, however, be best to complete

         our account of it while noticing its first delivery ; though, on

         some grounds, we should have preferred to wait until we had

         reached the publication of the last edition in 1850. By that
         time the modest octavo of one hundred and nine pages had

         swelled into a ponderous tome, in which four hundred and

         forty-two pages of preface, and two hundred and twenty-

         eight of appendix, include between them ninety-four pages of
         discourse : " a grain of wheat between two millstones," as

         Sedgwick himself admitted. In conversation he has been
         heard to describe the publication as " the wasp," because it

         had so small a body, and so large a head and tail. But,

         whether he spoke seriously or in jest about  it,    was the pet
                                                         it

         child of his brain and, as the way with indulgent parents,
                     ;  it is

         he perhaps found virtues in which others, especially at this

         distance of time, may fail to discover.

             A detailed criticism of the Discourse would lead us

         into discussions unsuitable for  a  biography. We will

         therefore content ourselves with a very brief sketch of the
         subject-matter. It must be remembered at the outset that

         the studies of Cambridge are approached from the moral

         rather than from the intellectual side that the author                      is
         a

                                                                                  ;

                                                                     a
                                                                                a
         speaking as clergyman from the pulpit, not as philosopher

         from the desk. To him Cambridge was place not merely

         of sound learning, but also of Christian education. This

              COUfMEMORA TION SERMON.           403

obvious limitation of his survey has sometimes been lost sight                         1832.
                                                                                             47
of, and in consequence an erroneous, not to say an unjust,
conception has been formed of his work. The studies of the

University are reviewed under a threefold division : (1) the
laws of nature; (2) ancient literature and language; (3) ethics
and metaphysics. Under the first of these divisions natural
science is considered in the light of the results to which a
reverent study of it ought to lead ; and it is pointed out that

its various branches, Astronomy, Anatomy, Geology1, minister
to natural religion, and " teach us to see the finger of God in
all things animate and inanimate." In other words, this part
of the discourse may be described as a rapid but forcible
exposition of the argument from design. Under the second

head ancient languages and ancient history arc briefly
considered. Sedgwick was no scholar, though fond of classical

reading, and he does not seem to understand the necessity of
thoroughness in the study of ancient literature. When he

deplores the time wasted in "straining after an accuracy
beyond our reach," he loses sight of the fact that without

     1 In the portion of the Discourse devoted to Geology the following passage

occurs : "By the discoveries of a new science (the very name of which has been

but a few years engrafted on our language), we learn that the manifestations of

God's power on the earth have not been limited to the few thousand years of
man's existence. The geologist tells us, by the clearest interpretation of the

phenomena which his labours have brought to light, that our globe has been

subject to vast physical revolutions. He counts his time not by celestial cycles,

but by an index he has found in the solid framework of the globe itself. He sees a

long succession of monuments, each of wh1ch may have required a thousand ages for
its elaboration. He arranges them in chronological order ; observes on them the

marks of skill and wisdom, and finds within them the tombs of the ancient inhabitants

of the earth. He finds strange and unlooked-for changes in the forms and fashions

of organic life during each of the long periods he thus contemplates. He traces these

changes backwards and through each successive era, till he reaches a time when

the monuments lose all symmetry, and the types of organic life are no longer seen.
He has then entered on the dark age of nature's history ; and he closes the old

chapter of her records." These remarks, and others of a similar kind, so shocked

the Rev. Henry Cole, "late of Clare Hall," that he attempted to refute them at
length in : Popular geology subversive of divine revelation ! A letter to the Rev.
Adam Sedgwick .. .being a seriptural refutation of the geological positions and
doctrines promulgated in his lately published Commencement Sermon. 8vo.

I.ond. 1834.

                                       26 -- 2

           404 COMMEMORATION SERMON.

1837.      accuracy no work, whether in language or science, can be
      47-
           satisfactorily carried out. At the same time he cordially
           approves the cultivation of Greek and Latin authors with
           certain limitations ; pleads for the further study of their
           philosophical and ethical works ; and in justification of this
           points out that " the argument for the being of a God, derived

           from final causes, is as well stated in the conversations of
           Socrates, as in the Natural Theology of Paley."

                The third part of the discourse contains a severe criticism
           of Locke, and of "the utilitarian theory of Morals" as
           expounded by Paley. In this Sedgwick anticipated the

           views which Whewell subsequently set forth in his Philosophy

           of the Inductive Sciences (1840), and in his various writings on
           Moral Philosophy. In the letter dedicating the former work

           to Sedgwick he says : " the same spirit which dictated your
           vigorous protest against some of the errors which I also
           attempt to expose, would have led you, if your thoughts had
           been more free, to take a leading share in that Reform of

           Philosophy, which all who are alive to such errors, must see

           to be now indispensable." It is not improbable, having

           regard to the intimacy between Whewell and Sedgwick at

           that time, that the views set forth in the Discourse may be the
           result of conversations between them. Moreover there was a

           strong taste for metaphysical speculation in Trinity College
           in those days ; and Thirlwall, Hare, and their friends, who
           were Sedgwick's friends as well, would "tire the sun with
           talking" on these subjects. In heading a reaction against
           Locke and Paley, Sedgwick merely gave expression to opinions

           deliberately arrived at by the most thoughtful men with

           whom he was associated. One passage from his criticism on

           Locke, though it has been often quoted, is so graphic, and

           illustrates so well his position, that it may find a place here :

              If the mind be without innate    knowledge, is   --it aalpsioeceto  be con
                                               and capacities                     of blank
           sidered as without innate feelings
           paper, the mere passive recipient of impressions from without ? The

           whole history of man shows this hypothesis to be an outrage on his

                  COMMEMORATION SERMON.                         405

moral nature. Naked he comes from his mother's womb ; endowed                                                                  1833.
                                                                                                                             gx% 48.
with limbs and senses indeed, well fitted to the material world, yet

powerless from want of use ; and as for knowledge, his soul is one

unvaried blank: yet has this blank been already touched by a
celestial hand, and when plunged in the colours which surround

    takes not its tinge from accident but design, and comes forth

covered with glorious pattern.
it, it
            it

                it

                       a

                                                 it

                                                                                                                        it,
           Interest in the Discourse was not confined to Cambridge.

The Quarterly Review, though did not devote an article to

       called     "the most remarkable pamphlet since Burke's
Reflections ;" and John Stuart Mill said all that could be said

against in an elaborate article which he afterwards reprinted

in his Dissertations and Discussions1.

       After this digression we will return to Sedgwick's own

proceedings. He had been more than usually unwell during

the Michaelmas Term, and therefore, as soon as the Com

memoration was over, went down to Wensleydale in York

shire with Mr Lodge, and thence proceeded to Dent, which
he found good deal altered. "The architectural beauties
of this metropolitan city," he wrote, " are sadly on the wane,
           I
which makes me rejoice in the icon have at Cambridge ofa
                         I                      I
                                           a
                                                    I
                                                         Ia
Dent in its glory. In rambling about among the scenes of

my childhood sometimes fancy am young man again.

The delusion however passes away when look about me, and

see the young fry playing about the old parsonage the very

antics was myself playing forty years since*." During his

visit he gave himself complete rest, and when he returned

to Cambridge at the end of January he was able to announce

that "my Christmas in the North has given me most ram-

pagious health, but has put me most dreadfully in arrears'."
     Among these arrears was the delivery of short course of
                                                             a

i.         Dissertations and Discussions, by John Stuart Mill, 8vo. Lond. 1859,

      195. There  curious article in The Phrenological Journal for September
                  is
                      a                         reproved for not alluding to Phrenology in his
                                   is
                                         is
1834, in which Sedgwick

Discourse. The writer                           known to have been the celebrated phrenologist,

Mr George Combe.

       32  To Rev. W. Ainger, 15 January, 1833.
           To R. Murchison, February, 1833.
               I.

                                             5

          406 PRESIDENT OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

  1833.   lectures, to make up for some which he had been compelled
          to omit through ill-health in the Michaelmas Term of 1832.
iEt. 48.  Then came the revision of proofs of papers for the Geological
          Society's Transactions ; a correspondence with Murchison on

          the speech which he would have to deliver as President in

          February, and which Sedgwick evidently revised and cor
          rected1; and lastly, arrangements for the visit of the British

          Association to Cambridge in June. But the year was barely
          three months old when a fresh attack of illness -- evidently a
          severe one -- put an end to all work, and very nearly rendered
          the President elect incapable of meeting the Association.

              Early in June he tells Murchison : " I returned home on

          Thursday from Walton-on-the-Naze very much recovered.

          Indeed I consider myself now fairly off the sick list. Perhaps

          I ought more properly to say that I am restored to my senses ;

          for during the last seven or eight weeks I have been under a

          strange mental obscuration, unable to do a stitch of work

          requiring thought or attention*."

               But, when the Association met, on Monday, 24 June, his
          ailments were forgotten in the excitement of welcoming an

          overflowing assemblage of men of science, not merely from

          England, but from various parts of Europe. The importance
          of the Association was becoming recognised, and the meeting

          was in every way memorable ; not merely from the numbers
          gathered together, but from the importance of the work done.
          And, whatever was going forward, whether a general meeting
          in the Senate House, or the more private business of the
          geological section, or a dinner in the Hall of Trinity College,

          1 After the serious discussion of various important topics, the following amusing
          "Inpassage occurs in a letter dated 5 February:
                                                           regard to the animating para

          graph you talk of, you ask for what is almost impossible. You cannot take a

          flying leap in cold blood, you must lead up to it by the animation of the chase.

          Anything I could write would be flat as ditch-water, and certainly would be out of

          tone and keeping. Put your own notions in black and white, and before they are

          printed or spoken I will look them over and purge them if I think they want it,

          and you will endure the treatment."

          3 To R. I. Murchison, 4 June, 1833.

PRESIDENT OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION.                                 407

Sedgwick was the animating spirit, delighting everybody by                           1833.
his geniality, or thrilling them by his unpremeditated eloquence.
Had he prepared his speeches, he said, " the intensity of present                  Mi. +8
feelings, would, like a burning sun, have extinguished the
twilight of a remembered sentiment." Probably on no
occasion in his life did he speak so often and so effectively.
Dr Chalmers, who was present, spoke of "the power and
beauty " of part of his farewell address to the Association ;
and is reported to have said in conversation afterwards that he
had never met with natural eloquence so great as that of
Sedgwick. But this excellence, so delightful to his con

temporaries, prevents us from enjoying more than a very
faint reflexion of his brilliancy. The reporters could not
follow him ; and he was himself too indifferent to fame to
correct their travesties of what he really said as fully as we
could wish1. The official Report is of course a better authority
than the Cambridge Chronicle, but even there we have to
content ourselves, for the most part, with dry bones. One
passage from his opening address, in which he announced a
grant from the Civil List to the great chemist Dalton, will
bear quotation, not merely from his personal interest in
Dalton8, but because it has the true ring of authenticity :

     There is a philosopher sitting among us whose hair is blanched
by time, but possessing an intellect still in its healthiest vigour; a
man whose whole life has been devoted to the cause of truth ; my
venerable friend Dr Dalton. Without any powerful apparatus for

making philosophical experiments, with an apparatus, indeed, which
many might think almost contemptible, and with very limited external

means for employing his great natural powers, he has gone straight
forward in his distinguished course, and obtained for himself in those
branches of knowledge which he has cultivated a name not perhaps
equalled by that of any other living philosopher in the world. From
the hour he came from his mother's womb the God of nature laid His
hand upon him, and ordained him for the ministration of high

"I1 Sedgwick, writing to Murchison 7 July, 1833, says:  have now been

working four days at it [the Report], till my head is almost in as much confusion

as the short-hand notes. You never read such a chaos. Our reporter was not up

to the work, and what he has done is almost worse than nothing."

2 See above, p. 248.

         4o8 CHARNWOOD FOREST.

  1833.  philosophy. But his natural talents, great as they are, and his
         almost intuitive skill in tracing the relations of material phenomena,
jU 48,  would have been of comparatively little value to himself and to
         society, had there not been superadded to them a beautiful moral
         simplicity and singleness of heart, which made him go on steadily in
         the way he saw before him, without turning to the right hand or to
         the left, and taught him to do homage to no authority before that of
         truth. Fixing his eye on the most extensive views of science, he has
         been not only a successful experimenter, but a philosopher of the
         highest order ; his experiments have never had an insulated character,
         but have been always made as contributions towards some important
         end, as among the steps to some lofty generalisation. And with a most
         happy prescience of the points to which the rays of scattered obser
         vations were converging, he has more than once seen light while to
         other eyes all was yet in darkness ; out of seeming confusion has
         elicited order ; and has thus reached the high distinction of being one
         of the greatest legislators of chemical science1.

             The rest of the year 1833 was very uneventful. Sedg
         wick's exertions to entertain the philosophers brought on a fit
         of the gout, and when that had passed away the reports of the
         meeting had to be corrected and made ready for press. This
         business despatched, the season was too far advanced for a
         campaign in Wales ; so, after a week at Leamington, he
         attacked Charnwood Forest, accompanied by Whewell and
         Airy, and "made out its structure in considerable detail*." An
         amusing note, written from Leicestershire to Mrs Murchison,

         indicates his difficulties there, and his subsequent intentions :

                                               Mont Sorrel, August wth, 1833.

             My dear Mrs Murchison,

                         You offer me most provoking temptations, but it
         is quite in vain for me to try to meet you and Mr Murchison.
         It will be the end of the month before I reach Cumberland,
         where I want to make a few sections on the spot, especially
         some on the coast near Whitehaven ; and by the time they
         are over it will be high time for me to face about for

             1 Report of the Third Meeting of the British Association, p. x.
              3 Salter's Catalogue, p. xviii ; Whewell's Life, p. 155. Charnwood Forest was
         one of the places of which Mr Conybeare had suggested the investigation. See

         above, p. 325.

                            WHITEHA VEN.                                       409

Cambridge. The last motive you mention would operate                                     1833.
rather as a repulsive than as an attractive force, for the lady                        JSx-
you talk of as have been told, a most formidable and
cruel tyrant, who has slain her tens of thousands without
        I

          I
                       is,
                        I
pity.   should not like to be offered up as burnt offering
                                 ?
before the shrine of any woman sprung from Eve, only to be
                                   I
told that was suffering in good company, and without beingI
permitted to take a single cup from the living fountain of
                                                       a
hope.                                           to do with love
                                                        I
     But in the name of wonder what have
                                                                   is
                                                                            a
and hope and such flimsy matter  am wedded to the rocks,

and Mount Sorrel (does not the word set your teeth on

edge    ?)      my present mistress. By the way she                            little

            is

coy and hard-hearted, and refuses to tell me her pedigree,

and to introduce me to her old relations. But am going

with Professors Whewell and Airy to knock at one of her

back doors tomorrow morning, and perhaps we may make an

entry, and establish ourselves in one of her larders. Should

that be the case we shall dish her up to some tune. But
talking of love has made me run into figurative language,
which you know quite out of place in geology so leaving
        I                                 I
                I                                        ;

                      is

                           I
all figures let me again tell you how much thank you, and
how miserable am that cannot join your party, and how

delighted shall be to meet you all again in London. Yours,
my dear Mrs Murchison, to the bottom of Lyell's Hypogene

rocks,

                                          A. Sedgwick.

    At Whitehaven Sedgwick met with kindred spirit in;:a a
Mr Williamson Peile, manager of Lord Lonsdale's collieries,

and he frequently revisited Whitehaven in subsequent years.
Mr Peile's duties had naturally led him to study geology

from its practical side but with Sedgwick's help his know
ledge was largely developed, and in 1835 joint communi

cation was made to the Geological Society On the range of
the Carboniferous Limestone flanking the primary Cumbrian

                                   MR R. M. BEVERLEY.

833. Mountains, and on the Coalfields of the N. W, coast of Cumber-

. 48- land.

              On returning to Cambridge in October, Sedgwick was
         engaged in writing the appendix to his Discourse, which,

       as mentioned above, was published in November. "Just as

         the last term was waning to its end " he wrote in February,

       1834, "my sermon broke its shell; and in consequence, no
        doubt, of the long incubation, turned out to be six times the

         orthodox stature. Whether it deserves to be sent to the
        flames, for being of these most heretical and monstrous
        dimensions, you will best judge for yourself when you see
        it1." Later in the year, when the third edition had appeared,

      he could announce: "It has been very well received, and will,
       I hope, be the means of doing some good to our young

          men*."

             While Sedgwick's Discourse was passing through the
         press, a slanderous pamphleteer named Beverley was pre
         paring an elaborate attack on the University ; and, by a
         curious coincidence, the two works appeared in the course of
         the same month. The pamphlet and its author were equally
         worthless, and the whole question, though it created a pro
         digious excitement at the time, might well be allowed to
         rest in the oblivion to which it has long since been consigned,
         had not Sedgwick devoted much time and energy to exposing
         and refuting the malicious calumniator. On this account the
        matter cannot be passed over ; but our account of it shall be
         as brief as. possible.

             In October, 1816, Robert Mackenzie Beverley, a native
        of the town of the same name in Yorkshire, was admitted
        a pensioner of Trinity College. He did not proceed to the
        degree of Bachelor of Laws until 1821, and he continued to

      reside in Cambridge for some months afterwards. If his own

         account of himself could be believed, he was a virtuous, hard-
         reading, student ; but, on the other hand, whenever he has a

                                   1 To Rev. Charles Ingle, 16 February, 1834.
                                   a To Bishop Monk, 1 November, 1834.

                     MR R. M. BEVERLEY.                           411

particularly disreputable story to tell, the experience of one                 1833.
                                                                                     48-
of his own friends is given as the authority for it. He could

not therefore have known the best set either in his own

college, or in the University at large. He seems to have

been chiefly remarkable for personal vanity, which shewed

itself in the set of his cap, and the carriage of his gown ; and
for an effeminate delight in dress. " For chains and chitter

lings, for curls and cosmetics, for rings and ringlets, no man

was like him. He was indeed a finished and a fragrant
fop -- a very curious coxcomb.1"

   In those days he professed to belong to the Church of

England, but after taking his degree he became a dissenter,

and, with the ardour of a convert, set himself to the task of

vilifying, and, if possible, of pulling down, the body of which
he had once been a member. He began with A Letter to his

Grace the Archbishop of York, on the present corrupt state of
the Church of England. This was written in September, 1830,

and published early in 1831. Coarse and vulgar as the pro

duction  it          was evidently suited to the taste of those for

             is,
                 it
whom was intended, for before the end of the year had
                                         '

                                                       it
reached sixth edition. Beverley was delighted at his unex
         a

pected success. " Though  it  becomes not me to say so," he

writes, " yet cannot be concealed that my Letter to the
            it

Archbishop of York has produced a practicable breach in the'

walls of the Establishment." He therefore lost no time in

publishing The Tombs of the Prophets, a Lay Sermon on the

Corruptions of the Church of Christ. Both these publications
were indited with the avowed object of effecting "a total

separation of the Church from the State, and speedy con
                         is
fiscation of that which                                        a
                          falsely called Church Property."

The success of the sermon was fully equal to that of the

letter. It was largely sold, and honoured by more than one

1     Sedgwick's Four Letters to the Editors of the Leeds Mercury in reply to
R. M. Beverley, Esq. 8vo. Camb. 1836, p. 55. See also Remarks upon Mr
Beverley's Letter to the Duke of Gloucester. By Member of Trinity College.a

8vo. Camb. 1833, p. 27.

        412 BEVERLEY'S LETTER TO THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER.

1833.   reply. Beverley, fond as ever of display, and perhaps not
        insensible to the pleasure of making money by the sale of
Et 48.  pamphlets which must have been easily written, began to
        give himself the airs of a Luther. His exposure of the
        corruptions of the Church had awakened the nation ; his

        efforts must next be directed against the Universities from
        which the Church draws "its mischievous strength." As

        even he, with all his presumption, could not affect a know
        ledge of Oxford, he confined his operations to Cambridge,
        and in November, 1833, brought out A Letter to his Royal

        Highness the Duke of Gloucester, Chancellor, on the present
        corrupt state of the University of Cambridge.

             With affected candour, Beverley begs to be allowed to
        instruct the "illustrious Prince" whom he is addressing on

        certain important matters. " It is not to be supposed," he

        says, " that you can be acquainted with the arcana of that
        mother and nurse of arts and wickedness." He then passes
        in review the morals, the religion, and the learning, of the

        University. All the scandalous stories which he had heard

        while in residence, or with which his correspondents1 had
        supplied him, are gathered together. His ignorance is only
        equalled by his falsehood and his malignity. Silly tales,

        such as no one but a freshman would credit for an instant,

        are gravely set down as undisputed facts. Exceptional

        1 The way in which his evidence was collected is shewn by the following notice
        I" To Correspondents," at the end of
                                              his  Reply to Professor Sedgwick's  Letter :
        " take the opportunity of thanking    my   correspondents whose letters   are not

        yet answered. Two letters received the first week in December may be of

        serv"iceO.ne correspondent, however, should remember that it is impossible to rely on
        any anonymous information. As the Revelations of Verax might, if properly

        authenticated, be useful, it is the more to be lamented that he withholds his name

        and address. He may with confidence venture his name, which will never be

        disclosed.

        "The testimony from Emmanuel College is not forgotten. All communications

        must be directed to the care of the Publisher, and the postage must be paid; for want

        of attending to this established rule, some letters and notes have been refused

        admission." Well might Sedgwick term him "the hucksterer of scandal, the

        advertising broker of impurity." Four Letters, p. 37.

BEVERLEY'S LETTER TO THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. 413

instances of folly and depravity are assumed to be the rule.                      1833.
                                                                                        48-
Rioting, drunkenness, gambling, immorality, extravagance,
are stated to be universal ; the Fellows are as bad as the

undergraduates ; religion is a farce ; even learning is a thing
of the past. Lastly -- for Beverley's real object in writing his

Letter is artfully concealed until near the end --the Dissenters
are excluded from a place " which should not be styled a Uni

versity, but a Particularity," by an iniquitous system of tests.
But, before it can be made fit for the education of their sons,
Reform must have reached the root of the whole mischief.
The only practicable course is " to confiscate all the Univer
sity property, to declare it lapsed to the Crown, and to

remodel it de novo."

     This farrago of blunders and misrepresentations had an
immense circulation. Three editions appeared before the end
of 1833, and the author's friends among the dissenters, who
had read his previous works with satisfaction, probably
accepted his accusations against the University as true.
Those who knew better were not slow in replying. Ten
pamphlets, most of them written by indignant undergra
duates, appeared as rapidly as the editions of the libel.
Some of these take the letter to pieces, paragraph by para
graph, and point out that the picture there drawn of Cam
bridge is a gross caricature ; others hold the author up to
ridicule in satiric verse. One of the former says, with much
truth :

    "You have wilfully and deliberately belied the Undergraduates
of Cambridge. You have taken particular exceptions and built

generalities upon them. You have gloated over the recollections of
your own College intemperance till the foul corruption has quickened
into life, and your imagination, drawing its stores from the scenes
of debauchery in which you once revelled, has presented as the
general portrait of Cambridge what forms the rare and disgraceful

exception1."

    1 A Letter to R. M. Beverley, Esq. , from an Undergraduate of the University
of Cambridge. 8vo. Cambridge and London 1833, p. 6. The writer is known to
have been William Forsyth, B. A. 1834, afterwards Fellow of Trinity College.

     414 REPLY TO BEVERLEY.

14- Another, parodying Canning's Knife- Grinder, thus apos-
+9- trophises Beverley :

               Silly Lie-grinder, what have you been doing?
               Great is the scrape your pen has got you into,
               Deep are our threats: your head has got a crack in't,

                                                        So have your brains, Sir.
             Tell me, Lie-grinder, how came you to write such
             Lies against Cambridge ? Was it out of spite, or
             Was it in hopes of sharing in the Uni

                                                        versity plunder ? 1

            These well-intentioned answers no doubt afforded pleasant
      reading to members of the University; but it might be doubted
      whether any of them would reach the north of England,
      or Beverley's native town, where he had now become, as it is
      said, a popular dissenting minister. Sedgwick therefore wisely
      determined to carry the war into the enemy's camp, and find
      ing that The Leeds Mercury had quoted some passages from
      the Letter to the Duke of Gloucester with approbation, address
      ed a first letter to the editors 7 January, 1834, in which he
      pointed out, with indignant severity, that Beverley knew "no
      more of the University of Cambridge than might be learnt of
      the glorious history of this country from the records of its

     jail-deliveries or the calendar of Newgate." At the same time,

      while he disposed satisfactorily of Beverley's general charges,
      by quoting his own long experience, and the special know
      ledge gained when he was proctor, he damaged his case not a
      little by asserting roundly that Cambridge had been free from
     the vice of gambling for the past six years. This statement
     drew the following remarks from Mr Conybeare :

         I" cannot think that you have handled Beverley one whit too

       roughly ; his uniform scurrility admitted no other kind of answer,
       and might have deceived that large portion of the public unac
       quainted with our Universities had not the fellow been gibbetted in
       his true colours. And with regard to him you have certainly proved

           1 An Anglo-Sapphic Ode, dedicated (with French leave), to Robert Mackintosh
       (sic) Beverley, Esq., entitled The Friend of Veracity versus the Lie Grinder.
       Not by a Can-ning, but a Can-tab. 8vo. Cambridge, 1833.

                            REPLY TO BEVERLEY.

yourself a most correct herald, and blazoned him party per pale cox-                                1834.

com"b   and knave,          both   proper.       objection  to what         you have said,        /Et, 4g
                             only   one serious
       I have heard
namely as to your hypothesis of the non-gambling of the last six

Iyears, and this you have qualified in your second letter. But was

very sorry to find before that all the younger Cambridge men thought

you certainly at fault on this scent1."

    Sedgwick's first letter was of the nature of a preface ; what

was to come next is indicated in the following passage :

    " I deny not the existence of immorality in the University, but I
do deny the charges of Mr Beverley; and I assert that they are
preposterously exaggerated, or impudently untrue. Before long I
Iwill appeal to specific facts ; and out of what he has written will
Iagain and again convict him of shameful and deliberate falsehood.
Out of his own mouth                         will utterly damage and destroy his
                            him out of the courts of
        and turn                                                    honour    and common
       a witness            not to be believed. If                   fail in  doing this,
testimony,

I Isense, as

deserve to be pointed at, and to become a byword among my equals,

and to be held up to scorn by honest men."

     This programme was strictly adhered to. In three

further letters which appeared in The Leeds Mercury during
the first half of 1834*, the wretched Beverley has full and
signal justice dealt out to him. He is hunted from one posi
tion after another, and shewn, by the citation of irrefragable
testimony, to have been guilty of direct falsehoods, falsehoods
of implication, and falsehoods of ignorance. So severe is the

castigation, that, had he been less criminal, one would almost
pity him. But, if the Letter to the Duke of Gloucester be read
in conjunction with Sedgwick's masterly reply, it will be
acknowledged that his scornful mockery of his antagonist's
pretended religion, his exposure of his ignorance, and his
indignant denunciation of his profligacy while at Cambridge,

are more than justified'. When the work was done, Sedg
wick described his feelings while doing it to Bishop Monk :

    1 From Rev. W. D. Conybeare, 10 May, 1834. It should, however, be stated
that Mr Forsyth, in his Letter quoted above (p. 413), maintains that "the extent

of  g'amTbhleingsectohnadt  goes on here is  incredibly small."
                            letter appeared   in The Leeds Mercury
                                                                    for  8  February  1834 ; the

third is dated 15 May ; the fourth, 2 June.
    3 Beverley attempted to answer his redoubtable antagonist in the columns of

The Leeds Mercury, but without success.

           416 REPLY TO BEVERLEY.

1834.          " Our opponent I believe I have effectually silenced ; and
      49-  many years, must, I think, elapse before any party will dare
           to bring forward Beverley as an implement of mischief. I had

           a most revolting task to perform, such as no man can go through

           without dirtying his own fingers. If you saw my letters, I
           hope you remembered that I was not writing for gentlemen

           or scholars, but for the instruction of a multitude of bitter
           blackguards in the shape of Yorkshire dissenters1."

                The following letter is specially interesting as shewing
           that all dissenters were not prepared to agree with their self-

           constituted champion.

           From Mr T. M. Ball.

                                                  61 Coleman St., London,

                                                          10 February, 1834.

           Sir,
           I Icreeds
                          am a dissenter. In common with thousands of all
                    read Beverley's Letter to the Duke of Gloucester. Of
           Cambridge and its noble University I know but little, but by
                              The picture drawn   of its  condition
           common report.   indeed horrible, but          one could                        by the writer of
           that Letter was                        I for                                    not and would

           [not] believe all he had written ; it bore evidently the stamp of
           malice, and   whaatsrewdi,thanmducehverpyleuansuchreristIiarneadf,eealinndg. I  You may    suppose
           then that it                                                                    did every  word of

           your excellent, eloquent,  and    convincing    reply copied into The
           Times from a Leeds paper.       have also this    morning read another
                                       I
           in the same Journal, and I write now for the purpose of expressing
           apmdnaeydpsierheryo,.opubeusAmt ltatahhysaotpbuaegymhospuuhrraleeptdsrtio,hsmsaetfisnoetrIedrIamsLhIeotnuatolemdtr,stnhfwooerilleoonnnaeelpym,pyewpaeisrro,hsfonntotohtewpihonoCsshaefuserscecolhstuh,netthmnriyos,

           dishonest longer to grasp what is her's by right and law. Trusting
           you will excuse this intrusion, which only a love of truth, and strong
           admiration of your admirable replies prompts me to venture thus

           addressing you, and      cdloaimasinIghayvoeurexaptrteesnsteiodn,myanhdopea,rdently        hoping
           it is your intention to

                                    I am, with great respect,

                                                  Your obedient servant,

                                                                                           T. M. Ball.

                Early in January, 1834, while staying at Milton Park,
           Sedgwick met with a severe accident, by which his right arm

                            1 To Bishop Monk, 1 November, 1834.

       DISLOCATES RIGHT WRIST.                        417-

was disabled for several months. " The day after I arrived at                           1834.
Milton," he says, " I started with a party of ten for Croyland
                                                                                      Mt.
Abbey, and in passing carelessly under one of the branching
trees, whether by the swerving of my horse, or by incautiously

raising my head too soon, it was caught among the extreme

branches, and I was pulled off my horse1." The extent of the

injury was unsuspected at the time, and the patient was
treated for a severe sprain. On his return to Cambridge he
sent for the celebrated surgeon Mr Okes, "who saw the whole
extent of the mischief in an instant, and pointed out the
existence of a great transverse fault, throwing down the

metacarpal bones in such a way as to bring one of them to
the end of the radius, and thrust the thumb below the palm
of the hand." The bones were soon put into their right
places, while Sedgwick " howled loud enough to shake all
the windows in the Great Court;" but his recovery was slow,
and for several months any work that entailed legible writing
had to be done by one of his friends. Even the letters
against Beverley were dictated to either Romilly or Kemble*.
His efforts at lefthanded penmanship did not go beyond a
letter to a relative or an intimate friend, nor could it be said
of him, as of a celebrated Puritan divine,

                                  "though of thy right hand bereft,
             Right well thou writest with the hand that's left."

Such a condition was ill-suited to a man of his bodily and
mental activity, and he likened himself, no doubt most truth
fully, to "a chained bull-dog."

     Before long, in despite of his maimed condition, and the
advice of doctors to avoid excitement, he became the central
figure in an agitation which threw the University into confu
sion for more than six months, having for its object the
abolition of tests on proceeding to degrees. For the moment
he and his friends were unsuccessful, and thirty-seven years

    1 This and the following extracts describing  the accident, are from a letter to
                                                  B.A. 1830.
R. I. Murchison, 8 February, 1834.
    * John Mitchell Kemble, of Trinity College,

s. i.                                             27

           418 MOVEMENT TO ABOLISH TESTS.

1834.      elapsed before tests were completely swept away. In the
      49-
           interval, whenever an occasion presented itself, Sedgwick
           shewed unflagging interest in the cause, and one of the last

           occasions on which he spoke in public was a meeting at
           St John's College Lodge, to assist the movement which
           resulted in the Test Act of 187 1.

                The movement of 1834, in which Sedgwick bore so promi

           nent a part, began with a petition, drawn up under the
           following circumstances. In December, 1833, Professor Pryme

           had offered Graces to the Senate suggesting the appointment

           of a Syndicate to consider the abolition or modification of

           subscription on proceeding to a degree. These were rejected
           by the Caput. In February, 1834, Dr Cornwallis Hewett,
           Downing Professor of Medicine, offered a similar Grace, with
           special reference to the faculty of medicine. This also was

           rejected by the Caput, on the veto of the Vice Chancellor, Dr
           King, President of Queens' College. Finally, 12 March, 1834,
           the Senate petitioned to be heard by counsel in respect of the
           charter of the London University1. Thereupon several
           members of the Senate met at Professor Hewett's rooms,

           Sedgwick was called to the chair, and it was resolved to draw

           up a petition to both Houses of Parliament --not as coming
           from the body at large, but as expressing the opinion of cer
           tain individuals, who, from the tactics of their opponents, had
           no other mode of recording their opinions'. After expressing

           their attachment to the Church, and the University, and their
           conviction that "no system of civil or ecclesiastical polity was
           ever so devised by the wisdom of man as not to require, from
           time to time, some modification, from the change of external

           1 It is difficult to understand why this demand should have given so much

           offence, but Sedgwick himself enumerates it among the reasons for the action of

           the petitioners in his letter to The Times, dated 8 April, 1834. The University had

           merely prayed   to be heard by   Counsel   in support of the  insertion of a clause in
           the Charter,                      nothing   in the terms of   the Charter should be
                          " declaring that

           construed as giving a right to confer any Academical distinctions designated by

           the same titles, or accompanied with the same privileges,     as the degrees now

           conferred by the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge."
                " Sedgwick's Letter to The Times, ut supra.

PETITION TO PARLIAMENT.  419

circumstances, or the progress of opinion," the petitioners make                 1834.

the following statement :

     " In conformity with these sentiments, they would further suggest
to your honourable house that no corporate body like the University
of Cambridge can exist in a free country in honour or in safety unless

its benefits be communicated to all classes as widely as is compatible
with the Christian principles of its foundation.

     Among the changes which they think might be at once adopted
with advantage and safety, they would suggest the expediency of
abrogating by legislative enactment every religious test exacted from
members of the University before they proceed to degrees, whether
of bachelor, master, or doctor, in Arts, Law, and Physic. In praying
for the abolition of these restrictions, they rejoice in being able to
assure your honourable house that they are only asking for a restitu
tion of their ancient academic laws and laudable customs. These
restrictions were imposed on the University in the reign of King
James I, most of them in a manner informal and unprecedented,
and grievously against the wishes of many of the then members of
the Senate, during times of bitter party animosities, and during the
prevalence of dogmas, both in Church and State, which are at vari
ance with the present spirit of English Law, and with the true
principles of Christian toleration."

    As it was thought desirable to get the petition presented

before the Easter recess, time was precious. Accordingly, it

was not circulated publicly, but lay for signature at the rooms
of Mr Thomas Musgrave1 in Trinity College, from Friday

14 March, to Monday 17 March, while those interested in its

success solicited support by private canvass. It received the

signatures of sixty-two resident members of the Senate.
Among them were two Masters of Colleges, Dr Davy of
Gonville and Caius, and Dr Lamb of Corpus Christi ; nine
Professors, Hewett, Lee, Cumming, Clark, Babbage, Sedgwick,
Airy, Musgrave, Henslow ; several Tutors of Colleges, and

distinguished Masters of Arts. Some of these were either

conservatives, or very moderate liberals. It was presented to
the House of Lords (21 March) by Earl Grey, at Sedgwick's

personal instance; and to the House of Commons (24 March)

     1 Fellow of Trinity College, B.A. 1810. He was Lord Almoner's Reader in
Arabic from 1821 -- 1837, when he was made Dean of Bristol. He became Bishop
of Hereford a few months afterwards, and Archbishop of York in 1847-

                                                                        27 -- 2

           420 LETTER TO THE TIMES.

1834.      by Mr Spring Rice, member for the town of Cambridge. By
      49-  both houses it was received with respect, and became the
           subject of animated debate.

                As might have been expected, it was succeeded, after about
           ten days, by a Declaration, signed by 101 residents. "We do
           not admit," said this laconic document, " that ' the abolition

           of the existing 'restrictions' would be, as alleged, 'a restitu

           tion' of the 'ancient laws and laudable customs' of the Univer

           sity: neither do we acknowledge that any of 'these restrictions
           were imposed in a manner informal and unprecedented'."
           As these words directly controverted the statements of the
           petition, Sedgwick, as "chairman of a party of the resident
           members of the Senate who agreed to the words of the

           petition lately presented in parliament," addressed a long
           letter to The Times (8 April) in vindication of himself and his
           friends, which may be taken as an official statement of their

           position. It deals chiefly with the historical question, and it

           is only towards the end that he gives a short account of the

           motives by which the petitioners had been actuated, and the

           circumstances under which the document had been drawn

           up.
                By this time the excitement in the University had become

           very great. As the number of resident members of the Senate
           did not exceed one hundred and eighty, sixty-two of whom
           had signed the Petition, and one hundred and one the Declara

           tion, nearly every resident was directly interested in the
           question. The promoters of the Declaration, elated at their

           success, gave notice of a Grace at the next congregation
           (16 April), to affix the University seal to a petition to
           both Houses of Parliament praying for the maintenance
           of existing tests. Non-residents came up in considerable
           numbers, but only to find that Dr Hewett had availed
           himself of his right of veto as a member of the Caput, and
           thrown out the Grace. This manoeuvre, however, could

           scarcely be called successful, for the petition was imme
           diately deposited in the hall of Queens' College, and before

LETTER TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.                                                 421

long received two hundred and eighty signatures. On the                               1834.
following day it was taken to London by the Vice                                            49-
Chancellor, and within a week presented to the House of

Lords by the Chancellor, and to the House of Commons by
Mr Goulburn.

     Professor Hewett's action was eloquently defended by

Sedgwick in a letter to The Cambridge Chronicle (16 April),
the publication of which, taken in conjunction with his previous

letter to The Times, and his Seventeen Reasons for adopting
the prayer of the Petition signed by sixty-two Resident Members
of the Senate, involved him in further controversy, notably

with a correspondent of The Cambridge Chronicle who signed
himself A Member of the Senate, a designation which concealed
his old antagonist, Dr French. From these ephemeral publi

cations we will pass on to a letter written to Bishop Blomfield,

as containing a dispassionate statement of the whole question

from the point of view of himself and the petitioners1.

          Trin1ty College, April 27, 1834.

My Lord,

              I have this moment, under your Lordship's frank,

received a copy of your speech delivered in the House of
Peers on April 2ist*, and sit down at my breakfast table to

reply to one or two paragraphs in which you seem to misap

prehend the wishes of the sixty-two petitioners who first

moved the question. In my present condition I am com

pelled to write with my left hand, and have consequently a

mechanical difficulty in expressing myself. I must be as
plain and short as I can...

     Your Lordship's speech seems constructed on the supposi
tion that Dissenters, under the contemplated Act, would have

    1 This letter is printed from a copy taken by the Rev. J. Romilly, and
preserved by him in the Registry of the University. A few paragraphs, not

specially important, have been omitted.                                     was  the
     3 Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, Ser. 3. xxii. 994. The occasion

presentation of the petition signed 16 April against any removal of tests.

422 LETTER TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.

I14. the right of admission. What Mr Wood's1 intentions were

49- know not -- I wish heartily the getting up of the Bill had not
      been with a Dissenter-- but our intentions were to give no

     such right, and I have in two letters written some time since,

pressed this very strongly on Lord Grey.... We wish no man
to be forced On the University ; and if Mr Wood adopts the

suggestions sent up last night and agreed to at my rooms,

the Bill will not touch the rights of the admitting officers in

the several colleges. A man is not to come up as a Dissenter;

he is not to be considered as such by any official college act ;

he must conform to discipline, and we give him a degree

without exacting subscription. A moderate, well-informed

Dissenter will come up under such a system (this is not

conjecture but fact) and he will take a degree. A bigot -- a

man who would haggle about organs and surplices -- will and

must keep away, and we do not want him. A right to a

degree without signing a test does not do away with the

necessity of discipline, or of conforming to college rules ; nor

does it give (as far as our wishes are concerned) any right of

admission which is not sanctioned by the voluntary acts of
Ifthe admitting officers.
                           Dissenters were to come up as such,
Iand allowed to force themselves on the several colleges,
should then agree with every syllable in the speech I have

before me. But we look to no such result ; and if it come at

all it will come as a future consequence of the exclusive policy

which is now maintained. The Universities cannot maintain

their old position and continue Universities. This your

Lordship seems in part to admit, as you contemplate the

lopping off of the Medical Faculty. I may be mistaken, but

I cannot bear the thoughts of this, and I think the policy that

suggests the possibility of it perfectly suicidal.

     1 Mr G. W. Wood obtained leave (17 April) to bring in a Bill to grant to His
Majesty's subjects generally the rights of admission to the English Universities,
and of equal eligibility to degrees therein, notwithstanding their diversities in
religious opinion -- degrees in Divinity alone excepted. It passed the House of

Commons by large majorities at its different stages, but was rejected by the House

of Lords. Hansard, ut supra, 902; xxiv. 492, 632, 1087; xxv. 815.

LETTER TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.

You say, my Lord, that when Dissenters--but be it                    1834.
                                                                          *9-
remembered only after having been admitted and having
kept terms like other men -- have a legal right to academic

honours they will not long consent to be subject to college

rules relating to chapel, lectures, etc. I am compelled to

say that I do not see the force of this. A Dissenter knows

our organization when he comes up, and if the advantages of

our education have induced him to conform during years

past, a fortiori he will be willing to conform when he can
thereby have also the advantage of a degree. This appears

to me perfect demonstration. Dissenters may have some
foolish expectations from the operation of the intended Bill,

but we cannot help this. Again, I affirm with perfect con

fidence that the operation of the Bill implies no change

whatsoever in the college lectures. We have had amongst us

during the last twenty years Roman Catholics, Methodists,

Presbyterians, Quakers, Congregationalists of every shade,

and they all attended lectures, and never, I believe, made a

single objection to a lecture given in College. Let me appeal

to your own experience, and to that of your friends the

Bishops of Gloucester and Lincoln....

    I feel so confident in the truth of what I am now saying

that I have not in my heart been able to acquit of a charge

of insincerity some of those who have accused the sixty-two

petitioners of attempting to destroy root and branch the

system of religious education in this University. Were our

wishes carried into effect I verily believe we should be com

pelled to compromise nothing on which a good and charitable
churchman ought to make a stand. No man is now forced to

attend the sacrament. The attendance at chapel would,

I think, be better after the proposed change than it is at

present, and the public Professors of Theology would probably

be called to renewed and more effective exertions in behalf of

the doctrines of our Church. In parochial instruction it
                      it

                                                               iIs,
doubt not, impossible to blend together men of different

persuasions. But may  not probably be far otherwise, or

         424 LETTER TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.

  1834.  rather, I ought to say, has it not been far otherwise in a
         system of academic instruction ? The two cases are so dis
Xx. 49.  similar, that, with all deference, we cannot, I think, argue

         from one to the other.

              You say that the proposed Bill would be an infringement
         of our privileges. In which respect ? To give degrees in the
         faculties is our privilege : the tests with which these degrees

         are clogged are no privileges, and we want to wipe them out
         as worse than nothing. This is our prayer. We may be

         right, or we may be wrong, but we want to preserve our privi
         leges. And those who resolve to keep these tests at all
         hazards know that they are supporting that which, if upheld,

         will lead to an infraction of our privileges, and virtually cut
         off from us the medical faculty. Your Lordship does not

         know the enormous injury this amputation would inflict on
         us. Our Professor of Physic gives an admirable course
         of lectures, and his pupils attend the Hospital. The
         Professor of Anatomy gives a new and extended course.

         We have built a Museum and purchased specimens and
         anatomical models at the expense of thousands. We have
         an extended course of Chemical and Botanical lectures with
         reference to the Anatomical Class. Are all these things

         to vanish away? Yes! say those who oppose the sixty-two
         petitioners: Perish Science and live the Tests! We will
         not allow even so much as a Syndicate of inquiry! And

         yet the same persons would enter on a negotiation with
         Sir Henry Halford which would virtually swamp our whole

         medical faculty, as well as the lectures which have risen in
         consequence of it!

              Since your time, my Lord, Cambridge has improved in
         vitality. We have a chartered Philosophical Society which
         has produced five large volumes of Transactions rivalling in
         original matter the first scientific memoirs in Europe. We

         have a noble Observatory in full action, and in honourable

         correspondence with all the other public Observatories in the

LETTER TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.                        425

world. And who first started and set afloat these noble                   4834.
monuments of Cambridge zeal and learning ? Some of those                        *9-
who took a leading part among the sixty-two Petitioners.
And yet they are to be set down as innovators, lovers of
movement, and disturbers of the consecrated institutions of

their country ! So far they are men of movement that when

they see everything about them stirring they know they

cannot remain immovable without being left in helpless

solitude. They believe that the scientific character of Cam

bridge is not only its honour but its security. As a great

learned and scientific University giving degrees in all the
learned faculties -- incorporated as a lay body, and only

regarded as such in the eye of the law of England  Cam

bridge may stand firmly.. ..But if she once be considered as a

mere school for the Church Establishment her endowments

will be thought out of all reasonable dimensions, and before

many years are over we may see our noble edifices beginning

to crumble about our ears.

When the Act of Uniformity was in force, with all its

terrific train of penalties, and all who refused the injunctions
of the Test and Corporation Acts were excluded from offices
of trust and honour, our exclusive system was in harmony
with the law. Now it is not so. And we wish to put

ourselves right with the actual constitution of our country,
so that we may still be the nurseries and fountains not merely

of the Church but also of the Commonwealth.

****

     Pray excuse this formidable visitation ; accept my best
thanks for your speech ; and believe me, my Lord,

                                        Your most faithful servant
                                                            A. Sedgwick.

     Before long Sedgwick's attention was engaged by another
matter arising directly out of the same agitation. The
strength of public feeling on the question of tests had mani

         426 MR TH1RLWALL'S RESIGNATION.

1834.    fested itself in a number of pamphlets, of which Dr Turton's1
Et. 49.
         Thoughts on the Admission of Persons, without regard to their

         Religious Opinions, to certain degrees in the Universities of

         England, was perhaps the ablest, and certainly the most

         widely read. It was promptly answered by Connop Thirlwall,
         at that time an Assistant Tutor of Trinity College. He was
         one of Sedgwick's intimate friends, and had cordially co

         operated with him in the matter of the petition, though there
         is no evidence that he had taken any very active part in
         promoting it. In the course of his reply to Dr Turton he was

         led to inquire whether colleges might be held to be schools
         of religious instruction; and, having answered this question in
         the negative, went out of his way to denounce the existing

         system of compulsory attendance at chapel as a positive
         evil. Within a week after the appearance of this pamphlet,
         the Master, Dr Wordsworth, called upon the author to
         resign his office, and Thirlwall, almost without hesitation,
         complied. An exercise of authority so despotic, and so

         unprecedented, added to the unpopularity of the Master

         with many of the Fellows, was received with a loud out

         burst of indignation. Sedgwick, who happened to be in
         London, was promptly informed by Whewell of what had
         taken place. After briefly recording the facts, and his own

         disapproval of the Master's conduct, he went on to say :

             I" What will happen next I have no guess, for have talked with
         Inone of Thirlwall's friends about the case, but much fear they may
         Iattempt some violent and rash measure ; and what wish to beg of

         you is that you will be our good genius, and moderate instead of
         sharing in, our violence. ... You have more influence in the College
         than any other person, and have perhaps the power of prevent
         ing our present misfortunes being followed by any fatal conse
         quences8...."

              Sedgwick hastened back to Cambridge, and did all that
         could be done, under the circumstances, in conjunction with

              1 Thomas Turton, D.D., Regius Professor of Divinity from 1827 -- 1845, when
         he was made Bishop of Ely.

              s From Rev. W. Whewell, 27 May, 1834.

LETTERS FROM SOUTHEY AND WORDSWORTH. 427

Musgrave, Sheepshanks, Romilly, and Peacock1. But, as                                                 1834.
Thirlwall had resigned, their efforts could effect nothing                                                  49-
except a dignified submission to the inevitable. From our
point of view the matter is chiefly interesting, as shewing the
position which Sedgwick had attained in College, and which
he kept throughout the rest of his long life.

     The following letters furnish an appropriate conclusion
to the busy episodes in Sedgwick's life which have just been

narrated.

From Mr Robert Southey.      Keswick, 10 February, 1834.

     My dear Sir,
            I am much obliged to you for your discourse, and for

the pleasant letter that accompanied it. It is indeed most gratifying

to see you employing your sledge-hammer against the Utilitarians ;
and counteracting the mischief which has been done by Locke and

Paley. Heavy as the hammer strikes, your name and character

carry with them equal weight ; and I do not think any other person
could at this time have done so much good.

    This too I can truly say, that in these dark times, nothing has
cheered me so much as the part which you have thus taken.

        Believe me, my dear Sir,

                Yours with sincere respect and regard,
                                                    Robert Southey.

From Mr William Wordsworth.       Rydal Mount,

" My dear Sir,                    May 14M, 1834.

        I am much indebted to you for a Copy of your discourse

on the  SIttudisieswriottfenthewiUthnivyeorusrityus;uaalndaniwmhaitciohn,hasanbdeeIn   read  to me
twice.                                                                                hope   will in
the course of time prove of beneficial effect, if the Universities are to
continue to exist ; which from some late proceedings in your own, I
Iam disposed to doubt

    In every part of your Discourse was interested, but was most nearly
touched by your observations on Paley's Moral Philosophy, which,

     1 Mr Romilly records in his diary, 29 May, "Sedgwick and Sheepshanks
arrived from town to-day to look into Thirlwall's case. Sedgwick and Musgrave
drew up a Paper, and took it to the Master: 'We the undersigned resident

Seniors request you to call a Seniority to inquire into the proceedings which led
to Mr Thirlwall's resignation of the Tuition. ' Signed by Sedgwick, Musgrave,

Peacock, Romilly, Sheepshanks."

         438 WOOQWARDIAN MUSEUM.

1834.    tho' like all his works a Book of unrivalled merit in certain points, is
         deplorably wanting in essentials. In fact there is no such thing as
Et. 49.  Morals as a Science, or even as Philosophy, if Paley's system be

         Iright. You and    I, I  remember,   --taslokedthautpoIn        the  subject when I had
                                  seeing you                            need
         last the pleasure   of                                                not say more than

         that      heartily concur with you in what your Discourse contains

         upon it.
               IThank you for the drubbing you have given that odious Slanderer,
         Beverley.     was sorry to learn from those letters that you had had
         so severe an accident. You have the best wishes of all this family

         for your entire and speedy recovery.
                        I be silent                                           taken as the Public
               Should                uPpeotintiontheers,paIrt   you have      be treating you with
         Leader of     the 62 or 63                            should not

         sincerity, or in  the spirit of that friendship which                 exists between us.
         This is not the   place for me to discuss the subject,
                                                                              and tho' I feel that

         my opinion, as     paenrsoonpainl iofnrienmdereI lyc,anmnoaty   not be entitled to much
         respect, as your                                               hold back the declaration

         of my conviction that the Petitioners are                      misguided men, -- that part

         of them, at least, who have signed this Petition with a hope, that by
         so doing, they are contributing to the Support of the Institutions of

         the Country, the Church included.

              Farewell ! God bless you, and be assured that whatever course

         Iyou pursue either in public or private life, there is no likelihood that
            shall ever have occasion to doubt that you act from pure and con

         scientious motives. At the same time allow me to say, that I have

         no dread of being accused of presumption by you, for not having

         bowed to the scientific names which stand so conspicuous upon this

         ill-omened Instrument.      " Ever faithfully yours,

                                                               " Wm. Wordsworth."

             The history of the Woodwardian Museum during the four

         years comprised in the present chapter must now be briefly
         noticed. The unfitness of the room for the purposes of a

         Museum, occupies, as heretofore, a considerable space in the

         reports of the Inspectors. In 1830 they extend their observa

         tions to the Professor's college rooms, where they find not
         only cabinets belonging to the University, but " ten or twelve
         packing-cases from Germany and other parts of the continent,
         as yet unopened, for which the Professor cannot find room

         either in the Museum or in his chambers." In 1833 these
         defects are remedied to some slight extent by the acquisition
         of the two rooms at the west end of the Divinity School,
         (now the Music Room and the Newspaper Room of the

IN SOUTH WALES WITH MURCHISON.       429

Library) hitherto used by the Registrary ; but Sedgwick " is      1834.
compelled to state that this addition is by no means adequate          *9-
for the reception of the present collection, much less for its
proper exhibition, or for such augmentations as the present
state of geological science requires." Meanwhile, thanks to
Sedgwick's own exertions, important additions were being
made in nearly every year. We read of casts of Plesiosaurus
and Ichthyosaurus presented by Viscount Cole and Mr
Chantrey (1832) ; of a collection lately the property of Dr
E. D. Clarke, removed from the cellars in the Botanic Garden

after his death, and of specimens collected in North and
South Wales by the Professor (1833); and lastly, of a bust
of Cuvier presented by his widow (1834).

     Sedgwick's plans for the summer had been settled early
in the year. " I propose," he wrote in April, " to spend the
early part of the Long Vacation in Wales, thence to find my
way by steam to Glasgow, to mount up to and batter the
Grampians, to descend by the west coast of Ayrshire, and
then to thread my way among the hills of the Lammermuir

chain, so as to end my work in September in time for the
meeting of the British Association at Edinburgh, where I
shall have to resign my office of President of the Philosophical

dfial;6/3 tot1."

     This programme, in its main outlines at least, was faith
fully carried out. Early in June he started for Wales with
Murchison. On this visit he began work on the south side of
the Principality, instead of on the north, for the purpose of

examining, under his friend's guidance, the ground he had

already gone over, and thus, as he said afterwards, learning
the alphabet of the Silurian tongue*. The excursion was
specially gratifying to Murchison, who parted from Sedgwick
under the firm conviction that he was fully convinced of the
accuracy of his determination of the sequence of the rocks
examined. " Although I think and hope," he wrote to

1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 2 April, 1834.
2 Salter's Catalogue, p. xix.

           BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH.

1834.      Whewell, "that he endeavoured to pick every hole he could
      49-
           ofin my arrangement, he has confirmed all my views, some

           which, from the difficulties which environed me, I was very

           nervous about until I had such a backer1." After six weeks
           spent in "marches and countermarches in Hereford, Brecon,

           Caermarthen, Montgomery, and Salop," the friends parted at

           Ludlow (10 July). Sedgwick hastened back to his old ground
           in North Wales, where he probably spent most of the time

           until claimed by the Association.
                Sedgwick has unfortunately left no account of his pro

           ceedings at Edinburgh, where he was the guest of Dr Alison,
           father of the historian. We know from the Report of the
           Association that he resigned the office of President in an

           eloquent, though not specially noteworthy speech, but that
           he did not himself contribute anything to the geological

           section. Before leaving Edinburgh he had the pleasure of

           making the acquaintance of Professor Agassiz, who had just

           come to Great Britain for the first time. A life-long friendship

           between the two geologists was the result of this interview.
                 After the meeting Sedgwick and Murchison, according to

           previous arrangement, started together for the south. From

           this point the story can be told in his own words :

           My dear Mrs Alison,  Trin. Coll., November 15, 1834.

                        The day I left you I had a delightful drive along
           the banks of the Esk, which contrast so finely with the
           country on both sides of them. Straight furrows and rotation

           crops may gladden the farmer's face, but they had few charms

           for my companion and myself. We halted, however, at the

           cliffs of Dunbar (they are very curious and if you have not

           seen them pray look at them the next time you pass that
           way), and we were overjoyed at the sight of the noble glen of

           Dunglass.

                1 Murchison to Whewell, 18 July, 1834, quoted in Geikie's Life of Murchison,

           i. "3-

EXCURSION TO ST ABB'S HEAD.                                                   431

     Perhaps your brother1 has told you of our expedition to                          1834.
St Abb's Head. Nothing could turn out better -- the geology
most instructive -- the scenery grand and varied-- the sea as                       Ut
smooth as glass -- the cliffs sublime, and every headland re
flecting the lights of a glowing sun. We were all excited to

the highest pitch ; sometimes speculating on the strange
frolics dame Nature had loved to play thousands of years
before strathspeys were thought of ; then talking of Walter
Scott, the Master of Ravenswood, and the Middle Ages ;

and ever and anon, as conversation seemed to flag, plying

Sir John Hall's bottles, not so much from the love of
wine, as in the hope of seeing the embers of imagination

blaze out afresh. The day after our sea-trip Murchison
went helter-skelter after the foxhounds, and had the good

luck to come back with a fox's brush, and an unbroken

neck.

     On the Saturday we were again under way, and continued
together to Newcastle, where we parted ; but I had the good
fortune to pick up another friend and knight of the hammer,

with whom I struck up a league offensive and defensive, and

we forthwith commenced an action of assault and battery
against the ribs and shoulders of the mountains which range
in a lofty unbroken chain from Stainmoor through Cross Fell
to the frontier of Scotland. I will not torment you with any
narration of our battles and victories ; sufficient to say that
we parted at Carlisle -- that I found my way to another

friend's' house near Whitehaven -- that I joined some young

people in a pedestrian tour to the Lakes, and contrived to
reap a rich harvest of joy from the exuberant spirits of

my youthful companions--that I talked a day and a half
with Wordsworth, who is the best talker I have the happiness
of knowing, and who talked in his best fashion -- that I found
my way to my native valley, which will bear looking at after

     1 Duncan Farquharson Gregory,    afterwards Fellow of Trinity  College,  B.A.
                                        See above, p. 409.
1838, M.A. 1841.
     2 Probably Mr Williamson Peile.

        432 MADE PREBENDARY OF NORWICH.

1834. the fairest prospects of the Lake region --that my friends
        were all well, my nephews and nieces springing like mush
         rooms, and the old vicarage house about as noisy as it used
         to be when I was myself a child.
            But my sheet is ending and it is high time for me to end
       with it. Give my kindest remembrances to everybody at
         Woodville and Heriot Row, and to your brothers and sister,

         and believe me, Dear Mrs Alison,

                             Your obliged and affectionate friend,

                                                                    A. Sedgwlck.

     By the end of October Sedgwick was back in Cambridge,

restored to good health and spirits by his summer in the open
air, busy with his lectures, and with preparations for a visit
from Professor Agassiz early in November. In order to lay
before the " famous foreign fishmonger," the fare he specially

fancied, Sedgwick had been for some time in correspond
ence with his friend Gwatkin, through whose good offices his

own meagre table was to be garnished with "a dish of fish"
from Barrow in Leicestershire. " A Yorkshireman hates to
buy a pig a poke," he added " but I am sure I may trust my

old fellow-hammerer to make a good bargain for me1." The
fish in question did justice to Gwatkin's discrimination, and
were duly added to the Woodwardian collection ; but, at the

last moment, to Sedgwick's great annoyance, Agassiz was

prevented from coming.

      Soon afterwards an event occurred which gave Sedgwick
a new position, and, for a part of each year at least,
diverted the current of his thoughts into a new channel.
In the middle of November Lord Melbourne's ministry broke

up, and just as Lord Chancellor Brougham was lamenting
that Sedgwick and Thirlwall were the only clergymen who
had deserved well of the liberal party for whom he had been

     1 To Rev. R. Gwatkin, 3 October, 1834.    Mr Gwatkin was then vicar of
Barrow on Soar, Mount Sorrel, Leicestershire.

       MADE PREBENDARY OF NORWICH.                                           433

unable to provide1, came the news that a stall at Norwich, and                    1834.
a rectory in Yorkshire, were vacated by the death of the                                49-

gentleman who had held them both. Brougham gave the
stall to Sedgwick, and the rectory to Thirlwall. The pre
ferment, as Sedgwick said, " was saved as from the fire," for
it was only presented to him formally on the day before
Brougham gave up the Great Seal. Sedgwick accepted without
a moment's hesitation, and, as the next letter tells us, hurried
through the formalities of induction with equal rapidity.

My dear Ainger,                          Close, Norwich,

                                                             Dec. 15, 1834.

                My poor brain is turned topsy-turvy, and my

memory has fled so far from me that I cannot tell to
whom I have written, and to whom I have not, since I

became Prebendary of Norwich. Here however I am, in

my own Residence, as good a Prebendary as you can see

on a winter's day, though still without a shovel hat. My

friends in College have been putting about a shilling sub

scription to buy me a gorgeous shovel hat. I shall receive

it with due gratitude, and hang it on a peg to be looked

at, but, as to putting it on my nob, that is another question.
I doubt not you have heard of my appointment.
                                                                  Perhaps I
informed you of it myself. If I did, I have forgotten it.

One of the last acts of the ex-chancellor was to put the

great seal to my presentation. The very day I received the
notification of this act, I heard from a friend at Norwich

who told me that the Chapter had heard of Lord Brougham's
intention, and that, if I received the presentation in time, it
would be very agreeable to them that I should take my pre

decessor's turn, which commenced on the 1st of December.
By so doing I should secure all the domestic arrangements

of the Chapter. There are six Prebendaries, and each resides

     1 Lord Houghton in The Fortnightly  Review, February, 1878.  At the end
                                         Sedgwick to revise the   MS. of his
of 1833 Lord Brougham had induced
Discourse on Natural Theology.

S. I.                                                             28

         434 INSTALLATION AT NORWICH.

1834.    two months. Now December and January just suit me, as

Et. 49.  the greater part of these two months falls in our Christmas

         vacation. Partly therefore on account of my Brethren of

         the Chapter, and partly on my own private account, I lent

         a willing ear to this suggestion --went up to Town without
         an hour's delay -- procured my presentation from the Chan
         cellor's office -- took an early coach to Norwich -- arrived on
         Saturday, November 29, in time for the Dean's breakfast --
         took the oaths and signed the books -- presented my deed

         with the great seal affixed to the Dean after the First Lesson
         in the morning service -- was formally installed in the pre
         sence of the congregation -- read in on Sunday the 30th --
         and commenced Residence in my own house on Monday, the

         1st inst. Is not this doing business ? My servant arrived

         after a day or two, Lady Jane Wodehouse (the wife of
         one of my Brother Prebendaries) provided me two excellent
         maid servants. I have taken my predecessor's furniture and

         wines at a valuation, and am gradually settling down into

         my proper place. Our Residence while it lasts is severe.

         We are not permitted to be away from our houses for a

         single night. Attending service regularly, and preaching

         generally once each Sunday, are duties which are looked for.

         We have also to give certain dinners of ceremony to the

         officers of the Cathedral. Giving and receiving dinners con

         stitutes a formidable service in a city like this.

             What my stall may do for me in the end I cannot say,
         but I am quite sure that for the first year it will make me
         poorer than I have been since I knew how to spell my
         own name. My fees and furniture will run me into debt
         to the tune of six hundred pounds at the very least. I

         wish some good Christian would just now give me a thou

         sand pounds, it would just make a poor body comfortable.

         If my life be spared the stall will I doubt not turn out a

         very comfortable thing. I hope I may count upon its pro

         ducing me nearly 600 a year. This, together with my

         Senior Fellowship and Professorship, must surely enable me

OLDEST FRIEND IN NORWICH.                                                     435

soon to lift my head above water. My clerical employ-                              1834.
                                                                                          49-
ment here is a good thing, and I mean not to flinch from
it. The preaching I spoke of is not compulsory ; but has

been commenced of late years by some of the new comers.

Pray write to me soon.

                                                        Yours ever,

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

     An amusing incident respecting Sedgwick's first visit to
Norwich, deserves to be recorded. He called on Dean Pellew,

as the above letter shews, in time for an early breakfast ; and,
on being shewn into the drawing-room, found there his
daughter Minna, aged three, playing at bricks. Sedgwick
at once went down on his knees, and assisted her to build

a tower of Babel, in which occupation, the Dean, to his great
amusement, found his new Canon busily engaged. Sedgwick
never forgot either the child, or the incident, but maintained

a close friendship with her until his death, writing to her
frequently, and generally sending her a present on her birth
day. These letters invariably contained either some allusion
to the " early lessons in architecture which you gave me," or
some such passage as the following : " Perhaps you think me
wrong in calling you my oldest friend" he says in 1850; "at

any rate yours is the oldest friendship which I formed in
Norwich ; and it has never been interrupted since I began to

build castles with you on your carpet on the 29th November.

1834V
     The following letter, though written two months later,

completes the history of Sedgwick's first experience of his

new dignity.

     1 Among the congratulations, humorous and serious, which were showered
thick upon Sedgwick, may be quoted an epigram, by C. V. Le Grice. Lord

Brougham is supposed to have presented the Stall with the following couplet:

" Dear Adam,  if,

                   I
              as believe,

You'll one day wish to have an Eve,

Then on the Eve of such event,

At Norwich snug I've pitched your tent."

                                          28--2

436 NORWICH EXPERIENCES.

                     Sunday Evening, i1 p.m. 8 February, 1835.
My dear Ingle1,

After chapel I went to drink tea with Pryme, our

City Member, and have had a very long talk with him ; and
on returning to my den I just looked in upon Thirlwall, who

starts for Yorkshire tomorrow, at an hour when I shall pro

bably be recumbent, and between a pair of sheets. He tells
me that he shall halt at York. I am therefore seated at the

desk scribbling a page, and perhaps two, which he promises
to convey for me as far as York, and perchance to your door.

You don't know him, it seems ; but it is clear that you ought
to know him ; and I hope this act of great benevolence on his

part will move your bowels, and make you friends as long as

you both last.                              My Cathedral

     I only returned to College yesterday.

Residence ended indeed on Saturday the 31st January ; but it
took me five days to pay bills, pack up odds and ends, and

unhook myself from a hundred little engagements. I, how
ever, moved off the stocks on Thursday night -- halted a day

with Dr Bayne at Bury, arrived in Cambridge yesterday,
and here I am to-day (Sunday). Your letter delighted me ;

not because of the grease and butter which covered its first

page, but because it convinced me that you were enjoying

your oldest and best flow of animal spirits, and that you

could receive some pleasure from the recollection of old and

good days when Charles Ingle was a burly school-boy begging
salt at a sizar's door. My residence at Norwich forms a

strange episode in my history. Now that I am once again

in my old haunts, I can hardly believe that I have not been
dreaming. While there, I was in the position of Vice Dean.

In the absence of the Dean I was the official representative of
the dignity of the Chapter-- called upon to practice a series of

formal hospitalities in a queer, old-fashioned, in-and-out, ugly,

old, house. Several times I was afraid of being on my beam

1 The Rev. Charles Ingle was then vicar of Osbaldwick, near York.

NORWICH EXPERIENCES.  437

ends ; but by some special providence I was saved from ship-              1834.
                                                                                49-
wreck, and am at last safe in port. Everybody was kind and
hospitable ; indeed I have been almost killed with kindness ;
and all the good old Tory inhabitants of the rookery seemed
mightily anxious to see how such a monster as a Whig
Prebendary would behave at meals ; and you may depend

upon it they have all been much built up with the sight. I

did, however, contrive to bring together more heretics and
schismatics within my walls than ever had been seen before
in a Prebendal house since the foundation of the Cathedral.

Independents and Highchurchmen were seen licking out of
the same fleshpots, and Quakers crossed my threshold without
fear and trembling. By the way some of the Quakers are my

delight. J. J. Gurney is an excellent and learned man, --
brother of Mrs Fry and Mrs F. Buxton, -- reads Hebrew, and
spouts the Greek Fathers by the hour together. I don't

believe there is a better man living. Friend Amelia1 you

know well. I like her much ; but I never dared to rumple
her cap in the way you mention. I have also been much

given to preaching, holding forth twice, and sometimes thrice,

on a Sunday. But, if I begin to preach now, Thirlwall will be

asleep. So good night and God bless you.

                                                         Yours always

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

                                        'Mrs Opie.

              CHAPTER X.

              (1835--1840.)

Cambridge Occupations. Election at Dent. Presentation

at Court. British Association at Dublin. Skeleton

of Irish Elk. Visit of Agassiz to Cambridge (1835).
Lectures and Society at Norwich. Geological Tour

Illin Devonshire with Murchison. Death of Mr Simeon
(1836).       Health. Paper on Geology of Devonshire.

Criticism of Babbage. Death of Bishop Bathurst.
Foundation of Cowgill Chapel. Geology in Devon

shire. British Association at Liverpool. Inundation
of the Workington Colliery (1837). Explorations at

Bartlow.      Devonian Paper.  Queen's Coronation.

British Association at Newcastle. Open-Air Lecture

Ill(1838). The Silurian System published.  Foreign Tour
with Murchison (1839).         Health.       Cheltenham.

Paper to Geological Society (1840).

Sedgwick was evidently much gratified with his first term

of residence at Norwich. He was conscious of having won a

dignified piece of preferment by his own merits, without

interest or favour ; he was pleased with his new friends, and

did not, at first, find his duties irksome. Before long, it

must be confessed, as the novelty of the situation wore off,

he became less enthusiastic, and for a while was listless and

ill at ease.

This can surprise no one who reflects for a moment on

what his previous life had been. When he became a Preben

NORWICH EXPERIENCES.  439

dary of Norwich Cathedral he was fortynine years of age,            1835.
and had resided in Trinity College for just thirty years. His             S-
pursuits, his habits, his affections, were all bound up with the
interests of the College and the University. His intimate
friends, with the exception of Ainger and Murchison, were all
working with the same objects in view. The duties entailed by
his position as a Fellow and a Professor were not onerous,

even in term-time; and, had he been a better economist of

time, he might have devoted almost as many hours as he
pleased in each day to his own pursuits. But at Norwich
he could not call a moment his own. He had to lead an

essentially public life ; to submit to incessant interruptions ;
to be at the beck and call of anybody who chose to ring his
bell. Even the services in the Cathedral -- so different from
those to which he had been accustomed in the college chapel --
were exceedingly distasteful to him. " These long services," he
writes, " cut my time to shreds, and destroy the spirit of
labour. We have the shadow of Catholicism without a grain
of its substance, for not one of the Chapter thinks himself

better for these heartless formalities, or nearer heaven. A

cold empty Cathedral, and a set of unwilling hirelings singing

prayers for an hour together. The bell tells me I must be

off.... I am just returned, after a full hour and a half of shiver
ing. And what the congregation ? One single old woman in

addition to the officials. As soon as my fingers are warm I

have to go a mile to the County Hospital to read morning
prayers ; for this month I am chaplain. On my return I
shall have time barely for a short walk (or ride if the horrid
weather take up) and then another long Cathedral service

from which I shall come home dog-tired and unfit for work1."

     These expressions, and many others that might be quoted

from letters written in 1836 and 1837, must not be taken too

literally. Still it can hardly be doubted that for some time
he was out of his element at Norwich. Gradually, however,

like a tree that has been transplanted into genial soil, he

                         1 To R. I. Murchison, 25 January, 1837.

         440 FIELD LECTURE AT CAMBRIDGE.

1835.    became thoroughly happy in his new surroundings ; he re

st- 5-  garded his old-fashioned' house in the Close, especially after
         it became filled with his nephew's children -- as a second

         home ; and probably no member of the Chapter performed

         his duties, whether public or private, with so much regularity,

         heartiness, and success. In a subsequent chapter we shall

         throw together some reminiscences of his life in Norwich

         which have been collected by those who knew him and loved

         him well. These, however, will be more intelligible after

         some of the principal persons with whom he was there

         associated have appeared in the general narrative of his life.

         Sedgwick was back in Cambridge by the end of January,
         "I1835. "Since my return," he writes,
                                                                      have been almost

         driven off my feet : lectures, college business, arrears of

         correspondence, disagreeable domestic news involving me

         in the botheration of lawyers' consultations, etc., etc. and
         more than all together the oppressive consciousness of having

         more work before me than I have any chance to get through :

         all these causes have driven me out of my senses1." Of the

         above-mentioned lectures one, towards the end of the course,

         was delivered in the field, a mode of instruction which under

         Sedgwick's guidance became exceedingly popular, even with

         those who cared nothing for geology. On this occasion a

         cavalcade of seventy horsemen started from Cambridge, and

         rode across the fens. Before the day was over Sedgwick had

         given five distinct lectures; the last, on fen-drainage, from the

         top of Ely Cathedral*.

         In the course of this term the Senate determined upon

         a step which must have given Sedgwick great satisfaction,

         inasmuch as it held out a prospect, at last, of providing

         decent accommodation for the geological collections. A

         scheme for providing a new Library, with Museums and

         Lecture-Rooms beneath after being under consideration for

         six years, had been abandoned for want of funds. A Syndicate
         31

                    I.
                            J. it,

                                                                   9
         To R. Murchison, 17 February, 1835.
         Diary of Rev. Romilly, April, 1835.

                  NEW GEOLOGICAL MUSEUM.  441

was now appointed to do what ought to have been done in                            1835.
the first instance, namely, to solicit subscriptions. Of this                           5-
Syndicate, which included all the Professors, Sedgwick was

a member in virtue of his office. It is hardly likely that he

would busy himself very actively in work which would have

been singularly uncongenial to a man of his temperament ;

but his correspondence shews that he successfully solicited a
few of his friends at a distance, while he himself contributed

the substantial donation of one hundred guineas.

     Notwithstanding the distraction of these diverse occupa

tions, he found time to prepare one of his most important

papers, On the Structure of large Mineral Masses, and to read

it to the Geological Society (11 March), before he was called
to Dent by an election for the West Riding of Yorkshire. The
contest ended in the return of the liberal candidates, Viscount
Morpeth and Sir G. Strickland, to Sedgwick's great satisfac
tion and amusement. To Dr Ainger, whose son, then at

Sedbergh School, was of the same politics as his father, he
wrote triumphantly : " Well ! have we not worked the Tory
noodles of the West Riding? Why in the name of wonder
have they disturbed our fraction of the county ? I turned

mob-orator, and had unbounded success, so that all the music,

fun, and noise was on our side ; and in keeping my stiff-
necked Dalesmen from drinking and fighting I really think I
did something little short of a miracle. Before I came they
had (though in a good cause) shewn a little over-zeal ; and
your son, who came as flag-bearer of the blues in Fawcett's
carriage, went away, I fear, in a rather dirty envelope1." To

    1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 18 May, 1835. It was on this occasion that Sedgwick
was accused of having delivered "a political harangue from the pulpit." The

truth was that he had told the congregation that giving a vote was a solemn duty,

to be discharged "as unto God and not as unto man;" and that above all they

"Imust avoid the sin of intemperance. His brother John writes to a friend (27
November, 1835):       am happy to say his exhortations seemed to produce

the effect of raising the standard of morality amongst the people ; for it is

a striking fact that not a drunken man was to be seen during the two days'

contest, amongst more than 1000 people gathered together, with about two

hopeless exceptions."

442 POLITICAL OPINIONS.

1835. Canon Wodehouse he explained his political opinions in more

5- sober language :
    " Our party came in at a canter ; and why were the Tories
Ifso foolish as to start the race ?
                                     the country is to be saved,

it must be by the union of such men as Morpeth and Wortley.

Contests such as I have witnessed put off indefinitely any

reasonable hopes of a broad and firm coalition of good men.
And who is to gain in the mean time ? The tories ? Certainly
not. The radical party gain a cog at every movement of
the state machine. Tory domination, in any sense of the
words, is gone for ever. Yet your party can't see that ; and
think it a goodly triumph if they can ruin a whig in any

corner of the land. Do you think it possible that the men

who were joined with Sir R. Peel in the late Ministry could

go on with him in the measures he contemplated without
utterly ruining their characters ? I think not : and this at

least we know, that some of them started with a direct viola

tion of pledges that they had given on the hustings. I don't
think the Whigs a strong party ; yet I hope they will be strong

enough to get through both Houses a good drastic measure

respecting the Irish Church. Till that is on some resting

place no Ministry can stand six months. After two or three

tumbles, we may perhaps live to see a coalition : but it may

come too late1.

    Early in June he was called to Yorkshire again by the

sudden demise of Miss Sill, an old lady of fortune, who had

made him her executor, and as it turned out, one of her

residuary legatees. " For the first time in my life," he wrote,
"I                                          "
    am  to be well    paid  for  my  work      and  in  fact,  when  the
                                           ;

accounts were made up, he found himself the fortunate

possessor of the thousand pounds which a short time before

he had wished some good Christian would give him. Before

leaving Cambridge he had made up his mind to attend

a Levee and a Drawing Room, as in duty bound, but, with

characteristic carelessness, he had neglected to take the steps

        1 To Canon Wodehouse, 25 May, 1835.

PRESENTATION AT COURT.                                        443

prescribed by etiquette. In this dilemma he made a diverting                1835.
appeal to Murchison : " A card, or notification, is to be left
with some person at some place, to convey some information
about my courtly intentions, and without these things I cannot
be received. Will you then do this unknown operation for
me ? As I am coming up partly on purpose, it would be folly
to fail in mere forms1." The next letter shews that he did

not journey in vain :

My dear Ainger,            Tr1n. Coll., June 30, 1835.

              Now be it known to you that I reached London on
Tuesday, that I kissed hands at the Levee on Wednesday,

and that I exhibited my handsome face at the Drawing Room
on Thursday. In short I am now a finished courtier.

     We are already beginning to hear the cry of the Installa
tion*. Four and twenty years since I enjoyed the festivity
intensely. My capacity for certain noisy robust enjoyments
is certainly less now than it was then ; but on the whole
I am full as happy now as I was then ; at least so I think,
and I ought to know best. Yet Shakespeare says " past and

to come seem best, things present worst," does he not ? and
have not poetical generalities, like other generalities, their
exceptions ? Let me then remain an exception on the right
side. My love to your household.

                                           Yours ever,
                                                A. Sedgwtck.

     Sedgwick had determined to do no field-geology this year
until after the meeting of the British Association at Dublin
in August, and therefore remained at Cambridge until it was
time to start. On reaching Liverpool with the intention of

    1 To R. I. Murchison,  17 June, 1835.  He was presented by the Lord
Bishop of London.

a H. R. H. the Duke of Gloucester, Chancellor of the University, had died

30 November, 1834; and John Jeffreys, Marquess Camden, had been elected in
his room without a contest, 12 December, 1834.

         444 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.

835.     crossing by the ordinary night steamer, he found that a special
.t. 50.  steamer, the William Penn, had been placed at the disposal
         of the Association by her owners, and was to start early
         on the following morning, Sunday, 9 August. He therefore
         agreed to wait, and to officiate as chaplain. As they pro
         ceeded down the Mersey, along a new channel discovered and
         laid down a short time before by Captain Denham, it was
         suggested that his infant son, who happened to be on board
         with his mother, should be baptized by the chaplain before
         morning service. This was accordingly done ; and, says an
         eye-witness, " by one of those strange and fortuitous accidents
         which often lend an air of romance to the realities of life, it

         happened that just as the service began, the vessel arrived
         close by a newly invented iron boat, bearing an apparatus
         and a bell, which rings constantly as the boat is rocked by
         the waves, and warns mariners of their position when fogs are
         so thick that they cannot discern guides of any other kind ; it
         now fairly rung the inmates of the William Penn into church,
         and Annesley Turner Denham, aged three months, was made a
         Christian almost within its sound." When prayers were over
         Sedgwick preached on a text from one of the Psalms. The
         peculiarity of the occasion gave a spur to his eloquence ; and
         the assembled passengers, together with the crew, listened to
         him with rapt attention while he enforced the true end of all

         scientific and philosophical pursuits ; and from the least as well
         as the greatest discoveries of man, traced the whole to a Being

         of infinite power, wisdom, and goodness. A Roman Catholic

         gentleman, who described the scene to Miss Edgeworth, had
         tears in his eyes as he spoke of the effect the sermon had

         produced1.
              Sedgwick was Vice-President of the Geological Section,

         and, conjointly with Murchison, read a paper On the Silurian
         and Cambrian Systems, exhibiting the order in which the older

              1 From Miss Edgeworth, 23 November, 1836. The rest of the account is
         taken from The Literary Gazette for 1835, p. 513, and from a letter written by

         Sedgwick to his brother John, 21 August, 1835.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.  445

Sedimentary Strata succeed each other in England and                                         1835.
 Wales. The other incidents of the meeting, and Sedgwick's
proceedings afterwards, are related in the following letters ;
but he omits to record that while he was clambering along a
steep slope near the Giant's Causeway he lost his head, and
nearly fell into the sea1.

To Rev. John Sedgwick.

                                     Florence Court, Enniskillen,

                                                                           August 21, 1835.
              " We had a glorious passage, and such a reception

as has eclipsed the remembrance of all former meetings. All

the public bodies vied with each other in hospitalities. There
were no drawbacks ; the week was uninterruptedly fine, and
every face seemed to be suffused with happiness. More than

all this, all the philosophical sections were most actively and
successfully employed in the work for which they were called

together.

    Tuesday I left Dublin and went as far as Cavan, through a
most wretched and beggarly country. I had no notion of the

external misery of this strange people before I saw it with
my own eyes ; and it contrasted painfully with the splendour
I had witnessed during the preceding week. Wednesday

brought me to Lord Enniskillen's, where I am spending the
remainder of the week*. It is a noble domain, surrounded

with mountains, and from the windows we have a view of

three magnificent lakes ; but when you quit the confines of the
park filth and misery are again seen on the wayside, though
certainly in a less offensive form than in the county of
Meath."

     1 Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 231.
    2 It was on this occasion that Lord Enniskillen "had the satisfaction of seeing

Murchison and some other guest glorious, and Sedgwick comfortable." (Lyell to
Sedgwick, 25 October, 1835, Lyell's Life, i. 457). Lyell proceeds: "Depend
upon it the building of the Museum [by Viscount Cole] and subsidies for what the
old Lord once condemned as 'damned nonsense' will go on with good spirit,

after his finding that the hammer-bearers are such a jolly set."

446 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.

    To Mr Lyell.

                                Dent near Kendal, September 20, 1835.
             I received your letter1 in Dublin ; but as for writing,
I had not a moment's time ; at least, during the ten days I

was there. The hot weather, close packing, and perpetual
festivities, not to mention the serious labours of the sections

and general meetings, were almost the death of me ; so that
during the week after, which I spent with Lord Cole at his

father's seat, I was almost confined to the house by English

and Irish cholera.

    Let me tell you that I read certain extracts from your

letter in one of our sectional meetings, and that the questions

you started were discussed, not, however, with much power,

as there was no one present, except Phillips, who had a suffi
ciently specific knowledge of the subject. He doubts Des
Hayes' conclusion, to say the least of it ; and makes fight on

the crag species. I was not present when the discussions
took place last spring at the Geological Society ; but I do
not believe a word about the different epochs of the crag. It

is all of one epoch, and, geologically speaking, not a long one,

at least so I think.
     I was much amused at your discussions on elevation

craters etc. etc. with the geological conclave at Paris. I don't

care one fig about the question, and am disposed to think
that more fuss is made about it than it deserves. This may,
however, only arise from my ignorance of the phenomena

exhibited by modern volcanos. I suspect the truth is between
the two parties. All the protruded masses of igneous rock

(granite, porphyry etc.) constantly produce that collocation
of stratified masses which is presented by the so-called craters
of elevation. Why should not the local elevatory forces do
over again what they have formerly done ? I have of course

read your paper* published in the Philosophical Transactions,

     1 The letter, printed in Lyell's Life, i. 450, gives an account of some shells
from a bed in the Suffolk Crag, supposed of older date than the upper Crag.

     2 On the Proofs of a gradual Rising of the Land in certain parts of Sweden :
Phil. Trans. 1835, pp. 1--38.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.                447

and was by no means surprised at the fact of the travelled                          1835.
blocks of the north of Europe belonging to a very recent                                  5-
period. This is what I should have expected. Your ice

theory will, I think, only let you slip into the water, and give

you a good ducking. Erratic blocks are diffused in latitudes

where there are no icebergs, and never were. How do you
get your icebergs to shove the Shap Granite over Stainmoor to
the Yorkshire coast ; or the Wastdale Granite across More-
cambe Bay, over the plains of Cheshire, to the Derbyshire

hills, and the outskirts of the Welsh mountains ? I think I

have ascertained this summer that the greatest part of the
erratic blocks in the south of England have passed over marl
beds full of recent marine species. But of this by the way.

     Agassiz joined us at Dublin, and read a long paper at our
section. But what think you ? Instead of teaching us what
we wanted to know, and giving us of the overflowing of his

abundant ichthyological wealth, he read a long stupid hypo
thetical dissertation on geology, drawn from the depths of
his ignorance. And among other marvels he told us that
each formation (e.g. the lias and the chalk) was formed at
one moment by a catastrophe, and that the fossils were by
such catastrophes brought from some unknown region, and
deposited where we find them. When he sat down I brought

him up again by some specific questions about his ichthyo

logical system, and then he both instructed and amused us.

I hope we shall before long be able to get this moonshine out
of his head, or at least prevent him from publishing it. His

great work is going on admirably well, and we voted another

hundred pounds in promotion of it. I think it is by far

the most important work now on hand in the geological

world.

     Griffith1 exhibited a geological map of the whole of

Ireland, coloured from his own observations. It is a thousand
pities he did not publish it fourteen years since. As far as I

     1 Mr (afterwards Sir Richard) Griffith.  Report of British Association, 1835,

p. 56.

         448 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.

1835.    have examined the demarcations, they appear to be very well
Et. 50.
         jaid down -- much more correctly I think than in our friend

         Greenough's first edition1. The description and discussion

         of this map took two mornings. The only new zoological

         fact brought to light was the existence of fossil fish in the

         New Red Sandstone of the north of Ireland. Murchison

         threw off one morning on his Silurian System ; and I followed

         on the lower division of the Cambrian rocks. Phillips read

         two elaborate papers on the distribution of the Astacidce and
         Belemnites in our secondary strata. That on the Astacidce
         was, as far as I was able to judge, admirable. The paper on

         Belemnites was not perhaps quite so well worked out. There

         were several papers on local details connected with Irish
         Geology --some of them good of the kind. We had one

         ignorant and impudent paper by a Mr Williams on the coal

         deposits of North Devon*, which he refers, like De la Beche,

                                                                    it

                                                                       I

                                                                                        it,
         to the greywacke". Murchison is gone to have a brush at
         and suspect strongly will succeed in turning out of the
         I
                 Iaolder system, and putting where ought to be.                                                                     am the
                             a
                          a        it
                                                   it
         more inclined to this belief now, as he has proved De la

         Beche to be wrong in part of Pembrokeshire where he has

         coloured          part of the undoubted coal-measures as grey

         wacke.

              Since left Florence Court have had (along with MrI
         and Mrs Murchison, Lord Cole, Colonel Montgomery, and

         Mr Griffith) delightful ramble along the coast of Antrim                                                                   ;
         and on my return to this place halted a few days with Sir

         Philip Egerton*. The weather has been glorious though

         terrifically hot but now                         both wet and cold, and will
                             ;

                                               it
                                                      is

         continue so among the mountains till these equinoctial blasts

         pass over.

         Geological Map England and Wales, with a Memoir. By G. B. Greenough.
         33 1

                                    of
                                                                                      5 a of

                                                                                                                                p.
         Lond. 1819.                                                the Bristol Channel.                                            By
                 On certain Fossil Plants from the opposite Shores

         the Rev. David Williams. Brit. Ass. Report 1835, (Sections) 63.
                 Sir Philip de Malpas Grey-Egerton, Bart. F.R.S., distinguished geologist,

         resided at Oulton Park, Tarporley, Cheshire. He died April, 1881.

       SKELETON OF IRISH ELK.                      449

     In this year Sedgwick succeeded in obtaining for his          1835.
Museum an almost complete skeleton of the extinct Elk
{Cervus megaceros) commonly called the Irish Elk. In the         Mt-
autumn of 1834 he had heard, through Lord Cole, of a fine
skeleton which had been discovered in a bog near Ennis-

corthy. It had passed into the possession of Dr Macartney,
a medical man of that town, but it was understood that he

might be persuaded to part with it. Sedgwick, who was then

at Edinburgh, lost no time in ascertaining what help he

might expect from the Woodwardian trustees, and then wrote
to Lord Cole :

    " I have heard from our Vice-Chancellor about the great

Irish fossil, and he wishes me to say that he will help me to
the tune of 100, provided it be not the skeleton of an Irish
Bull. With this encouragement, I wish you to consider me

as a customer, but every farthing beyond ^100 will probably
have to come out of my own pocket, including expenses and

carriage. Therefore pray have mercy on a poor body, and

don't screw him to death. If I can do no way else (for by
the powers I don't think I can raise the wind myself) I must

raise a subscription among my friends to lift me out of the

bog. I hope your correspondent will think 110 a good

offer. As a good Yorkshireman, I hate to buy a pig in a
poke, but I trust to the faithfulness of the account given by a

person whom you consider of a respectable character, and

incapable of imposing on us by a false description1."
     In the course of 1835 several letters passed between

Sedgwick and Dr Macartney, whose reluctance to part with

his prize increased as the time for packing it up drew near,

and it was finally settled that the price to be paid should be

140, inclusive of the cost of packing and carriage to Dublin.
In justification of this large sum Dr Macartney urged that the

skeleton was an exceptionally fine one, and that as the bones
had been found close together there was " reason to conclude

       1 To Viscount Cole, u September, 1834.

s. i.                                          29

         SKELETON OF IRISH ELK.

  1835.  they all belong to the same individual1." As the Wood-
         Wardian Museum of that day was too small to contain so
^t. 50.  large a specimen, the bones were confided to the care of

         Professor Clark. Sedgwick was still absent when the cases

         arrived at Cambridge, and on his return was horrified to find
         the animal tailless. On this defect he wrote " a doleful letter
         of inquiry "s to Lord Cole :

                                                   Florence Court [erased].
                                                      Tr1n. Coll., Cambr1dge,

                                                                     October 23rd, 1835.

         Dear Lord Cole,

         What a scatterbrain I must be to begin my date

         with Florence Court ! Expunge the two first words, and you

         will find me where I really am, in Trinity College, Cambridge.
         But why am I troubling your Lordship ? I will tell you.

         I reached Cambridge yesterday, and went to our Anatomical

         Professor, to whose care the Enniscorthy Bog beast was

         committed. It has turned out most beautifully -- horns, head,

         legs, and body, but, horrible to tell, the tail is wanting ! The

         straw in the packing-cases was examined with the utmost

         care, and not one single caudal vertebra was found skulking

         in it. This has put me at my wits end. The very sight of
         my stump-tailed beast has given me a sympathetic sciatica --

         a horrible tic in the regions of the rump which wrings groans

         from me enough to melt the heart of a flint ! Perhaps

         Dr Macartney can administer a sedative. In plain English
         then, had the beast a tail ? if so, where is the tail now ?

         When the second question is answered, how am I to get the
         said tail ? These are grave questions, and I should be greatly

         obliged to you to put them gravely to the Doctor. His

         honour is concerned in seeing that my beast is not funda
         Ifmentally at fault.
                               I knew his address I might try to put

         salt on his tail myself, but he told me he was about to quit

             1 From Dr Macartney, 6 May, 1835.      The Woodwardian  trustees paid 130 ;

         the rest was probably paid by Sedgwick.   1835.

             a To Sir Philip Egerton, 3 October,

VISIT FROM AGASSIZ.

his old den, and I wish not to send my salt to a wrong                            1835.
                                                                                       so-
market. Do therefore lend me a helping hand in my hour of
 need. My lectures begin on Monday, so for the next month

I shall be fixed down in this place, and shall hope to hear

 from you, and that you will have the humanity to pity my
 case, and give me my cue {queue).

      Present my best remembrances to your father, whose hospi
tality and kindness I must ever remember with gratitude.

                                                Ever most truly yours,
                                                          A. Sedgwick.

     In answer to this letter Lord Cole undertook to do what
he could ; and, as the skeleton can now boast of a proper tail,
it may be concluded that either the requisite number of
vertebrae were found in Dr Macartney's possession, or ex
tracted from one of the numerous bogs in Ireland where
these gigantic stags are still plentiful.

     Early in the Michaelmas term Sedgwick had the pleasure,
so long deferred, of receiving Agassiz in Cambridge. Soon
after his return he had written : " I am once more settled

in the University, and have buckled on my harness ; and
my fish are all gaping in expectation of seeing their great

law-giver." At last, 2 November, the famous ichthyologist
arrived. No account of the visit has been preserved, but it is
interesting to know that the collection of fossil fishes which

Sedgwick's energy had got together in the Woodwardian
Museum was laid under contribution for the Recherches sur
les Poissons fossiles, on which Agassiz was then engaged.
That such was the case is evident from a subsequent letter,
undated, in which Sedgwick enquires : " When are my fossils
to be drawn ? My fish are gaping for the artist, and scolding
him for his long neglect of their beauteous faces."

     In December Sedgwick left Cambridge for his second
term of residence at Norwich. Some months previously the
authorities of the Museum had asked him to deliver a course

of geological lectures during the winter, and he had acceded
                                                                         29 -- 2

           452 LECTURES AT NORWICH.

1836.      to their wishes, without due consideration of the difficulties of
      51-
           the task. " I wish very much you would come to my first

           lecture this evening," he writes to Canon Wodehouse, " if you
           can do so conveniently. I shall want your advice on more
           points than one ; about the length, topics, points, etc. etc. of
           my pattern lecture. I don't know my audience, and therefore
           I want to feel my way. Geology introduces some tender
           topics which require delicate handling. I must speak truth,
           but by all means avoid offence if I can. Above all I must

           try not to make my lecture a bore, which may be done easily
           in two ways -- by firing over their heads, or by running out to
           an unwarrantable length." We shall recur to these lectures

           in a subsequent chapter ; for the present it is sufficient to say

           that the dangers enumerated in the above letter were avoided,

           and that the interest shewn by everybody, and especially
           by the ladies of Norwich, was so great that at the end

           of the course he could report : " I have had a merry

           time of it at Norwich. Among other amusements I gave a

           course of geological lectures to a class of three or four
           hundred. Half the stockings in Norwich are turned blue

           in consequence1." These sentences were written after the

           event, when distance was lending enchantment to the view

           of a successful achievement. But, while the course was still

           proceeding, Sedgwick was in a very different frame of mind.
           His anxiety may be measured by the ill-humour of the

           following passages from a letter to Murchison :

                                                               Norwich, January 15, 1836.

               " I am looking forward to my return to my old den and

           old habits with some anxiety, as I am almost worked off my

           legs in this place, and tired of the life I am leading, but it

           is not a life of mere eating and drinking, as you seem to

           fancy. Each Sunday I have to attend three services, and to

           preach twice. My sermons cost me some trouble, and towards
           the end of the week I have to rise at six in order to find two

           1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 19 February, 1836.

          SOCIETY AT NORWICH.                              453

or three hours I may call my own. Besides, I am giving a             1836.
                                                                           51,
short course of lectures which cost me much trouble. I state
these things as an explanation why I have not looked over
your MS. I have not done your work, solely because I have

not had time ; and for the same reason I have not done my

own work. I don't think I am a selfish person. Last year I
did nothing for myself, but I was working (a considerable
part of very hard for other people. If you knew the time
II
           I it)

              iIf

                                        a

                                   I
                                              I

                                                       I
  had given up to my friends believe you would be disposed
to set me down for fool. With such convictions on my mind

felt both hurt and angry at some expressions in your letter.

You say   won't do your wishes 'you must pocket the

affront'. Now you have no right to talk of being affronted
Ifbecause have not time to do all you wish.
                                                          am to see

this or any other MS. on such conditions, must formally and

positively decline the task. You sent me work enough for

three or four entire days. Had they been at my disposal    I; I

should have given them to the task with very great pleasure

but they have not, and so there an end of the matter.
             is

                    I
will look over the preface as soon as can and return the

bundle."

     The hardworked Canon had, however, some compena
sations. About ten days after the above letter was written
Mr Romilly spent week with him, and his diary affordsa
us some charming glimpses of Sedgwick in his lighter

moments, when he threw lectures and sermons to the winds,

and surrendered himself unreservedly to the company in which
he took especial delight -- that of ladies and young people.
We have already heard of his introduction to the Dean's
daughter, his " oldest friend in Norwich," and now, thanks to
Mr Romilly, we make the acquaintance of Miss Clarke, who,
down to nearly the close of Sedgwick's life, held foremost
place among his lady friends. In after years, as Mrs Guthrie,
she was widely known for her beauty, her wit, and her active

benevolence; but in 1836, when she was barely twenty-one,

         454 SOCIETY AT NORWICH.

1836.    with her naturally high spirits unchecked by sorrow or respect
         for convention, she was evidently the spoilt child of Norwich
    5'-  in general and of Sedgwick in particular. Her sister had
         married Captain Willoughby Moore of the Enniskillen
         Dragoons, and when the regiment was quartered at Norwich,

         Sedgwick, as Canon in residence, called upon the officers. It

         is conceivable that in Miss Clarke's eyes the Woodwardian
         Professor might have been more amusing than the Bishop or
         the Dean ; and that he in his turn found more congenial

         relaxation in her natural gaiety than in the more artificial
         courtesies of the matrons of the Cathedral precincts. What
         ever their common ground for friendship may have been in
         the first instance, they were on a footing of close intimacy
         when Mr Romilly arrived. His first visit was to " Mrs Moore

         and her charming sister Miss Caroline Clarke (Sedgwick calls

         her Cara, or Carissimd) who is a most fascinating creature.
         She does not look above eighteen, but she comes of age next
         February." Presently it was time to go out riding, then a

         matter of almost daily occurrence, and some officers joined
         them. " Sedgwick " we read, " was in tearing spirits. By
         their noise and laughter they attracted a great crowd, who
         shouted on seeing them charge down the street." During
         the rest of the visit Miss Clarke's name constantly recurs :
         in the evening she draws caricatures of Sedgwick's figure

         on horseback ; next morning she comes to breakfast with

         him dressed as a Quakeress, and plays her part admirably,
         to the " infinite delight " of her host and his friend ; on

         another occasion she dons a gown and cassock, and per
         sonates, first Sedgwick, and then an old shuffling canon.

         " It was vastly comical," says the narrator. Lastly, he
         describes a gathering in Sedgwick's house, with Lady Jane
         Wodehouse and her children, who were dressed up as a Turk

         and his hareem by Miss Clarke, while Sedgwick exhibited

         a magic lantern.

              Amid these diversions Sedgwick's residence came to an

         end, and he soon after returned to his Professorial duties at

JOURNEY TO DENT.                                455

Cambridge. But his lectures had hardly begun before he was       1836.
                                                                       51-
compelled to adjourn them sine die, and hurry down to Dent

to discharge his duties as executor1.

My dear Murchison,  Dent, February 2$th, 1836.

              I have been here ever since Saturday week ; up to

the ears in papers, and muddling my poor brain in accounts,

some of them of thirty years standing. At first I was in

despair ; but by working very hard, ten or eleven hours a day,

I begin to see light, and to comprehend the nature of the task

that has fallen on me. My poor co-executor is on his death

Ibed, unable to put pen to paper, and may die any hour.

am lingering from day to day, waiting the event which will

enable me to transact some very important business by my
single signature. My position is most uncomfortable, as my
lectures ought at this very time to be going on in Cambridge.
Could you send me a single line ? How are you getting on
with your book? How did the Anniversary go off? Was

our President [LyellJ very eloquent ? etc. etc.

    My adventures during the last stage before I reached Dent
were laughable enough. I took a post-chaise from Kirkby

Lonsdale and was deluded to attempt the high, rugged,

mountain-road ; but it was so dark and misty, accompanied
with sleet and wind, that the driver twice got off the road,

and the post-chaise was once on its side, though easily

righted. This I did not like, so I mounted by the side of my

Jehu, and before ten minutes were over we again missed the

road, and were within an ace of rolling neck and crop into a

hollow made by one of the mountain-streams.  With some

difficulty we got the horses again into the old wheel-tracks,

for there was hardly the appearance of a formed road. I

then took out one of the lamps, and walked for seven miles

with a hairy cap on my head, and a boa about my neck,

all bespattered with sleet and snow, and looking like an old

grizzly watchman. The driver followed my light, and I led

                    1 See above, p. 442.

         456 VISIT FROM MISS CLARKE.

  1836.  him safely to the top of the pass which overhangs my native

&t. 51.  valley. All's well that ends well. My friends gave me a

         hearty welcome and a blazing fire. With them I have re

         mained ever since, with the exception of two walks to Sed-

         bergh, for the purpose of talking with a solicitor, and bringing

         home a cart-load of papers. I never thought this calamity
         would have befallen me. I was intended for the sleeping

         Ipartner ; all meant to do was to come down to sign papers

         and receive money.                               Yours ever,

                                                                          A. Sedgwlck.

              Early in March Sedgwick was back in Cambridge, and
         announced the continuation of his lectures ; but before many
         days were over the gaieties of Norwich were resumed in
         Trinity College. Here again Mr Romilly is our guide :

                Wednesday,  9 March,  1836. At            two o'clock arrived from Norwich
         Captain Moore       and the  fascinating
                                                           Miss Clarke. I was not present

         at the  arIrivfoaul,ndbutthecabmrielliaa nftew"  minutes after   to Sedgwick's rooms to
         lunch.                                           young person,"    as she sometimes calls

         herself, sparkling with joy. After no long time Whewell came in,

         and we proceeded to the Senate House and King's Chapel. We went
                     of  thsemcahllappeal,rtyandofbesitxw--eeSnedthgewicroko, fs.CaraA,t  six we dined with
         to the top                                                                       Moore, Whewell,
         Sedgwick    ;a
         Lodge, and I. It was very delightful.

         Thursday, 10 March. Breakfasted with Whewell to meet Sedg
         wick and his guests. Then to our Library, and afterwards to

         Sedgwick's Museum. At six we dined with Sedgwick to meet a
         large party. When Sedgwick took the ladies into the drawing-room

         after dinner they locked the door upon him, and would not let him
         out till he had sung them a song. He sang an odd one : An
         Alderman lived in the City ; omitting however the most objectionable

         verse. Heard afterwards that Carissima, while with the other ladies,

         won all their admiration by her charming conversation. She sang

         nthem two songs.   March. Breakfasted with the Marchesa1 to meet
         Friday,

         Sedgwick and his guests; Worsley* and Whewell also there. We

             1 The Marquis Spineto was at that time Teacher of the Italian Language to the
         University. He and his wife, a Scotch lady of good family, were extremely popular

         at Cambridge fifty years ago.
              2 Thomas Worsley, Trin. Coll. B.A., 1820. In 1824 he became Fellow of

         Downing, and in 1836 Master, an office which he held till his death in 1885. He
         was intimate with many of the Fellows of Trinity, but especially with Whewell.

               VISIT FROM MISS CLARKE.          457

then lionized Jesus Chapel,   cthaevalMcaedsemanco1nsaisntidngFitozfwiMlliiasms "C,gaMlleoroierse.,     1836.
After this there was a grand
                                                                                                     ^t. 51.
Sedgwick, Whewell and Worsley. On Parker's Piece a dog barked at
Miss C.'s horse, and flew up at her habit which was waving in the
wind. Moore dismounted, and lashed the poor dog severely, at
which our tender-hearted fascination cried bitterly. The party dined

with me.

     Saturday, 12 March.       Breakfast with Sedgwick and his two
guests -- a partit quarree.   Today Sedgwick had to lecture, so Miss
C. spent an hour in the Public Library, and then paid a second visit
to the Fitzwilliam Museum to admire Claude's Liber Veritatis under

the exhibition of Worsley. Sedgwick joined us on our road to
Worsley's, where we all lunched.
               13 March. We
      Sunday,    Moore went to  breakfasted with Whewell. Sedgwick,
                                church at Simeon's, and heard a good
Miss C, and

and characteristic sermon from him. Dined with Sedgwick at four.
Whewell was the fifth person. We went to Chapel, and heard that
beautiful anthem Plead thou my cause, from one of Mozart's

Masses. After the service Sedgwick had desired Walmisley to play
the Dead March in Saul, the Minuet in Ariadne, etc. We, of

course, stayed these out. After tea Whewell exhibited some books
of the architecture of the Alhambra, and of some churches in

Germany, and gave us a capital lecture on Saracenic and Gothic
architecture. In spite of this, however, the evening went off languidly,

as we knew to-morrow morning came the parting.

     Monday, 14 March. Breakfast with Sedgwick-- partie carree.
Our fair visitor was out of spirits, and we most sorry to lose her.

She and Moore went away to London by the Telegraph. The
departure of so fascinating a creature has left a sad blank in our

existence.

     The next three months were taken up with work which
needs no special comment -- the examination for scholarships
in Trinity College, geological business in London, Chapter

business at Norwich, and a hasty visit to Dent for the marriage
of his sister Margaret.

     Towards the end of June Sedgwick and Murchison broke
ground together in a new field of geological exploration. For

several seasons in succession they had been at work contem

    1 A collection of pictures formed by Daniel Mesman, Esq. They came into
the possession of the University in 1834, the donor's brother, the Rev. Charles
Mesman, having renounced his life-interest in them. They were hung in the
large room of the Pitt Press, now the Registry of the University, from 1834 to
1848, when they were removed to the Fitzwilliam Museum.

     2 The Fitzwilliam Collections then occupied the old Perse School in Free
School Lane.

          458 WITH MVRCHISON IN DEVONSHIRE.

1836.     poraneously but independently among the older rocks, and
          though Whewell, when President of the Geological Society,
     5'-  had spoken of their labours as "on all accounts to be considered

          as a joint undertaking," they had, in fact, started from wholly
          different points, and employed different methods. Nor is

          there any evidence that they themselves considered that they

          were working with a common end in view. Now, however,

          they combined their forces, and brought them to bear on a

          disputed question outside the special fields in which each
          had been engaged. Their labours ended in the establishment
          of the Devonian System, but, when they began, they had no
          such ambitious views. They proposed to themselves to settle
          the age of the carboniferous deposits of central Devon, known

          as the Culm-Measures. These rocks had been referred to the

          grey-wacke by Mr De la Beche in 1834, and again by Mr
          Williams at the Dublin meeting of the British Association

          in 1835 1. Murchison therefore suggested to Sedgwick, or
          possibly Sedgwick suggested to Murchison, that they should

          take this work in hand conjointly, and get the question settled.
          The matter had probably been often discussed in conversation ;
          and soon after Sedgwick's return to Cambridge from Norwich

          in February 1836 he drew out a geological itinerary for the
          next summer :

                                                      TRIN. COll. 6 February, 1836.

             "I am anxious to talk with you on many things....

          Whewell tells me you have ratted to the iceberg theory.
          I give you joy of your conversion ; but the sooner you turn

          back the better ; or rather, scamper round the hypothetical
          ring and come again to the grand stand, and you will be

          where you were before.                               What do
               " I want to talk about a plan for next summer.

          you say to an early start (middle of May?)? First: Quan-

          tocks and Horner's country, with plenty of calcareous beds

          and organics. Secondly: South Devon and a few points in

               1 See above, p. 448. Murchison appears not to have gone to Devonshire in

          1835 as Sedgwick expected. Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 231. The above
          account is borrowed from Mr Geikie's work, p. 248.

WITH MURCHISON IN DEVONSHIRE.                         459

Cornwall, working the Plymouth beds well by the way. In                              1836.
                                                                                           51-
Cornwall I could put you into cover, and we could floor all

the cross points in a week or two, and we might meet De la

Beche and Boase at a point or two. Thirdly: return by

North Devon, see the Ilfracombe calcareous beds and ... grey-

wacke coalfield  Fourthly: cross and meet Griffith in

the south of Ireland, and touch up a Silurian point or two.

Fifthly: make a long scud and go to Scotland about the

Mull of Galloway, and run up the west coast examining the

coalfield and Red Sandstone, and so working up to the Old

Red through the part we left unfinished in 1827. All this we

might finish, and find good matter for one or two general

papers. I think this a good plan. What say you to it ?"
    It is almost needless to say that this very comprehensive

scheme was not carried out. The two friends started in June,

and approached their work by way of Somersetshire, Ilfra

combe, and Barnstaple*. What had been accomplished up to

the middle of July is pleasantly touched upon in the following

letter to Canon Wodehouse.

My dear Wodehouse,          Plymouth, July 20, 1836.

                To catch a letter from a geologist when under way
is about as easy as to catch a spark from the tail of a rocket.

Our lights are, however, quenched by a pelting shower, and
here we are in shelter, with a tea urn hissing on the table,
and some broiled fish within nostril scent. How long they
will remain in their present position before they pass down
the Gulf Stream remains to be seen. To leave, however,

such sensual, epicurean, topics let me tell you that I have

been zigzagging through the N. W. coast of Somerset ; pound
ing the sides of N. Devon, and burrowing through Dartmoor
to this place. Murchison, whom you know by name, is my
fellow-labourer. As you care less than nothing about things

   1 A piece of the letter has been unfortunately  cut out, for the sake of the sig

nature.
    3 Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 250.

         460 WITH MURCHISON IN DEVONSHIRE.

1836.    under the earth I will not torment you with any account of
Et- 51-
         our excursions to the earth's centre (a right merry region, for
         there you know the operations of gravity are suspended), or

         our traverse to the antipodes.
              Suffice it then to say that on passing through Ilfracombe I

         tapped at the Post Office window and found a letter from the

         Dean of Norwich, which told me many things, and among the
         rest informed me that you were out of health. Now, my dear

         Brother, though it be quite true that geologists get very crusty

         on the outside, don't suppose that their bowels are ever petri

         fied. I was very sorry to hear the news of your illness, and I

         avail myself of the first moment of leisure (and it is but a
         moment) to tell you so, and to beg of you to write to me --
         above all to tell me you are quite well again. Any tit-bit of

         Norwich news will be delightful, and any fireside news will be
         most welcome. How is little Boppity ? How is William ?

         How Mrs Bunch ? and how all the rest in the ascending

         order, till we mount to Charles the First ? Lady Jane
         hope, quite well. What a charming thing to have such a

         kind nurse If had wife would sham ill now and then
         is

                    !

                   II

                                  a
                                      a

                                      I
                                                     I

                                                                                         is

                                                                             iIs,
         in order that she might make a pet of me.
             It raining worse than ever, but must finish this sheet

         in order that may finish my breakfast, and go with my
         impatient friend to Museum, the keeper of which waiting

         for us. My kindest remembrances to Lady Jane, and my

         love to all your children.

                                     Your affectionate friend

                                     A. Sedgwick.

              No further information respecting their route or theirA

         proceedings has been preserved, but when the British Associa

         tion met at Bristol in August they were able to present to

         the Geological Section classification of the old Slate Rocks
         of the North of Devonshire, and on the true position of the
         Culm deposits in the central portion of that County. In this

         communication they shewed that the Culm-Measures lay at

VISIT TO MR CROSSE.                                        461

the top of the rocks afterwards named by them Devonian,           1836.
                                                                         51
and belonged to the carboniferous system. The work they

had accomplished so far made them desirous of undertaking

a more extended research into the structure of Devonshire ;

and Murchison being called away by the state of his mother's
health, Sedgwick set out for Devonshire alone, much exhausted

by the week's work at Bristol, and eager for fresh air1.
     On his way from Bristol to Exeter he stayed a night at

Broomfield with Mr Andrew Crosse, who had made a com
munication to the Association "on the effect of long-continued
galvanic action of low intensity in forming crystals and

other substances analogous to natural minerals*." Sedgwick
writes of this visit: "Spent the morning in Mr Crosse's

laboratory ; splendid experiments ; but in two respects dis
appointed -- neither the variation in diurnal intensity, nor the
effect of light on the galvanic process of making crystals, are

I think proven. For the variation of intensity Crosse depends

on his sensations -- a bad mode of measuring, as the effect may

depend on a variation of nervous susceptibility. I hope some

better test may make the fact out ; but it is not yet proven*."
     After leaving Exeter he was joined by Mr Austen', a young

geologist whom he describes as " a clever, good, independent,
workman ; " and in his company made further investigations
into the extent and relations of the Culm-Measures. This
necessary work despatched, Mr Austen returned home, and

Sedgwick went alone into Cornwall, chiefly examining the
coast-line. The letters in which he informed Murchison of

what he was doing are too technical for reproduction here ;

and the results will be best noticed when we come to speak

of their scientific value. A single letter to Whewell, whom

he had met last at Bristol, gives a graphic resume1 of his

personal discomforts.

1 To Canon Wodehouse, 29 August, 1836.
* Report of British Association, 1836, p. 47.
* To R. I. Murchison, September, 1836.
4 Robert Alfred Cloyne Austen, afterwards Godwin- Austen.

462 COAST OF CORNWALL.

                                                 Camelford, October 7 tA, 1836.

              " Here I am on my way homewards ; but I have
still much work to do, and I have very little time to effect
it. What is worse, I have the prospect of broken weather.
Could I engage ten fine days I could then leave the country

with clean hands.... Since we parted I have been very busy.

One day with that lightning-monger Crosse; a day among
the whetstone pits; many days on the east side of Dartmoor,
where I traced the Culm-Measures as far as Newton Bushell.

Then I passed along the south coast of Devon, retouching

points Murchison and I had touched before. From Devon I

went to the coast of Cornwall, and paced my way through the

wild and rugged cliffs in the old fashion, with horse and
panniers.. ..The rain disagrees with me, and I have twice been

laid up, and forced to call in a doctor. I traced organic

remains almost all the way from Plymouth to the Lizard.

They abound on the north coast, and such raised beaches !
they are enough to make your mouth water. The sea has

changed its relative level in some places by 30 or 40 feet, and
old waterworn strands may be seen up in the cliff as plain as
the nose on your face. To-morrow I take a peep at the point

on the coast (about five miles from this place) where the
Culm-Measures abut against the Cornish slates. Having
made good the demarcation in this county I hope to move

on to Devonshire, and track my way along the northern

skirts of Dartmoor."

     On the day before Sedgwick wrote this letter, Whewell

had put to him the important question, Should he, or should
he not, agree to become President of the Geological Society ?
The question and the answer are as follows :

My dear Sedgwick,  London, October 6, 1836.

             I have just seen Murchison, who has given me such

notice of your whereabouts as he thinks will enable me to hit you at
a long shot. He tells me that you go on setting the strata of
Devonshire to rights, which is good ; but he tells me that you have

          CORRESPONDENCE WITH WHEWELL.                                                                               463

Ihad bad health, which grieve much to hear. Pray take care of                                                                 1836.

yourself, and avoid hard work, bad weather, and Dr Sedgwick's                                                                     g,
physic. Consider that the two former cannot be expected to agree
with a rosy prebendary, as they did with a lean geologist, and that
the doctor in question knows too much of other things to make his

Iprescriptions good for anything.

        want very much to have your advice and opinion on a point on
which it will have great weight with everybody, and with me will be
decisive. Your leading geologists think they see strong reasons for
not taking Buckland for their president next year, and are at a loss
whom to pitch upon. Now it appears to me that in this embarass-
                                                                        a
                                                                              if,

                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                            a
ment, they are tempted to turn their eyes to person who not

geologist, and who cannot be supposed, by any one acquainted with

the subject, to have any detailed geological knowledge, they will lose
that eminence and respect which has hitherto belonged to the office
in the geological world of Europe. And, they were likely to do
                                                                        it
                                                                             is

                                                                                       ;

                                                                                   I if

                                                                                                    is,
                                                                                                                  a
this, think that no private regards would prevent your giving your
II
                                a
opinion against such step. The case in short                            that Murchison

and Lyell have proposed the office to me and the extreme pleasure

which cannot but feel at finding possible that such proposition

should have entered anybody's head, dashed by my own conscious
ness of my want of the qualifications which think are requisite.
am not going to trouble you with disqualifying speeches, nor need
tell you, think, what think of the Society and the office.                                                           I
                                                                                                                          II
it                                                                                                                   hold

     I
        aI

             II
                       I

                             I
                                                                     ;
to be a dignity much superior to that of President of the Royal
Society. And want to fortify myself, by your authority, that
                                                                                                                     it

demands person more professedly and notoriously versed in geology

than am.        should be very much obliged to you to write to me

about this as soon as you can and you think, as appears to me
that you must think, that                                               if

                                                                                   I
                                                                                        I it
                                                                      am not the proper person for your
generalissimo, you will of course make no scruple of saying so, and
                                                                                                                     I

will then put an end to all further thoughts of this scheme. You need

not fear hurting my vanity by telling me that ought not to have
the presidentship for am quite sufficiently gratified by the opinion
                is ;

                    I
which the proposal implies in such men as Murchison and Lyell to
need no humouring in the mode of telling me what know to be

true. So there  my case for you, and now let me have your

advice.

                                                                        Always yours truly

                                                                        W. Whewell.

My dear Whewell,                                                        Launceston, October 12th, 1836.

          Here am, and when shall be able to budge
           !

             I
                 I
                                          I

                                                I
                                                                                      I
know not, for the elements are in most dreadful disorder.

Thank God       am now well, though have had one or two

severe attacks brought on by fatigue and bad weather. By

         464 CORRESPONDENCE WITH WHEWELL.

1836.    working hard between showers and storms I have done a great
         deal of good work, and fixed many geological land-marks, which
Et- 5'-  will, I hope, stand all weathers. Were the sky to clear I could

         rub off my score in about three days ; and it would vex me to
         the very marrow of my bones to quit this country without
         settling the boundary of the Culm basin. But to business, for it
         is rather late, and I am very much tired, having been twice

         half-drowned since I started in the morning.

              Don't hesitate one instant, Mr President elect. Did you

         not pick geological rubbish out of my eyes in 1820? Have
         you not figured in the mines of Cornwall ? Have you not

         drawn the granite veins in a way that would do honour to
         Michael Angelo1 ? Have you not been Professor of Mineralogy?
         Have you not given the only philosophical view of that science

         that exists in our language*? Have you not written the

         best review of Lyell's system* that has appeared in our
         language ? etc. etc. ? You are just the man we want. Again,
         some great questions connected with the theory of electric
         currents ; the existence of joints in given directions in crystal
         line rocks (e.g. the granite of Cornwall and Devon, where also
         the major axes of the felspar crystals are arranged on given

         lines, and the master-joints are nearly Mag. N.) ; the mechanics
         of the theory of elevation ; and many etceteras, want your hand

         to guide them, and your back to bear them. So you must for
         your own honour and our good stand in the gap for us. In

         short you are made for the office, and the saddle must be

         guided to your back. I rejoice much that Lyell and Murchison
         have turned their thoughts to you. Again, I think it will do
         us honour to link ourselves with men of exact science, and I
         dream't last night that I saw you riding into the Geological

         1 See above, pp. 330, 331.
         * An Essay on Mineralogical Classification and Nomenclature.
         Whewell, 8vo. Camb. 1828. He was Professor of Mineralogy 1828 -- 32.  By W.

         3 Whewell reviewed the first volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology in The
         British Critic, No. 17, publ. in January, 1831; and the second volume in The

         Quarterly Review, No. 93, publ. in March, 1832.  Todhunter's William Whewell,
         1.51,60.
                                                                   ,

                                                                                        J

                 THE CULM MEASURES.                       465

Society on the back of a great tidal wave as high as the top of    1836.

Somerset House.                                                  Mi. 51-

Tell Murchison that in the quarries a mile and a half south

of this place there are fossils without number, that the Culm-

Measures make a great plunge to the south (I have this day

during a most pelting storm traced them to the foot of Brent

Tor), and abut against Dartmoor, getting well frizzled at their

edges. I can find plenty of Culm beds, but unfortunately not
much thicker than this paper --just enough to soil the fingers,

but not enough to warm the tip of your toe. By the way I

saw this morning a quaternary formation of ink. In a yellow
pyritous soil, containing sulphate of iron, there was a copious

black precipitate, wherever the roots of the oak-tree passed

through the soil, and you might have fancied that some one
had upset one of Day and Martin's blacking-pots. What

shall we call this new geological deposit ? Melanoune ? no,

that will not do. What's the Greek for ink ? My best regards

to my Cambridge friends. I hope to be trundling in among

you about the time I mentioned.  Yours ever

                                 A. Sedgwick.

     When the observations made hastily in Devonshire in

June and July were communicated to the British Association,

the authors announced that they proposed to lay a more

complete paper before the Geological Society. This had now

to be prepared ; but, as might have been expected, the

difficulties which had occurred in 1827, and to which col

laboration must be always exposed, were repeated, but in

an aggravated form. Sedgwick had now more calls upon

his time. At the beginning of this particular term he
wrote : " My lectures begin the day after to-morrow, and I

have three papers on the stocks. My hands were never so
full before. I wish the days were forty-eight hours long,
or that I could find some patent mode of getting through

the term without eating or sleeping1." In the next place,

                 1 To S. Woodward, 26 October, 1836.

S. I.                                                 30

          466 RAISED BEACH AT BARNSTAPLE.

1836.     he could never count upon being well enough to work,

     5'-  especially when under pressure. " Could I command my
          stomach, I could clear off my work easily enough ; but the
          moment I try to employ my pen, all the inner man gets out of

          order, and then, as for brain, my head might just as well be
          filled with brick-dust1." His position too, as prebendary of
          Norwich, had given him a new set of duties, and exposed him

          to be called away from Cambridge when absence might be
          specially inconvenient. For instance, when Murchison was

          crying out for substantial help towards his Description of a

          raised Beach in Barnstaple Bay (read to the Geological
          Society 14 December) Sedgwick was executing "a shuttle
          cock movement" between Cambridge and Norwich, and it

          was only at the eleventh hour that he could seize a brief

          interval in which to scribble a peroration, which his friend
          managed to tack on to his own work. This paper, however,

          dealt with only a single special point, and Sedgwick's short
          comings in the way of collaboration were comparatively

          unimportant. What happened when the general essay on
          the structure of Devonshire was announced was far more

          serious, as will be narrated directly. Meanwhile the follow

          ing letters, in which the serious and the jocose are blended in
          Sedgwick's happiest manner, will fitly conclude our account
          of the year 1 836.

          To Canon Wodehouse.     Tr1n. Coll., November 4, 1836.

              My dear Wodehouse,

                          Many thanks for your kind letter, which I should

          have answered sooner had I not been called up to Town on

          unexpected business. I am only just returned ; and, as I
          have much lecture-work on my hands, I will try to come
          point blank to business. Your orders appear admirable, and
          I must of course abide by them. Touching the dining-room I

          will implicitly follow your advice, especially as you say you

          1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 20 November, 1836.

            DOMESTIC PLEASANTRIES.                                      467

have consulted the learned Barnesius1. I should have called                   1836.
her Barnesia; but I dare say you were right, as, in spite                           51

of her petticoats, she is certainly a being of right masculine

understanding. In the wake of such a learned upholsteress

one cannot go far wrong. Again, what you and she condemn I
will execute. As for the spots on the paper, I care naught about

them. The only fear I have               I is,that they remain, Barnesia
                                             I  a if
may, like Lady Macbeth, become sleep-walker. What
                                                                 I
horrible thing would be to see her every night about two
            it                                                           a
o'clock sliding into my bed-room, with lamp in her left handa
                                                a
                         !
and mop in her right, and muttering through her chattering!
   a                           !
teeth: "Out damned spot! out say! one, two; why then
         !                         ?
'tis time to do't. Fie Mr Prebendary                  it, !   Parson and be
                                                           a
afear'd what need we fear who knows when none can call

our paper to account                  Wash your hands put on your
                                                              ;

night-gown, look not so pale, tell you yet again your paper
must be cleansed "
                                      Repeated scenes like this would be

bad discipline for nervous man like myself. So, having given

you such formal and intelligible directions, may be content to
                                                      I

leave the question of paper currency with your wisdom.                  can

easily bring Megatherium or Dinotherium to cover the spots.
I

                  a

                              if
   have had a letter from the Dean, who seems to wish us

to begin our residence as our members were now reduced
to four, i.e. each of us to take three months. With my

present engagements here such an arrangement would be

impossible, at least for this year.             would, believe, compel
                                             It
                                                       I
                                                        II
me to resign my Professorship-- a move am by no means

inclined to take. Pray excuse the trouble am compelled
to give you. My kind remembrances to Lady Jane, and to

all your children, whom hope to find at home well and
                                      I

right merry during the Christmas vacation. This fickle

weather puts my old crazy machinery little out of order.
                                                      a

Always, my dear Brother, Most truly yours

                                                A. Sedgwick.

1       Mrs Barnes, Sedgwick's housekeeper.  She had been engaged for him by
Lady Jane Wodehouse.

                                                                 30--2

           468 PERSONAL NEWS.

1836.      To Rev. W. D. Cony beare.

Et . sRIi                             Trin. Coll. December 5, 1836.

           My dear Conybeare,

           I am trying to steal a few minutes during the

           intervals of swallowing my breakfast. And why in such an

           hour? Because my servant is occupied in packing up my

           outward garniture, not to mention a thousand odds and ends

           necessary to my comfort during a three months' incubation in

           the cathedral rookery at Norwich. Because (driving hard, as

           they say in the north) I am looking out for sections, and other

           materials, for my concluding lecture at 12 o'clock. Because,

           after the said lecture, I have to return to the audit ; after the

           audit to eat a great audit-dinner ; after the dinner to put my

           self into a fly, and by aid of its wings to pass Newmarket

           Heath in time for the night- coach to Norwich. Any one of

           these reasons would be enough to put me on the move, but all

           together they make me stir about like Whewell's anemometer1
           during the late gales. How deep then must be my regard for

           my friends at Axminster to think of them and write to them

           in such a whirlwind ! But it is with memory as with a muddy

           ditch, and with thought as with air-bubbles rising therefrom.

           You must stir the water to make them rise rapidly, and poke

           the mud to have them in plenty.

                Since my return I have often intended to send you my

           best greetings, but good intentions are often our worst stumb

           ling blocks. A thousand times in my life I have broken my

           shins, and soiled my manners, over them. But I have been

           very busy with my lectures, and not in very good health. One

           entire week I was almost laid up with dyspepsia. The dull

           round of my mill-horse life was broken in upon last week by

           a trip to London to the anniversary of the Royal Society.

           Had I time I would tell you all about
           1                                      but have not.

                                            of
                                                                                  it,

                                                                        I
           During the past term Simeon's death and funeral have been

                  Mr Whewell described an anemometer invented by himself at the meeting of
           the British Association held at Dublin in 1835; and more fully at that held at

           Bristol in 1836. Report the Association, 1835, p. 29; 1836, p. 39.

SIMEON'S FUNERAL.  469

by far the most exciting events that have passed amongst us.                         1836.

The greatest part of the University -- graduates, and under-                       Ml- 5'-
graduates -- assembled to do his memory honour, and while

the procession moved down the magnificent chapel to the

grave, and while its vaulted roof was reverberating the almost
supernatural notes of Handel's Dead March, I do not think

there was one person (including many hundred spectators)

who was not for a while almost carried away by a powerful

emotion1. William' and your friends here are all well.

Whewell is printing his great book3, which will be out early in

the spring, perhaps before I return from Norwich. Among

other events, I may mention that last week a lioness had four

cubs at Cambridge, and a sensible undergraduate suggested

four names for the said cubs which have been adopted,

and they are accordingly called, Whewell, Peacock, Sedgwick,

and Simeon, to the no small amusement of some people who
don't look deep for pleasure. Should " Sedgwick " ever be

brought in a cage to Axminster, tell Mary to poke him gently.
    Buckland's book4 1 have of course read carefully, and must

read again. The natural history is excellent, though of course

not equal. But some of the best parts of it ought to have

appeared in separate memoirs, and not in a book of Natural

Theology, which has to do with laws, and not with minute

details. The part on belemnites pleased me most, it is quite

perfect. Trilobites very good, and views in part very original.

Concamerated shells in general excellent, but he refines too

much, and some of the illustrations (e.g. from gothic architec

ture) are false. The siphon theory5 puzzles me ; it is at least

     1 The Rev. Charles Simeon, Fellow of King's College, died on Sunday,

13 November, 1836; and was buried in the College Chapel on the following

Saturday.
     * William John Conybeare, then an undergraduate of Trinity College, B.A.

1837, and afterwards Fellow.
     3 History of the Inductive Sciences, 3 vols., 8vo. Camb. 1837.
     * Geology and Mineralogy considered with reference to Natural Theology : the

Sixth Bridgewater Treatise, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1836.
     5 Proofs of design derived from the structure of the siphuncle in Nautilus

pomfilius. Vol. i. pp. 314 -- 332.

47o BUCKLAN&S BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.

1836.

                    is
                                            is
ingenious. The account of the Megatherium disappoints me.

Some remarkable peculiarities are overlooked. The account

of the teeth, however, in his best manner. Pentland tells me

that he quite wrong in putting in armour that the coat
                                                     it

                                                                                      ;

                                                                                 it
of mail belongs to another beast. Let them fight out.

wish had not filled up the first page with mere padding,
II

           I

                    is
                          I

                                                ;

                                                  a
as want to tell you more about this book. The moral and

theological part is, think, great failure. In showing unity

of design he good but the argument broken up too much
                                                                     is

                                                                                      ;
into fragments. He ought to have had one grand sweeping

chapter on that head instead of 500 corollaries several direct
arguments fail of their aim. They ought to have appeared at

the end, by way of removing objections. We can establish
wisdom and benevolent design from the happy tendency of

laws so far the argument                             direct. But in the working
;

                                            is

                                        if
Ifof the laws we find much particular and individual evil.

we argue directly we lead to the conclusion that God wants

benevolence, or wants power. But we argue indirectly, we

show (and this Buckland has done, though he has not put the
argument well, and has overstrained it), that much good comes

out of apparent ill, and that the evil on the surface of things

may be resolved into something connected with our own

imperfection and shortsightedness.                                   have not room or time
             a

              I
                                             aI
to explain further. The concluding chapter                                               not good.
                                                                                         is is
Instead of grand outpouring of his own soul, pregnant with                                       a

high thoughts and bursting for their delivery, he gives us a
mere mosaic, without coherence, and discontinuous string of

quotations.  cannot bear such writing on such grand

occasion. By the way the chapter on Mineralogy decidedly

bad and jejune. Had he read Whewell's philosophical Report1

he must have seen where Mineralogy was among the sciences,

and what argument might supply. Instead of that he has
been dabbling among mere chips and fragments. You must
1

                            it

                         I

                                                                 of
not tell Buckland what am now writing, for he would not

       On the recent progress and present state                      Mineralogy. Brit. Ass. Report,
1831--32, pp. 322--365.

BUCKLA NETS BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.                    471

forgive me. As a book of Palaeontology it is very good, in                               1836.
many parts admirable; as a book of Natural Theology it is
not good. It exhibits a want of power, and a want of skill.                            -*t. 51.

The descriptive style is very good, but the moral and didactic

parts are sometimes mouthy and turgid. When I read the end
of one of his chapters where he compares the footsteps of a

tortoise on the Corn Cockle sandstone to the footsteps of a
conqueror, I thought the whole passage in such bad taste that

I almost threw the book down in a passion1. I must, however,

have done ; and once more do not tell Buckland one word of

what I am writing, I am certain he would not bear it. With

all his faults he is most kindhearted, and a most valuable

friend ; and in his own way he is perhaps the cleverest man I

have had the happiness of knowing.

                                                             Ever yours,
                                                             A. Sedgwick.

To Rev. Charles Ingle.

My dear Ingle,          Norw1ch, December 13, 1836.

              Another year has rolled away, and I am once

again fixed in the monotonous round of a Cathedral residence.

One of my brother Prebendaries died since you and I parted,

and our respective terms of servitude now extend over one

    1 "The Historian or the Antiquary may have traversed the fields of ancient or
of modern battles ; and may have pursued the line of march of triumphant Con
querors, whose armies trampled down the most mighty kingdoms of the world.
The winds and storms have utterly obliterated the ephemeral impressions of their
course. Not a track remains of a single foot, or a single hoof, of all the countless
millions of men and beasts whose progress spread desolation over the earth. But
the Reptiles that crawled upon the half-finished surface of our infant planet, have
left memorials of their passage, enduring and indelible. No history has recorded

their creation or destruction ; their very bones are found no more among the fossil
relics of a former world. Centuries, and thousands of years, may have rolled away

between the time in which these footsteps were impressed by Tortoises upon the
sands of their native Scotland, and the hour when they are again laid bare and
exposed to our curious and admiring eyes. Yet we behold them, stamped upon

the rock, distinct as the track of the passing animal upon the recent snow ; as if to
show that thousands of years are but as nothing amidst Eternity, and, as it were,
in mockery of the fleeting perishable course of the mightiest Potentates among
mankind." Buckland, ut supra, i. 362.

          472 PERSONAL NEWS.

1836.     fifth part of the year. The consequence has been, that my

     5'-  turn commenced this morning instead of the 1stof December,

          and will end on the 23rd of February instead of the last day
          of January. You now know the limits within which you may
          be sure to find me, as far as anything is sure in this world of

          changes; for within the limits I have given you I am com

          pelled by our Chapter Rules (so far like the Rules of King's
          Bench) to sleep in my own house every night. Pray then
          come and see me, and cast a light over the deep shades of our
          cloisters. Some of the stars that shone last winter are away ;
          but some are left; with kind hearts too, and ready to give you
          a hearty welcome. You owe me a visit ; and, you graceless

          dog, you have never written to me, as you promised, since your

          continental tour. Come then, and make us all laugh, as you
          made Lyttelton, when you spent your last day in Trinity ; or,
          make us laugh a little less, as he tells me his ribs were sore

          for a month after he met you, and that his intercostals have

          not forgotten it to this day.

              As for myself I spent a very laborious, and I hope not an

          unprofitable, summer, in rambling through the cliffs of Devon
          shire, Cornwall, and Pembrokeshire. Eleven packing-cases
          (heavier far than the gates of Gaza) have been the fruits of
          this toil ; and from them are to germinate other fruits in the

          shape of Memoirs for the Geological and Cambridge Philo
          sophical Societies. But these are dull things to write about,

          especially to one, like yourself, who is almost stone-blind to

          the beauties that lie concealed beneath Dame Nature's outer

          garments. But the mouth speaketh of the heart's fulness, you

          know ; so I must needs talk of things inanimate and under

          ground. To-morrow is the anniversary of the Norwich
           Museum; which finishes, like other good things, with a good

           dinner, intended to cement friendship, and to set tongues, as

          well as teeth, in active movement. At this symposium I am

           to preside ; and before my hinder parts are permitted to reach
          a position of stable equilibrium on the cushion of an armchair,

          I am to be presented with a splendid silver inkstand, as a

PERSONAL NEWS.  473

     token of thanks for lectures given, and, I suspect also, as a                         1836.

       retaining-fee for lectures to be given hereafter. You remember                         A '.

       the scene got up last winter after my concluding exhibition,
       and the formidable mass of melted butter that was spilt on my
       head by a little dapper gentleman, one of the progeny of

      ^Esculapius. After having stood that, I am prepared to stand
      everything ; but I am resolved to be as informal in my reply
       as is compatible with the rules of courtesy ; and in telling
      them that I feel most kindly towards them and heartily wish
     them well, I shall truly only tell them what I both wish and

        feel.

            Your friends in Cambridge are all well, and several of them
       are I hope coming this winter to see me. Peacock is the new
       Lowndean Professor in the place of Lax ; and promises to do
       his duty in a less lax manner than his predecessor. He is in

       great force, and the stars in his astronomical tail shew most
      gloriously. The Cathedral bell has just tolled midnight, so I
       must to bed. Good night then, my dear old friend ; write to
       me by return of post, and tell me you are coming, and believe

        me,
                                                              Affectionately yours

                                                                    A. Sedgwick.

             P.S. So our friend Charles1 is now the Venerable Arch
       deacon of Craven -- a craven Christian soldier in name only,
        and not in deed.

             The paper on the raised beach at Barnstaple had contained
       a sufficient quantity of geological heresy to arouse some slight
       opposition from the orthodox ; and Murchison began to be

       exceedingly nervous as to what would happen when the still

       more heretical views respecting the Culm-Measures were laid
      before the Society. The correctness of Mr De la Beche's

                        respecting the structure of Devonshire would have
       to be impugned ; he had, as he told Sedgwick, " toiled day

/infearfteenr cdeays for months, in the district, examining every hole and

                1 Rev. Charles Musgrave, whose intimacy with Sedgwick has been frequently
          mentioned.

         474 JOINT PAPER WITH MURCHISON ON DEVON.

1837.    cranny in it1," and was not likely to submit to the exposure
         of a serious error without making a vigorous attempt to jus
Et- 52-  tify himself ; his friends were numerous and powerful, and

         were certain to rally round him. Sedgwick was away at
         Norwich, and in his absence a joint paper would be read and
         discussed at a great disadvantage. For a time Murchison was
         in favour of an adjournment; but, after discussion with

         common friends, he concluded that it would on the whole
         be best to place what he called "our whole view" before the

         public at once, in order to secure priority for it. So strongly
         did he feel this, that he persuaded himself that Sedgwick
         must be of the same opinion, and wrote as follows :

             I I" presume you are rapidly preparing the concern. Now what

         propose is this. That the present communication be rigorously
         restricted to a clear general view of the classification and succession

         Iwhich we intend to adhere to 'per fas et nefas.' Such a condensed

         sketch, mean, as would be fit for publication in the Transactions,
         and yet such a one as might this very spring be followed by details
         (pikes justificatives) the production of which would give you an
         opportunity of coming out viva voce in defence of the grand positions
         provided they were attacked. Lonsdale and Lyell both agree in the
         wisdom of this arrangement. Let, therefore, the forthcoming bolt be

         Iringing, clear, and sharp, but not encumbered with the hundred

         weight of culm and sandstone which could ornament it with*."

              Sedgwick was much occupied with clerical and domestic
         engagements, and unwilling to be disturbed : " My servants
         are ill of the influenza" he wrote, 23 January 1837, "and for

         the last ten days I have myself been out of sorts, though
         never quite laid up, and should I have no new access of the
         malady, I will do my best during the hours of leisure I have

         this week to write out something for our meeting on Wednes

         day the 1st. What we say on that occasion can only be the

         prelude of larger details.... I have for this week refused every

         engagement, and hope to send my work off about next Friday

         or Saturday. In the meantime I will think of some materials

         for the sections south of Dartmoor, and send them when

             1 From H. T. de la Beche, 11 December, 1834.
             a From R. 1. Murchison, without date, but evidently written early in January,

         1837-

                 SEDGWICK'S DELAYS.    475

ready." Two days later he proceeded : " My house is a             1837.
                                                                         52-
hospital ; but, thank God, I am almost well, and yesterday
Ifmade a start.
                 the influenza don't shed again its baneful

influence on me I shall have matter enough for our next

meeting. Your book you will find in the parcel. Your maps

shall follow soon, but I cannot yet part with them, as I

mean to write with the map spread before me, and without

consulting my MSS., which in a synopsis would only bother

me." But, before the day was over, the draughts in the

huge empty cathedral had given him a chill, and he ended

with the ominous words: "I will send your book and this
note by the mail to-night. I am wretchedly out of sorts,
but after tea I hope to write a few pages. I really can't

make out a section to day." On the same day Murchison

reported progress, but sent some queries which shewed

Sedgwick that his colleague was not yet quite sure of his

ground. On the day he received this missive (26 January)
he sent three sections roughly coloured, with a few notes,

concluding with what he intended to be an intimation, as he
said afterwards, that he had " struck work." " Under all

these circumstances we should be mad to bring on our paper
before we have made our minds up. Throw the blame on me

as much as you like, or blame the influenza. My stomach is
sadly out of order, and for the last two days I have been
tormented by a palpitation of the heart, which, though not

acutely painful, is very distressing ...Though I think we

ought not, in our present misty state, to bring on our paper,

yet we might put in, along with the sections, a kind of
resume', just enough to explain our views of the classification.

This might be done in five or six pages, and best of all vivd

voce. I read prayers myself in the Cathedral this morning.
All the minor Canons, and most of the singers, are laid

up in bed." In the interval between this letter and the

meeting Sedgwick's ailments increased. A last appeal from

Murchison1 reached him on Saturday, 28 January, and "then",

1 This letter has not been preserved.

           476 SEDGWICK'S DELAYS.

1837.      he says, " I was unable to work." Finally, on the day before
      52-
           the paper ought to have been read, he was well enough to send
           a long letter containing an outline of the speech he wished

           Murchison to deliver. It is evident that he was conscious

           that he had used him hardly, for he begins by a confession :

           " Had I not been in a miserable condition from the effects of
           this malady which is raging in the heart of Norwich, I should
           be ashamed of myself for failing you in the hour of need.

           But the influenza destroys all feeling for others." Murchison,

           meanwhile, had convinced himself that a paper to be read
           would accompany the sections to be exhibited. These latter
           he got ready, and then " waited patiently like a lamb for the
           sacrifice." The misadventure of the next day, vexatious as

           it must have been to Sedgwick's unfortunate colleague, wears

           a comic rather than a tragic aspect. Murchison shall relate

           it in his own words. All things considered he wrote very

           good-humouredly :

                                                                       3 Bryanston Place, 2 February, 1837.

           My dear Sedgwick,

                            The part of Hamlet being omitted, the play was not
           performed, and all the scenic arrangements which I had laboured at
           were thrown away, though the room looked splendid. The morn

           ing's arrivals certainly surprised me ! ! Ten o'clock brought me your

                                              o'clock by the same mail the maps, and a little

                                              vain I looked through the parcel for the docu
           I Idouble letter ;eleven
                           but in
           note to Lyell,
           ment to be read.                   read and re-read your letter, and still could

           not understand                     One thing clearly perceived, and with great
           a                                  I
                            a                      I
                                it.
           regret, that you were seriously out of sorts, and had been suffering                              ;;

           so, after waiting till two, journeyed down to the Society, still

           sthetinkHinoguseth--at notthisrod  package                  with the paper might be sent to Somer
                                              however.                     These things going on the whole
                                                                                         ?
           room decorated for the fight Buckland arrived Fitton present                     ;
                                                                       ;;         ;
           and large meeting expected what was to be done                             ;        Fitton and

           Lonsdale, considering what had been said and done covertly on
           the other side, and looking to the fact of the non-arrival of the
           despatch, counselled me to give up the thing, which resolved to
                                                                                         I

           do, to the very great annoyance of the President', and of all the

           others who came to hear....
           am mortified that the memoir did not come of course blame
           I                                                                                   I

                                                                    1
           myself somewhat for having thrown in doubts on some points,

                                                                       Mr Lyell.

                SEDGWICK'S DELAYS.                   477

Ibecause see that ill as you have been and without the power on               1837.

my part of talking the case over, we mutually misapprehended each           rx. 52.
other. But enough of what is past. The thing now to consider is

when to have this paper out. I should certainly not wish to have it
done till you were present, because we must have a fair stand-up

fight...
                                                       Ever yours,

                                                        Rod. I. Murchison.

     Sedgwick's answer gives no hint of contrition. Evidently

he had been too ill either to remember what he had written,

or to care very much what happened. "Your letter this

morning " he writes, " astonished me as much as the want of

my paper surprised you. I was very much out of sorts at the

time I received your letter (last Wednesday week), and
instantly struck work. I thought I had said as much in a P.S.
to the letter with the sections. Soon afterwards I was in
capable of writing to any good purpose ; and for the last
three days I have been almost confined to my bed. This
morning I am beginning to take up, and have taken a short

walk in the sunshine. But I have still a pain in my brow,

and a swimming in my head, and am still slightly feverish....

On the whole it is well our Devonshire affair stands where it

is1."

     Sedgwick had constantly deprecated Murchison's notion of

organised opposition to their views respecting Devonshire, and

had urged him, on more than one occasion, to avoid any personal
controversy with De la Beche. In the interest of peace he
now laid the whole matter before Lyell in a letter which

contains besides a good deal of valuable information respect

ing himself.

My dear Lyell,  Close, Norwich, February \th. 1837.

            A long letter I received yesterday morning from

Murchison gave me great uneasiness. It seems you had a

warm altercation in the Council of Wednesday when our

conduct and motives were taxed in no measured terms. I

1 To R. I. Murchison, 3 February, 1837.

         478 MISUNDERSTANDING WITH DE LA BECHE.

1837.    fear these repeated sparring matches will end in ill blood, and
Et- S2-
         ruin the harmony of our Society. Fortunately I have been

         away during the late exhibitions of them, and therefore can

         not be responsible for their consequences.
              Unfortunately De la Beche has published a map of Devon,

         bad in its details, (at least bad for an Ordnance survey,) and
         destitute of any principles of classification. Murchison re
         monstrated against some parts of it so loudly, that during my

         first Residence here (December 1834) De la Beche sent me
         a caricature of him, in which he was represented as arguing
         against the existence of his (De la Beche's) nose. The map

         was, however, published I believe, in spite of Murchison's
         most urgent remonstrances. Again, I know that Murchison

         intended over and over again to go to Devonshire and work

         out the Culm case for himself ; and, had the time served, we

         purposed to have undertaken the task together after our Irish

         tour in the autumn of 1835. Independently of the Culm
         question (which was brought before the British Association
         at Dublin in 1835 by Mr Williams, who treated the Geo

         logical Society with very little ceremony), I always intended

         to spend a summer in Devonshire and Cornwall before I

         attempted to publish my general views of the relations of our
         older British formations. My first paper was on the structure

         of those countries. I read a second paper on the same

         subject early in 1830 to the Cambridge Philosophical Society,

         Iwhich was never published ; and finally read a supplement
         to the second paper in November last, which, if I live, will be

         published this coming spring. Are all these labours to stop,

         because an official person has had the misfortune to publish

         a bad map ? The map ought to be withdrawn without loss

         of time. It cannot, by any tinkering, be brought into order.
         It must start on new principles. Many of the details no

         doubt may stand, but even the details are very far indeed

         from what they ought to be. But is it not a piece of great
         stupidity to call our memoir on the physical structure of

         Devonshire an attack on De la Beche ? It might just as well

MISUNDERSTANDING WITH DE LA BECHE. 479

be called an attack on Greenough, Buckland, and Conybeare.                              1837.
                                                                                              52-
De la Beche complains that Murchison does not wish to

cooperate with the Trigonometrical Survey. How is it

possible to cooperate ? In our opinion Devonshire is radically

wrong, as it is now published. Are we to shut our mouths,

and let the error continue to be propagated ?

    But you may ask why I did not send up my paper for
Wednesday. In truth I was not well when I started with it ;
and a letter I received from Murchison on Wednesday week

disgusted me with my task, so that I struck work. Two

posts after he wished and urged me to go on and finish my

work : but I was then so much out of sorts that I was unable

to hold up my head, and all the early part of this week I
have been almost confined to my bedroom. On the whole I

am glad our paper did not come forward. We have a good

case, and want to steal a march on no one. In my opinion

De la Beche will be disgusted when he hears the paper has

a
                             a

                                                  it,
                                                       in
                                                                   a
                                                                               a
been put off, because, when we produce  few weeks,

fortified by sections, fossils, and details, no one can then

throw out any sneer of indecent hurry, of attacking man

behind his back, etc. etc., and thus turn the attention of the

meeting from geological to personal question.
     Murchison tells me you mean to allude to the Devonian

case in your speech. We could, either of us, easily give you
a condensed synopsis of our general idea of the structure of
the county so as to bring into comparison with the other
parts of England. But on this matter can give you no
advice; you must act for yourself. Thank God am now
very much better two days since could not have written
so long letter. My best regards to Mrs L.
a

                         ;

                              it
                                      I

                                        I
                                                  I

                                        Yours ever,
                                         A. Sedgwick.

    S. Let me hear from you.  My friend R. M. was at
white heat on Wednesday,
a
      P.

                                              if

                                      I

                                                                      I.
                              Amistake not.                                       very

flippant and ill-mannered letter from De la Beche seems to

         48o ILL HEALTH.

  1837.  have nettled him not a little. I was far more amused than

Mt. 52.                             was so very characteristic of
         it,

                   I
                               it

                                                  ;

                                     it
                                              I
         vexed with when saw

         its author. What was the provocation don't know.

         The difficulties with which the production of this unfor

         tunate paper were beset by no means ended with Sedgwick's

         illness at Norwich. On his return to Cambridge in February

         he was at first hopeful of being ready by the end of March.
         Then came " paralysis of one half of the optic nerve of the

         left eye1," which, though  passed away in few hours, left
                                    it
                                                                         a
                                                                               a
         the eye weak, and as he said " the loss of one side of my only

         eye would be no joke." This was succeeded by fresh attack

         of influenza with the usual result. Indeed he vowed that he

         had never been so ill since he was an undergraduate. His

         spirits, however, survived the general wreck of his intellectual

         powers, to judge from the letter in which he described his

         condition to Ingle.

                               Good Friday Evening, 24 March, 1837.

         My dear Ingle,

         Did ever mortal see such Good Friday? The
         is
              is

                                                     a
                                                                        a
         weather cold as Christmas, and the Great Court of Trin.

         Coll. literally mid-leg deep with snow. That old hoary

         brute winter has come, like Proctor, when little looked for

         and less welcome, with his two bull-dogs Pain and Pestilence;

         and many civil gentlemen, besides myself, have been sorely
         mouthed by them. In plain Yorkshire, have had sore
                               is,                                                a
                                                                                            !a
                                                            ;

                                                       I
                                                              I
         relapse of the influenza, and for ten days have been confined

         to my sittingroom and bedroom in both of which, by Havi-

         land's9 order, there  and has been for the last ten days, a

         great roasting fire. Under such treatment ought before

         this to be well done on both sides, and to want nothing but

         good kitchen basting to make me fit to serve up. But alas
         instead of a roaster am still very starveling, and fit for
         21

                    I.

                      I

                                                       6

                                                    a
                                                              a
         nothing in the world except to stop cracked pane of glass.

         To R. Murchison,           March, 1837.

         John Haviland, M.D., Regius Professor of Physic.

          PROMOTION OF PROFESSOR MUSGRAVE.

Thank God I am a little better than I was. For a whole           1837.
                                                                       5-
week, even old Shakspeare and Walter Scott acted only as

sounding-lines for the depth of my intellectual vacuity. But

now I can read them for an hour together, and fancy, at least,
that I am refreshed and built up by them. Should Haviland
be able to draw me from my hole by Wednesday I shall then

have to corroborate my faculties among thousands of scholar

ship examination papers ; and if they won't cure me I must

be out of the reach of physic. So much for my case ; having

reached the utmost limits of the ablative, it is high time for

me to turn back and get into a better case. When I was in
the dumps before, you told me I described my symptoms well.

Having then a good diagnosis, pray prescribe for me forth

with. A long letter from you will do all my inwards good ;

therefore in mercy send me one, and soon. This request is

the main object of my handling the pen, while my head is

ready to split, and my lungs wheezing like the cracked

bellows in the organ of St John's Chapel. A cup of tea has

produced and is producing a partial thaw among the hydraulic

pipes of my thoracic regions ; and the boheasian vapours
have even reached some of the lower organs of my peri

cranium.

What think you ? Charles Musgrave was here this morn

ing, looking all glorious to behold in a new shovel-hat, and

his little sweet-looking boy was with him. He has been

brought here by the promotion of his brother1, the Bursar,

Professor, and Baron. Before long he may become a Baron in
more senses than one, for even now he is a Dean-- Dean of

Bristol to wit, with all the appurtenances thereunto belonging.

For his sake I rejoice, but for my own, I sorely lament. He
is a friend of thirty years standing, for whom I have always
felt great kindness ; and I only say the truth when I add that

an unkind word, or an unkind thought, never passed between

us since we were first acquainted. Such a friend is not to be

replaced. Still I rejoice, and so will you. But when are you

          1 Thomas Musgrave. See above, p. 419, note.

s. i.                                                  31

         482 PAPER ON DEVON READ.

1837.    to mount a shovel ? How well would it set off those vener-
Et- S-
         able locks, and that grave visage of thine. By the way I

         meant to have asked a question or two at you, as they say

         over the Tweed, touching that false varlet who gave you such

         a lying account of my hustings speech at Dent; but I have no
         room for so big a subject. So I will conclude by telling

         you-- a work of supererogation as you know it already-- that
         I am your sincere and affectionate friend

                                                         A. Sedgwick.

         The influenza cured, and the Scholarship Examination

         despatched, Sedgwick was beginning to feel in working order,

         "Iwhen a fresh mishap occurred. "On Friday" he wrote

         took a short ride ; and though I returned from it much

         fatigued, I was certainly refreshed by the exercise. Yesterday

         I again started on my horse ; and unfortunately (whether
         from my own fault or not I hardly know) he fell with me. My

         face is a good deal cut, and much disfigured, and my knee

         received a severe contusion. Two University men were near at

         the time, and one of them very kindly galloped to Cambridge,

         and sent a fly to bring me home. My bruises were severe,

         and I was much shaken by the shock of the fall. Last night

         I was very miserable, and did not close my eyes in sound

         sleep. But to-day, thank God, I am much better ; all fever

         has left me... You never saw a more extraordinary phiz than

         mine is at this moment. I have a great black patch running

         horizontally across my face under my eyes, and my nose

         is as red as flame, and my chin and cheeks scarified1."

         Towards the end of May, after a week at the seaside,

         he was able to announce  :  " I am almost  myself  again   "  the

                                                                   ;

         finishing touches were put to the long-expected paper, On the

         Physical Structure of Devonshire, and on the Subdivisions and

         Geological Relations of its older stratified Deposits, and it was
         read to the Geological Society, 31 May and 14 June. It was
         followed by a discussion which was evidently lively, but the

         1 To R. I. Murchison, 16 April, 1837.

CRITICISM OF BABBAGE.                                   483

few words that Sedgwick wrote about it do not convey the           1837.

impression that it was at all hostile. On the following          /Et- 52-
day he told Canon Wodehouse : " We had a grand battle

at the Geological Society last night, in which I bore the
brunt on our side ; but, though well banged, I was not

beaten1."

    A few words must be bestowed on the pains with which

Sedgwick criticised Mr Babbage's Ninth Bridgewater Treatise

in the spring of this year. The proofs had been shown to Mr

Lyell and Dr Fitton, who both praised the work generally
but advised the omission of certain passages. To this the

author would not consent, and when other friends were

suggested as referees, he objected to all except Sedgwick'.
The proofs were accordingly sent, and Sedgwick -- who

appears to have had a genuine regard for the eccentric
inventor of the calculating machine -- went through them

carefully, and returned them to Lyell with the following
criticism : " I have gone over the slips, except the last page,

with some care ; and I think what I have thrown out may

be of some use. Don't show the paper to Babbage if you

think he will be offended at my freedom. But he ought

not, I am sure ; for I do to his sheets precisely what I do to

Whewell's, or those of any other friend, whenever they fall in

my way. If I can be a means of preventing Babbage from
publishing any of the expunged passages I shall have helped

you in doing him a service. The whole is too ambitious

in its style of writing, and the condemned passages I think

in dreadful taste, and also quite out of place. In the whole

there is too much attempt at swell and amplification. But

in that respect the author must of course have his own way.

Only his proof-men must try to make him reef a few of

his studding sails, spankers, and sky scrapers?

Lyell's next letter shows that Babbage had the good

sense to take Sedgwick's advice :

1 To Canon Wodehouse, 15 June, 1837.
a From Charles Lyell, 5 April, 1837.

                                                 31--2

         484 CRITICISM OF BABBAGE.

  l837-        My dear Sedgwick,                               41 April' ,837,

Mt. 52-              IWhen I saw the outside of your letter, said at once,

         that  I ought before to have thanked you for having   so immediately,
         and
               when out of sorts, complied with my wishes.     Had I not fully
         expected to see you last meeting I really should have written to say

         that Babbage had prized the two capital pages of critique as they

         deserved, and I hardly know anything else which would have induced

         him to leave out the most offensive passages, on which you, Fitton,

         and myself   had vented our chief      displeasure. The   coincidence
         outweighed  the flattery of a certain  popular preacher,
                                                                   I forget his

         name, and some others (John Murray ! included), who thought those
         very flights the finest things in the whole. Samuel Rogers, at whose

         house we were last night, told us he had kept back the said

         Bridgeivater two months, and observed that, as usual, the author was

         most attached to the most far-fetched and extravagant parts in the

         whole. I told Babbage the critique was by you. He took it all in

         excellent part, and had you been much more severe, as Fitton was,

         he would not have been out of humour, though it would have
                            less. B. told                                                 of
         influenced   him  cut out all he  me that when he      had left out  thmaut ch"
         what you    had                    could get from     Fitton was,                he

         then believed the book would not disgrace him ;" which B. thought a
         marvellous relaxation of his former sentence. It has been a great

         want of tact in Fitton that he has been so unmerciful, and has

         scarcely done justice to the good parts which preceded what you saw.
         If your letter had come two months earlier, before Fitton's,
         sentence struck out by you would have been omitted, but I            every
                                                                              dread

         still to see the thing in print, as he has grown obstinate by too much

         sweeping contradiction.
             I suppose you           my Anniversary Address, and I
                            I  read  of the Devon affair.... I wish much  hope you
         approved of what      said                                        you were
         more and oftener in town. It is rare even in one's own pursuits to

         meet with congenial souls, and Darwin is a glorious addition to my
         society of geologists,                                                           in
         his book and in our      and is working hard     and  making way,    both        so
                                                        never  saw that bore
                                 discussions. I really

         successfully silenced, or such a bucket of cold water so dexterously
         poured down his back, as when Darwin answered some impertinent

         and irrelevant questions about S. America. We escaped fifteen

         minutes of a vulgar harangue in consequence.          Whewell does
         famously in the chair. He will tell you of Owen's paper on Darwin's

         Toxodon

              We were very sorry to hear of your fall, and have every day since
         had news of you from Whewell, Murchison, and others. Pray write
         again if disposed, and believe me, Yours most truly,

                                                                         Cha. Lyell.

              Another, and a very different, matter, which occurred at
         about the same time, gave Sedgwick no little anxiety. When
         he first went to Norwich the see was occupied by Bishop

DEATH OF BISHOP BATHURST.  485

Bathurst. He was then ninety years of age, and could have          1837.
taken but little part in the affairs of the city or diocese.             52-
Moreover, for some time before his death he had resided
almost continuously in London. In fact, though much
respected for his personal character and amiable disposition,
Bishop Bathurst had been throughout life a Bishop of the old
school, a man of letters and a politician rather than a church

man, and a devoted whist-player. A good story is still

current respecting Sedgwick's first dinner with his diocesan.

The whist-table was set out as usual in the drawing-room, and
Sedgwick was asked to take a hand. He regretted his
inability to do so, protesting his complete ignorance of the
game. The Bishop said nothing, but afterwards lamented

his melancholy position in the following pathetic words : " I
have consistently supported the Whigs all my life -- I believe

I am called the only liberal Bishop -- and now in my old age
they have sent me a canon who does not know spades from
clubs!" The Bishop died in April 1837, and some of Sedg
wick's friends were anxious that he should be his successor.
One gentleman let him know that he had pressed upon the
government " the benefits which would accrue to this diocese,
the Church at large, and the Ministry, by appointing you"

Sedgwick was much annoyed. " I found by a letter yester

day " he said, " that a friend of mine had made a move as he
supposed in my behalf. But, unknown to himself, he was

trying to do me as great an injury as he could inflict upon

me1." Before a week was over he was relieved by the news
that his friend had failed, and that the Rev. Edward Stanley
had accepted the Bishopric. He was not at first quite
satisfied with the appointment ; but, before many months
were over, the Bishop and all his family became his most

intimate friends, and the palace was quite as much his home

in Norwich as his own residence.

     By the middle of May Sedgwick had left Cambridge, and
for the next five months led an unusually wandering life.

                             1 To R. I. Murchison, 9 April, 1837.

          486 PLANS FOR THE SUMMER.

 1837.    When he was back again at the end of October, he wrote:
yEt- 52.
          " Since I last saw you I have had no resting-place for my feet.

          From Norwich to London, from London to Westmoreland,

          from Westmoreland to Cornwall, from Cornwall back again
          to Westmoreland, from Westmoreland to Yorkshire, from

          Yorkshire to Cumberland, from Cumberland to Liverpool

          I(where halted one week among the flesh-pots and sections

          of the British Association), from Liverpool to the Warwick

          shire and Leicestershire coal-fields, out of which I finally

          emerged, and once again am enjoying the light of the sun in
          the atmosphere of Cambridge. Is not this enough to make a

          man's head turn round1?" These journeyings to and fro are

          further described in the following letters :

          To Canon Wodehouse.     Trin. Coll., July 8, 1837.

              My dear Wodehouse,

                          I only reached Cambridge (on my way back from

          Dent) about the middle of the day yesterday ; and I should

          endeavour to leave it this afternoon were it not for the King's

          funeral, which prevents all work from being done. Now a

          man starting on a tour in Cornwall has need of certain

          sartorial and sutorial helps, which put me in some perplexity,

          and the end of it will be that I shall not be off the stocks
          before Monday. Should you ask why I am in such a hurry,
          I should reply that I have much work to do, and little time to
          do it in. I have to examine a corner of Cornwall, and to be

          in Yorkshire in time for the contest for the West Riding. In

          short I have to do things which require a 40-horse steam-

          power to be done well. This is a power much beyond my

          muster ; but I must do my best, and many a time and oft
          shall I have to wipe my brow if I do all I hope for during the

          next three weeks.

              I left you in a very husky condition, and I continued so
          till the weather fairly changed, when my sweet voice came

          1 To S. Woodward, 26 October, 1837.

FOUNDATION OF COWGILL CHAPEL.  487

back again. After attending the Geological and Royal            1837.
Societies, I scampered down to Manchester by the break- neck          S-

day-coach in eighteen hours, and the day following found my
way to Dent. The country on the way looked most charm

ingly, and the crops among my native mountains were

almost as forward as I had left them near London. This

never happens except when a very severe spring destroys the
difference of climates, and makes them all start together.
You would have laughed at my solemnity had you seen me

for three days looking over papers, casting up accounts,
and making dividends among a set of legatees who were
anxiously waiting my arrival, and meanwhile solacing them
selves by deep and long potations in the beershops. After

emancipating myself from this bondage, I was detained a
great part of another week in order that I might have the
happiness of laying the foundation-stone of a little chapel in
the upper part of the valley of Dent. The day was glorious,
the face of nature beautiful, and all parties in good humour
and charity. About seven hundred mountaineers, including

nearly two hundred Sunday-school children and about one
hundred strangers, some of whom came from the distance of

twenty miles, made a curious mixed procession in the wild

glen where the little chapel is now rising from the ground.

It is built upon the solid rock which forms the bed of a

mountain stream that washes the churchyard side, and over
which the waters descend in a long succession of rapids and

falls ; and it will be surrounded by birch, mountain-ash, and
other wild trees of the country. I trust God will bless the

undertaking which begins so smilingly. We began by making
the rocks echo back the old hundredth Psalm ; my brother
read one or two short prayers from our liturgy ; Mr Wilson
of Casterton made a short address ; I handled the trowel, and

laid the stone, and then addressed my countrymen, after

which we again uncoiled ourselves into a long string to the

tune of God save the King; and the strangers, school-children,

and some others went down to Dent and had cold meat and

488 FOUNDATION OF COWGILL CHAPEL.

1837. coffee at the old parsonage. My sister made thirty-six gallons

Et. 52. of coffee in a brewing-vessel.  Among the unexpected

strangers was that strange, wild, but very clever person

Hartley Coleridge. I must honestly say that I was a little

afraid of him, for he not only possesses the poetic powers of

his father, but he is an incomparable mimic. I believe,

however, the impression produced on him by the whole scene
was such as to save us from all risk of mockery. With all his

faults, and strange wild habits, he is a kind-hearted man, and

I believe by no means devoid of religious feeling, however

imperfectly it may in some instances have influenced his life.

    On Monday I hope to be in town, and in two days more

to be set down in Cornwall. My best address for the next

fortnight will be Launceston, and if you or any of your

young people would only take up the pen, it would be

charity. About the end of this month I shall probably be

facing about to the north again. The British Association

meets this year at Liverpool on the nth of September.

When the hurly-burly is over I hope to spend a week or two

in Cumberland.                          Yours ever

                                        A. Sedgwick.

To Mrs Lyell.                           Trinity College,
    My dear Mrs Lyell,
                                               October i6ih, 1837.

                  I returned to my den this day week ; having been
absent (with the exception of one day in passing from
Yorkshire towards Cornwall) ever since the middle of May...
In June I ran down to Yorkshire and paid away .8000 one
morning among some countrymen of mine for whom I have
been made trustee. I also laid the foundation-stone of a little

chapel in a wild part of my native valley, and for the first
time in my life turned field-preacher, as I addressed about

eight hundred wild people for more than an hour, having a

large rock of mountain-limestone for my pulpit, and the vault

BRENNAN'S GALLANTRY.  489

of heaven for my sounding board. Then I turned my face to           1837.

the south, halted in London just long enough to take in water

and get up my steam, whence by another move I was trans
ported to the eastern flank of Dartmoor. I spent a delightful
week or two in battering its sides and cracking its crown, and

then I made an attack on Rough Tor and Brown Willy, and
might, for aught I can tell, have reached Land's End but for
the abominable election. But I had promised to return, and

head my radical countrymen against a combination of the
rural squires. So I packed up bags and hammers, and

(halting only one day with Conybeare) went back almost with

the speed of the wind to my native valley. A few hours after

myself arrived a cousin of mine at my brother's house, bent on
the same purpose. He heard of the election while in the
northern extremity of the Highlands, and moved southward

with the same speed as I had done northwards. Does not

this prove a little good whig leaven to be lodged in the blood
of the Sedgwicks ?

     Having done the Squires to their hearts content, I went to
Cumberland -- a country of charms to every one who has a
germ of feeling, and a thousand times more charming to me

from being associated with the recollections of early life. I
dare say you have heard of the incursion old ocean made last
summer into Mr Curwen's collieries. He became indignant at
the thought of their lighting fires under his lower extremities ;
so he took a most effectual way of putting them out for ever.

By the way an old Irishman, ycleped Dan Brennan, acted a
most gallant part during the rush of waters, and saved the lives

of four fellow-labourers. I told the story in the geological

section at Liverpool in so moving a way that I brought a
shower, not of tears, but of half-crowns, shillings, and sixpences
amounting to 37, which I sent as a solace to the old hero. I

should never have succeeded so well, but for my previous
lesson in field-preaching. But I will not torment you any
more with the dismal atmosphere of a coal-pit. Let me then
transport you to Liverpool, among mountains of venison and

         49 FIELD GEOLOGY.

  1837.  oceans of turtle. Were ever philosophers so fed before ?

Mu 52.   Twenty hundred-weight of turtle were sent to fructify in the
         hungry stomachs of the sons of science ! Well may they body
         forth, before another returning festival, the forms of things
         unknown ! but I will not anticipate the monsters of philosophy

         which such a seed-time portends. The crop no doubt will be
         of vast dimensions.

              After a very laborious week, a large party adjourned to
         Sir Philip Egerton's. We had one glorious day in one of the
         Northwich salt-mines. Conceive a chamber of twenty-six
         acres, with a flat roof supported by rows of rude pillars of salt

         arranged in perfect symmetry; conceive this monstrous and

         almost interminable perspective traced by 2500 candles ;
         conceive all this represented to the sense of sight by a kind

         of darkness visible, converted, ever and anon, into actual light

         by the coruscations of fireworks; lastly conceive my attempting

         to get upon stilts to describe such wonders, and then falling flat

         on my face and breaking the nose of my imagination. When

         you have done all this you will know so little about the

         matter that it will be better for us both to shift the subject.

             I have only time to say that I started with Greenough1 and

         two Cambridge* friends for the Warwickshire coal-field. G. B.

         G.'s paces and mine did not suit ; so we parted with mutual
         good-will, after going one day in the same harness. Tell

         Mr Lyell that I have also been working in the Leicestershire

         coal-pits and in Charnwood Forest. The poor miners are

         really to be pitied. At one place they are soused in old

         Ocean's watering-pots ; at another they are broiled by Pluto's

         kitchen-fires. I descended one pit about 1 100 feet deep, and
         in two hours was baked to the very marrow of my bones.
         N'importe ! here I am, with vigour enough to torment you
         with a very long rambling letter. I have just room for my

              1 George Bellas Greenough, one of the founders and first President of the

         Geological Society.
              2 Sedgwick tells Murchison, 9 February, 1838, that one of these friends was

         Mr J. B. Jukes, of St John's College, B.A. 1836. He was one of Sedgwick's

         geological pupils.

       LEICESTERSHIRE COAL-FIELD.  49 1

kind remembrances to all your family and to assure you, with                     1837.
                                                                                       S2-
a long face, and a penitent heart that I am most truly

yours  A. Sedgwick.

To R. I. Murchison, Esq.
                                                  Tr1n. Coll., Oct. 29, 1837.

                  " Pray what news ? where are you in your book ?

I think I told you that Greenough and I separated amicably

after the first day. His paces, and mode of working, did not
suit me. I made out all the tricks of the Nuneaton field.
The coal-field passes into the New Red series ; has beds of

limestone (fresh-water I suppose) near the separation ; and the

lower part of the New Red has calcareous portions that are

burnt for lime.

     The Leicestershire coal-field astonished me, but it is very
obscure. By the way, we found the Warwickshire coal-field
brought out by a synclinal dip several miles to the S. W. of

the line marked on the maps. Greenough, by his precipita
tion, overran this phenomenon. And, what delighted us, we
found a single patch of the old slate rock tangling out by a
riverside to the west of this western flap ; and just where it

showed itself it set the coal strata so much on edge that in one

place they had been worked in a vertical position by gallery

under gallery, like a lead vein. Charnwood Forest I knew

before ; but was delighted with a second visit.
     They got up a dinner for me at Leicester*, and I tried to

pay them by a kind of evening lecture on the structure of the

neighbourhood, endeavouring to prove that the money they

are spending near the town in sinking for coal is so much
thrown away. Some of them did not thank me for this

damper ; but honesty is the best policy in geology as in every

other thing."
     The chapel of which Sedgwick joyfully records the foun-

     1 Mrs Lyell's last letter was dated 21 April, and had lain unanswered in a

drawer during Sedgwick's summer excursion.
     * The dinner was given by the Philosophical Society.

           492 FOUNDATION OF COWGILL CHAPEL.

1837.      dation, and in which he ever afterwards took the liveliest
      52-  interest, is situated in the upper and contracted part of the dale
           of Dent called Kirthwaite. The ancient name was Cogill or
                              ;
           Coegill, but this, by long usage, has become Cowgill, though
           the correct pronunciation still survives. The circumstancesit,

           which led to the building of the chapel, have been narrated

           by Sedgwick in the Memorial from which we have already
           made long quotations. After describing how it had come to
           pass that the inhabitants of Dent had sunk into " a state of
           comparative poverty," he proceeds : " the hamlet of Kirthwaite
           partook of this change, and of the unhappy moral consequences
           which gradually followed. In the first quarter of this century
           many of the poorer inhabitants of the hamlet, especially those
           in the remoter parts of were without instruction, of reckless
           life, and without the common comfort and guidance of social
           worship in the house of God. To meet these evils Mrs John
           Sedgwick, the wife of the incumbent of Dent, personally
           devoted the best efforts of her life. Year after year she worked
           on in good hope and her pious work had its blessing. For
           she gradually drew together an united body of Christians,
           who were ready to sink out of memory all points of dissent or
           difference, and with true hearts to join in common worship,
           and in prayer for the erection of a chapel to be lawfully
           consecrated to the services of the Church of England.

               " A site for chapel and chapel-yard was the first object

           of inquiry and Mr Bannister of Cowgill gave generous help in
           the hour of need. For he offered to convey to trustees the

           materials of an old chapel1, with such addition from his family
           freehold as would form beautiful and convenient site and

           burial-ground for new chapel, which might become for ever
           ;

                    a
                                               a

           1                                                                         a
                                                                                        a
                                         a
                                                       a                                                      a
                    Sedgwick  says in  a note (Memorial, p. 34) that the     o"ldebry  chapel had been
           built, so far as   he had   been able to ascertain by tradition,              member of the

           family of Cowgill, who had while in Scotland adopted the doctrine and discipline

           of the Presbyterian Church. For some years, while he lived, the chapel was

           zealously attended, and the yard in which stood was used as burial-ground for
           a
                                                                     it
           the congregation." After his death the congregation melted away, and the chapel

           became ruin.

IN WORKINGTON COLLIERY.                           493

chapel-of-ease to the old church of Dent. This offer was met                               1837.
with heartfelt gratulations on the part of the inhabitants of
                                                                                         Mi. 5J-
Dent. In conformity with such feelings, and in good hope, a
circular letter was published in July, 1836, calling upon all

who had a pious interest in the spiritual and temporal well-
being of the valley of Dent, to subscribe for the erection of a

chapel, to be called Cowgill Chapel. The public generously re

sponded to the call, and on June 30th, 1837, the foundation
stone was laid amidst demonstrations of joy, which everyone
in Dent, whatever might be his name or form of worship,

seemed with a full heart to share1."

    At the Liverpool meeting of the British association Sedg
wick was President of the Geological Section. He protested

that he was almost worked to death, but his various letters
show that he did not find the work disagreeable. His only

paper was a Notice of an Incursion of the Sea into the collieries
at Workington. It was at the close of this paper that he
told the tale of Brennan's intrepidity. His narrative is said
to have been extraordinarily dramatic -- a happy combination
of humour and pathos -- often expressed in the language of

the man himself*. A few days afterwards he sent the money

subscribed to Mr Williamson Peile, Lord Lonsdale's agent,

with the following letter* ;

                L1verpool, September 1%th, 1837.

My dear Peile,

                  We have had a glorious week at Liverpool. On

Wednesday last I described before the Geological Section the

geological position of the great main band in the sub-marine

portion of the Workington colliery, and the circumstances

that led to its submersion. Before I sat down I also stated

    1 A Memorial by the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, pp. 4 -- 6. Sedgwick sent

one hundred guineas to the building-fund.
     2 Report of the British Association, 1837, p. 75. The Athenteum, p. 697.
     3 This letter, of which the original cannot now be traced, was fortunately printed

in The Cumberland Racquet, for 26 September, 1837. Our copy is due to the

kindness of J. H. Kendall, Civil Engineer, of Whitehaven.

          494 SUBSCRIPTION FOR BRENNAN.

  1837.   the facts you and I heard from the mouth of Daniel Brennan.

/Et- 52-  The account produced such a sensation in the room that a

          subscription was instantly set on foot, and hats were handed

          round for the brave fellow, who, under Providence, has been

          the means of saving the lives of four of his fellow-creatures.

          The fact of his turning back to save the old man in the stable

          (after he himself and the three others whom he had conducted
          safely through the air-course were out of danger) excited a

          loud burst of admiration. I now enclose a bill for the sum of
          37. 2. o, which I request you to pay over to Daniel Brennan,

          being (with the exception of 2 or 3 since received) the
          amount of the subscription raised on the spot, and handed

          over to me in the Chair.

              I am sorry to write in such a hurry, but the glad tidings I

          send you, with my own hearty good wishes, are better things

          by far than a more formal letter. I should have written to the
          man himself had I known how to address him. Pray give him
          good advice ; tell him to do again what I hope he has done

          already, to thank God for the deliverance, and for this further
          good that has come to him. Tell him also that those who
          subscribed hope he will not spend on folly and sin this over
          flow of Christian charity on his behalf.

               Make what use of this letter you please. The substance of

          it should appear in the papers, as the fact it states is a lesson
          of kindness, and may do good.

                                   Believe me, my dear Peile,

                                                            Very truly yours,
                                                                      A. Sedgwick.

              Mr Peile lost no time in assembling his workmen, and
          informed Brennan of his good fortune in their presence, " to

          his great joy and indescribable astonishment 1." The money

          was not wasted, as such gifts too often are ; it was prudently

          1

                                         5 it,
          given to Brennan as he wanted         so that his debts were paid,

          and his position substantially bettered. Six months afterwards

          To Professor Agassiz, March, 1838.

LEICESTERSHIRE COAL-FIELD.                          495

Sedgwick could write: " I am happy to hear that the gift has 1837.
improved both his fortune and his morals. How much good Ml- 5-

may be done by kindness ! and alas ! how seldom men even
think of it.1 "

     In a summer so fully occupied there was but little time
left for geology. In Devon Sedgwick was joined by Mr

Austen, but they did not complete any part of their survey,
both being unexpectedly called away. In Cumberland we do

not know that he did more than examine the drowned shafts at

Workington. The explorations in Leicestershire are described

with some detail in a letter to his brother. From Coventry,

he writes, "I walked to a small village near Bedworth, and next

morning commenced work along with three companions. In
the course of five days we worked our way, through a very
interesting country, as far as Tamworth. It is highly beautiful

to look upon ; and we did not shut our eyes to its loveliness ;
but the vast beds of coal underneath the surface (some of
them 1 2 feet thick) occupied the greater share of our attention.
From Tamworth we removed our head-quarters to Ashby de

la Zouche in Leicestershire ; and again began to dive under

ground, descending one pit more than 350 yards deep. The
temperature at the bottom made the perspiration run off in

streams. To reward our toil we found them working a magni
ficent coal-bed full 12 feet thick. After experiencing much

kindness at Ashby, we again removed our quarters to the

skirts of Charnwood Forest, and gradually worked our way
to Leicester. Finally we reached Cambridge on Monday

the 9th October*.

     During the summer of 1837 the condition of Sedgwick's
house at Norwich had given him much trouble. The drains

had made themselves so unpleasant that he declared : "People

cross the street to avoid me, and hold their noses when I pass

them." In consequence certain indispensable alterations

    1 Ibid. Mr Peile wrote, 17 February, 1838:      "The poor fellow is extremely
                                                    He is sober and industrious."
grateful, and frequently asks after the Purfessor.
     2 To Rev. John Sedgwick, 16 October, 1837.

           4'/> SERMONS AT NORWICH.

1837.      were carried out under the direction of Canon VVodehouse,
      52-  and many letters passed between him and Sedgwick re
           specting them. The first paragraph of the next letter refers
           to this subject ; the rest, on a more delicate matter, explains
           itself. Sedgwick's reply reads like a fragment of an autobio
           graphy, and explains much that without it appears contra
           dictory and almost unintelligible in the detailed history of

           his life.

           From Canon Wodehouse.

           My dear Sedgwick,                                       Norwich, October 10M, 1837.

                         I had better tell you at first, for fear of forgetting it at

           last, that your house is well nigh finished in every respect : that it
           looks respectable, if not beautiful, without, and promises much

           comfort within.

               I hope you will open this letter in a quiet, sit-still, leisurely,
           contemplative mood, because I want you not only to read patiently,
                   bduitge"stmoitreprroupmerilnya, ntnioutml.i"ke  a Heron with an Eel (as the fable
           but to                                                  I have not forgotten a conversation
           goes)

           we had in this house somewhere about midnight, on the subject

           of some sermons. You gave me a sketch, or rather a bold clear
           outline, of a short course, which was to be printed, and preached at

           Norwich Cathedral. Now I have strongly set my mind upon your
           realizing this excellent scheme, and in your approaching Residence,
           and the only object of this letter is earnestly to beg you not to
           disappoint me. You have now time before you to do this in a
           manner worthy of yourself. Your lectures exact no toil as to

           preparation, you have only therefore to throw aside other matters for

           Ia few weeks, and devote some spare hours to this, and the thing is

           done. I have many reasons to urge in behalf of this proposition.
                                                   are not only a lover of                     tarustshu,rebuytouwitllhagtiveI
           persuade myself that           you
           me credit for being            the     same, and that, when I

           write very much from a jealous regard for your reputation here, you
           will not find fault with me for
           much for us here as a Geologist.                        sIpeaamkinngowopmeonslyt .      You  have done
                                                                                               anxious  you should

           give us  ""sHSomeedegcwaginco'kot d",,woswaney'ltl-cotaothkneesridst.ehreedt"roHuTebhleegoivltoeogs ycuosmfrponomostehitnhsegermbPournetsb,ae" nfdseaawyl
           Chair.

           some.

           Ifscraps of paper written with a pencil                 "in       church, and he'll teach
                                                                              he really has not time
           all the young ones to do the same."

           t"oHporwepamreucphrogpoeordly   a few  sermons,          why was  he made           a Prebendary?"
                                          might                    he would
                                                  he do if                    turn his          talents  t?hi"s  way,
                                                                             of good           sermons
           and give us every Residence a good course
           Now I should not detail these waspish speeches to you, but that,
           professing to have within me a few sparks of friendship, never, I

       SERMONS AT NORWICH.                                                 497

Itrust, to be extinguished,  am considerably nettled by them, and                   1837.

want you to furnish me with the best answer to such of them as may                ^t. 52.
wanriyte.deg"reHeowtrume.uchItgoiosd
Ibe in                                not however    merely   on such   grounds
that I                                 might he do           a motive  of a very
                                                    &c." is

different kind ; one which you, am assured, will not refuse seriously

to consider and respond to. . . .
    II will not add
written, because I
        any apologies or              explanations to what                 have
       am assured that to              you any such expletives               are
unnecessary. I rather expect to be called to London for a few days

before very long, and shall try to look in upon you going or returning.
All here are well, and Alice has not forgotten you. With every kind

wish from the whole party, always most sincerely yours,

                                      Charles N. Wodehouse.

                                      Trin. Coll. October 12th, 1837.

My dear Wodehouse,

       I have to thank you for the letter which reached me

yesterday morning, though some of its sentences made me

wince a little. As to the waspish speeches you mention I care

not for them ; but the other remark How much good might he
do &c. &c. &c. I agree with you, I ought to respond to as far

as I am able. And were I to give myself up to theological
studies exclusively no doubt I might do more than I have

done. But it is at present impossible for me to do so. And

were the alternative given me this day of resigning my pro

fessorship or my stall, because I could not do the duties of

both properly, I should instantly give up the latter, and not

the former. For I have a great accumulation of original

matter piled up during observations directed to one main

point, and not to turn this to use and profit would I think be

a shame and a sin. In a few years I may perhaps be eman

cipated from the rubbish which surrounds me. A museum is

rising from the ground '; were my collection once arranged,

and my geological books and papers written, I should wash

my hands, and try to pass my office to a younger and lustier
person. And when is this to be done ? Perhaps in three or

four years, if it please God to spare my life and faculties. At
this very moment I have no less than five papers on the stocks:

1 The present Geological Museum, part of the new Library begun 1837.

S. I.                                                                  32

           498 APOLOGIA PRO VITA SUA.

1837.      two for the Cambridge Philosophical Society, and three for
      52-  the Geological ; and of these, three are joint works in which
           the reputation of others is concerned. These arrears arise
           partly from my own procrastinating temper, and partly from

           last year's long-continued indisposition, which prevented me
           from putting pen to paper during the spring months. Under
           these circumstances I have assuredly no time to prepare a

           course of sermons for the press during the coming winter.

           But pray come here, and talk over this and a hundred other

           things. Illnatured things are seldom said without some

           semblance of foundation. Have I then neglected my clerical
           duties at Norwich ? In answering this question I ought to be

           the last person appealed to. But in my first year's Residence

           I had during the greater part of the time a double duty in the

           Cathedral, and during three or four successive Sundays I did

           duty thrice, -- which was fair hack work. During my second
           Residence I worked hard at the Museum lectures, and preached

           on every occasion on which I was apparently called on. The
           Dean was away, and I was called on at least six or seven times.

           Last winter I was direly out of sorts for six or seven weeks,

           and utterly incapable of much intellectual labour. This is all

           the apologetic matter I dare muster in my defence. My en

           deavour always was to avoid everything like rhetoric or fine

           writing, and above all to fly from that which always tempts

           me-- metaphysical disquisition, of which I was passionately
           fond when a young man. In short I tried to be off the stilts,
           and to speak truth plainly and practically. Whether I hit the
            mark I aimed at I hardly know ; but I used to think that the
           people listened well to what I said. As to tickling people's
            ears with fine sermons, I never could condescend to do it were

            it in my power. Some of my friends expect more from me

            than I can do. Because on some occasions I speak fluently,
            it by no means follows that I write readily. Experience tells
            me the very contrary. I write with pain to myself in every

            sense of the word, for a very few hours' writing will generally
            bring on a fit of indigestion and swimming in the head, which

APOLOGIA PRO VITA SUA.                            499

puts an end to all rational continuity of thought. I was, ever   1837.

since my childhood, utterly incapable of doing more than one         5*

thing at a time to any purpose. To pass from one thing to
another frequently makes me utterly worthless. This peculia
rity of my mind (and I believe it is what I might almost call
an organic peculiarity) has sometimes led me into dire mis

conduct, and once or twice in my life brought me nearly into

a condition of monomania. I think I have more than once

hinted to you about the melancholy depression of my mind

before I was appointed to the Woodwardian Chair. My

summers' rambles, more than any other thing, brought me

round ; and I very much doubt whether even now I could

long hold my head up without them. This consideration has

naturally had some influence with me in determining my choice

in one or two rather trying occasions. But, after all, many of

my friends expect more from me than I have the power of
doing were I to try. I know that much of my life has been

dreamy and worthless ; but I am constitutionally incapable of

much sedentary exertion. My friends also think me a thou
sand times better than I am. For my conscience tells me, in

language my soul cannot misinterpret, that in the hourly

conduct of my thoughts, and in the daily actions of my life I

have not only much to repent of, but that which ought to sink

me to the earth, and fill me with humiliation and shame. I

am now, at least, writing seriously. And, if it torments you,

you must blame yourself for writing so frankly to me ; and I
am sure I am, and ought to be, deeply thankful to you for what

you have done. How different the tone of your letter from the
doses of nauseous flattery I received at some of the public

meetings this summer ! Their quantity was an antidote to

their quality, as no human stomach would hold them, and

they acted as an emetic. I bear that about with me which

ought to make me humble, whatever persons may say flatter

ing to my face, or waspish behind my back. This letter is not

fit to be seen. Therefore after reading it (and I don't call on

you, as you do on me, to ruminate on  it)  pray burn it. First,

                                           32--2

          5oo REVISES MURCHISON'S SILURIA.

  1837.   however, give my kind remembrances to your family, begin-

/Et. 52.  ning with Lady Jane, and ending with Boppity. My dear

          Wodehouse,

                              affectionately yours

                                                                           A. Sedgwick.

               During the Michaelmas term Sedgwick tried the experi
          ment "for the first time in my Professorial life," of giving six
          lectures in each week -- but the strain was too great, and brought
          on palpitation of the heart, and sleepless nights. In addition

          to this labour he was reprinting his Syllabus, and bringing it

          up to date. " I want to be correct in my synopsis of the

          Silurian System," he writes to Murchison, " have you one of

          your printed outlines or synopses ? If you have such a paper,

          don't fail to send it me by return of Post; for remember I am
          in the Press." The following letter shows that Murchison

          was asking his advice on the elaborate description of his own
          peculiar domain which he was now beginning to print. In the

          previous year Sedgwick had criticised the Introduction with
          some severity, but his opinion on the body of the work was

          evidently far more favourable.

          My dear Murchison,

                       I send you the three sheets, which I looked over last
          night as carefully as I could. It is a good joke for you to tell

          me to just give half an hour to your three sheets. Three sheets

          like yours are three honest hours' work, and so I found them
          last night. I have altered as little as possible. One or two

          sentences I did not understand. After all, your revises seem

          to want no rasping. My suggestions, small as they are, are
          perhaps changes for the worse, and I will venture to say that

          not one man in a thousand would mark any difference. After

          all your book is only a book for geologists. Natives of the

          country will read and pick out parts of as Jack Horner ate
                      a

                            ;

                                                           it
                                                                    is

                                                                      it,
          Christmas pies but, as a whole,  far too good and deep

          for any but true geologist. And what geologist will care,

                 HOUSEHOLD AT NORWICH.

one grain of trap, how a sentence is written provided he un

derstands it. Yours in a hurry,              A. Sedgwick.

     Many thanks for your Silurian papers1.

    Sedgwick's occupations at the beginning of 1838 are
described in the following letters :

To the Rev. John Sedgwick.

     My dear John,                 Norwich, January 6th, 1838.

              It is too late for this day's post, but still I will try

to put myself out of your debt before to-morrow....

    On the 1st of December I began my Residence, and a day
or two afterwards I was elected President of the Norwich
Museum for the next two years. At the time of my appoint
ment I undertook to give a few public lectures. My second

was given on Thursday to an audience of about 400, and

I hope to give two more. My friends here received me with
their usual kindness, and I was delighted to come again
among them ; and really my new house is quite charming. I

have one very good bed-room fit for a married couple ; and

three spare beds for bachelors. One Cambridge friend is with

me now; and before long I am expecting three more. I have

a capital housekeeper who provides and cooks for me-- the

same person whom Lady Jane Wodehouse recommended to
me--a housemaid, and a young lass to help her. My own
servant comes and acts as my butler and waiter and factotum ;

     1 This letter is undated, but docketed by Murchison, "November, 1837."
He further notes: "Revision of the three sheets (the only ones) of my work
which he undertook. R. I. M." This statement, as Mr Geikie observes in a
pencilled sentence appended to the above note, "is not quite accurate. Sedgwick

revised the Introduction to the Silurian System, and expressed great dissatisfaction

with the original, making many alterations and suggestions, most or all of which

Murchison seems to have adopted. Probably the three sheets above referred to

were the only three in the body of the work." To this may be added the fact that

i"n  the spring  of the following  year (7 March, 1838) Murchison writes to Sedgwick :
                 the concluding
     I send you                    chapter of my Part I., and a portion of the opening
chapter of Part II., which must be seen by you before they see the light." It is

of course possible that Sedgwick returned these proofs without looking at them.

         502 BISHOP STANLEY.

  1838.  and I have an assistant and occasional waiter to rub down my
         horse. Such is my establishment. Before long I hope some
^t. 53.

         of your family will come to see me. When Isabella and

         Emma are out, they must come their first winter and keep

         house for me during a two months' Residence. It will be
         a good start for them : and I shall be able to show
         them excellent society. Indeed I have more of it than I like.

             The Bishop's family is an admirable addition to us. The

         Bishop I knew before I came hither. His wife is a charming

         and sensible woman. His eldest son was frozen up in the

         North Sea with Captain Back, and is just appointed com

         mander of a gun-brig going out to the South Seas. The

         second son took a very distinguished degree at Oxford, and

         the youngest son has just joined the Engineers at Woolwich --

         all of them have been here. The two daughters are also very

         clever and agreeable young ladies. One of them is not yet

         come out. The whole family dined with me one day. But

         the most noisy party I have had consisted of about twenty
         children, whom I made very happy for a few hours. Don't
         suppose that I have been quite idle in my profession. I have

         been preaching almost every Friday, and often sitting up very

         late at night, and rising very early in the morning, to write
         Imy sermons.
                       preached last Sunday week in the Cathedral

         for the benefit of the County Hospital. I rise very early,

         and read prayers to my servants frequently by candle-light.

         I then breakfast about eight.... A happy new year to your

         wife and children.

                                Affectionately yours,

                                A. Sedgwick.

         To Projessor Agassis.  Trinity College, Cambridge,
             My dear friend,
                                                          March S/A, 1838.

         After an absence of three months I only returned

         to Cambridge last week. My winter has been spent in
         Norwich ; and many of my letters were detained in Cam

THEORY OF ERRATIC BLOCKS.

bridge for a long time, and yours among the rest. This will      1838.
                                                                      53-
explain my long delay in replying to your very kind and
delightful letter. In one respect, however, it gave me pain, as

it deprived me of the hope of seeing you in England next

summer. But I rejoice that Mr Dinkel is coming, as he is a

very kind-hearted man, as well as a very accomplished artist,

and will I believe do your work better than any other person.

I will give him every facility in my power in making drawings
from the specimens in the Cambridge Museum. Some I will

with great pleasure convey to town for him ; others he will

have to copy at this place, and I will procure lodgings for his
use. In short I will assist him, and you, in every way I can,

and more I cannot promise. The specimens of Agostino

Scilla shall also be put at his disposal.

    I only reached Cambridge on Friday, when I found your
eighth and ninth Livraisons on my table, and I cannot tell you

how much I am delighted with them. The engravings speak

to the senses like the originals ; and they have a great

additional interest to an English geologist, in being chiefly

derived from the formations with which he is familiar in his

own country. Pray put me down as a subscriber to your

work on Echinoderms, the successive parts of which may

be sent me through Bailliere along with the Livraisons of

your great work on fossil fish.

    Till I see your memoir on the erratic blocks of the Alps I

don't know how I can offer any opinion, as I don't at present

know exactly what is your hypothesis. Where has it been

printed ?...On the subject of the erratic blocks of Switzerland

it strikes me that no one can possibly account for them
without the aid of the carrying power of ice. Without

knowing what ita           am, therefore, favourably disposed
                      is,

                      I
towards at least part of your hypothesis. A great deal of

evidence, both positive and negative, has been advanced
in favour of the iceberg theory. For example, Mr Darwin

has shown that throughout South America erratic blocks are
found within the limits of latitude where glaciers are, or may

         54 THEORY OF ERRATIC BLOCKS.

1838. have been, down to the level of the sea ; and that they are
Et- 53- wanting in the tropical latitudes, where ice could never have

         existed near the sea level. In England (where everything is
          on so small a scale, yet where we have such a fine succession
          of phenomena, illustrating almost every important point in
         the geological history of the earth), we have a most interesting

        series of erratic blocks. I don't think the iceberg theory can

          be applied to them, because they go in almost all directions,
         and not towards any prevailing point of the compass, and
         because they follow the exact line of waterworn detritus and

        comminuted gravel. Such blocks I attribute to currents

          produced during periods of elevation and unusual violence.
         There are many instances of rocks grooved deeply, and
         partially rubbed down, by the currents of what we formerly
          called diluvium, a word which is passing in some measure out
         of use in consequence of the hypothetical abuse of the term
         by one school of geologists. There are very fine examples of
          this kind near Edinburgh. Stones transported in this way
          are always rounded by attrition, and in every question about
         the origin of erratic blocks we ought to regard their condition
          (viz. whether rounded or not), as well as their geographical
          relation to the parent rock.

             Since I had the pleasure of meeting you in Ireland I have
       not published any memoirs. In the spring of 1836 I was out
        of health and spirits. In the summer of 1836 I had a

          laborious and successful tour in Devonshire, Cornwall, and

          South Wales, partly with my friend Murchison, and we tried
          to reduce the stubborn old formations to some order, and

        I think they were a little more obedient when we left them.

          Our labours have caused much discussion in the Geological

        Society. The winter and spring of 1837 I was again sadly
         out of health, and literally confined to my chamber for more
         than a quarter of a year. The sad consequence was that all

          my intellectual labours were suspended. I turned out, how

         ever, again last summer, finished my observations on the S.W.
        counties of England, and ended the vacation in a survey

THEORY OF ERRATIC BLOCKS.

of the coal-field of Cumberland. Thank God I am now well,                                1838.
and before my summer's tour hope to pass four memoirs                                          53-

through the press. All this will, however, depend on my

health, which generally gives way under sedentary labour.
We had a glorious meeting of the British Association at
Liverpool, and did ourselves the great pleasure of voting

a hundred pounds in aid of your work. I wish other

societies would follow so good an example.
     So now, my dear Professor, I have sent you a very long

letter, which I hope you will be able to read. Most heartily
do I wish you health and happiness, and a rich harvest of

honour.

           Believe me, your sincere and affectionate friend,

                                                             A. Sedgwick.

      We see from this letter that Sedgwick accepts the theory

of transport by ice to account for the position of erratic
blocks. At the same time, like many geologists at the

present day, he doubted whether the ice in question was

floating-ice, or land-ice (except in certain particular cases) ;
and further, whether stranding icebergs, or the passage of
glacier-ice, ought to be invoked as the cause of the striation

of rocks. Agassiz had stated his own views on the subject of

erratic blocks in the following passage :

                                                          Neuchatel, 30 November, 1837.

    " Il est une autre question sur laquelle je dsirerais ardemment

connatre votre opinion. C'est la question des blocs erratiques
rpandus sur les flancs du Jura. Depuis plusieurs annes je me
suis appliqu  observer avec le plus d'exactitude possible ce
phnomne si remarquable, et si diversement expliqu par les
gologues. Aucune des explications qui en ont t donnes jusqu'
ce jour ne me parat rsoudre le problme, les unes tant en
contradiction avec une foule de phnomnes non moins gnraux
et importants que les blocs eux-mmes, les autres les passant sous
silence. Au nombre de ces phnomnes il en est un surtout dont on
n'a tenu aucun compte dans toutes les thories, et dont vous avez
constat la prsence dans le nord de l'Angleterre ; je veux parler des
surfaces polies sur lesquelles reposent en partie les blocs erratiques.
J'ai tach de rattacher ce phnomne ainsi que plusieurs autres, au

         506 OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.

1838.    transport des blocs, en supposant qu'ils sont le rsultat de masses de
Et' 53-
         glace qui auraient comMe' a une certaine epoque la grande valle'e de

         la Suisse, et sur lesquelles les blocs auraient 6t6 changs, depuis le

         sommet des Alpes jusque sur les flancs de nos montagnes. Je fis de

         cette question le sujet de mon discours d'ouverture au congres des
         naturalistes Suisses a Neuchatel. Mon opinion fut vivement combattue

         par MM. de Buch et Elie de Beaumont, qui assistaient a notre reunion,
         et je ne doute pas qu'elle ne sera encore plus amerement critiquee

         lorsqu'elle sera livre au public. J'attendrai votre re'ponse avec
         impatience, heureux si je puis voir mon opinion appuye par le
         gologue illustre en la science duquel j'ai le plus de confiance."

              In April we find Sedgwick on a visit to Lord Braybrooke,
         at Audley End, to witness the opening of one of the four

         large barrows situated on the estate of Viscount Maynard,
         near Bartlow in Essex. Popular belief had ascribed the

         erection of these conspicuous artificial mounds to the Danes,
         in commemoration of a battle ; but when three smaller

         mounds, distant about eighty feet from the former, were

         opened in 1832, the discovery of Roman antiquities, with a
         coin of the Emperor Hadrian, shewed that they at least
         belonged to the Roman period. In 1835 the largest and
         loftiest barrow was explored under the superintendence of
         Mr John Gage, Director of the Society of Antiquaries. As the
         sepulchral chamber was probably in the centre of the mound,
         which was 144 feet in diameter, and formed of chalk and soil
         in alternate layers, of the firmest consistency, it was pierced
         by a gallery. After ten days labour, the central chamber was
         reached, and a large party of visitors from the neighbourhood

         and friends from Cambridge, among whom were Sedgwick,
         Lodge, and Whewell, assembled to see the contents removed.
         They proved to be Roman, like those of the smaller mounds,
         and were presumably of the same period. On this occasion

         Whewell wrote An Eclogue, in which Sedgwick is supposed

         to maintain that the tumuli were due to natural causes.

                                         April 21st, 1835.
            Mr. Gage. My antiquarian bosom burns to explore

         These relics of the art of men of yore.
            Professor Sedgwick. Stay, my good sir ; control your zeal, or lose

         This no work of art; 'tis a deposit.
         is
                                                                                                                     it.

       OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.

Gage. Geologist, avaunt ! and hide your head :                                                                          1838.
Ne'er was
    Sedgwick.  depIoshitoldth, usdesdpeipteosityeodu.r              antiquarian  pride,                               Mt. 53.

That Bartlow's tallest hill is stratified.
Gage. Your theory of strata, sir, is rickety :
'Tis a Romano-Dano-Celt antiquity.

Sedgwick. Sir, your antiquity's a joke to me :
I'Twas left here by "the last catastrophe."
Gage.          tell you, sir, that Queen Boadicea
Killed fifty thousand men, and put them here.

   Sedgwick. Sir, throw your queens and battles to the dogs :
'Twas when the Deluge made the Gogmagogs.
Lady Braybrooke. O gentle swains ! be for a moment mute,
For here is that will settle your dispute.
The spade proceeds, the earth is outward thrown,
And now at last we find a bit of bone.
Gage. Ha ! give it me. It
                                                      a             upon my word,
                                                               is,
British heel chopped by Roman sword.
I, A
          a                                 with your idle tales no longer
                    is                    beast -- the Bartlotherium.
                       is a

                                         ;
   Sedgwick. No                                                                    weary  'em
'Tis new fossil                                                                           a
Dr. X. Now, gentlemen, since bones are my affair,
                                                                                                    :
as anatomist, the truth declare                               :
                                          heel-bone -- observe         thus --
The bone                                                         : it

The beast, the Asinus domestiats.

No theorist       safe from trifling ills

So to the Lord and Lady of these hills

Pay, as becomes you, thanks and reverence due,
And then proceed to theorize anew.

     In 1838 the explorations were resumed, and                                           second

barrow, situated next to the largest on the south, was investi

gated in the presence of the same party, with the addition of

Professor Henslow. Mr Romilly has preserved an account of

what then took place
                                            a

                                                   :
     "19 April. Sat long while with Lady Cotton, hearing Lodge's
account of the opening of the second of the Bartlow Barrows, which
took place last Tuesday. He, Sedgwick, Whewell, and Henslow went
from Audley End with large party. They found box (some four
feet long, three broad, and three high) in which were sundry Roman
                                            a                          a

                                                                                        ;

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                   a
glass bottles, pateras, bronze jugs, and                               lamp also some small

bones (supposed to be chicken bones). The urn containing the
dead man's bones was not yet found. Sedgwick exhibited to the

mob    pot, which he declared had belonged to Julius Caesar.
     a
                          a
Whewell wrote copy of humorous verses on the occasion, viz.
complaint of the dead man for being disturbed."

     Whewell's verses have no special connexion with Sedg

wick's life still, as they are amusing in themselves, and
               ;

           508 OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.

1838.      besides were written to commemorate an exploration in
      53-  which Sedgwick took an active part, we may be excused for
           printing them.

                                         April 17 th, 1838.

           Where Bartlow's barrows of wondrous size

           Stand side by side to puzzle the wise,

           In a certain year, on a certain day,
           A voice was heard in the morning grey:
           'Twas a grumbling, growling, muttering din,
           Like a man who talks a box within ;

           And it seemed to come, to the standers by,
           From the center of one of the tumuli.

           The  lLaantgiuna, g--e,buats   well  as  athe ear could take          ?      it.
           Was                           such   as     Briton would make
                                                                                   it,
           And this      is    close translation, penn'd
                            a

           For Carolus Neville of Audley End
                                                       !
           " Brother Icenius Crispus Caius                 :

           Close together our friends did lay us,      :
           Seventeen hundred years ago,
           And our two cousins, all in a row
           Tell me Caius, how do you lie?
           Do you find any change as the years go by
           Are you still in your quarters narrow,
           Snug in the mould of the tall green barrow,
           With the tears of your friends around you lying
           In tiny jars, to console you for dying?
           I've an awkward feel that the outward air
           Is making its way to my bones so bare
                                                       :
           I Itseems as the sharp north-west                    :
                         a if
                     if              ?                                      !;
           Were somehow getting within my chest:I
           And, the cold very much increases,

           shall sneeze my barrow all to pieces.

           Are you cold too                     feel, by Bacchus

           An epidemic disease attack us

           And reallyI         fear, as learned men say,
                                  tumular influenza.'"
           'A touch of

              And another voice, from another hill,
           Replied in hoarser grumble still
                         Oa
           "What!              Jupiter! cousin Verus,

           Haven't you heard what pass'd so near us?
           Poor Icenius don't you know
                         !

           They carried him off three years ago?

           Certain robbers, call'd antiquaries,

           Came and disturbed his quiet Lares
                                                       !
           Bored his barrow, and stole, alas                   ;

                                                                              :
           His urns and bottles, his bronze and glass

OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.                                    509

His worship's chair, that he used to sit in                                         1838.
At the quarter-sessions for Eastern Britain ;
His handsome funeral prteferiadum ;                                               /Et. 53.

His wife's new-fashion'd enamel ridiculum' ;
Bagg'd the whole !-- it did not matter a

Pin whether vase, or lamp, or patera.
Even his bones, though stript of their clothing,

TAhlleyaretoogkonea,w--aya, ndandthelefwt ohrlidm   nothing.  'em
                                                   may see

Making a show in the Maynard Museum.

  " And now I fear these folks intend

To rob you too, my respected friend ;
And, following up their barbarous custom,
They've dug a hole to your very bustum ;
And that's the reason, or I'm mistaken,

You feel so bored, and so sadly shaken.

   " It is really hard that one's very great age

Can't save one from prying Fellows like Gage" ;
When one comes to ones teens of centuries, clearly
One should not be treated so cavalierly.

   " But since it is so, and the move's begun,
I trust we shall meet when all is done.
So, when near Caius you're set on the shelf,

Tell him I hope to be there myself;
And say the thing which I doubt the least on

Is our coming together again at Easton3."

     Before starting on his summer excursion Sedgwick read a

very elaborate paper to the Geological Society (23 May)
entitled A Synopsis of the English Series of Stratified Rocks
inferior to the Old Red Sandstone, with an attempt to determine
the successive natural groups and formations. In this communi
cation he linked together most of his previous work, in

the Lakes, in Wales, in Devonshire, and in Cornwall, and

ended with a tabular arrangement of the classes and sub

divisions into which the rocks might be conveniently sorted.

     1 Resembling the modern reticule.

    3 John Gage, Esq. F.S.A.
     3 Easton Lodge, the seat of Viscount Maynard, the proprietor of the Bartlow

Hills. [These poems are printed in Sunday Thoughts and other Verses, a
collection of poems on various subjects printed for private circulation in 1847,
according to Mr Todhunter (William IVhewell, p. 167). The successive explora
tions of the Bartlow tumuli are described in Archccologia, xxv, xxvi, xxviii.]

510 DINNER TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

 1838. The occupations of the summer are described in the next
Mu S3- letters. The first was written from Mr Conybeare's house.

To Miss Emma Sedgwick.  Axminster, July 6th, 1838.
    My dear Emma,

                  I sent a short note to your father a day or two

since ; but had no time to tell him what I had been about
for the last month. Nor indeed have I time now ; but I will
do my best before the dinner-bell rings to give you a kind of

outline of my movements.
     On the 14th of last month I left Cambridge, and the day

following attended a great public dinner given to Sir John
Herschel on his return from the Cape. He has been spending

five years there, making discoveries in the southern hemisphere,

and has returned laden with astronomical treasures. I was

called on to make a speech, a rather nervous business among

so many distinguished strangers1. The day following (16th)

I went with Professor Henslow to St Albans to visit his
father's family. It was a long-promised visit, made partly for

the purpose of seeing my friends, and partly for the purpose
of examining the interesting antiquities of the neighbourhood.

On the outskirts of the town is a pretty little church with the

vault of the Verulam family, and the statue of Lord Bacon.

Tradition says that it is an admirable likeness, and assuredly
it is an exquisite work of art ; indeed it was this monument

(of which I had seen a drawing) which first induced me to

think of visiting St Albans. I also, during this pilgrimage,
visited, as you may well suppose, the ruins of Lord Bacon's
house, among which I rambled for an hour " chewing the cud

of sweet and bitter fancy," as Shakspeare says in quaint
phrase, pregnant however with meaning.

    After this charming visit I returned to town in time to
attend the Queen's levee on Wednesday the 19th. It was a

    1 Sedgwick proposed the health of the chairman, H. R. H. the Duke of Sussex.
There is a full account of the dinner in The Athcnteum, 16 July, 1838.

PRESENTATION TO THE QUEEN.  5n

splendid show, as all the foreign ambassadors, who had come        1838.
to grace the Coronation, were present. When it was over,                 53-

a party of the Royal Society were introduced to the Queen
in her private closet. We had an excellent opportunity of

seeing her, and hearing her speak, as she received the Duke of

Sussex without any of the formality of a Court, and seemed
only to remember that he was her uncle. After presenting the

Statutes of the Royal Society, and obtaining her signature to

the book, he offered to bend his knee and kiss her hand (which
is the regular form on such occasions) ; but she immediately
stopped him, put her arm round his neck, and kissed his

cheek. He afterwards presented us all in turn, and we had a

most gracious reception. So, my dear Emma, when I next
give you a kiss I dare say you will find my lips all the

sweeter for having touched our youthful Queen's hand.

    The day following (the 21st) I went to Oxford to stand

godfather to Dr Buckland's youngest son. He was christened

Adam Sedgwick ; so you see my name is to be perpetuated,
though as yet I have no child of my own. My visit to my

friends at Christ Church was delightful ; and though I have

now seen Oxford so very often, yet I think I can say that I

see it each succeeding time with renewed and increasing

pleasure. It is one of the most beautiful cities in the world,

and so full of historical interest. The whole party one day
made a trip of about six or seven miles down the Thames, and
then had an al fresco dinner in the park of the Archbishop of
York.

    On Monday the 26th I returned to London by the line of

the Birmingham railroad ; and such streams of population
were floating into London along the lines of all the great roads,

to see the festivities of the Coronation, that even the steam-

engines could hardly drag them along the tram-roads. The

train by which I reached town conveyed numerous carriages

and horses besides 900 passengers, and was dragged along
the rails by three engines which puffed and groaned most

piteously under their extraordinary load. But what can I

                   THE CORONATION.

       say of the Coronation week ? The papers are all full of
1838.                                                                      is
Et-    and the accounts you have been able to read are infinitely                          ? it,

       more in detail than anything can tell you. All London
                   a
       seemed to be mad, and half of England seemed to be packed
                         I; I I
       in the streets of London.     was in the Abbey during the

       grand and solemn ceremonial and in what place think you

       In the Queen's private box.                        know Colonel and Lady Isa

       bella Wemyss very intimately, and one of them                       Queen's

       Equerry, and the other Lady of the Bedchamber. So the night

       before the Coronation they sent me a Queen's private ticket.

         wish you and your sister could have been with me. It was
       I

       the best place in the whole Abbey, just on one side of and

       overlooking the two thrones.                       certainly never saw before
                   I
                                       aI
       so grand, dazzling, and solemn ceremonial, and trust in
                                                                           I

                                                                                         it
       Providence that shall never have an opportunity of seeing

       repeated. The little Queen performed her part with grace,
       dignity, and good feeling and all hearts seemed to swell with
                   I

                        a it

                             I
                                                      ;

                                          if

                                                       a
       delight. In the evening there was in the parks the finest

       display of fireworks ever beheld. You may judge of the

       scale when  tell you that 850 large rockets were shot

       vertically into the air at one single explosion. When they

       began to burst seemed as                           regiment was giving platoon
                                                                           a

                                                                                                 ;
       fire quarter of mile above our heads and the instant after,
          a                                               a

       the whole sky was lighted up with red, green, and blue lightsI;

       which gradually descended in the form of gorgeous canopy         a

       towards the surface of the earth. There were seven other

       discharges of 300 or 400 rockets at time, besides many other
       gorgeous displays of different kinds.

          The Sunday after the Coronation went with the Sub-

       Dean to the Chapel Royal. He introduced me through the

       vestry, so got in without any press. Hundreds were waitingI
       at the door without being able to find place. The chapel
                                                          a                is

       small and plain. The Bishop of London preached a good

       plain sermon; and the young Queen, the Queen Dowager,
       and the Duchess of Kent sat in front of the Royal pew. They

       were all dressed as plain as plain could be, stopped to receive

       SUMMER JOURNEY.                                   513

the Sacrament together, and seemed anxious to throw away                    1838.

all the pomp and pride of greatness as much as they could.                /Et- 53-

I was now anxious to get away from London. But how was

this to be effected ? Every coach and means of conveyance

were engaged for several days to come. Last Wednesday

evening, however, I succeeded in securing a place in one of the

night coaches, and in course of the following day found my

way to this place, where I am halting a day or two before I

fairly set to work upon the rocks. Mr Conybeare's family,

whom you have often heard me speak of, now live at this

place. The country is delightful. Now have I not sent you
a long gossiping letter, my dear Emma ? I seldom have time

to write such. Ever my best love to my brother and sister

and your sister. Believe me, with prayers for your health

and happiness, your most affectionate uncle

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

                   Alnwick Castle, September 4th, 1838.

My dear Isabella,

             I am beginning a letter which I fear I shall not

have time to finish, as I expect to be called off by a party

going to start for Chillingham Castle ; but I will do my best

during the few minutes they allow me.

    Since the letter I sent to Emma I have been in almost

continual movement. First I went round the greater part of
the south coast of Devonshire. It is a most smiling and

lovely country, and full of interest connected with my own

favourite pursuits. I then cut through the eastern extremity of

Cornwall and passed along the north coast of Devon. The

cliffs along that part of the coast are perhaps the finest in all

England, reaching in some places the height of eight or nine

hundred feet, and they are here and there ornamented with

foliage among all the broken ledges, which gives great richness

and picturesque effect to the rugged elevations. From North

Devon I tracked my way through some exquisite country in

Somersetshire, and from thence went up the Bristol Channel

S- I.                   33

         514 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT NEWCASTLE.

1838.    to Clifton, where I met my friend Professor Whewell. We
Et- 53-
         spent the Sunday there with a Cambridge friend, and then went
         through a most delicious country to Gloucester, Cheltenham,
         and Tewkesbury. The last place was very famous during the
         wars of York and Lancaster ; and you may perhaps remember
         that the battle which finally decided the fortunes of Queen
         Margaret and her son was fought close to the town. Among
         some exquisite monuments of the Middle Age, is a small

         marble slab to the memory of the unfortunate young Prince

         who was murdered soon after the battle ; and a shrine of

         exquisite tabernacle-work to the memory of Clarence, who was

         buried there after his murder by Richard the Third. Every
         house, and every field, seems to savour of the poetry of

         Shakspeare.

             Tuesday Evening. Let me see. I left off at Tewkesbury

         and Shakspeare, but let them pass, and in imagination travel

         with me first to Birmingham, and thence by the railroad to

         Liverpool, where I arrived almost in the dark, and while the

         rain was descending in torrents. But for these unfortunate

         circumstances I should have gone across to Woodside1 on the

         chance of seeing you, though I had not heard of your return
         from Dent. Next day at 7 a.m. I started by coach for

         Preston, and thence by the canal-boat to Burton in Kendal,

         from which I posted to Dent. They were all excellently well,

         and very happy to see me. After remaining in Dent about a

         week, I went over Stainmoor to Newcastle, where I arrived

         last Saturday fortnight, to attend the meeting of the British

         Association. Our reception was truly noble, and our numbers

         have increased enormously, so that I fear before long no place
         will be able to hold us. The Duke of Northumberland was

         President, and went through all the formal business with great

         dignity and good temper, keeping a rather ungovernable body

         in excellent order, without seeming to press hard on any one.

         I had no office this year; at which I greatly rejoiced, as
         Iit left me free to amuse myself.
                                            found a nice quiet lodging

         1 Sedgwick's nieces were at school at Woodside.

SPEECH AT TYNEMOUTH.

in a good central situation, and my landlady procured cold                     1838.

fowls, tongue, and two or three bottles of white wine for me ;               /Et- 53
so I became a snug housekeeper, and had several parties

to eat luncheon with me during the intervals of the week's
turmoil. On the Friday of the Association week I went
to the mouth of the Tyne with a geological class of several
hundreds, and nearly all the population of Tynemouth turned
out to join us. You would have been amused at the pictu
resque group, clustering among the rugged precipices of a

noble sea-cliff, or congregating on the sand below, while I

addressed them at the utmost stretch of my voice six different

times, from some projecting ledge that served as a natural

pulpit. Every one was in high spirits, the day was glorious,
and we all returned up the river in steam-boats, so as to join

in the work of the evening meetings. I must conclude -- the

bell has rung five minutes since.

                              Ever, my dear Isabella,

                              most affectionately yours
                                            A. Sedgwick.

     Sedgwick would have us believe that he played a very

subordinate part at Newcastle ; but Sir John Herschel, in a
letter to his wife, gives a vivid impression of his eloquence :

" All the show here is over.           Newcastle, August 7, 1838.
                              It has been by far the most brilliant
meeting of the Association, and in all the public proceedings perfect

good taste has reigned. Sedgwick wound up on Saturday with a
burst of eloquence (something in the way of a sermon) of astonishing

beau"tyBuatndthgisr,anIdeaumr. told, was nothing compared to an out-of-door

speech, address, or lecture, which he read on the sea-beach at

Tynemouth to some 3000 or 4000 colliers and rabble (mixed with
a sprinkling of their employers), which                        a sensation
such as is not likely to die away for years.  has   produced   ear and eye
                                                   am told by
                                                I

witnesses that it is impossible to conceive the sublimity of the scene,

as he stood on the point of a rock a little raised, to which he rushed
as if by a sudden impulse, and led them on from the scene around

them to the wonders of the coal-country below them, thence to the
economy of a coal-field, then to their relations to the coal-owners and

                                                               33--2

          5i6 ALNWICK CASTLE.

  1838.   capitalists, then to the great principles of morality and happiness, and

,Et. 53.  last "toAnthde,irbyreltahteionbyeto,  God, and their own  future prospects....                                                good
                                                though one should   not tell one's own

          things, here is one so good, that you must have it ! Sedgwick, in his

          talk on Saturday, said that the ladies present were so numerous and
          so beautiful that it seemed to him as if every sunbeam that had

          entered the windows in the roof          (it      all windows) had deposited
                                                        is

          there an angel. Babbage, who was sitting by me, began counting
          the panes, but, his calculation failing, he asked me for an estimate of

          the numbers.           can't guess was my answer, but, what Sedgwick
                    !                           '                   '
                      '
                                 will admit                                if
                           I'
                                                                                           is
                                                                                               a
          says be   true",  you                 that for every little pane there                                                        great
          pleasure

          The next three letters carry us to the end of 1838                                                                         :

          To Rev. John Sedgwick.                   St Bees, September i^th, 1838.

                  remained at Newcastle over Monday the 26th to attend
          the anniversary dinner of the Natural History Society, of
          I
             I
          which am member, and the day following went to Belsay
          Castle to meet son of Sir Charles Monk, who was an old
                            a
                                    a

          pupil of mine after remaining two nights moved on to
          Sir John Trevelyan's, and thence to Alnwick Castle, where
          remained till Thursday the 6th of this month. Nothing could

          be more kind than the reception had from the Duke and
                            ;                      I
                                                                I

                                                                                I

          Duchess, who live in their magnificent old feudal fortress

          in almost regal state. It stands on nearly six acres, in

          the centre of which rise the clustering towers of the great
          keep, in which are the family apartments. They form two
          circular suites, arranged one above the other, round the central

          court and you approach them through three great gothic
          portals, each communicating with a separate court and you
          emerge into the streets by vast gateway, imposing from
          its mass, and in ancient days most formidable for its
          a;

                 I

                                                        a

                                                                                                                                  ;
          defences.

               While was at Alnwick Whewell joined the party, and we
          made day's expedition to Lord Tankerville's Castle, mainly
          for the purpose of seeing his celebrated wild bulls-- the

          legitimate descendants of the old inhabitants of the Cale
          donian forests. Like all wild animals, they are all exactly

THE CH1LLINGHAM HERD.

alike ; they are white as snow, with black hoofs, and black                         1838.
eye-lashes, and horns tipped with black. We approached
very near them by the shelter of a wood which was to                              Mt- 53-
leeward ; had it been to windward they would have smelt us,
and been off long before we came in sight. On leaving
Alnwick I returned by coach to Newcastle, and from thence
found my way to the house of my old pupil Mr Wharton, who
lives close to Durham. The weather was so dreadful that for
two days I could not stir from his door. Sunday was fine,
and on Monday and Tuesday we effected our purpose of
visiting the new harbours of Hartlepool and Seaham, and of
examining some coal-works in the southern part of the
county of Durham. On Wednesday I left Wharton's, and
yesterday worked my way to Whitehaven, passing from
Newcastle to Carlisle by the railroad in two hours and fifty
minutes. We came the first four miles in six minutes exactly

by my watch. The country was lovely, especially along the
Tyne; but the objects seemed literally to fly past us. Ainger

is not looking well, though better than he was last year.

To R. I. Murchison, Esq.

                                                        Dent, October nth, 1838.

    I spent several days delightfully with my friend Wharton,

in rambling along the coast of Durham, and examining the
enormous excavations which have been made through the

magnesian limestone since my former visits to the county.

Nothing can be more beautiful than the sections made by

the railroads, laying bare the Lower New Red and the fish-

beds, which in some places are mineralogically identical with
the copper-slate of Germany. The want of conformity be

tween the coal-measures and the overlying series is also
most strikingly exhibited in several of the new sections.

    From Durham I went to Whitehaven, where I spent ten

days in collecting materials for the Whitehaven paper. They

accumulate so much upon me that I am afraid of being

overlaid by them....

              COMPLETION OF CO W GILL CHAPEL.

   IFrom Whitehaven I went by Lowther Castle (where

halted two days) to Kendal, and there I collected some mag

nificent mountain-limestone fossils.

To Rev. W. Ainger.   Trin. Coll. October 27th, 1838.
    My dear Ainger,

                  I only reached this place on Wednesday evening.
The day following I met George1 in the street. This morning

I have been calling on him, and giving him good advice --to

read hard and walk hard. There is no fear about the former ;

and I hope, for health's sake, he will follow the latter. If

there were any meaning in the proverb about cutting the coat

to the cloth (a proverb by the way quite a propos to a tailor's

box) I ought to send you a very long epistle, but, to tell the
truth, I don't use scribbling-paper because of my fulness of
matter, but because I have no other just now in my room.
George tells me he is going to send off a box to St Bees with
furniture for your outer man. So I mean to instruct him to
stuff this sheet into the pocket of your new pair of breeches ;

and scribbling-paper will do quite well enough for such a

roosting-place.

     We parted, if I remember right, at Shap Wells8; and soon
after I started with a batch of the Kendal magistrates. The

following morning was spent in packing fossils. They ought

to be precious things, as the carriage of the box comes to

more than two pounds sterling. I then went on to Dent and

found them all quite well. Jane talks of nothing but Cowgill

Chapel. I think she has a right to be proud of it. It is a

very pretty, correct, building, and admirably fitted for its

purpose. The consecration is to take place on Tuesday next,

a day unfortunately too late to allow of my being present. I

     1 George Henry Ainger, of St John's College, B.A. 1842, afterwards Fellow.
     2 Dr Ainger had accompanied Sedgwick to Lowther Castle, on leaving which
they went together to Shap Wells "to take another look at the granite hills."

To Rev. John Sedgwick, 26 September, 1838.

EXPLORATION OF INGLEBOROUGH.  519

spent a day or two with Mr Farrer of Clapham, who has been        1838.
                                                                        53-
 making great discoveries under Ingleborough. He has blown
away a great deal of rock with gunpowder, and so formed
communications between a succession of very beautiful caverns

richly adorned with stalactites, some of which reach the ground,

 and form beautiful white pillars. We endeavoured (at the
distance of about three-quarters of a mile from the entrance of

the cave), to make some new advances. But to effect this we

were forced to use our abdominal muscles as sledges, and our
mouths as candlesticks. On, however, we went (serpent-wise,

though not perhaps wise as serpents), and wriggled our way
about two hundred yards, when the roof became more lofty,
and the water more deep. We were provided with a cork
jacket, which one of the party mounted, anxious, like Hotspur,
" to pluck up drowned honour by the locks ; " and so equipt
(and over and above provided with a long cord fixed to said
jacket) ventured on a voyage where man had never before
floated. Meanwhile we sat on a low ledge of rock, each of us
in the very position of Law's man when he was stitching, on

his board, the back-scam of your new breeches ; and we solaced

ourselves with a cigar, a luxury our floating friend could not

enjoy while he held a large candle in his mouth to light his
way over the waters. After running out IOO yards of rope
the chamber closed, and the water seemed to escape through

many narrow sink-holes. So the voyager came back, and we
all returned as we could, with our clothes almost peeled off
our bodies, and our knees and elbows the colour of damaged

indigo. I halted a day or two on my way back with our old
school-fellow Welsh. He gave a sort of al fresco party one
day in Ingleton fells ; which I enjoyed much, for its own sake,

and from the remembrance of past days that it stirred up.

After halting a few days more at Dent I was at length forced
to run away by my Cambridge engagements ; but I halted a

day at Liverpool, partly to see my nieces, and partly to see
the footsteps of a preadamite beast that used to walk over
the sands of Cheshire between high and low water mark. The

           520 THE SILURIAN SYSTEM.

1838.      rock with the impressions is as old as St Bees Head. By the
      53-
           way, next year the lasses will have left school, and I will try

           to give them a run through the Lakes, and bring them as far

           as St Bees. Will you take us in ? If so, Done ! And the

           word ' Done ' is a propos ; for my sheet is done, and I have
           done wonders, considering that this is the 28th letter I have
           scrawled since my return. Thank God I have now broken
           the neck of my arrears in the way of letter- writing. It always
           takes me a good part of a week to work myself right after my
           return, as no one knows my address while I am away for the

           summer.

                                                                    Yours ever,

                                                                   A. Sedgwick.

                Sedgwick's enforced absence from the consecration of
           Cowgill Chapel gave him much annoyance. " Is it not a

           pity," he wrote to his brother, "after being so often dragged

           to the North by odious money transactions, that I cannot

           now attend when it would gladden my heart to be with you ?
           But it would not do for me to be away from College at this

           time of year1." It was some consolation to him to learn that

           the ceremony was favoured by fine weather ; that the congre

           gation was large and sympathetic ; and that his own absence
           had been generally regretted. He testified his unabated
           interest in the good work by a further donation, by which
           the whole amount of his subscriptions was raised to two

           hundred guineas.

                Murchison's great work The Silurian System, on which

           he had been so long engaged, was published in the first days

           of 1839. It was dedicated in the most cordial terms to
           Sedgwick, and one of the first copies was sent to him at

           Norwich. The gift was promptly followed by a request that
           he would write a " little article, if only half a column," in The

           Times, to which he returned the following decisive answer :

           1 To Rev. John Sedgwick, 24 October, 1838.

          THE SILURIAN SYSTEM.

                                     8 a.m. January 10, 1839.

My dear Murchison,

              I am very deeply in your debt. First, your
magnificent present, for which I know not how to thank you.

Then two letters to answer, and no time to answer them at

any length. Accept, however, my best thanks, and warmest

congratulations on the new birth, full-grown and strong, as

it ought to be, after so long a period of gestation. And now

I hope you are doing as well as can be expected !
    In regard to your second letter and its request, I cannot

comply with for two or three reasons. First, have not
I                                               I
  II
                                                       a
          I it,
                              Iif
time to write to newspaper editors any letters fit to be read.

Secondly, have not time (while here) even to skim the book,

and yet ought to do that             dare to sit in the reviewer's

chair. Thirdly, will not condescend to write in paper

which think calumnious and dishonest, though very clever.

Fourthly, you have the assistance of Mantell, who having       a

little followed the trade of puffing can blow better blast than
                                             a

myself. Fifthly, because think your work of such solid
                            I
merit as not to need any artifice of publication and in myI
                                                ;

own case had much rather the means you point out were not
I
       I
used at all. Reasons    !!  why,  have sent you reasons enough
to sink a three-decker

am very busy as usual, and in addition to a great many

gastronomic labours, have day after day been sitting onI
committees of the Norwich M useum. After morning service
                                             is

                                                                        ?

                                                                 I
have one to attend to-day, so now am writing by candle
                                  I

light. Pray how are you all going on in London              Have

you heard anything about Jukes, who willing to go to

Newfoundland as surveyor          think he will do the work very
          a

                     if
                                          ?
                                I

                                     I
well, and that we are fortunate in having so good an offer.

Pray give him shove you can.                 have written about him

to Lonsdale and Darwin.                      Yours always,

                                             A. Sedgwick.

But, though Sedgwick declined to take up his pen in

           522 JOINT PAPER ON DEVON AND CORNWALL.

1839.      commendation of The Silurian System, his admiration of it
      54-  was cordial and sincere. Even at the close of his life, after long

           estrangement from the author, he could say that this year
           "formed an epoch in the history of European Geology;" and

           that whatever assistance might have been rendered by others,

           "the chief honour will ever be given to the author of the

           System, who brought the materials together and arranged

           them in that manner in which they are seen in his splendid
           work. Under his hands the older Palaeozoic Geology had

           assumed a new and a nobler type1."

           During the winter and early spring Sedgwick and Murchi-

           son were busy with a second joint paper on Devonshire and

           Cornwall. On this occasion, though Sedgwick's working-days

           were clouded, as usual, by business, lectures, and illness, the

           work proceeded more smoothly than might have been

           expected, and just before the date appointed for the reading

           of the paper (24 April) the weather cleared up, if we may

           use such a metaphor, and he could write : " Yesterday

           I had my field-lecture, and a scamper (often at full gallop) of

           thirty five miles did me a great deal of good, so that my head

           is clearer, and my gouty symptoms are, for the nonce, almost

           gone2." The paper, when read, "excited some pugnacity,
                                                                               "
           and we had a debate  upon  it  that  lasted  nearly  to midnight*
                                                                              ;

           but the result was evidently satisfactory, for Sedgwick good-

           humouredly passes on in the next sentence to lighter topics.

           The passage is interesting as shewing the affection he had

           already begun to feel for the Stanley family:

               " On Friday morning I called at Brook Street on the

           Bishop. All well. K. T. [Miss Catherine Stanley] all

           glorious to behold, with a gorgeous plume, just going to be
           presented at the Drawing-room. So she is now fairly out --

           no longer a mere chrysalis, a creature without sensibility,

           having neither organs of nutrition, nor wings, nor legs. But,

           1 Preface to Salter's Catalogue, etc. p. xxii.
           2 To R. I- Murchison, 20 April, 1839.
           3 To Canon Wodehouse, 30 April, 1839.

THE DEVONIAN SYSTEM.  523

on the contrary, she has glorious antennae waving over her                 1839.
head, organs of sense to discourse sweet music, arms for offence
                                                                         -i:t- 54-
and defence, and wings glittering like sunbeams on a May
morning. I hope in this transformation she has not acquired
a sting, as some winged creatures have. Be this as it may, I

shall hereafter treat her with great deference, now that she

is transformed, by the magical touch of the royal hand, into

a young lady."
     We have in the next place to speak of Sedgwick's joint

labours with Murchison on the Continent, which occupied four
months of the summer and autumn of 1839. Their object in
undertaking this tour can fortunately be stated in a passage

from their subsequent paper, read to the Geological Society
in May, 1840 -- a passage which, from internal evidence, we
feel inclined to ascribe to Sedgwick :

     "When we entered, during the summer of 1836, upon an exami
nation of the structure of North Devon, our sole aim was to determine

the position and relations of the culmiferous strata, about which
there had been much controversy. Before our task could be com
pleted, we were led to an examination of the lower groups of strata
both in North and South Devon, and to follow them in their prolon
gation into Cornwall ; and we at length arrived at the conclusion
that nearly all the older stratified rocks of both counties belonged to

one epoch, and must be included under one common designation.
We proposed the name of Devonian System for this great series of
deposits, and we placed it in a position intermediate between the
Lower Carboniferous and the Upper Silurian groups ; and therefore on
the exact parallel of the Old Red Sandstone, of which it was assumed
to be the equivalent under a new mineral type. We need not

inform the Society that this classification was strenuously opposed at

the time it was first brought forward, and that it has been combated

in some public journals since the appearance of our abstracts; nor do
we now deny that it was encumbered with great difficulties. To
believe that a limestone (like that of South Devon) overlaid by many
thousand feet of slate rocks almost devoid of fossils, was of the date
of the Old Red Sandstone, and that the greater part of the slates of
Cornwall (heretofore regarded, from their crystalline structure, as
primary formations of great antiquity), also belonged to the same
epoch, required no common confidence in the weight of evidence
offered by groups of fossils. With good hopes, but not without
considerable anxiety, we therefore resolved to examine some of the
continental localities which seemed likely to throw light on our

proposed classification ; conscious that it could never meet with

          524 CONTINENTAL PLANS.

   1839.  general acceptance unless confirmed by some analogous development
          of the upper transition rocks of France and Germany '."
/Et. 54.

          It was at first intended to begin with Brittany, " which

          from its geographical position, might be expected to offer

          some analogies of structure with Devonshire and Cornwall."
          In consequence we find Sedgwick corresponding with M. Elie

          de Beaumont and other French geologists, with the result

          that Brittany was presently abandoned, on learning from
          them " that the connexion between the carboniferous system

          and the inferior strata was obscurely exhibited in that region,
          and that the evidence offered by the fossils of the lower groups

          was meagre and unsatisfactory"."

               Murchison, meanwhile, was suggesting more distant fields
          of exploration ; and urged Sedgwick "to shake off Norwichian
          trammels," and start with him for Norway about the middle of

          May. To this tempting proposal Sedgwick replied : " I

          should delight in a tour in Norway and the country round the

          Baltic. My only fear that my engagements in our Chapter
          I

                         is,
          (and remember am junior) may make the tour impossible at
          the early time you fix on. The tour you mention, and

          another tour among the old rocks of France and the corre

          sponding rocks of the South of Ireland, am very anxious to
                                                                             I

                                                                                              is
          effect and then, as far as hard-working geology concerned,

            will shut up shop*." Finally, they tell us, "We resolved to
          I

                         ;

                                                    a
          begin with the transition rocks of the Rhenish provinces,
          knowing that on both banks of the Rhine we should be

          conducted through                            true carboniferous series, based on

          mountain limestone, into still lower groups of strata."

          Murchison, eager to begin his holiday as soon as possible,

          started alone at about the time originally suggested. His

          colleague departed, Sedgwick set to work to prepare their
          joint papers on Devonshire for the press. This labour

          brought on "gout, mental prostration, and entire loss of

          Transactions of the Geological Society, Second Series, vi. 222.
          * 21

                     I.

                                                         4
          Ibid. p. 223.                                     February, 1839.
          To R. Murchison,

WITH MURCHISON IN GERMANY.                                                                         525

intellect," a condition which Chapter business did not im-                                                        1839.
                                                                                                                        54-
prove. At last, however, in the middle of June, he too
?),                                                                                                I
effected his escape, and joined Murchison at Bonn. They seta
to work at once, ailments vanished, and before a fortnight wasa                                                a
over Murchison could report that " Sedgwick is as well as
ever I knew him -- eats, drinks, and digests like a Hercules,                                      ;

and is in great force1." If he wrote letters during his long

exploration of Rhineland and its neighbourhood, they have

not been preserved ; and for the route followed we must
content ourselves with a brief summary sent to Ainger after

his return.
     " We threaded our way through all the country on the

right bank of the Rhine between Westphalia and the Taunus

inclusive, then we crossed the plains of Hessia to the Hartz,

where we disported ourselves as in duty bound among
goblins and witches, with whom you know all that region is

peopled. Afterwards we crossed through the dominions of
the Prince of Sondershausen (did you ever hear of him
before and so to Gotha and Weimar. From the latter

place we plunged into the vast forests of Thuringia, and so

through Coburg (the breeding-ground of kings) and on by

the Franken Wald to Hof and Bayreuth, the old capital of the

Margraves of Anspach. From the last-named place we
doubled back to the Rhine by the great road of Bamberg and

Wartzburg, halting day or two at Frankfort. What have

written, though you trace my route on map, will give you
very inadequate notion of the extent of our tour, as all our

way was made in traverses and zigzags after the manner of
geologists. After we reached the Rhine again, we performed

similar evolutions on its left bank, working all the country
between the Hundsruck and the southern portion of Belgium

and, while my companion was away for a month in England2,
  extended my traverses to the very limit of the forest of the
I

       a1
                                                          i.
       Geikie's Life of Murchison,                            276.                 of the British  Association
                                                            to attend the Meeting
         Murchison went to England

at Birmingham.

           526

1839.      Ardennes, and threaded my way, partly on foot, through the
      54-  gorges of the Meuse between Mezieres and Namur. When

           Murchison rejoined me we had a second run through West
           phalia, and finally crossed from Dusseldorf to Aix-la-Chapelle,
           and so to Liege. We then went on a visit of three days to
           Baron d'Halloy, a geological friend in Belgium. From his

           house we found our way to Brussels, where we sold our

           carriage. A railroad gave us a ready run to Antwerp, and a
           steamer conveyed us to Tower Stairs about the end of

           October1."

                These laborious investigations did not at first lead to any
           clear result. In fact Sedgwick felt inclined to doubt whether

           the rocks he had been studying on the Continent could be
           classed as Devonian at all. " To-day," he wrote, soon after his

           return to Cambridge, " I began my lectures ; and as I had

           last year stated my views of the Devonian case to my pupils,

           and told them that I was going to join you in Brittany (for so
           I thought), to put our new views to the test, I felt obliged to
           explain to them the results of our summer's work, of which I
           gave them a brief abstract. This was quite necessary, and it
           can do no harm, as there is no report of what I say in my
           lecture-room. I told them plainly that I gave up the
           Devonian case, and that I considered the whole of the old

           rocks of Devon and Cornwall (excepting the Culms) as inferior

           to the Derby limestone ; but I added that the matter was still
           sub judice, and that our fossils had not been examined. My

           class was a good one ; two Heads of colleges, many Masters
           of Arts, and about sixty undergraduates; and many who
           attend me are not yet come up for the term*."

                While Sedgwick was lecturing at Cambridge, Murchison
           was examining with Sowerby and Lonsdale the fossils
           collected on their tour, and corresponding with M. de
           Verneuil, who had accompanied them for a portion of their
           journey. Fortified by these authorities, he made up his mind

                                        1 To Rev. W. Ainger, 18 February, 1840.
                                     2 To R. I. Murchison, 28 October, 1839.

DEVONIAN DIFFICULTIES.                                               527

more rapidly than Sedgwick, and before the end of January,                            1839.

1840. we find him pleading for an interview with his collabo-                       /Et- 54-
rator, " when I might explain in words what it would require

volumes to write1." Soon after this the interview took place,
and in February he was able to announce " the identity of the

uppermost greywacke of the Continent and the Devonian as

defined by Sedgwick and myself. I have arrived at this

conclusion for many months, and only waited the coming to

town of my colleague to open the campaign. Now that he has

been here, and that we are all agreed, the course is clear, and

we shall soon give a grand memoir to shew, etc.5" The

production of this memoir was, however, retarded, as usual,

by Sedgwick's ailments, the catalogue of which we know by

heart. This year he had more than common difficulty in

shaking them off, and during the early months of the year
was quite unable to work. He could still, however, joke over

his sufferings. Writing to Mrs Lyell he says:
     " Should you think it worth while to ask me what I am

doing, I can describe all my most active employments by the

word grumbling. All winter I have been a cross, crusty,

crabbed, careworn, caitiff. In outer looks I am sour, and

ill-favoured ; and, as I used to be rather vain of my person, I

have been ashamed of my ill-looks, and have not called on
any one, otherwise I might before this have tapped at your
door. My daily bread is made of calomel and colchicum ; and,

besides Medea's drugs, they have given me every day a stew in

her caldron. It would melt your heart, could you see me sitting

for half an hour each day in brimstone vapour at a tempera

ture of 11o'! And to crown all my misfortunes I have lost my

favourite dog*. The very beasts you see run away from me ! "

Towards the end of April he was ordered to Cheltenham.

The waters agreed with him, and he was soon able to report

some slight improvement.

1 From R. I. Murchison, 23 January, 1840.
2 Geikie's Life of Murchison, i. 286.
3 Enclosed is a hand-bill offering                                   of Shindy,
                                       os. od.  for the restoration              a

Spitzhund brought from Germany.

         528 JOINT PAPER READ.

1839.    "I am better than I was," he writes, "but far from
Et- 54-
         good working condition. All I can say                                           is,   will do my

         best. Alas during this winter and spring, my best has                             aI
            !
                              have lately been taking shower-bath
                    I
         been bad indeed.

         against some very uncomfortable symptoms in the nerves

         of my left side but on this subject mum1."
            ;

         Meanwhile Murchison was preparing to start for Russia,

         and could only be present on the evening when their paper

         was begun (13 May).  It     fell to Sedgwick's share to complete

         it. This he did, coming up from Cheltenham on purpose

         (27 May). The interest shewn when the new classification

         was first propounded had now died away, and all that he had
         to tell Murchison was, " Our paper went off well. Nobody

         made any fight." A summary of the conclusions arrived at

         will fitly close this chapter:

         " An examination of our fossil evidence has now led to                                a

         satisfactory conclusion, viz. that there                       group of rocks, charac
                                                                        is
                                                                            a
                                                                                   a
         terized by an appropriate group of fossils, in position, geologically

         as well as zoologically, intermediate between the Carboniferous and
         Silurian systems. The supposed 'Ludlow rock of Belgium passes
                                                                                      '

         into the mountain limestone, and even in its lower portions does not,

         as far as we know, contain         single Silurian fossil and our Eifel
                           a                                                             :
                                         a
         amollusca (about which we were most anxious, and of which we had
         procured fine series) were pronounced by Mr Sowerby, the moment
         he saw them, to form group analogous to that of South Devon....
         At the same time we submitted the Eifel corals to Mr Lonsdale, who

         with equal confidence pronounced them Devonian*."

              In the next chapter we shall review the geological work
         accomplished by Sedgwick between the year 1828 and the

         year which we have now reached.

         To R. Murchison, May, 840.
         Transactions of the Geological Society, Second Series, vi. 226.
         21

                    I.

                                                      1
                                                                     1

               CHAPTER XI.

Geological work accomplished between 1828 and 1838.
                          The Devonian System.

When we last interrupted the general narrative of

Sedgwick's life to discuss the value of his geological work1,

it happened that the papers reviewed had appeared during

the ten years which succeeded his election to the Wood-
wardian Chair in 181 8. In the present chapter it will be

convenient to consider in the first place those covering the

next decade, from 1828 to 1838.
     This second decade is certainly not the least important in

the history of Sedgwick's work. In the first he had travelled

far, and often ; had examined on the ground the work of
many of the pioneers of geology; had discussed the inter
pretation of many difficult structures with the leading
physicists of the age ; had made excursions with Conybeare
and Murchison, of whom the first taught him much, the

second learnt much from him ; and had met many good

local observers who one and all record the keenness of his

observation, the shrewdness of his generalisation, and the
inspiring charm of his enthusiasm.

     His first syllabus, drawn up early in his first decade, shows

how clearly he realised even then the problems to be solved.
His second syllabus, published at the beginning of his second
decade, has on it the impress of his own observations made in

the interval.  1 See above, pp. 284 -- 297 ; 325 -- 32S.
        s. i.
                                                          34

530 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828-- 1838.

     In the same way we find in the first decade but one great
original paper, that on the Lower New Red and Magnesian
Limestone Series, with several notes of less importance, such
as those on Devon and Cornwall, the Isle of Wight1, the
Trap dykes of the north of England, Alluvial and Diluvial
deposits, and the strata of the Yorkshire coast. The larger
papers of this period are those which give an account of his
tours with Murchison in Scotland and its Western Islands,
and in the Alps. These, as we have seen, were important
contributions in their way, and added much to what was
already known of the structure of the districts examined.
When, however, these papers are carefully analysed it will
be found that the chief value of those on Scotland consists in
the development and extension of the work of Macculloch ;
of that on the Alps that it brings to the notice of English
geologists for the first time the work of Boue, criticised and
epitomized by two such skilful handlers of the hammer and
the pen as Sedgwick and Murchison. But, after all, the
principal result of all this exploration is to be sought in its
effect upon Sedgwick's own subsequent work.

    At the commencement of the second decade we find him

President of the Geological Society, and his two addresses
tell us what new matter he thought of greatest importance
and interest to bring before the Fellows at their anniversary
meetings in 1830 and 1831. But he was now taking in
hand a far larger task, and within the next ten years he
had laid before the world sketches of the structure of the
Cumbrian and Cambrian mountains which have formed the
foundation of all subsequent work, not only in those districts,
but wherever Cambrian rocks occur throughout the world.

     1 His observations in the Isle of Wight were of considerable value, though he
did not himself fully realise their bearing till some years afterwards. We know
from the collection of fossils made by him in 1820, and still preserved in the
Woodwardian Museum, that he had discovered the marine beds at the top of the
Hampstead Cliff which are characterised by Voluta geminata Sow. [ V. Ralhieri,
Heb.], Potamiles plica/us Sow. [Cerithium plicatum Sow.]. Corbula rugosa Lam.
[Corbula pisum Sow.]-

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828-- 1838.

    Although it might appear from a glance down the list of
papers written by Sedgwick in his second decade that his

work was very desultory, closer examination reveals that

there was method in and that he was grappling with some
of the greatest problems of stratigraphical and dynamical
geology. The older rocks, among which nestle most of the
lakes of the north-west of England and which form the central
part of the Lake District, are wrapped round by newer
it,
           a
                                                                           a
deposits, and stand out like huge boss protruding through

lawn. Sedgwick set himself to work to make out, first, what

were the outside newer rocks, and how they behaved with

regard to the ancient central mass round which and over which

they had been thrown down as shingle and sand upon the

shore of an encroaching sea. All the while he was watching

the fragment of still more ancient world which revealed in
a                                                  ;
                    a
                                                        is
                                       is
                                                a
the central part of the district, after having been buried up for

ages, and comparing the character and structure of the older

rocks with those observed in the newer beds and in fact we

find his papers on the North of England of this date beginning

with an Introduction to the General Structure of the Cumbrian
Mountains. In this there
                                                   short sketch of the ancient

central mass, but the principal part of the paper taken upis
with description of the great dislocations by which the

surrounding Carboniferous rocks are now separated from it.
Then, to make sure that the character and succession of the

newer rocks was clearly established, in order to understand

how they behaved when they crept up to and round the

central mass, he made traverses across them in various direc

tions, and published the results in a paper read before the
Geological Society in March, 183 1. In this he gave sections
across the highest mountains of the Yorkshire moorlands,

carrying them over Penyghent to the Craven district, and

over the Pennine Range into the Eden Valley near Kirkby

Stephen.

     In the Eden Valley, however, there was evidence of another
great interruption in the continuity of deposit. As the

532 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828-- 1838.

Carboniferous rocks had been thrown down upon the ancient
land-surface seen in the central Lake District, so here in the
valleys that surround it there is clear evidence that the
Carboniferous Series in its turn had been uplifted from the
depths, and moulded by rain and rivers into an irregular

land-surface, which had again in its turn gone down to

receive the debris of the wasted land, the shingle-beach made
up of pebbles from the coast, and the sand and mud with
drifted plants which we see along the river-cliffs and hillsides
of the beautiful Eden Valley. This called for a separate paper,
which was read before the Geological Society on Feb. 1st, 1832.
Sedgwick was here on the equivalents of the Lower New Red
Sandstone which he had so well worked out on the other side
of the backbone of England and described six years before.

In the same year, 1832, he read before the Society a paper

on the Geological Relations of the Stratified and Unstratified
groups of Rocks composing the Cumbrian Mountains. This was
a further step in the prosecution of the work of which he had
given what he called the introduction in January 183 1. In
this there is more about the pre-Carboniferous rocks. He
describes the structure of the district more in detail, and,
with full acknowledgment of the excellent work done by

the local guide and fossil-collector Jonathan Otley, gives
a general classification of the rocks composing the central
mass. The opening words of the introduction explain the
place of this paper in his great plan for working out the
district. In it he

     "first shews that the limits of the region to be described are
defined by a zone of Carboniferous limestone based here and there
upon masses of old red conglomerate. This zone is described as
entirely unconformable to the central system, and for the phenomena
presented at the junction of the two great classes of rocks, he refers
to previous memoirs read before the Society."

     In 1832, the 4th year of his second decade, he had given
a very good sketch of the sequence of rocks in and around the
Lake district.

      Seeing the advantages of this mode of treatment, Sedgwick

                  GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828--1838.     533

a           now worked out more of the details and subdivisions of theit
         it,                    it,
            newer series as they approached close up to the Lake district,
            and described the rocks which generally lie at the base of thea

            Carboniferous Series in that country, immediately above the1
            old shingle which is found collected in the deeper hollows all
                  a
            round the ancient pre-Carboniferous mountain-land. In the1 it

            same paper, which was read before the Geological Society1
            10 November, 1835, he gave a description of some of the
            coal-bearing strata on the N.W. coast of Cumberland, having
            been assisted in the examination of that district by Mr
            Williamson Peile. This, however, required further working
            out, so they returned to and in June of the following year
            Sedgwick read another paper giving the results of their work.
            As soon as he had touched any district he was of course

            likely to feel an interest in all scientific questions connected
            with whether they bore directly upon the original object of

            his investigation or not; and so we find him in 1837 reading
              note before the British Association on the incursion of the

            sea into the colleries of Workington.
                 In the midst of all this work in the North of England, and

            well prepared by to grapple with the difficulties of compli
            cated district, Sedgwick plunged into the heart of North Wales
            in 83 1. We have seen that in 1821 he had sketched out in
            his first syllabus how he would set to work on the classification
            of the Transition Rocks, or Greywacke. He had done much

            among them during the ten years that had elapsed since

            that was printed, so was as no novice that he undertook the
            task of disentangling the folded and crumpled masses that lie
            in the wild mountain region of North Wales, where he set to
            work in such masterly manner that, " before the working-
            season was over (in 831)" he had " completed an approximate
            Geological Map from actual survey of the whole of Caernarvon
            shire1." In the following year, 1832, he returned to the district,

            and undertook what proved to be, in his own words, "the
            severest summer's task of my Geological life, namely, the

                                    Pre/ace to Salter's Catalogue, 410. Camb. 1873, p. xvi.

534 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828-- 1838.

interpretation and partial delineation of the order and principal
flexures of all the older deposits of the counties of Merioneth,
Montgomery, and Denbigh1." Nothwithstanding the diffi
culties of the task, he was prepared with "a brief synopsis,
illustrated by sections," of what he " had effected in Caernar
vonshire," by the time the British Association met at Oxford
in June, 1832. The meagre account of this synopsis in the
Report of the Association does not enable us to understand
his mode of procedure, or what were the results arrived at,
but fortunately we are not dependent upon that alone for
our information. He constantly wrote long letters when out
on such excursions, put down his first impressions, and dis
cussed all his difficulties. " I never had a geological secret in
my life " he once exclaimed in his later years. He very often
made a rough sketch of what he saw, sometimes to amuse a
child, sometimes to explain a point to a scientific friend, and,

though he much decried his own sections, they always give a
very good notion of the really important features in the
structure of the country. So we learn from his letters to
Murchison, and from Darwin's all too short recollections of

the trip, how Sedgwick tackled a new bit of country in those
days. From peak to peak, in traverse after traverse, he
always sought some more easily recognised strata as base
lines on which to build up the succession, and with which to
correlate adjoining sections. The amount of work he did was

marvellous.

    Even the unscientific reader will see that if Sedgwick is

right in the sketch of what he afterwards called the Cambrian
System which he made in 1832, and sent to the British
Association and to Murchison in the same year, the question
of priority of discovery of the succession of the rocks of North
Wales is very much simplified. So, with the view of fixing
the date upon the minds of our readers, we have already
printed the letter which Sedgwick wrote to Murchison from
North Wales, soon after he had begun work there, together

                     1 Preface to Salter's Catalogue, 4to. Camb. 1873, p. xvii.



ES OF SECTION DRAWN BY SEDGWICK IN 1832


GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1828-- 1838.  535

with a reproduction in facsimile of the pen-and-ink section
across the district which accompanies it1, and in this chapter
we give a part of the index-map of the Geological Survey,
which happens to be on about the same scale of distances as
Sedgwick's section. From this it will be seen that the Survey
thirty years afterwards gave no more subdivisions of the

stratified rocks of this area than Sedgwick had made in 1832,

and that their principal sections were drawn approximately
along the very same lines as Sedgwick had then suggested to
Murchison.

     Though Sedgwick did not dwell much upon Cosmogonies
and Theories of the Earth, except so far as they had to be
explained in his educational work, yet such enquiries as those
upon which he was engaged forced him to give attention
to some of the important questions of dynamical geology.
He could hardly have passed years in endeavouring to unravel
the gnarled and twisted Cambrian rocks, and in trying to
make out the dip where there were all sorts of divisional planes,
and the bedding turned out to be the least obvious, without
enquiring into the causes of those superinduced structures
which obscured the original simplicity of the sedimentary
rocks. Hence we find him towards the end of his second

decade putting together his notes On the Structure of large
Mineral Masses, and especially on the chemical changes
produced in the aggregation of stratified rocks during dif
ferent periods after their deposition. The explanations given
of these obscure phenomena were considered of such im
portance for the right understanding of Sedgwick's paper on
the origin and structure of the older stratified rocks, that the
Council of the Geological Society wisely decided to publish
this memoir before its turn, because they considered it to
be introductory to other papers by Sedgwick, some of
which were already printed. In this paper Sedgwick was
evidently drawing upon his own original observations, for we
find many references to districts on which we know he had

                                     1 See above, pp. 391 -- 394.

536 THE DEVONIAN SYSTEM.

been at work, as for instance to the concretions in the

Magnesian Limestone of Durham, and the nodular felsites
of North Wales, while in illustration of the cleavage and
other divisional planes his sections are all taken from North

Wales. New and better theories as to the cause of cleavage

may have been put forward, but the facts connected with its
mode of occurrence were once for all clearly established by

Sedgwick, whatever he may have understood by the polar

forces which, according to him, played so large a part in the
production of the phenomena. The columnar structure of

basalt he rightly referred to shrinkage, and showed that some
of the curious forms produced among the Granite Tors

should be referred, not to concretionary action, but to the

peeling off of the exposed surfaces, urging in illustration the
fact that "ancient pillars of granite have been known to ex
foliate in cylindrical crusts, parallel to the axes of the pillars ;
and even pillars of oolitic limestone, which unquestionably

have no spheroidal structure, sometimes exfoliate                           in
                                     is
                                         a

                                                                      (e.
                                                                     is g.
the second court of Trinity College, Cambridge) in crusts

parallel to the axes of the several pillars." There                         no

doubt that this paper of Sedgwick's   grand classic work,

treating of questions which must be grappled with by any one

who would work profitably among the older and altered rocks.
    About the close of this period (1828 -- 38), Sedgwick, in

conjunction with Murchison, commenced those investigations

in England and on the continent which resulted in the estab

lishment of the Devonian System. The course of Sedgwick's

biography has already indicated the steps by which they

were gradually led to lines of enquiry beyond their first

intentions, and to inferences very different from their first

impressions but, as even those conversant with the history of
geology have probably forgotten the details of the subject,
is

   ;

           it
                                                      it,

                                                                                       la
and the controversy which arose over  some further ex

planation necessary.
     Looking back does not seem difficult to explain how such

men as Sedgwick and Murchison on the one hand, and De

       THE DEVONIAN SYSTEM.              537

Beche on the other, should have so long differed as to the inter

pretation of the geology of a district like Devon and Cornwall.

Neither side had as yet all the data, and the facts which

had been forced on the notice of one, were not the same

as those that had come under the observation of the other.

It is a controversy very characteristic of a certain stage

of geological enquiry. In the crumplings that have been

going on in the crust of the earth, large areas that were once

uneven land-surfaces have been submerged, and, more than

that, one side of a country has often gone down sooner, or

more rapidly, than another; so that, although the debris of

the land may have been continuously deposited all the while
it of course gathered more quickly and more thickly in the

hollows, and formed vast accumulations in one place, while,

not far off, it may not have begun to be laid down at all.

So the basement-bed in one district is much newer than the

basement-bed of what seems to belong to the same age of

submergence and deposition in an adjoining area. Sand and

shingle gathered in one place, silt in another ; here the water

was turbid, and creatures that loved the mud enjoyed their

life ; while round the headland there was clear and perhaps

deep water, and creatures abounded that loved the deep blue
Ifsea, or the crisp white breakers.
                                     in after-ages we were to

come upon isolated patches of deposits accumulated under

such various conditions it is obvious that there might be

great difficulty in placing them in chronological order. This

is the difficulty which lies at the bottom of the Devonian

Question.
     The rocks of the northern part of the Devon promontory

lie in a trough-like fold running east and west, so that the
older rocks turn up along the Bristol Channel, and again on
the south along a line running roughly west from Exeter to
the sea. The newer rocks, therefore, lie in the middle of this

trough. Neither of these two series was found to be exactly
like the rocks which occurred on the other side of the channel
about the horizon where these might be expected. The older

S. I.                                35

538 THE DEVONIAN SYSTEM.

and the newer were supposed at first to be of the age of some
part of the Cambrian or Silurian of Wales deposited under
somewhat different conditions, and like them were spoken of
as greywacke ; yet they were different from the greywacke of
Wales. Moreover the upper series contained plants and coal,
but was not like the rocks of the South Wales coal-field, nor
was the lower series like what was there found below the coal.

It therefore became necessary to consider whether any of

these Devon beds were the geological equivalents of deposits
thrown down under different conditions in the adjoining area
of Wales, and, when there was a likeness, whether some of

them might after all have only an accidental resemblance to
the strata with which they had been hitherto identified.

      Sedgwick and Murchison first removed the upper series
from the greywacke, and identified it with the coal-measures.

At this stage De la Beche objected, as he could not see such
a strong line of separation between the upper and lower series
of Devon as this implied, either palaeontological or strati-
graphical. Sedgwick and Murchison urged the similarity of
the fossils of the Culm beds to those of the Carboniferous
Rocks, and showed how the coal-measures of South Wales
changed as they were traced west, and the coal of the South
Wales Field passed into the Culm of Pembrokeshire ; while

De la Beche pointed out that plants similar to those of the
culmiferous beds are found also in the subjacent rocks into
which the Culm Measures passed down in Devonshire.
Whewell in his presidential address to the Geological Society

(1838) states the case very fairly, and expresses the opinion
that, whatever views with regard to the correlation of the
rocks of Devonshire might eventually prevail, they had
then sufficient clear and positive knowledge to separate the
culmiferous from the subjacent strata in their lists and on
their geological maps.

      But there was something in De la Beche's contention
that the lower set of beds in Devonshire also contained some

plant remains, and that the newer beds were for various

THE DEVONIAN SYSTEM.                                                       539

reasons more closely connected with them than the true coal
measures were known to be with the greywacke in any area
which had been worked out. The next step in the enquiry
therefore was to make out whether even the lower set of beds
of Devonshire were greywacke ; and when they had been
re-examined, and their fossils had been submitted to Lindley,

Sowerby, and Lonsdale, and the Devon rocks and fossils had
been compared with those which occurred on the continent in
a corresponding position, it was found that the lower series
of Devon rocks must also be taken out of the greywacke,

and considered as something older than the carboniferous
beds, but much newer than any beds of greywackd age.
When this view had been clearly formulated, and Murchison
had given up his identification of part of the Devonian with
the Caradoc sandstone, no further serious opposition was
offered. The work had grown gradually. De la Beche,
Austen, Weaver, and Williams had helped with facts or
useful criticism ; and, as far as the points then in dispute

are concerned, the question was finally settled, and the
now received classification of the Devon rocks remains as
Sedgwick and Murchison left it : Culm Measures above,
and Devonian below : the base of the Devonian being there

unknown.

END OF VOLUME I.

CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BV C. J. CLAY, M.A. AND SONS, AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

THE

     LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                            OF

                           THE REVEREND

ADAM SEDGWICK,

                                        LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.,
                 FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                 PREBENDARY OF NORWICH,
            WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY, 1818-- 1873.

                                                                            BY

       JOHN WILLIS CLARK, M.A. F.S.A.

FORMERLY FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY
                         MUSEUM OF ZOOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY,

                                                                AND

          THOMAS MCKENNY HUGHES,

                                M.A. TRIN. COLL. F.R.S. F.S.A. F.G.S.
                                 PROFESSORIAL FELLOW OF CLARE COLLEGE,

                                        WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY.

VOLUME II.

                         v  PRESS

              3

           CAMBRIDGE

AT THE UNIVERSITY

1890

[The Right of Translation and Reproduction is reserved.]

     UL 16 1890

                          ffiambrtogt :

PRINTED BY C. J. CLAY, M.A. AND SONS,
          AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

                            /

  CONTENTS

                        OF THE

SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

(1840-- 1843.)

Domestic side of Sedgwick's character. Explorations at Bartlow. Death of

Dr Ainger. Contested election for High Steward. Agassiz and the glacial

theory. New Geological Museum. Count Minister's collection. Difficulties

of Church membership. Professor Smyth's lectures (1840). British Associa

tion at Plymouth. Geology in Ireland and Scotland. Whewell Master of

Trinity. Plesiosaurus from Whitby (1841). Revision of College statutes.

Letters to Wordsworth. British Association at Manchester. Geology in

North Wales (1842). Blowing up of Dover Cliff.  Geology in North Wales.
Queen's Visit to Cambridge (1843)                                     pp. 1-- 67.

CHAPTER II.

(1844--1849.)

Invitation to British Association. Meeting at York. Controversy with Dean

Cockburn (1844). Article in Edinburgh Review. British Association at

Cambridge. Elected Vice-Master of Trinity College. Geology in Lake

Land. Quarrel with Dr Whewell (1845). Geology in North Wales (1846).

Long illness. Prince Albert elected Chancellor. Sedgwick appointed his

Secretary. Sir Harry Smith at Whittlesea. Installation of the Prince.

Visit to Osborne (1847). Geology in Scotland. Lecture at Ipswich (1848).
Jenny Lind. Trial of Rush. Accident. British Association at Birmingham.
                                                     pp.68 -- 166.
Death of Bishop Stanley. Breaks right arm (1849). .

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER III.

The Royal Commission of Inquiry. Sedgwick asked to be a Commissioner.

His hesitation. British Association at Edinburgh. Visits Duke of Argyle.

Fifth Edition of his Discourse (1850). Receives the Wollaston medal.
Account of his Geological Work since 1838. Geological tour in Cornwall

and North Wales (1851). Estrangement from Murchison. Action of the

Council of the Geological Society. Visits the Queen at Osborne. Publication

of Commission Report (1852).                      pp. 167--229.

CHAPTER IV.

                     (.851-1855.)

Domestic life. Funeral of the Duke of Wellington. Lectures at Leeds (1852).

Refuses Deanery of Peterborough.  Fifth Letter on Geology of Lake Land.

Naval Review. Geology in Wales. British Association at Hull. Visit of

the Duke of Brabant. Death of Dr Mill (1853). Archaeological Institute at

Cambridge. Geology in Wales. British Association at Liverpool (1854).

Proposed Parliamentary Commission. British Association at Glasgow.

Tour in Scotland. Lecture at Kendal. Publication of British Paleozoic rocks

and fossils (1855). General Criticism of his Geological Work (1851 -- 1855).

                                                  pp. 230--310.

CHAPTER V.

                     (1856-- 1862.)

Death of Margaret Sedgwick. Jenny Lind at Norwich. Image and Hawkins

Collections. Lucas Barrett. British Association at Cheltenham. Recollec

tions of Sir J. Malcolm (1856). Dr Livingstone at Cambridge. Last Lecture

(1857). Eclipse of the Sun. New Collegiate Statutes. Last Lecture (1858).
Death of John Sedgwick. British Association at Aberdeen. Darwin's Origin
of Species (1859). Lecture on Geology of Cambridgeshire. Honorary
Degree at Oxford (1860). Visit from Mrs Livingstone. The American
Sedgwicks. Death of Henslow. British Association at Manchester. Last

Lecture. Death of Prince Albert (1861). American  War. Visit to the
Queen. British Association at Cambridge. Resigns  Vice-Mastership of

Trinity College (1862)                                  pp. 311 -- 384.

CHAPTER VI.

                     (1863-- 1869.)

Receives Copley Medal of Royal Society (1863). Royal Visit to Cambridge.

     Death of Mr Romilly (1864). Foundation of Sedgwick Prize. Symptoms of

heart-disease. Visit from Dr Livingstone (1865). American Lectureship.
Death of Whewell. Honorary Degree at Cambridge (1866). Tour in West
\of England (1867).               the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel. Fiftieth
    Memorial by                   of Lady Murchison (1869). pp. 385 -- 45 1 .
course of Lectures(1868). Death

                                  CONTENTS.     vii

                      CHAPTER VII.

                                  (1870-1873.)

Severe attack of bronchitis. Last visit to Dent. Speech at Norwich. Fifty-

second course of Lectures (1870). Employments of his old age. Last

dinner-party.         Purchase of Leckenby collection (1871). Interest in the

Museum. Preface to Salter's Catalogue (1872). Last weeks. Death and

Funeral. Dean Stanley's sermon. Memorial at Cambridge. Memorial at

Dent (1873).

Personal appearance.  Portraits.  Lectures.  Reminiscences of daily life.
                                                                                  pp. 451--501.

                           CHAPTER VIII.        pp. 501--563.

Sedgwick's Geological work.

                      CHAPTER IX.

Sedgwick's life at Norwich. 1834 -- 1873. By the Rev. C. K. Robinson, D.D.
      Master of S. Catharine's College, and Prebendary of Norwich, pp. 564--590.

List of Sedgwick's Works.                       591 --604

List of Sedgwick's Portraits.                   Co.;

Index.                                          607 -- 640

"

        CHAPTER I.

        (1840-- 1843.)

Domestic side of Sedgwick's character. Explorations at
     Bartlow. Death of Dr Ainger. Contested election
     for High Steward. Agassiz and the glacial theory.
      New Geological Museum. Count Munster's collection.
     Difficulties of Church membership. Professor Smyth's

     lectures (1840). British Association at Plymouth.
     Geology in Ireland and Scotland. Whewell Master
     of Trinity. Plesiosaurus from Whitby (1841). Revision
     of Collece statutes. Letters to Wordsworth. British

      Association at Manchester. Geology in N. Wales.

     (1842). Blowing up of Dover Cliff. Geology in
     N. Wales. Queen's Visit to Cambridge (1843).

WERE it desirable to divide Sedgwick's life into periods,

according to his special interests and occupations, it might be

said that we were now entering upon the domestic period --just

as the years between 18 18 and 1840 might be called the
geological period. Without, however, insisting upon such

sharply defined subdivisions, which would only lead to

erroneous conclusions, it must be admitted that from 1840
onwards he devoted a considerable portion of his time and

attention to his two nieces. He did his best to form their

characters and direct their studies by regular correspondence;
and, during his periods of residence at Norwich, one or both

S. II.                  I

         2 DEATH OF EMMA SEDGWICK.

1840.    usually resided with him. While under his roof, no father
Et- 55'
         could have shewn more tender solicitude for a favourite child,

         or taken greater pains to provide everything-- books, music,

         exercise, society --that a young lady could possibly require

         for her instruction, amusement, and health.

             A death in the family circle at Dent determined Sedgwick's

         first invitation to his niece Isabella. In February, 1840, his

         brother John had the misfortune to lose his second daughter,
         Emma. Sedgwick was deeply afflicted by the fatal termination

         of a long illness which does not seem to have been thought

         dangerous. " I greatly pity the father and mother," he wrote *,
         " and still more poor Isabella, who has lost the companion of

         her childhood and only sister ; and I did not think that

         such an event could have given me such deep pain as it has

         done." To his sister-in-law, writing on the day of the funeral,
         he said : " What a beautiful sunny day it is ! And yet this is

         a gloomy day at the dear old parsonage of Dent, which I still
         look to as my home, for, if I understand my brother right, the

         last mournful office is to be performed over the remains of the

         dear child this very day. Oh ! that I could transport myself

         to your fire -side, and mourn with you and your children !
         How does poor Isabella bear up? I pity her very much....

         Should it be God's will ever to deprive her of her present

         home while I am living, in that case (if she has no better home)
         she shall live with me, and I will love her as much as if I were

         her fathera."

             To Isabella herself he addressed a letter of tender conso

         lation and wise advice, which, long as it
                                :                                          we reproduce

         almost as was written                                        is,
         I it
         Dearest Isabella,      Cambridge, April ith, 1840.
                         21
                         was very glad to see your letter, kindly written so

         very soon after your return to Dent and the melancholy
         expressions in the latter part of did not surprise me, for they
                                1

                                  it
                                                      ;
                             To Rev. W. Ainger, 23 March, 1840.
                             To Mrs Sedgwick, March, 1840.

             CONSOLATION OF OTHERS.

were quite natural. But I am sure you will not sorrow as one        1840.

without hope. And how very light is the grief of a Christian,     ^l- 55-

who believes that he is only parted for a time from those he

loves, and trusts by God's grace to meet them again, where

they will all live for ever in the presence of their Maker and
Saviour!. ..A death like that of dear Emma is a death

deprived of its worst sting. Not that we are forbidden to
mourn --far otherwise. Our religion chastens and regulates

the feelings of our nature, but does not root them out.

When Jesus was at the grave of Lazarus, He wept, and the
Jews said "Behold how He loved him!" And when Paul

quitted his flock at Miletus they wept sore and fell on

his neck and kissed him, sorrowing that they should see his

face no more. If our religion told us not to mourn for our

departed friends it would indeed be hard for beings like

ourselves to obey the precept. But I do trust, my dear

Isabella, that day by day your grief will become subdued, and

that you will soon learn to look back with cheerfulness on the
days you have spent with your sister--on her kind words --
her kind looks -- on the thousand little acts of kindness she

did for you and received from you in return. Next to the
consolations of Christian hope -- the only real consolations
in the pinching hour of trial, -- I would urge you to exert

yourself strenuously in the performance of the daily duties

that are before you, such as helping your mother in her

household duties, visiting and comforting your neighbours in

distress, attending to the Sunday school, &c. &c. Do all these

things with redoubled zeal, both as points of duty and as a

means, under God's blessing, of keeping off the encroachments

of a morbid and diseased melancholy. Grief sometimes

produces langour and indolence, which are not only bad

in themselves, but tend to perpetuate the very evil in which

they originate. But take care not to run into the other
extreme, and to hurt your health by doing too much ; and do
get into habits of strong exercise. On this point be as resolute

as you can.

                                     1-- 2

           4 CONSOLATION OF OTHERS.

1840.      In striving to fix and strengthen your principles, which is
      55-
           the great point, strive also day by day and hour by hour to

           improve your understanding, and to add to your knowledge.

           Your father and mother have given you a good education,

           but your whole life, to be good and useful and happy, must be
           a life of continued training and education. Be then, as far as

           you may, regular and systematic in your studies. Make
           yourself well acquainted with Bible history. And, when you

           have gone carefully over any portion, (for example the
           Patriarchal history of the early books of the Old Testament,

           the period of the Judges, or the succession of the Kings) you

           may then consult some abridgment such as that given in the

           Bishop of Lincoln's book1 (which my brother has in his
           library) in which the events are related systematically. But

           never permit such abridgments to usurp the place of the Bible,

           only to help you in comprehending it. The same remark

           applies to the Jewish customs and stated festivals. Consider
           what effect they had on the manners and habits of thought of

           the Jewish nation, how well fitted to make them a peculiar
           people to whom the oldest oracles of God were committed, --

           and how every dispensation bears upon another order of

           things, when the old law was to be done away as far as it was

           ceremonial. In short, learn to understand the old dispensa

           tion as a schoolmaster to lead you to a knowledge of the

           Gospel.

                From the study of Bible history you must go on to a

           study of ancient history, and I know no book better for you to

           read than Rollin, and read it in French to keep up your

           knowledge of that language, which you must not allow to

           slip away from you. I can procure it for you when you want

           it. After having read
           1                      or along with                                     you may read

                              of

                                                          2

                                                    it,
                                                                               it,
           certain parts of the Prophetic Books of the Old Testament,

           such for example as the passages selected for the daily

           lessons of our Church during Advent, Nativity, and Epiphany.

                 Elements Christian Theology, by G. Tomline, DD., successively Bishop of

           Lincoln and Winchester; vols. 8vo. Lond. 1799.

CONSOLATION OF OTHERS.

These passages lose much by being taken separately. They       1840.
                                                                     S5-
ought to be studied again and again in connexion, and as

bearing on the great events in our Saviour's ministration,

and the propagation of the Gospel...

    After some time I should wish you to read some of
the translations of the old historians. I can procure for

you the French translation of Herodotus -- a very amusing
and most instructive book --which will make you acquainted
with several parts of profane history which are more or

less connected with the historical portions of the Bible.

    I don't know whether you have a good verbal memory.
I have a very bad one, and I would not wish you to spend

much time on committing passages to memory, if you cannot

do so with ease and comfort to yourself. There are many

beautiful passages in the Psalms which I think you might
commit to memory with advantage ; and if so, pray learn

them from the translation in the Bible, which is far better

and more faithful than that in the Prayer Book. I would

apply the same remark to books of poetry in general. If

you can do so with ease and pleasure, learn by heart short
passages which strike you as very good and beautiful. Now
don't be alarmed because I am talking of so much that

is to be done. I am telling you of the kind of way I should

wish you to train your mind, and speaking of studies that

are to last as long as God spares your faculties, and which

I should wish to be pursued with continued feelings of
comfort and delight. But I will not go on, lest I should
tire you. I do trust you will go on improving in knowledge

and in goodness, and that you will become a well-informed

woman ; but I trust also that you will continue to be

single-hearted, and humble, and charitable in the true

and Christian sense. And God forbid that you should

ever learn to think too well of yourself, and too ill of

those about you. But I will not fear this. Simplicity,

humility, and charity are a woman's best graces.

      Instead of going to St Mary's Church we had a sermon in

6 PLANS FOR HIS NIECES.

:4o. our Chapel this morning ; and since I came out I did not
. 55- think I could do better than have some quiet talk with my

        dear niece on grave matters....

                         Ever most affectionately yours
                                                      A. Sedgwick.

    A week later he wrote : " Some time during the month of

June I trust I shall see you all at Dent, and I will try to
persuade you to let Isabella go back with me to Norwich.

This is a capital plan. She shall work hard with me, but it

shall be a work of good-will. For example, while I am at

morning service in the Cathedral she may be taking a music-

lesson, if she likes, of one of the best masters in England1.

We will walk together, and drive out together, and perhaps I

may procure a pony for her to accompany me on horseback.

She will see much good society, and I trust she will improve

in health, spirits, and information."
     This programme was carried out with complete success,

music, riding, society, and the rest. Sedgwick's residence at
Norwich was this year transferred from the winter to the

summer, and lasted from the middle of July to the end of

September. During the whole time Isabella Sedgwick kept
him company, and the long letters he wrote regularly to Dent

tell how affectionately he looked after her, and watched with

delight the interest taken in her by his friends.
     Sedgwick's second niece -- who, by the way, could only by

courtesy be called his niece --now demands a few words.
His brother James, whom we left at Freshwater in the Isle
of Wight, had lost his wife in 1835. In 1838 he married a
widow lady, Mrs Hicks, for whose daughter Fanny Sedgwick
at once conceived a great affection. He commenced a

correspondence with her, just as he did with his own niece
Isabella, from which we shall extract several very graphic
and interesting letters. She was but twelve years old in

1840, and some years therefore elapsed before she too

    1 Mr (afterwards  Dr) Zachariah  Buck, organist of Norwich Cathedral

1819--77.

                     PRACTICAL ADVICE.

became a frequent visitor at Norwich. Meanwhile her                                                    1840.
uncle did not forget her mental and social development.                                                      S5-
Here is some advice of general application :

  To Miss F. Hicks.                         Dent, October gii, 1840.

                " Talking of getting by heart, have you a good
verbal memory ? If you have not, improve
                                            and you
                                            I
have, cultivate
                                                 is
                                                       it,

                                                              ; if
                     by systematically committing to memory
            I

                      it,
                                         a
some beautiful short passage in prose or verse every day of

your life.      say short, because a long task fatiguing but

II  wish your labour to be labour of love. have Goldsmith's

  poems on my table, and you might begin with them, for they

  are very sweetly written. If you began this habit, you might

  always have something to write about, and you might ask me
  now and then for new lesson, which we might be reading
                     a

  together though 200 miles asunder. Prose more difficult
                                            I
  to commit to memory than verse, but there are manyI is

                                                                is,
  beautiful passages, both in the Old and New Testament, that

    should wish every child of mine, were blessed with any,

  to have by heart. What pretty expression that to have
    by

                 It

                                    a
  a thing heart.        exactly expresses what mean, that we

  should remember beautiful passages because we love them

  for the beauty of their language and the goodness of their

  sentiments."

  To the same.
                                                           THORNEY, December y1th, 1840.

                     " Rise betimes, Fankin, or you will never get on
  with your work. An hour's leisure before others are stirring

  (while your head clear, and your heart as ought to be)
  worth two hours of elbowing when others are up and about

  their own work, jostling you at every turn. Let me see, here

      a copy of Cowper's works. Let me try for passage or

  two before am interrupted. What do you say to the Report

  of an Adjudged case, or Nose v. Eyes The Negro's Complaint
  and, John Gilpin The whole poem On the receipt of my

  Mother's picture. The Task you should read once fairly
is

              I

                                ? is
                                                                 ;
                                                                         it
                                                                                                    a

                                                                                         ; is

8 PRACTICAL ADVICE.

p. through, twice if you like. Then select and commit to

55- memory some good passages, for example : Book                                 ',                   long

                                                                                       I.,

                                                                                             ; ', a
                                                                                                         ; ',
passage beginning, Not rural sights alone, but rural sounds
is

                                 ;

                                     a'

                                                                               :

                                          I'
                                                                               '
very good (2) long passage By ceaseless action etc.

(3) Description of the Gipsy                                                    saw a column etc. (4) a

little farther on are some sweet lines about Omai, the savage

brought to England by Captain Cook. Book II. 'England

with all thy faults love thee still long and noble passage
a

     I
             I

                  I

                                                 ',
                                                            ',
                                                        a
well worth the trouble of committing to memory. Would
                                                                                  '

                                                                                              I

describe preacher such as Paul etc. another noble passage,

followed by about 30 lines of the next passage against
affectation. think have sent you enough for the present.

     " In reading Cowper, or any other author, try to connect his

works with his biography. In that way they give you more

pleasure and instruction. Never commit anything to memory

that not worth remembering, and whatever you undertake
is
                 it
                                 is
                                          it
in this way do thoroughly, so that you may never again

forget it. Most people have very imperfect and hazy ideas
for want of attending to this good rule. Try always to connect

your reading so as to give                    meaning and consistency.

Connect a poet's works with his biography, with the history,

as far as may be, of his times. Learn in that way to follow

out your reading. It ten times more instructive in that

way. When people are always running from one thing to

another without any system, they do very little comparative

good by it. The rule applies to serious as well as to lighter

reading. Now must stop."
I

       it I

                 is

                        I

                                                                          a

                                                                      ;I
                                                                                  October 26th, 1845.

..." Now as  Sunday will preach to you little.

1. Don't be slovenly either in your person or habits. Of

the first do not accuse you, dear Fan, but of the second

rather do. Never leave your pocket-handkerchief about

keep all your books and things in their right places. Don't

plead excuse by thinking of persons of slovenly habits

(like myself for example), but take warning by them, and

                  PRACTICAL ADVICE.

believe that these habits are bad in a man, and interfere with     1840.
                                                                         55-
his comforts and his usefulness; and still worse in a woman,

and utterly without excuse.

      2. When you are working at anything (whether finger
work or head work, no matter), do it heartily. Avoid

dawdling--it is a deadly evil. How many there are of

this abominable class of dawdlers ! Men complain of the

shortness of time ; and well they may, while they turn their

short allowance to so little account. I believe that dawdlers,

who have been very prolific, have bred a race of grumblers ;

sprightliness, activity, and happiness, are sisters by blood, and

are best seen together ; and they will be your constant
visitors if you take the right way to please them.

3. Be punctual in all your engagements. Time is not
Ifgiven you to play with.
                             you are one minute behind time,

do learn (no matter what the appointment may be) to think
it a misfortune. Yea, and it may be a sin too. When you

come to me next spring I shall expect you to be punctual to

a moment. The habit once gained is a perpetual comfort to

yourself and to those about you, and it helps you in the

performance of your daily task. And do believe that you

have a daily task. Life is worth nothing without it implies

duties, and very solemn duties, both to God and man. Don't

suppose I want you to be severe --not a bit of it. I like

a merry face and a merry heart ; but then our joys should

be those of Christians. And we have no right to waste God's

gifts by dawdling and other bad habits."...

     The next letter is in pleasant contrast to these serious
admonitions. It will be remembered that Sedgwick had been

present at the previous excavations at Bartlow in 1835 and

1838.                        Trinity College Hall,
                                             April 23rd, 1840.
    My dear Fan,

                I wish you could only see me, looking sour as a

crab, and dignified as a round of beef, surrounded by sixty-nine

         io OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.

 1840.   unfortunate undergraduates, whom I am tormenting with long
         Latin passages that I have given them to translate. Some of
Et- 55-
         them are, like yourself, puckering their brows into furrows ;

         others are writing with one hand, and scratching their heads

         with the other; some are turning their eyes towards the
         rafters to look after lofty thoughts ; others are striking their
         brows with their knuckles, and, from their looks of disappoint

         ment, I half suspect that, spite of their knocking, they have
         found no one at home to answer them. Well ! but I will not
         make a mock of the miseries of those about me, as I have

         endured them all in my younger days, and know their smart.
         Still my office is that of Inquisitor, and to torment those
         within my grasp seems to be a part of my melancholy duty.

         This is a terrible long sheet, and how shall I contrive to fill it ?

         ILet me see, I have nothing to write about but myself ; so

         must give you my history.
              On Thursday last I returned from a two days' excursion

         to Bedfordshire ; and next day drove over to Ely to see my old
         college friend Dean Peacock. I intended to have returned on
         Saturday evening; but he persuaded me to remain over Easter
         Sunday. The service in the Cathedral was very fine and

         solemn, and the singing excellent ; and when the prayers were

         over, we adjourned to the great area under the lantern, where
         the congregations of all the churches of the city were united

         and addressed by the Dean. It was a very striking sight to
         see crowds of people, and long groups of children from the

         different Sunday Schools, come streaming in at the different

         doors, and gradually arranging themselves in the great area,

         before the sermon began ; and the whole scene reminded me
         more of the pageants and processions one sees in the Roman
         Catholic cathedrals of the continent, than of the ordinary
         worship of a quiet protestant congregation.

              On Monday I halted only a few hours at Cambridge, and
         then went on to Lord Braybrooke's, for the purpose, not
         merely of partaking of his hospitalities and meeting a large
         and pleasant party, but also in the hopes of assisting at the

OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.                                      11

opening of a great barrow or tumulus, at Bartlow, a village                                          1840.
                                                                                                   ^Et" 5S
about seven or eight miles from Audley End. I have been

there on several similar occasions1, and I am sorry to say that

this is the last, for all the great barrows have now been opened

and despoiled of their contents. The custom of throwing great

heaps of stones over the dead, and piling great mounds of earth

over their remains, as you know, very ancient, and several
I

                    is ;

                     I is,
                         if

                                           a

                                is I

                                                                                   !

                                                                                               ;a
                                                                                        is

                                                                        if
                                                                           it it I
times alluded to in the Bible. The old Britons constantly

raised such monuments, and you must have seen some of them

on the chalk hills of the Isle of Wight. The Romans, when they

had possession of this country, sometimes adopted the custom;

for all the barrows near Bartlow are proved to be Roman.

wish could draw, and then would send you beautiful

picture of them but cannot draw half so well as a pig's foot,

which can make its own likeness in mud and clay and

had a brush and a pallet there no knowing what pictures

might not make. But     pig's foot can draw, let me try my

hand. So here a picture for you

b,   Now my dear little antiquary, the first question What?
things do these big mounds of earth hold and the next       ?
           itquestion How to get at them Now in the little tumuli or
barrows (which from their size one may call wheel-barrows, a,   is,
                 is,
   c, d,) was soon found that bones and works of Roman
itart were placed exactly on the level of the ground, and in
the exact centre of the barrow --all under little brick vaults.
Hence was supposed probable that all the furniture of the
great hills might be packed in a similar way. Therefore
Lord Maynard (to whom the ground belongs) ordered cuts

       See Vol. pp. 506 -- 509. The descriptions of the successive explorations of
these tumuli are referred to on p. 509, note.
1

                   i.,

           OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.

1840.      to be made on the level of the ground, and to be driven to
      55-
           the centre of the circle that forms the base of each mound
           (see my beautiful drawing, hill No. 2) ; and in each case the
           result was the same (with the exception of hill No. 4, which
           some thief had entered before us, and taken care to carry
           away all the furniture of the larder). In the middle of the
           base was a box, as you may well suppose, rather the worse
           for wear, and partly filled with dirt and soil that had passed
           through the broken lid. But the earth had made a kind of

           natural vault, like a baker's oven, so that there was far less

           dirt than you would have expected, and the vessels inside
           were beautifully perfect, at least, the greater part of them.
           They consisted of fine, and very elegantly formed, bronze
           vessels of sacrifice ; of many vessels of glass, some of which

           contained liquor, but whether it had been wine, or a decoction

           of an old Roman, I can hardly tell you, but I know that it

           was very bad. In each barrow there was also a bronze
           lamp ; and in the largest (No. 2) part of the oil was left
           in a kind of stiff resinous form, and the wick was not half

           consumed, so I believe the box was shut up while the lamp
           was burning, and that it went out for want of air. Each box
           contained also a large glass vessel with fragments of burnt

           bone from the funeral pile (for you remember the Romans
           burnt their dead, and made their monuments over the ashes

           and half-burnt bones, but in the British barrows you find

            entire skeletons). One contained a beautiful bronze camp
            stool, the strigils with which the Romans scraped themselves
            when they came out of the bath, and a singularly beautiful
            bronze vessel covered with very fine patterns of enamel.

            When you study Grecian and Roman history you will find it
            mentioned that they sacrificed a cock to ^Esculapius at the

            time of a funeral; and it is mentioned that the Romans before

            they closed up a tomb, used to sprinkle the sacred vessels

            and bones with holy consecrated water, using for the purpose a

            branch of myrtle. Now only think ! we found the bones of

            the cock which had been sacrificed to the god ^Esculapius, and

OPENING OF THE BARTLOW BARROWS.                    13

a bunch of boxwood which had been used instead of myrtle,                         1840.
which of course was not to be found in our climate. In short,                           55-

dearest Fan, I could almost have fancied that old Time had

put back the pointer of his clock full 1600 years, and that we

were living again with the old Romans. Dear me ! I thought

I should never fill the sheet, and now I have no room for the

direction. But I really have done my long story. So fancy
us all going to eat lunch with the clergyman ; and fancy a
party of twenty-two getting into four carriages ; and fancy a
great crowd of country people gradually dispersing ; and fancy

one or two eager antiquaries remaining behind to scratch
away the earth and rubbish that had been left, in the hopes,
no doubt, of finding a bit of an old Roman, or something
that once belonged to him ; and fancy their disappointment
when they found only three or four bits of gingerbread, which
a mischievous uncle of yours put among the dirt to puzzle
them ; and fancy driving away to Audley End and eating a
good dinner with true classic appetites; and fancy us assem
bled at breakfast, when Professor Whewell produced a poem
describing a visit paid during the hours of night by the ghost

of the old Roman to the bedsides of all those who had been

disturbing his bones1 ; and then fancy me in my gig ; and so

fancy me in Cambridge ; and then, my dear friend, you may

come down from the clouds, and settle your mind among the
sober realities of life. And among such sober realities believe

me, dearest Fan,  Your affectionate uncle,
                                     A. Sedgwick.

     P.S. I forgot to say that there were many vessels of red
pottery in the boxes along with the bronzes and glasses, and
outside one box was a large coarse amphora with the sweep
ings of the funeral pile, Thus

     1 Whewell's poem is printed, as were those written on the former occasions,
in Sunday Thoughts and other Verses, p. 61.

         14 DEATH OF DR A INGE R.

  1840.      In October, 1840, Sedgwick had the misfortune to lose
         his oldest and dearest friend, Dr Ainger. His sister, father,
Mt- 55-

         and mother had died when he was away from Dent, and it

         is probable that he now found himself, for the first time, in

         the presence of death.   St Bees, October 23, 1840.
              My dear Wodehouse,

         You will perhaps be surprised to see that I am

         still, at this late season, in the northern part of Cumberland,

         away from my native valley, and away from my duties in

         Cambridge. But I am not detained by any motives of idle

         curiosity, but by the solemn duties of Christian love I owe
         to the family of the oldest friend I had in the world.

             Isabella and I had a prosperous journey to Tuxford, over

         the great flat of England. After halting a day at Tuxford we
         posted to Wentworth House --an enormous and gorgeous

         pile, the front of which is a furlong in length. There we

         made our Sunday halt ; and next day I attended the meeting

         of the Geological and Agricultural Society of the West

         Riding. Finally, we worked our way to the old parsonage
         of Dent on the Tuesday after I left Norwich. I need not say

         that we had a joyful welcome. The remaining part of the

         week I spent in rambling among the scenes of my youthful

         days ; and on the Sunday I preached in the morning at
         Dent, and in the evening at the little chapel of which I laid

         the foundation-stone about three years since. Mr Matthews
         has done his duty there admirably. I found the little chapel

         crowded, and a Sunday school of 80 smiling children, in

         a place where, a very few years since, everything had run

         wild for want of looking after, and there was hardly to be

         seen a single Christian blossom. I think I told you that
         I was engaged to attend a public meeting at Kendal on

         the 1 2th. In order that we might not be parted, and partly
         also through desire to hear what I had to say, all the house

         hold went with me. Our friend Dr Ainger of St Bees we

         knew was out of health ; though from his cheerful letters, we

         did not suppose that he was at all seriously ill ; and we had

         DEATH OF DR AINGER.                                                               '5

arranged, the day after my lecture at Kendal, to pass through                                  1840.
                                                                                                     55-
the exquisite scenery of the Lakes to Keswick, and probably

to drive on by moonlight to St Bees the same evening. But

a second letter I received at Kendal convinced me (though

still suspecting no danger) that such a visitation might be

too much for a man in feeble health. So my brother and

sister and Dick turned back, and I went on with Isabella.

    On reaching the place on Wednesday evening (the 14th)

I was greatly shocked to find my dear and good friend very

very ill. He was labouring under a low fever which had

followed a course of active treatment for congestion of the

liver. From the first I thought the case a bad one. The

management of the house now in some measure fell on me,

for two children and the governess were the only persons at

home. I sat up in the sick room Thursday night and part

of Friday night, the symptoms gradually worse and worse,

the mind of the poor patient clouded, and disturbed by

delirious dreams. On Sunday morning I preached for him,

but not without great pain to myself, for I had given up all

hopes of his recovery ; on Sunday night and Monday night I

was not in bed. Early on Tuesday morning a great change

took place ; the delirious dreams fled away, and the cloud

parted from my dear dying friend's mind. He talked

coherently, though with great difficulty ; joined frequently in

devotions ; and when I had read by his bedside one or two

short prayers, and those passages from the New Testament

/which are in the Sacrament Service, he told me had not

fargone  enough, and seemed to ask for the concluding prayers

of the Visitation of the Sick. He afterwards uttered many

pious ejaculations, made a most noble but most truly humble

Christian confession, and mustering the last remnants of his

parting strength raised himself and blessed his children and

friends who were bending over him. Oh ! what a scene a

death-bed is ! I do rejoice I have witnessed painful as has
      I
                           ;
                     I
                                                                           it,
                                                                                       it
been to us all for loved poor Ainger as my own brother.

When     was an undergraduate, he nursed me, at the risk

           i6 DEATH OF DR AINGER.

1840.      of his life, when I had a raging fever. Fourteen years since
      55-  I came to his door (during one of my geological rambles),

           and found him dangerously ill, and nursed him till he was
           out of danger. And is it not strange that the same Provi
           dence should again have led me to his door in his hour
           of need ? The family are much exhausted with mourning
           and watching, but are, God be thanked ! all well. The

           funeral is on Saturday. I have been very very busy, and
           must remain over Monday ; after which I must go back to

           Cambridge, taking Dent for one day as a halting-place.

           Pray excuse this mournful letter. But of the fulness of the

           heart the mouth speaketh.

                                                    Very affectionately yours,

                                                                 A. Sedgwick.

                Sedgwick's interest in his friend did not terminate with
           his funeral. He took effectual steps to perpetuate his memory

           by promoting a subscription among their common friends for
           a bust and monument at St Bees, which was put up in the
           course of 1842, with an inscription corrected, if not actually
           written, by Bishop Blomfield. Moreover he continued to the
           children the affection he had felt for their father. Dr Ainger

           had made him guardian to his daughters, whom he watched
           over with parental solicitude ; and he corresponded with his
           son on terms of intimate friendship1.

                When Sedgwick got back to Cambridge he found the
           University " in all the bustle of a contested election for the
           office of High Steward, which," he wrote, "in my present

           temper, is quite odious to me." At any other time he would
           have plunged into the fray with eagerness and activity, for it

           had many features in common with the memorable struggle
           of 1829, which resulted in the election of Mr Cavendish. The
           candidates were Lord Lyndhurst and Lord Lyttelton, both of

               1 In 1853, when requested to be godfather to one of his children, Sedgwick
           wrote : "How can I refuse to stand for your son, and the grandson of the dearest
           friend I ever had in the world ? "

CONTESTED ELECTION FOR HIGH STEWARD. 17

Trinity College. The former was a tried man, with all the                           1840.
advantages of a brilliant reputation and a successful career :                            55-
the latter had taken his degree only two years previously, and

could offer nothing to the electors except distinguished
classical honours, and the promise of success in after-life which
they might hold out. Trinity College seems to have favoured
the younger of her sons, to judge from the presence of the
Master, the Vice Master, the Tutors, and nearly all the
resident Fellows, on Lord Lyttelton's committee. Sedgwick

supported him, but, for the reason above indicated, without
much enthusiasm. Lyndhurst was out of England, and, on

learning from the newspapers that he had been started by
his friends, wrote in evident perturbation : " I will not run
any risk. It would be very mortifying to me to be defeated.

It would also be, in some degree, a blow to the Conservative

cause -- at least it would be so interpreted by the Radicals1."
The contest was watched with eager interest, even by those
who did not belong to the University. " The Cambridge
Election," wrote Mr W. D. Conybeare, " has excited a more
general sensation than I remember to have been caused

by any like University question." Those who had made
themselves responsible for Lyndhurst shewed their sense of

the risk they had incurred by working with so much energy
that at the close of the poll he had beaten his opponent by a
majority of nearly two to one*.

     With this exception the term, so far as Sedgwick was
concerned, was busy but uneventful. He was lecturing six

days in each week, and could therefore find little time for
other occupations. He managed, however, to attend the first
meeting of the Geological Society, for the sake of meeting

Agassiz, who read a paper On Glaciers, and the evidence of
their having once existed in Scotland, Ireland, and England.

1 A Life of Lord Lyndhurst, by Sir T. Martin, K.C.B. 8vo. Lond. 1883,

P- 39-                                               Lyttelton,  488.  In Trinity
     2 The exact numbers were : Lyndhurst, 973 ;

College 141 voted for Lyttelton ; 117 for Lyndhurst.

S. II.                                                                  2

i8 AGASSIZ AND HIS GLACIAL THEORY.

I40. It excited a long discussion, in which Sedgwick took part,
. 55- and the battle was " kept up till near midnight." These

       discussions are not reported ; but Sedgwick's line of argument
       may be inferred from a criticism on the Etudes sur les glaciers,

      then recently published. " I have read his Ice-book. It is

        excellent, but in the last chapter he loses his balance, and
       runs away with the bit in his mouth1." After this Sedgwick

        did not again leave Cambridge, except to attend a Chapter
       at Norwich (where he presided at the annual dinner of the
       Philosophical Society) ; and on Christmas Day he preached
       in the College Chapel. The sermon was evidently a remarkable
       one, for he was requested by several members of the College
       to print it ; but it does not appear that their prayer was

        granted.
            This was a memorable year in the history of the Wood-

       wardian Museum. The new wing of the Library, in which it
       is still located, had been nearly completed by the end of 1839;
      and in February, 1840, Sedgwick met the architect, Mr

        Cockerell, to settle on the fittings. Soon afterwards an

      important collection of fossils arrived from Germany. As

       the purchase of this was due to Sedgwick's energy and
       discrimination, it requires a brief notice, which can fortunately
        be given for the most part in his own words.

            In the summer of 1839 he had visited Bayreuth with
       Murchison, for the express purpose of seeing the extensive
       collection belonging to Count George Miinster, a well-known
       scientific geologist. Nine years before Murchison had sent
       to Sedgwick an enthusiastic description of the Count and his
       cabinet : " Count George Miinster " he wrote, " is the prince
      of fine, honest-hearted, intelligent, travelled Germans. His
       cabinet, without any exception, the most instructive in Europe
        for the oolitic series, and down to the coal-measures." Some

       time before their visit, the Count had been anxious to sell his
      collection to the King of Bavaria, but, after long delay, the

    1 To R. I. Murchison, 26 November, 1840.  Proceedings of the Geological

Society, iii. 327.

             COUNT MUNSTERS COLLECTION.                                                              '9

negotiation had fallen through, because, as Sedgwick said,                                                    '84-
"though His Majesty has some taste for antiques, he has no
true relish for such as are pre-adamite." This refusal, and                                                         55

the delay which had accompanied                                             were turned to the
                                  ;I
advantage of the university in the following mannerIa
                                                                                   ;
                                         I it,
                                                                                      I:

                                                                                                     it,
a     " While this negotiation was going on, the Count began to arrange
    second collection out of his multitude of duplicates and in the
end became almost the counterpart of the first. After he had
      it

resolved to keep his first collection, the second, as far as he was
concerned, lost all its value. This told him the moment saw

and ran my eye over his catalogues and hinted that he ought to
sell to some public collection. To this he replied rather gruffly (or
perhaps only Grafly) that he was not dealer. JTai traqui beaucoup,it
mats         n'ai jamais marchande, were,  think, his exact words.
      it je                                                                                          I

soon, however, put my meaning right, by pointing out to him how
much would be for the good of science, and for his own honour,
that the counterpart of his noble collection should be placed in some

public museum, rather than be locked up in his packing-cases, to be

eventually, perhaps, broken up and scattered to the four winds.                                      I

did not, however, then ask him to fix price for as he had already           a it,
                                  a

undertaken to negotiate for me the purchase of fine Pappenheim

collection.... Before we finally parted, he gave me reason to hope that

if  this purchase could not be effected, he would fix price on his
                                                                                   a

own collection of duplicates, and give me the first chance1."

     The purchase of the Pappenheim collection failed, and
Count Miinster then fixed ^500 as the price of his own.
Sedgwick advised the University not to let such an oppor
tunity slip, offering, the Woodwardian Fund could not bear
the whole cost, to give 100 himself. In the course of the

negotiations he wrote to the Vice-Chancellor
             if                                                             :

                               a
    "It appears from the Count's statement that the collection con
tains more than 20,000 specimens of organic remains, of which

13,000 are perfectly arranged and completely catalogued; that the
remaining 7000 or 8000 are in great measure arranged and cata
logued, a few only being still under the examination of Professor
Gold"fuBsesfoarendmaawkainitgingthehiosfffeinr a[ltodethteermKiinnagtioonf
                                                                            respecting   them.
                                                                            Bavaria] he   separated
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                           a
noble series of duplicates for his private cabinets, which he was very

well enabled to do, as he had, during the last twenty or thirty

years, purchased not less than twenty great collections besides
making, during his own tours in various parts of Europe, enormous

             To Rev.          Romilly, 30 November, 1839.
             1

                          J.

                                                                                         --
                                                                                         2
                                                                                                 2

             2o CORRESPONDENCE WITH CANON WODEHOUSE.

jE18t405.5-  additions from different fossil localities in Germany, France, Italy, etc.
             The consequence was, that, by the help of casts where there were no
             duplicates, his second collection, for all useful purposes, became
             nearly as good as the first, which is unquestionably the finest in all

             Europe. ...The price (^500) is not one half what I expected the
             Count would demand for it. It is very valuable, and the additional

             value from the labour and talent employed in arranging, classifying,
             and naming the several specimens (every one of which has a ticket
             in the Count's hand-writing) is above all estimate1."

                 The Woodwardian Trustees wisely listened to the Pro

             fessor's recommendation, and the Senate allowed the purchase

             without opposition*.

                 A very different matter, belonging also to this year,

             requires brief notice. Early in March Canon Wodehouse,

             who had long felt the difficulties attending subscription

             to the Articles of Religion, circulated a draft Bill, the object

             of which was to substitute for it a form of assent to the

             doctrines contained in the three Creeds. This draft was

             accompanied by a printed statement, intimating his intention

             of resigning his position as a clergyman of the Church of

             England, should he fail to obtain redress ; and further,

             setting forth certain passages in the Liturgy, which, in his

             opinion, required alteration, from an evangelical point of view.
             It is difficult to understand what precise step he wished

             Sedgwick to take. This much  however, clear, that he
                                        is
             wanted his support, and that of some of his Cambridge
                                               ; is,
             friends, in  movement to effect the desired reform. His
                          a                                              :
                                     a
             appeal found Sedgwick " nervous and out of heart in

             consequence of long weary fit of suppressed gout," and

             the correspondence which ensued bears traces of this physical
             condition. The letters are too long, and too little suitable

             afor biography, to be printed entire but one or two passages
             may be cited from those of Sedgwick, as shewing his attach

             ment to the Church, and, at the same time, his willingness

             to accept certain changes in her formularies

                    To Dr Tatham, Master of St John's College and Vice-Chancellor,a119
             November, 1839.

                    The Grace authorising the purchase dated 27 November, 1839.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH CANON WODEHOUSE. 21

                                                                                 17 March, 1840.    1840.

              "...I don't like a lax and vague signature. The                                     JEt. 55.
only way in which I think I could be induced to join heartily

in a movement, would be an attempt to get rid altogether
from the Prayer Book of a few objectionable passages. And

I should most joyfully accept the alterations suggested
in the early part of William the Third's reign. I fervently
hope I am mistaken, but my belief is that you will get no
redress at this time. There are detestable cowards who

dare not stir even to do right ; there are time-servers
who love the world's smiles a thousand times better than

the hopes of a quiet conscience ; there are honest cowards who
fear to lose the good they have in trying for more ; there

are a thousand pompous, bustling, Christians who worship
external forms with the spirit of rank idolatry ; there are
honest bigots who will not think anything established
can be wrong, and get rid of the trouble of uneasy thoughts

by resting on authority ; there are the thousands who hate

the church ; the thousands who care not for religion ; and
how can you make an impression on such a body ? The
Lords are jealous of the Commons, and the Commons of
the Lords ; and as for the Bishops, their policy will be to

prevent slipping and sliding by sticking fast to their seats.

But I must conclude. Pray write again by next post..."

                                                           21 March, 1840.

"...Pray understand me ! I am writing on the one

point, your leaving the Church. By all means seek redress

on those points in which the forms of the Church may

be amended ; but for God's sake don't talk of running from

the old home..."

                "...The correspondence               10 April, 1840.
disturbed me more than I know
                                        I have had with you has
I can only repeat what I have           how to tell you. Alas !

                                        written before. I wrote

on the subject to Dr Arnold, and thought he perhaps

          22 CORRESPONDENCE WITH CANON WODEHOUSE.

1840.     might have been corresponding with you, but he tells me is
     55-
          not. I think he will join you in your application. A very

          able and honest friend of mine, a few years older than myself,
          who was once Fellow of this College, and is now a kind
          and useful evangelical clergyman, talked over the points
          with me on Tuesday last. He wished the portions of the
          Liturgy changed ; but he added that he could not leave
          a Church with which he agreed more nearly, to the very

          letter, than with any other Church passing under the
          name of Christian ; that the Articles were avowedly drawn
          up with a view to comprehension, and not under the views of

          exclusion ; that to be useful a man must belong to a congre

          gation ; that regarding the matter practically, he was able
          and willing to continue his duties ; and, least of all, was
          he willing to flinch because he could not adopt the views

          of any extreme party either high or low, &c. &c. I thought

          his views rational and practical, and such as were compatible
          with the best rules of Christian morality.... Had St Paul

          been in your place I do not believe he would have come to

          a conclusion essentially different from that of the friend
          to whom I have alluded..."

          Towards the end of the year the venerable Professor

          Smyth had asked Sedgwick to look over the proof-sheets of

          his Lectures on Modern History, which he was passing through

          the press. Smyth's letter of thanks shews that Sedgwick

          had worked very thoroughly in what must have been to

          him an almost untrodden field.  18 Albion Street, Leeds.

                                          December i\th, 1840.

          I am extremely gratified by your Letter, not only to see you able
          to give my Lectures so much valuable Praise, but to see you so
          interested in them, and so friendly to me, as to sit writing Sheet
          Ifafter Sheet, in the Way you have done, to improve and correct them,
          and render them fitter to obtain the Approbation of others.  any

          thing further occurs to you, pray at your Leisure lay it before me....

              Sedgwick was in residence at Norwich from January
          to April, 1 841. His niece Isabella, as in the previous year,

CONTROVERSY WITH "MILES."                          23

brightened his old house with her presence. He was working                          1841.
--or rather trying to work -- , impeded by the usual difficul-
ties occasioned by ill-health and frequent interruptions --at                    Mt- i6-
the final revision of his joint paper with Murchison ; and
no incident worthy of special notice occurred except a brief

but lively controversy in the Norfolk Chronicle with an
anonymous writer signing himself Miles, who had presumed
to attack the conduct of the Dean and Chapter in the matter
of their patronage and their charities.

To Rev. C. Ingle.   Cambridge, January 30M, 1841.
    My dear Ingle,

                    I have so completely forgotten how long it is

since I wrote last that I am at loss for a starting-point. In
the October term I was holding forth in a new lecture-room

six days a week. The roof is vaulted in such a way that it
reverberates every sound ten times over. It seemed day by
day as if a legion of wicked spirits were hovering over me
and mocking me in the midst of my labours. But worse

than this, not half my class could hear half I wished to tell

them, such was the Babel din. Nor were these all my
miseries ; such a foul smell of paint --it turns my stomach

inside out even to think of it...

     I remained over Christmas Day and preached in our

Chapel, and then went to spend a few days with the Dean

of Ely. The Marchesa, Lady Munro, Whewell, Jones, etc.
etc., of the party. They contrived to get up a grand fire

while we were there. Twelve large wheat-ricks all blazing

together on the outskirts of the city --quite in your own way1.

The Cathedral looked nobly, and ghostly, lighted up by this

fire, and projected on a pitch-dark sky. From Ely I went to
Whittlesea, and saw thousands, and I think tens of thousands,

whirling on the ice. There were certainly 10,000 persons

    1 Ingle had sent Sedgwick a description of the fire at York Minster, 10 May

1840.

         24 ADMIRATION FOR THE FENS.

  1841.  assembled one day on Whittlesea Mere to see a match --

^t. 56.  another day nearly as many. I went to the frozen Fens to see

         the daughters of poor Ainger, to whom I am now guardian.

         Did you ever see the Fens ? Wordsworth told me he con

         sidered a dead interminable plain a sublime object The eye

         of the body finds nothing to stop and has nothing to rest
                          II
         on, and therefore       that the mind's eye                                          set upon
                                it                                                            is
                                       is                                                        it

                                              I                                                              It

                                                           a it,
         conjuring tricks, and easily finds beast for the poetic soul

         to stride over.       don't think express the thought in his

         exact words, but trust you understand all about without

         any more words. One day the vision of Peterborough

         Cathedral seen across the hazy fen was very sublime.

         seemed of supernatural magnitude, and its clustering forms

         were very majestic. From Whittlesea went to Lord Fitz-
                                                                  I

         william's and met a large Christmas party. You will be glad

         to hear that a great work, giving the letters of Burke and his

         correspondents from his early life almost to the day of his

         death just coming out1.                  read several of them in Lord
         is

                      I
                                         I
         F.'s study. And had the pleasure (while sitting under noble
         portraits of Burke and his son by Sir Joshua of talking with
                                                                     )

         two sensible old ladies who in their younger days had known

         Burke most intimately.  I  can tell you some long stories

         about him when you next come to Norwich. He was fond

         of preserved ginger and drank great tumblers of cold water.

         Surely such facts are precious. So believe me,

                                  Your affectionate friend

                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

         To Miss Fanny Hicks.
                                              Close, Norwich, March 28/A, 1841.

                      ..."I am giving, each Wednesday, a lecture of

         about two hours to the Museum Society. My first was about
         rain, springs, rivers, bogs, and marshes. My second was about

         Correspondence the Right Honourable Edmund Burke                                     between the year
         1                                                                                    Fitzwilliam and
                                     4

                                  of of
                                                                                           ;
         1744, and the period  his decease, in 1797.  Edited by Earl

         Sir R. Bourke.  vols., 8vo. Lond. 1844.

NORWICH LECTURES.  25

snow, ice, glaciers, boulder-stones, and gravel. My next is to       1841.
be devoted to the classification of such beasts, birds, fishes, and
reptiles as are now living on the face of the earth. And the
two following will contain the life-history and adventures of

the beasts, birds, fishes, and reptiles which lived before the
time of Adam, with many interesting anecdotes of their love

adventures. You see therefore what a glorious subject I have
before me ; and I only wish that you could come with your
Mamma and Annie and sit under me, and encourage me with

your kind looks, and then come home and help me to drink
tea after I have become thirsty with so much talking. By
the way I always have a tea-party after my lectures, and

Mrs Blakiston, Lucy Wodehouse, Miss Pellew, and I don't

know who besides are coming on Wednesday evening...."

     Presently, after speaking of Miss Kate Stanley as " enjoy
ing society, yet capable of being happy and well-employed
out of society," he proceeds :

    "This is a great point to learn, dearest Fankin. All
persons should learn to live alone, I mean sometimes. But

there are many persons who are never happy when by them

selves, which shews that they want resources in their own

minds, and have had a bad moral training. Now, my dear

niece, when you are by yourself you are in God's presence ;

while you walk out you are in a glorious temple built by

His hands ; and while you have your eyes and understand

ing you can live and converse with the holy men, and the
Apostles, and the poets, and the historians of all time. And
when your ears are tired of the grave sounds of their voices
you can join in the cheerful duties of the day, and the cheerful
sounds of fire-side talk. And are not these things delightful ?

Yes -- to a right temper they are. And now acquire this

temper, and acquire these habits, while you are young and
your mind is plastic. But discipline must be gone through,
and do, my dear niece, try to turn the present time to profit.

It is your seed-time. Sow then the good seed among the

26 NEW WOODWARDIAN MUSEUM.

 1841. vernal blossoms, and may God grant that when a woman
Xx' i6- you may reap a rich harvest of happiness and usefulness."

    As soon as Sedgwick could get away from Norwich he
hastened back to Cambridge, to superintend the removal of
his Museum to its new quarters, and the unpacking of some

forty cases, among which there was danger of his being
" smothered as old Samson was by the house he pulled
about his ears." In these labours he was helped by Mr

Ansted1, Fellow of Jesus College, who had already done
some good work in the Woodwardian Museum, and now for

a time became his regular assistant. But, when summer set

in, and Cambridge became empty and dull, he found the

confinement irksome ; his health gave way, and much as he

regretted to leave his work unfinished, he felt that it would

be wise to break off, and get exercise and fresh air. It was

his intention to visit the southern districts of Ireland and

Scotland, a long and laborious journey: "but," he said, "if

all be well, this summer will finish my geological labours in

the field ; and then for the closet, should God continue my

health*." Before he could start, a general election called

him to Yorkshire. He went reluctantly. He announced his
intention to vote for the whigs, but, he added, " not in such

good spirits as I used to do, because I am sadly displeased

at some of their doings. I do not mean to make any

speeches, as I could not with a good conscience say that I

approved of all the ground taken by my old whig friends'."

     This duty despatched, Sedgwick journeyed to Plymouth,

taking Dartmoor by the way, where he did a week's geology.
The meeting of the British Association, presided over by
Whewell, was hardly so successful as those of former years;

1 David Thomas Ansted, B.A. 1836, afterwards Professor of Geology at

King's  College,  London, and F.R.S. The report of the Inspectors for 1839
speaks            splendid collection of corals, now in course of arrangement by
        of " the

Mr Ansted."

2 To Miss F. Hicks, 1 May, 1841.
3 To Rev. John Sedgwick, 27 June and 3 July, 1841. The reason for

Sedgwick's displeasure is stated below (p. 143) in a letter to Bishop Wilberforce.

LAKES OF KILLARNEY.  27

the weather was bad, and the attendance scanty. Still             1841.
                                                                       S6-
Sedgwick, as his manner was, contrived to extract a good deal
of pleasure out of the scenery (when the rain allowed him to see
it), and out of the divers hospitalities in which he was invited

to take a part. At Plymouth he was joined by Mr Richard

Griffith, who had undertaken to be his guide in Ireland.
    Their route from Dublin lay through Wicklow, Wexford,

and Waterford to Cork, whence they struck across the country

to Killarney. Sedgwick appears to have been as much

interested with the people and the scenery as with geology ;

but, wherever they went, the bad weather pursued them.

" My macintosh," he writes from Tramore, " was of no more

use than so much blotting-paper. I have been making myself

agreeable to the cook, and smoking by the kitchen fire like a

wash-tub on a frosty morning1." At Killarney the weather

cleared for a few hours, and he grew enthusiastic over the

lakes, which even he admitted to be superior in beauty to
those of Cumberland. Their luxuriant vegetation especially
delighted him. " The arbutus grows to the size of a forest
tree ; the holly strives to outdo the arbutus ; each tree and

plant seems to struggle with its neighbour for the mastery.
The oak beats them all, and behind his top-branches you see
a great precipice of white limestone, like that at the base of
Ingleborough, but half-covered by vast tufts of ivy, and giving
support to an upper fringe of birch and other mountain-plants
and trees." Thence he crossed the mountains to the head of
Dingle Bay, to examine "the most northern of the great
promontories that stand out of the south-west coast of the

counties of Cork and Kerry like so many great prongs. All

these promontories are composed of ridges of finely peaked
mountains ; and the bays that run up for thirty or forty

miles between these ridges are most magnificent, when the

weather permits you to see them. I have seen them, but only

by glimpses. The mountains near the end of Dingle rise
directly out of the sea, and are as high as Scawfell. You

                        1 To Mrs John Sedgwick, 13 August, 1841.

         28 SOUTH-WEST COAST OF IRELAND.

  1841.  never saw anything so wild as the country and the people, or
         so miserable as the cabins many of them contrive to live in.
Mt. 56.
         Before reaching Castlemaine, on our way to Dingle, we overtook

         a strange and wild but most mournful procession. A labourer

         had died suddenly a few miles from his home, and they were

         bearing his body on boards (with a cloth thrown over the
         face and upper parts, but with the legs and feet bare) towards
         his own cabin. Several men, and about two hundred women,
         were following. The moment we saw them Mr Griffith said :
         ' Now you will hear what you never heard before. These
         women are following to howl ; it is still the custom in these
         wild parts, and the moment our car comes near, they will
         begin.' The words were hardly out of his mouth when a

         low murmuring sound, like distant psalm-singing, was heard.

         It soon became louder and louder, and, as we came close up,
         gradually rose to a very loud, wild, protracted, howl. The

         sounds were ha-ha, hi-hee, ho-ho, oh, augh ! and being
         repeated again and again, in a kind of regular cadence (the
         hi-hee rising almost to a shriek, and the remaining syllables

         sinking almost to a low groan) fell very dismally upon the ear,
         and, spite of the barbarous absurdity, was really affecting....

             "The day following we had dreadful weather, and, after
         going round the extreme western headlands of the Dingle

         promontory, where we collected some very curious fossils, we
         returned to the inn with our flesh soddened in rain, and our

         bones almost gelatinised. But I took no serious cold. Spite
         of the wet, I wish you had been with me to see the great
         Atlantic swell pounding against the noble cliffs. The south

         western gale caught up the foam as soon as it was formed,

         and bore it aloft above the cliff, and swept it across the
         country to a considerable distance. Many acres of land, near
         the cliffs, were so covered with sea-foam as to be almost as

         white as snow."
              Having explored this wild headland, Sedgwick went back

         by way of Tralee to Killarney, and thence along the coast

         to Limerick. A change in the weather enabled him to see

IRISH ANECDOTES.  29

the Shannon to some advantage. He ascended it in a              ^1841.
                                                                        s6-
steamer as far as Banagher, whence, after spending an even-
ing with Lord Ross in his observatory, he found himself in
Dublin again on the first day of September.

     This rapid excursion is described by Sedgwick in letters

written almost as hurriedly as he travelled ; and his remarks

on the people he met, and the good stories he heard, were too
often reserved for oral communication. He could not, how

ever, resist writing down the following dialogue. The scene
is the coast of Kerry, near the mouth of the Shannon, where
the sea has hollowed the cliff into caves frequented by seals.
Enter Sedgwick and his guide, a merry lad of fourteen, with
a dog at his heels. 'What's your dog's name ?' ' His name,
your honour, is it that you want ? He is called Sir Robert
Peel.' 'Why so, Pat?' 'Because, your honour, he is the

finest rat-catcher in all the country.'

     After a rest of two days in Dublin Sedgwick set off for
Scotland. To reach it he passed rapidly along the east coast
of Ireland, and spent a day in ascending the highest of the

Mourne Mountains, where he was much interested in the
proceedings of a party of engineers, who were endeavouring
to communicate with stations on Scaw Fell and Black
Comb by means of reflectors. Thence he crossed the Irish
Channel from Donaghadee to Port Patrick. Some three

weeks were spent in geological investigations, agreeably

diversified with visits to friends. Such a journey need not

be described at length. As Sedgwick said, when he sat
down at Dent to amuse Miss Stanley with an account of
what he had done and seen in Scotland : " a geological tour,

along a beaten road, without a single incident, and addressed
to a lady who does not care a straw for all the stones on the
face of the earth-- the case seems almost beyond hope !" He
did, however, write a long and interesting letter, from which
we will make a few extracts. After describing Port Patrick,
and the " old weather-beaten square tower " near the entrance
of the harbour, he proceeds :

         30 COAST OF WICTONSHIRE.

  1841.       " During the two most miserable days of this miserably

Ml 56.   wet summer I halted with Mr J. C. Moore (a brother of the

         late Sir John Moore), who has built himself an excellent house

         on the shores of Loch Ryan. I reached his door the evening
         of the day I landed at Port Patrick, and found three or four

         ladies, shining and all glorious to behold, dressed out for

         the county ball ; but the old gentleman remained at home

         with me, and I soon struck up an acquaintance with a little

         girl, about five or six years old, who offered to give me a part

         of her breakfast of oatmeal porridge, at half-past seven next

         morning. This offer I of course accepted ; and the libation
         of milk and oatmeal seemed a fit offering for the altar of love,
         for I have had a most affectionate note from the little maid
         since I left the house. Two days of idleness, spent in agree

         able and intellectual society, did me a great deal of good ; for

         I was beginning to be fatigued by the continual toil of my
         tour, often carried on in spite of wind and foul weather. I

         turned out, however, like a good working-bee, as soon as the

         sun began to shine again ; and wound my way northwards

         along the wild picturesque coast of Wigtonshire. The cliffs

         were interesting to one of my craft ; but I could not help now

         and then turning my face from them, and looking over the

         broad sea, and gazing on the projecting headlands of the
         Mull of Cantire, the pinnacles of the Isle of Arran, and the

         ******magnificent pyramidal rock of Ailsa. These are noble

         objects; and they had double charms for me, from being

         associated with the remembrance of the geological toils of a

         former year.
             " I wish my sister had not come in and interrupted me ;
         for at the rate I was travelling I should have paced through
         all the south part of Scotland long before this time. Do

         therefore turn back with me to the coast of Wigtonshire ;

         just glance your eye over the southern Hebrides, and then

         we will go on. No ! we must go faster still. I will transport

         you to the hills a few miles south of Ayr. The whole rocky

ROBERT BURNS.

coast, as far as eye can reach, is glowing in the warm light      1841.
                                                                        56
of the western sun --the peaks of Arran are rising sharply
on the sky -- the great pyramid of Ailsa is becoming
dim with distance--and in the far north, the summits of

some of the distant Grampians seem to be melting on the

horizon. And what have we at        our feet ? ' The banks
and braes of bonnie Doon' -- on
                                    the other side of it a
pretty Corinthian round temple      perched on a rock -- a

national monument to poor Burns, but not perhaps in

good taste -- and, if you keep a good look-out, you will

get a peep at the auld brig over which Tam O'Shanter

escaped from the young witch's gripe, of Alloway auld kirk,

famous for witches' revels, and of the cottage by the

road-side which was the poet's birth-place. The scene,

independently of all associations, is very beautiful ; but every

nook of it reminds you of the unhappy bard. All these
spots I visited with great delight. The cottage is now a

public-house, kept by an old sinner who was often a boon

companion of Burns, He boasted of the glasses he had

drunk with the poet. ' Perhaps too many,' I replied. ' Nae,

Sir, Burns was never the worse for drink.' In a small inner

room I found about half a dozen topers making an unhallowed

offering under the picture of the poet ; for they were ' mortal

fou,' at least they seemed so to me, though I dare say they

would have thought, like mine host, that they were 'nae

worse for drink,' and have told me

                     'We are nae fou, we're nae that fou,
                        But just a drappie in our e'e &c.'

   " I was delighted with Burns' poetry when I was a boy,
and I like it still. His love-songs are, I think, the best that

ever were written ; for they seem to spring directly from the
heart. He was a highly gifted being, and had a tender
conscience ; but he had strong, untamed, passions, and no
steady principles, and therefore often did what was wrong
and often was unhappy.

          32 COAST OF RENFREW AND AYR.

184 1.    'Oppressed with grief, oppressed with care,
     5g.
           A burden more than I can bear,
             I sit me down and sigh :

          Oh life ! thou art a galling load,

          Along  a rough   Iand weary road,
                 wretches
             To            such as !'

          " What a picture of human misery ! and I believe there is

          that about it which tells us of the real experience of the writer,

          and not of fancy's dreams. But I must go on, and turn my

          back upon the auld kirk."                         the valley
              From Ayr Sedgwick struck inland, and reached  did some

          of the Clyde by way of Kilmarnock. There he

          geological work, and after seeing the falls, descended to
          Glasgow. Here we will resume his own narrative.

               "Leaving Glasgow, I went by steam as far as Greenock;
          and then in an open carriage along the beautiful coast of
          Renfrewshire, and a part of Ayrshire. The weather was then

          most charming, and the lights all that the imagination could
          wish, and the succession of objects most soul-inspiring. The

          driver looked round in pity, and thought I was going mad;

          for I could not conceal my raptures, and was continually

          talking to myself. The shore too is not only well broken and
          finely indented ; but, strange to tell, is well wooded. For the

          great headland of Cantire, Arran, and the southern Hebrides

          act as a shelter to the coast, so that trees flourish almost to

          the water's edge. The same evening I joined Mr Moore junr.1

          at Maybole, and the rest of my tour was made in his company.

          I found him a very agreeable companion, and we did some

          good under-ground work together. One evening we missed our

          way, while on foot among the mountains, and were benighted ;
          but before midnight we made our way to a little village where

          we were most kindly taken in, and most kindly treated. The

          little village where we found beds is called Dalmellington,

          and they have an odd custom. At five in the morning,

          when the weather is good, they go round the village with

          drum and fife, to tell the people to rouse themselves. Should

          1 John Carrick Moore, F.R.S., author of some valuable geological papers.

        NORTH COAST OF SOLWAY FIRTH.                      33

the weather be bad, they go round, at the same hour, with               1841.
                                                                              56-
horns which they blow dolorously. But I slept so well, after

my long walk, that the drum and fife had no effect on me,

though they roused my fellow-traveller. After threading our

way in the wild valleys above the village, and examining

some fine coal-fields (where that mineral is close to the
surface, and is sold for two and eightpence a ton, but is raised

in no great quantity because of the difficulties of carriage)

we turned westward, and crossed the fine wild chain of

Galloway for thirty miles, with hardly any company but

grouse and black cock ; and so descended to Wigton Bay on
the north side of the Solway Firth. Many a time and oft

have I gazed on this noble coast from the Cumberland side,

and longed to thread my way among its islets and promon

tories. Now, I have been amply gratified. And, being

sheltered from the north by high hills, and looking out to the

south, it presents a succession of beautifully snug bays and

creeks, the sides of which are well cultivated, and decorated

with pleasure-grounds. The country has also another source of

interest, being the scene of one or two of Scott's novels. I was

greatly charmed with  and think incomparably superior
        a
to the Cumberland coast, which possesses indeed very littleit,

interest. We ascended to the neighbourhood of Lochmaben,it

not to look at Bothwell's castle, but to look at the footsteps of

ancient monsters, which are seen on the stone of that country.

The great naturalist Sir W. Jardine had made a collection
of these impressions, so we went to his house at venture,
                                                   a
                                                                     a
and were most hospitably entertained by him. He lives in

good ugly modern house, near the fine old square tower of his

ancestors. One of them took an English borderer prisoner,

who by some mistake was starved to death in the dungeon.

The enraged ghost long haunted the castle out of revenge  ;
but was at length laid by an old Meenister in the days of

James the First; but not till after public prayers in the parish
church, and procession in which a large black-letter Bible

was carried to the haunted room and deposited in all due

S. II.                                             3

              34 INTENDED WORK ON PALEOZOIC ROCKS.

^841.         form on a large oak table, there to remain till the end of
         56-
              time. There the large folio remained till about the end of

              the last century, when the father of the present Baronet

              removed put in repair from the effects of 200 years damp,
                             it,

                                    it it

                                                a
              and deposited in large oak chest as a family curiosity.

              This sacrilegious act inspired all the good people round about

              with terror but they gradually recovered, and the ghost has
                             ;

              now the castle to himself, and behaves himself very gently.

              Last Thursday we ended our tour at Carlisle                                             ;   came on to

                                                                                                       I

              Dent, and Mr Moore returned to his family in Wigtonshire1."

              Sedgwick's object in taking this rapid tour can only be

              understood by recollecting that his whole geological life was

              dominated by his intention to write general work upon the
                                                   it
              Palaeozoic rocks of England and Wales. This intention wasis a

              so often interrupted for long periods, and he says so little

              about          in his letters, that there                                               sometimes danger of
              a
              forgetting that the different pieces of research into which he
                         it
              threw himself so energetically were in fact only parts of this

              general design. Unfortunately        was conceived on too large

              scale, and conducted with too much minuteness of detail,

              to be completed in life-time so much taken up by other
                                a

              occupations, and so harassed by continuous and increasing

              ill-health. Material was accumulated year by year, but the
              leisure for making use of never came, and at last, as he
              sadly admitted at the close of his life, " the infirmities of old
                                                   it

                                                             I
              age had gathered round me before had put my work in
              order." In 1841, however, he was still full of hope, and, as
              soon as the last paper on the Devonian system was out of

              hand, he set about the task of revising his old work in

              Wales and Cumberland, with the idea of bringing the several

              Palaeozoic groups into good coordination, and of constructing

              classification which would apply to every portion of the
              a

                                                21
                                                                                                   6
              older rocks of Great Britain*. The districts examined in

              Ireland and Scotland supplied facts bearing upon this

                                To Miss Stanley, from Dent, October, 1841.
                                Preface to Salter's Catalogue, pp. xxiii-- xxv.

      WHEWELL MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE. 35

revision, and they were presently embodied in a Supplement                                      l84'-

to a Synopsis of the English Series of Stratified Rocks                                               56
inferior to the Old Red Sandstone, read to the Geological
Society in November, 1841. The paper brought forward
additional confirmation of his views as to the classification
of the rocks of Devon, as well as a modification of the views

advanced in a paper with a similar title laid before the

Society in 1838.
     When Sedgwick reached Trinity College at the beginning

of the last week of October, he found that a great change had
taken place in his absence. Dr Wordsworth, who had been

Master since the death of Dr Mansel in 1820, had resigned,
" to the astonishment of everybody1," and Sir Robert Peel had
nominated Whewell in his room. It is now known that

Wordsworth, who had for some time contemplated this step,
waited for the fall of Lord Melbourne's government, with
the object of securing, not merely a conservative, but the

particular conservative who succeeded him. Under other

circumstances his successor would probably have been either

Peacock (then Dean of Ely), or Sedgwick ; and it is certain
that the Mastership of Trinity College was the one office that

the latter would have joyfully accepted*. Whewell was no
doubt well aware of this, and in consequence wrote to tell

Sedgwick of his appointment in a somewhat apologetic tone :

My dear Sedgwick,           16 Suffolk Street, Pall Mall:

                                       October 19M, 1841.

have      I  do not know   whether you   hreafveerenhceeardtoofTtrhine iteyveCntosllewgheic--h
             taking place  of late with
      been

events so important that it will take a little time to look at them      I
calmly. The Master                                                       I
find that Sir Robert  has   resigned ;   and, upon coming to town,
                      Peel  offers me    the Mastership. This offer

have accepted.

    At present I look with alarm at the thought of being placed in a

Iposition of rule over persons my seniors in standing, and my

superiors, as sincerely believe, in the qualities requisite for the

      1 To Isabella Sedgwick, 13 October, 1841.
      * This statement is made on the authority of Miss Sedgwick.

                                                                   3--2

         36 LETTERS BETWEEN WHEWELL AND SEDGWLCK.

  1841.  government of the College; and I especially feel myself out of my
         place in being made superior in status to yourself. But the turn of
J?X 56.
         public affairs has brought about this result, and I had no alternative

         except to accept the office which is thus placed in my way, or to

         retire from all public life whatever.    My main anxiety  tnimowe^iIs   that
         the Fellows of Trinity, with whom      up to the present               have

         lived in good-will, and in cordial sympathy for the interests and
         honour of
                    Ithe College,  should aid me   in promoting  these in my new
         capacity.      trust, my  dear Sedgwick,  that you and
                                                                 I, who both feel

         deeply on these subjects, shall find little difficulty in bringing our

         views into agreement as to the mode in which our objects are to be
         secured. And I entertain little doubt that we shall be able to do
         this, believing as I do that our views, at bottom, are very little
         Idifferent. I will not easily be persuaded that we
         all main points   of College    administration ;  and,  shall not  agree   on
         your judgment,                 great confidence   that             with   me
                          I shall feel                           if I have         the

         right course, and great hope of success. . . .          am following

                                        Always, my dear Sedgwick,

                                                   Affectionately yours,

                                                              W. Whewell.

              Sedgwick may have hoped to be Master of Trinity ; but
         no feelings of jealousy or regret betray themselves in his
         cordial reply to Whewell : " It is well for a man to think
         humbly of himself, " he says, " but I assure you, that of all

         men living, you are by common consent thought most worthy
         of the high honour of ruling our great intellectual body ; and
         I feel confident that with God's blessing it will be a source of
         happiness to you, and of great good to our Society.

              " As for myself, it will delight me to give you all the help I

         can. Our objects will, I trust, always be the same. We may

         differ sometimes as to means, but our difference will be frank

         and open, and such as is compatible with the warmest friend

         ship. When I took the Geological Chair I gave up the studies

         which are connected with the ordinary training of our young
         men. On this account I should be ill-fitted for those duties

         for which you are at every point so admirably prepared.

         You are now in your right place ; had I gained your present

         position I should have been out of my right place1."

             1 Life of William Whewell, by Mrs Stair Douglas, p. 230. The original of

         this letter cannot now be found.

PLESIOSAURUS FROM WHITBY.                                 37

     The term which began with this unusual excitement was                                 1841.
very fully occupied. " I have often been rather busy at                                         56'
Cambridge" Sedgwick wrote, "but never, I think, so busy as
I have been this term. Six days a week lectures --papers for
the Geological Society of London and for the Cambridge
Philosophical Society -- proof-sheets and a very large corre

spondence, have hardly left me time for eating or sleeping."

To this catalogue of occupations his social duties might have
been added, for in one of his letters he mentions, among other

engagements, dinners and evening-parties at the Lodge under
the new regime. " What a change," he adds, " since the late

Master's time, who lived like a hermit." Nor must another
matter be forgotten -- the purchase for the Woodwardian

Museum of a skeleton of a Plesiosaurus' from the Whitby lias,
of unusual size and completeness.

To the Members       of the Senate and other resident Members of the
        University.
                                                       Trin. Coll. Cambridge,
     Gentlemen,
                                                                           Nov. 19, 1841.

As Curator of the Woodwardian Museum, I take the
liberty of laying before you the following statement. In course of
last summer a magnificent Plesiosaurus was dug out of the cliffs near
Whitby, and was offered to the British Museum for ^500. The
offer was refused, not merely on account of the large price demanded,
but because the Museum already possessed an excellent series of
specimens of that fossil genus. During the autumn Dr Clark (our
Professor of Anatomy) saw the specimen while it was publicly

exhibited and advertised for sale. Several large offers had then
been made for it from more than one quarter : as the only means of
securing it for Cambridge, he made a still larger offer, and soon
afterwards completed the negotiation, at his private risk, by purchasing

the specimen for ^230. I claim no divided honour with him in
this spirited and liberal act ; for the negotiation was begun without
my knowledge, and I did not receive his letter, informing me that he
had first offered .200 for the specimen, and meant if possible to
purchase it for the University,   till  after my  return  tdoonCeam; barniddgeI.
                                 him    for what  he has
But I feel deeply grateful to
should have rejoiced to divide with him the responsibility of the

    1 It was believed to be a fine specimen of P. dolichodt irus, Conybeare, until

1865, when it was described by Mr H. Seely (Annals and Magazine of Natural
History, xv. 49) as P. macropterus.

         38 HOSPITALITY AT NORWICH.

  1842.  purchase. There is certainly      no  thpelacGeeoinlotgheicaUlniMveursseituym.so                           proper
         fr tne reception of the fossil,  as                                                                       But in
Mt. 57.
         tehxepepnrseivseentfitsttiantgesoof fththeeWNoeowdwMarudsieaunms, uIrpdluos,nonteathrliynkexmhayussetelfd    by the
                                                                                                                    justified
         in applying to the Heads of Houses, and requesting them to become
         Ithe purchasers of the  fossil out of the funds of which
         Auditors.  therefore    take the only step that is left;  they are the
                                                                   and venture

         respectfully to call upon the Members of the University, who are
         interested in the honour of our Collections, to assist me by a sub

         scription, and to enable me to give the fossil a permanent place in
         our Geological Museum. For the present it is deposited in the
         Lecture Room under the new wing of the Public Library ; and
         may, on application, be seen by any Member of the University.
                    I have the honour to be, Gentlemen,

                                               Your very faithful Servant,
                                                               A. Sedgwick.

              This vigorous appeal-- not to speak of private letters to his
         brother Professors, and to personal friends --was thoroughly
         successful. In a few weeks 264. 18s. 6d. was collected;
         a sum sufficient to discharge all expenses, and to leave a

         small balance in hand with which the Woodwardian Trustees

         agreed to purchase other fossils.

             A succession of visitors from Cambridge, among whom

         were the new Master of Trinity and his wife, enlivened

         Sedgwick's usual winter residence at Norwich. We get a
         glimpse of some of them in a letter to Whewell :

                                                       Norwich, 15 February, 1842.

             "...I am glad you are bringing the statutes to the anvil.

         Why our late Master hung fire so long I never could well

         make out. Of course nothing will be done finally before I
         come back at the end of this month.... After you left us I

         had a party of five + maidkin from the Marchesa's. Then
         a breathing-fit of nearly a week, when Major Willoughby
         Moore and Mrs Moore and Maud gave me a benefit of ten

         days. During the time, the Astronomer Royal dropped
         down from the end of the great Bear's tail into the Close,
         and alighted as softly as if he had come with the wings of
         Iris, and had slid down her golden arch. His stay was

REVISION OF COLLEGE STATUTES.                  39

very short ; for the moment his feet touched the back of                      1842.
old Mother Earth there was such a magnetic storm in                                 57-
Greenwich Park that they were obliged to send post for
him to come to quell this insurrection among the needles.
The Major and his Lady left me last Saturday. But my
sister is now here ; so I am again a family man...."

     The revision of the Elizabethan Statutes of Trinity
College, alluded to in the above letter, had been agreed to

by the Seniority four years before. Whewell, as great a
contrast to his predecessor in business as in hospitality -- was

anxious to persuade the Seniors to undertake the work at
once, and then " to go on as fast as we can, consistently with

the gravity and complexity of the matter." It is probable

that he had talked it over with Sedgwick at Norwich, for
he alludes in a letter to "the special points which you
mentioned as those on which you had a decided opinion."
In fact, as he told Sedgwick, he would have deferred the
commencement of the work until his return to College had
it been possible, being "very desirous of having the benefit
of your judgment in our proceedings1." Unfortunately we
do not know what Sedgwick's views were, but the Memoranda

kept by the Master shew that he attended the revision-
meetings regularly from his return till the draft of the

Statutes, as altered, was ready for submission to the Home

Secretary.
     Besides this work, Sedgwick found time, before the end of

April, to redeem his promise to Wordsworth, and to write the
first three of the five letters On the Geology of the Lake
District, to which reference has been already made*. No
detailed account is needed of a work which merely aims at
describing, clearly and tersely, for the use of tourists, the
ascertained geological phenomena of a special district. Words

worth's two letters on the subject are unfortunately without

    1 From Rev. W. Whewell, 8 February, 1842.  The letter is printed in full
in Whewell's Life, p. 259.

    s Vol. I., pp. 246 -- 249.

           40 GEOLOGY OF LAKE DISTRICT.

1842.      date -- but it is clear that the first must have been written
      57,  before Sedgwick had proceeded far, the second after the
           completion of his first letter.

               My dear Sir,

               You have much obliged me by the promptitude with which

           you have       Imet the request made through an                   Acquaintance                 or
           Friend of                                                         happy to be                 the
                         my Publishers' ; and should be very
           Medium of conveying to the public your view of the Geology of this

           interesting District, however concisely given. First, however, I must
           tell you exactly how the matter stands between me and the Publishers.

           The last Edition of my little work* being nearly out I undertook
           about a twelvemonth since to furnish some new Matter in the way
           of a more minute Guide for the Body of the Tourist, as I found that

           the Guide Books which attended mainly to this were preferred much,

           by the generality of Tourists, to mine, which, though in fact con
           taining as much of this sort of matter as could be of any real use,
           appeared to be wanting in this respect. The employment to which

           I had by a sort of promise committed myself I found upon further
           consideration to be very troublesome and infra dig. ; and as I was still
           desirous that my Book should be circulated, not for any pecuniary
                                                                                                     of Taste
           emolument, for that was  quI iteturtnriefldinga, llbutthafot r  Ithehapdrinwcripitlteesn   over to
           which it recommended,
           Mr Hudson the Publisher, stipulating only that all that related to

           mind, should in my book be printed entire and separated from other
           matter, and so it now stands Every thing of mine will be reprinted,
           but the guide matter of mine will be interwoven with what Mr Hudson

           has undertaken to write or compile, the whole however before struck
           off to be submitted to my approbation. Mr Gough of Kendal, Son
           of the celebrated blind man of that place, will, Mr Hudson expects,
           promote the Botany, and if you would condescend to act upon your

           Ipromise made to me long ago under somewhat different circumstances,
              think a Book would be produced answering every purpose that

           could be desired.
               I am truly sorry, my dear Sir, to hear that your health is so much
           deranged. I believe that the bottom of it all
                                                         a of                your intense ardour
           of mind, and activity both of mind and body. In fact you haveis,

           been living too fast pray slacken your pace, and depend upon you
                              2;                                                                     it
                                                    it
           31  Mr F. C. Danby of Kendal. He acknowledges the receipt of the MS. of

           Sedgwick's first letter, May, 1842. The date appended to the printed letter,

           23 May, was probably added when received the author's final corrections.

               Wordsworth's Description of the Scenery the Lakes in the North of England
           first appeared in 1810, as the Introduction to folio volume of Select Views in

           Cumberland, etc., by the Rev. Jos. Wilkinson. It was reprinted, with additions,

           in 1820, in The River Duddon, a Series of Sonnets; and reissued by itself in 1822.
           In this form
                         went through several editions. See The Life of William
                         it

                                                      3
           Wordsworth, by W. Knight, vols. 8vo. 1889, ii. 153.

               LETTERS FROM WORDSWORTH.                                             4i

will not only, in a little time, be more comfortable in yourself, but                    184
the world will in the end get more out of the very great deal that you
have to give it. We are pretty well and unite in kindest remem
brances and good wishes.

               Ever faithfully, My dear Mr Sedgwick,

                                                  Your much obliged,
                                                          W. Wordsworth.

Pray give me a letter, however short.

                                                                        Wednesday.

My dear Sir,

        I snatch a moment from the hurry of this place to thank
you for the first of the          of Letters on        aGdedorleosgsyingoftothemeL.akeI
district which you have   series  me the honor    the
                          done
                                                  of
received it yesterday from Mr Danby, liked it very much, and am
impatient for the rest It will give the Kendal lake Book so decided

a superiority  Iover every other, that  the Publishers have good reason
to rejoice1.                            that my endeavours to illustrate
                   am happy to think                              of

the beautiful Region may     be  Ithaodudgrhests  not unworthy      at  accompanying
your scientific researches.                          this to you          random, but

hope it will be forwarded should you be no longer at Cambridge.
    You perhaps don't remember that the Pocket Hammerers were
complained of not by me in my own person, but in the character of
/a splenetic Recluse*; I will, however, frankly own that to a certain
extent  sympathised with my imaginary personage, but I am sure I
need not define for you how far, but no farther, I went along with

him. Geology and Mineralogy are very different things.

                          Ever, my dear Mr Sedgwick,

I hope your health is improved.                   Faithfully yours,

                                                      Wm. Wordsworth.

The next two letters explain themselves :

My dear Fankin,                   Monday morning, May 2nd, 1842.

               I have not time to write a long letter, and I am

in bad spirits, for my old enemy the rheumatic gout, has, for

    1 The book now published was called: A Complete Guide to the Lakes,
comprising minute directions for the Tourist ; with Mr Wordsworth's description

of the scenery of the country, etc. : and three letters on the Geology of the Lake
District, by the Rev. Professor Sedgwick. Edited by the Publisher. Kendal,

published by John Hudson.
     2 See Vol. I., p. 547.

           43 WOODWARDIAN AUDIT AND

1842.      some weeks past, been tormenting me above measure. And
      57-  I have no comfortable rest at night ; for my enemy is then
           most active in tormenting me, and almost takes away all
           power of sleeping. The consequence is, that I rise in the
           morning unrefreshed, and out of spirits. My friends are

           surprised to see me returning from a long walk about the

           time that they are rising. But I have no merit in rising with
           the lark. It is not to sing a cheerful glad song to the sky ;

           but because bed is no resting-place to my weary limbs ; and

           I am glad, almost as soon as it is light, to change my posture,

           and try to shake off my infirmities by brushing over the

           country, though the movement puts my feet to much uneasiness.

           And, do you know, I am so sour-faced and ill-tempered, and

           abominably cross, and so hate myself, that I do not think you
           would now, if you saw me, give me one corner of your heart,
           or a single kiss. You might just as well kiss an old decayed

           thistle, which would leave its prickles sticking to your lips.
           Is not this a sorry account to give of myself? But alas ! it is
           not more sorry than true1.. ..The inspection of my Museum is
           going on. To-morrow is the annual audit of my accounts ;

           and if I am reported a good boy, they may perhaps pay me
           my salary. And on Wednesday evening I am to have at my

           rooms a large meeting of what we call the Ray Club*, so that
           my hands are very full of engagements.... There ! the clock is
           striking, and I must off for my morning's walk. So no more

           at present....

                1 The omitted passages in this letter describe the visit of some friends, who
           breakfasted with Sedgwick, and saw the principal sights of Cambridge under his

           guidance.
                a Professor Henslow had been in the habit of receiving at his house, on the

           evening of each Friday in full Term, those members of the University who took

           an interest in Natural History. These meetings began in 1828 and were

           continued until the end of 1836. It was then determined  to found a Club, to be
           called The Ray Club, after the celebrated John Ray,      " for the cultivation of

           Natural Science by means of friendly intercourse and mutual instruction."

           J.Sedgwick was elected 4 December, 1839. See The Cambridge Ray Club, by
           Prof. C. C. Babington, 8vo., Camb. 1887 ; Memoir of the Rev.  S. Henslow,
           by Rev. L. Jenyns, 8vo., Lond. 1862, Chap. III.

INSPECTION OF MUSEUM.  43

                                                                    Tuesday morning, 8 a.m.        1842.

    After breakfast yesterday, I was very busy with my                                          Mt. 57.

Inspectors. The old original Woodwardian Collection, con
sisting of about 10,000 specimens, has, during the past year,

been removed into a new Museum ; which I will show you
when you next come to see me. All the specimens and

drawers were on the floor while the old cabinets were

repairing, and fitting to their new places ; and they remained
there for several weeks. And how many specimens do you
think are lost, now that they have been compared with our
catalogue of five volumes ? Not one ! There's a careful uncle
for you, Miss Scatterbrains ! The more modern part of my
collection consists of 50,000 or 60,000 specimens, and it will

take three or four years' hard work to put them in any

order.... Last night I slept much better, and this morning I

rose at six, and had a walk of more than four miles before

breakfast. Indeed I have hardly done breakfast yet, for I

have been scribbling to you between my cups of coffee. And

have I not done well to get on so far without once slopping

the paper ? But we are notable folks at Dent, and can do

four things at a time1. Thank God, I am very much better

to-day. And now for pounds shillings and pence, and yearly

accounts as long as a tailor's measure ! But perhaps they
do not measure for petticoats with long slips of parchment,
like those they use in taking the length of a man's shanks,
and therefore my comparison will not much help you. But
enough ! so again good morning, Mrs Fankinette.

                                                                             Thursday morning.

     I was so busy yesterday that I had not time to finish my
letter. On Tuesday I went over the long annual accounts
of the Museum, and ended by dining with the Vice-Chancellor.
Dr Woodward, who founded my Professorship, was a sensible,

good-living, man ; and he ordered the Vice-Chancellor at the

     1 The allusion is to an old rhyme current in the dale of Dent, quoted above,
Vol. i., p. 16.

         44 WOODWARDIAN DINNER.

 1842.   annual Woodwardian audit to give a good dinner, and to see

Et- 57-  that all his guests gladdened their hearts with the best French

         wines, such as burgundy, and claret, and champagne. Sure
         enough, all this is in his Will, by which he bequeathed to us
         our Collection1 ! So we all make a kind of conscience of

         eating and drinking quite as much as is good for us at that

         annual dinner. But what a poor miserable starveling I am
         now become ! Once I drank champagne like a good Christian
         of the true Woodwardian sect. I afterwards fell away from

         this pitch of excellence ; and only listened to the popping of

         the bottles, and the gentle sisling noise made by the long
         frothy glasses as they shot past my ears to the mouths of my
         auditors. But still, I kept up some claim to orthodoxy, by

         drinking three glasses of sherry. At this low, half puritani
         cal, pitch of conformity, I remained some fifteen or sixteen
         years, and then I fell away to the rank heresy of water. You

         have heard that people are known to die of hydrophobia ; but

         my disease now is hydrophilia, quite as deadly as the other,

         give it time enough ; but it is not so rapid in putting out the
         vital flame. Now alas ! I am sunk, in the eyes of all good
         Inspectors and Auditors, to the lowest pitch of human de

         gradation ; for I drank only water, and ate only vegetables,
         and the plainest bit of pudding I could pick out. Yes ! I
         think I may go one step lower ; and next year the Vice-

         Chancellor will have to provide me with two or three inflated
         air-cushions, which I may suck while they are dining and

         drinking Burgundy. Such diet would be very appropriate :
         for I have always to make a long speech that day ; and wind,
         you know, is the most important element of every speech ; so

         that good speeches are sometimes said to contain nothing

         else."

              Then, after more pleasant talk, about common friends,
         the Ray Club, etc., this careful uncle throws in some serious
         advice on study and conduct, and concludes as follows :

         1 What Dr Woodward really said about the dinner in his Will has already been

         related, Vol.  i.,  p. 184.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT MANCHESTER.  45

    "Pray don't think that my gravity in this page is incon-                                       1842.
sistent with the levity of my two first sheets. I don't
want to mope you. I wish you to be merry and wise;
cheerful, happy, and good. I should wish the mind of my

own daughter to be tenanted by beautiful and good images,
so that the sweetest thoughts might spring up in her mind
spontaneously, and in the sweet company of all the good
thoughts she had treasured up by good training. So, my love,
lift up your little mouth, and give me a kiss. Thank you.

                                       Ever affectionately yours,
                                                         A. Sedgwick.

      P.S. Have I not told a great big fib in my first line !"

To Rev. P. B. Brodie.

                                                                                     [May, 1842].

    "...Our Museum is now all glorious to behold --we are

going to stick up against its walls a noble Plesiosaurus 16 ft.
long--a perfect beauty of its kind. Ansted is still in

Cambridge, and working very hard, so that we are, we now
think, worth looking at, and so you will say when you come
to take your M.A. degree. There are no bad countries for

geology -- change your tools with your ground --keep your
eyes wide open --and you may find a harvest everywhere--
there are no barren fields to a true lover of nature. And,

like a good son of Alma Mater, think of your nursing mother,

and send all your best things to our Museum (a reasonable
request ! is it not ?)..."

     The British Association met this year at Manchester.
Sedgwick was one of the Vice-Presidents, and we find him

frequently taking part in the discussions of the Geological
Section. He was still far from well, but when the subject of
the elevation of great mountain-chains came forward, he

spoke with much animation. " I was disgusted " he told

Murchison "with the heels-over-head way they generalized,

but I was so ill that I could not on that morning make any

fight."

         SPEECH AT MANCHESTER.

  1842.      In the evening, however, when the members of the Asso

rt- 57-  ciation met at dinner, and he was called upon to propose

         the Literary and Philosophical, and other scientific societies
         of Manchester, coupled with the name of the illustrious

         Dalton, whose statue, by Chantrey, had lately been placed
         in the entrance-hall of the Manchester Royal Institution, his
         eloquence betrayed no sign of fatigue or illness. " Seeing

         that magnificent statue," he said, "worthy -- if any statue
         be worthy --of that great philosopher; and worthy of that
         dear departed friend of mine, Chantrey,... it occurred to me
         that there was something kindred in the characters of those

         men. Both rising to fame and name from a humble begin
         ning ; both men of great sincerity of character ; both having
         a strong love of nature ; these were some of the circumstances
         which characterized them ; and through that statue will their

         names be handed down to posterity, as by something which
         associates and binds them together in the minds of yourselves

         and your children, and your children's children, to ages yet

         unborn."

              In the next place he described a walk he had taken
         through the streets of Manchester "amidst the smoke of
         chimneys and the roar of engines;" and then he came to
         speak of the artisans :

              " In talking to men whose brows were smeared with dirt,
         and whose hands were black with soot, I found upon them
         the marks of intellectual minds, and the proofs of high

         character ; and I conversed with men who, in their own

         way, and in many ways bearing upon the purposes of life,
         were far my superiors. I would wish the members of the
         British Association to mingle themselves with these artisans,
         in these perhaps overlooked corners of our great cities ; for,

         as I talked with them, the feeling prevailing in my mind was

         that of the intellectual capacity manifest in the humbler
         orders of population in Manchester. This is a great truth,
         which I wish all the members of this Association to bear
         away with them, that while the institutions and customs of

INSTALLATION OF DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND. 47

man set up a barrier, and draw a great and harsh line               1842.
between man and man, the hand of the Almighty stamps
                                                                  .'Et- s'
His finest impress upon the soul of many a man who never
rises beyond the ranks of comparative poverty and ob

scurity....
     " Do not suppose for a moment that I am holding any

levelling doctrines. Far from it. I seek but to consolidate
the best institutions of society. But I do wish that the

barriers between man and man, between rank and rank,

should not be harsh, and high, and thorny; but rather
that they should be a kind of sunk fence, sufficient to
draw lines of demarcation between one and another, and
yet such that the smile of gladness and the voice of cheer

fulness might pass over, and be felt and heard on the other

side."1

     After the meeting of the British Association, Sedgwick

returned to Cambridge, where the Public Commencement,
at which the Duke of Northumberland was installed
Chancellor of the University, detained him till the end of

the first week in July. His vacation began with "a quiet

idle week " at Cheltenham, partly because the waters had
done him good on a previous visit, partly because he needed
rest before beginning his geological campaign. This, like

the tour in Ireland and Scotland in the previous year, was

intended to be merely preliminary to his literary work. " If

God spare my health," he had written to Murchison early in

the year, " I begin my work this spring. Already I have

engaged an amanuensis to attend at six every morning.

But of this by the way. I must again look at the upper

rocks of Westmoreland, which I have hardly looked at since
1822 ! and also I must visit for a few days the sections in
the north of Denbighshire." The amanuensis, as we know,

had a sinecure ; and the visit to Wales extended over several

years.

1 From the Supplement to The Manchester Guardian, 29 June, 1842.

48 NORTH WALES.

42. Sedgwick was accompanied for a short time by his friend

.57- Mr Griffith; and, for the first time, he took with him an

       assistant in the person of "an excellent young naturalist1,"

      Mr J. W. Salter, who had drawn and engraved the plates for

       The Silurian System, and in consquence proved " of infinite
       use " to him " by his admirable and ready knowledge of the
       characteristic fossil species*." His primary object was to
      revise the work he had done alone in 1831 --32, which, to
        his great satisfaction, he found had been right in principle,

       and stood the test now applied to it. He gives the following
      resume" of what he and Mr Salter accomplished :

We examined in great detail the two lines of the Bala Limestone

caused by synclinal flexure, securing our work by tracing both beds

along their strike, and in this way we demonstrated that the more
eastern limestone bands in the Llanwddyn valley were identical with

the eastern bands that cross the road between Bala and Llangynog.
We also carefully mapped a part of the country east and north of the
northern Berwyns ; and we completed in great detail sections which

connected the Silurian rocks south of the Tannat and north of the

Ceiriog, shewing the emergence of the old Cambrian rocks which

pass through the intervening country and form the highest crests of
the Berwyns. We also examined the great fault S. E. of Llanwddyn,
Iwhich produces an entire inversion of the strata through a range of
several miles. This fact         had first observed in 1832, and had

verified it by following the inverted beds along their strike till they

Ihad regained their normal position, and we found that we had no

corrections to make in this portion of my old sections of 1832.
mention these facts only to shew how conscientiously our work was

done. We sought the truth, and would have embraced to whatit,

ever conclusions might lead us*.
    it
     The Welsh tour was of necessity shortened by Sedgwick's
being obliged to go into Residence at Norwich for the months1
of October and November. This change, by no means
agreeable to himself, was rendered necessary by the circum
stance that Dr Philpott, Master of St Catharine's Hall, who

*1  To Isabella Sedgwick,  September, 1842.

    Preface to Salter's Catalogue, p. xxiii. An interesting biography of Salter is

given in the Anniversary Address of the President of the Geological Society for
1870 (Professor Huxley). Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc., Vol. 16, pp. xxxvi --xxxix.

3   Preface, ut supra, p. xxiv.

        BLOWING UP OF CLIFF AT DOVER.             49

was junior Canon, was detained at Cambridge by his duties        1843.
                                                                       58
as Vice-Chancellor. It had been Sedgwick's intention to work

out his Welsh notes during his Residence ; but a long bout
of influenza and painful gouty symptoms put an end to all

serious occupations; and, when his Residence ended, he
hastened to Dent. He had not spent Christmas with his
family for thirty years. Finally he reached Cambridge in
January, after an absence of nearly six months1.

     He was making good progress with his geological work,

when he received an invitation to witness the great blasting
operations about to take place at Dover. The temptation

was irresistible. " Perhaps I may be converted into a nebula"

he wrote to a friend in Yorkshire ; "so look out for a new one
high in the sky, and with bearing of a line drawn from York

to Dover. There, John ! pack away, or we miss the coach !
off like gunpowder!"2 What he saw, and what he did after

wards, is recorded in the following letters :

                     LONDON, January 2%th, 1843.

My dear Fankinette,

                 Last Wednesday morning the post brought me a
letter from Mrs Airy (the wife of the Astronomer Royal, you
must have heard me speak of her a hundred times) urging
me to meet them at London, and push on that night by the

new railroad to Dover. There they were to meet Sir John
and Lady Herschel, and next day were to see a grand sight
-- the blowing up, or rather perhaps I should say, the blowing

down, of a great chalk cliff, higher by about 100 feet than the

famous Shakespeare cliff so beautifully described in King

Lear. So turn to that noble passage of the greatest of all

poets, and get it off by heart before you eat your next meal,
and you will find your digestion all the better for the work.
Well, I instantly packed my bag, ordered horses to the
terminus at Hockerill, and thence skated away to London.

        1 To R. I. Murchison, January, 1843.
        a To Rev. C. Ingle, 25 January, 1843.

S. II.                                         4

         5 BLOWING UP OF CLIFF AT DOVER.

  1843.  But alas ! I was half an hour too late, and had to wait an hour
         arKl a half at the inn near London Bridge, where I am now
XX- 58.

         writing on my return. The evening train, however, conveyed

         me to Dover, but too late to see my friends.

             Next morning (Thursday) I found all my friends well and

         in high spirits. The day was fine for January, and sufficiently

         clear for us to catch occasional glimpses of Cape Blanc-Nez

         on the French coast. After breakfast with the Directors
         of the great works, Mr Cubitt the head engineer, General

         Paisley who has been employed in blowing up the wreck of

         the Royal George, and several scientific men, we started on

         a voyage of discovery. We examined finished tunnels, and

         unfinished tunnels, and cuttings, and viaducts, and I know

         not what; and we then mounted a cliff 530 feet high by steps
         cut in the chalk, and proceeded to look at the great galvanic

         batteries that were to fire the magazine.

         From Dover, right under the Shakespeare cliff, is a mag

         nificent double tunnel nearly a mile long ; each tunnel forms

         a gothic arch 30 feet high, some
         what as follows :

             My beautiful drawing (No. 1)
         speaks for itself; only suppose

         the beds of chalk to rise about

         300 feet above the two openings.           No. 1.

         Beyond Shakespeare's cliff is another, called Round Cliff,
         considerably higher ; I believe nearly 400 perpendicular feet

         above the water's edge. This bulged out into the sea, forming

         a kind of buttress ; and in at

         tempting to extend the tunnel

         through they found full of
         2)

            :

              it,
                                     it it
         cracks and small fissures, and so

         incoherent as to endanger their

         works. A large mass of actu

         ally slid down several feet, some      No. 3. A, B,a great crack. A, B, C,
         what in the following manner       D, an enormous mass of chalk which had

         (No.                               subsided a few feet towards the sea.

5i

     What then was to be done ? Mr Cubitt drove a gallery                                     1843.

through the base of the great mass, and in it deposited 185                                 Mt-S*
barrels of gunpowder, each containing 100 lbs. of powder.
They were placed in three chambers of the excavation, as
follows, at A, B, C, and a rope containing a wire went through

                                                                   No. 3.

the three chambers, and so ascended from the two ends of
the gallery to the top of the cliff, and thence to a galvanic

apparatus at a safe distance on the land-side. All this done,

the galleries were again filled up, and well plugged with
rubbish, just as they tamp down the powder in the hole where

they blast a common rock. From the point B to the outside
of the cliff was just 75 ft. measured in a straight line. I

cannot pretend to give you a regular lecture on galvanism,
but you can understand (or take on trust) that when the

wires E, D, were properly connected with the great galvanic
batteries at the top of the cliff, the galvanic fluid then made

a circuit, passing along the wire, and therefore passing right

through the piles of gunpowder at A, B, C. You may also

understand that where the wire is very small and fine it turns
instantly red-hot. Now just in the centre of the gunpowder

heaps it was contrived that the wire should be very fine. I

have not time to explain how this was done, neither have I
time or room to explain some other contrivances (such as
 separate streams of galvanic fluid sent to each chamber to
 ensure success) which are not necessary to make you under-

                                                                                      4--2

          52 BLOWING UP OF CUFF AT DOVER.

  1843.   stand the principle.  I wish I could draw better, let me
          try:
yEt. 58.

                  No. 4. A, the galvanic apparatus. B, C, the ends of the gallery, which was cut
                                                                75 feet inside of the cliff.

              With such a beautiful drawing you must be dull if you do

          not understand. The object was then to fire the great
          magazine of gunpowder in this way, and so to bring down

          the great mass represented in No. 2 (A, B, C, D). A great

          multitude of persons were collected; the scenery was glorious;
          we were almost lifted off the earth with expectation ; signals

          were hoisted ; guns were fired ; soldiers kept the multitude

          at a safe distance. At length came a signal (a discharge of

          40 pounds of powder) which told us that in one minute
          exactly the connecting wires would be joined, and the

          magazine fired. We could hardly draw breath. A sound,

          between a groan and a sob, was heard ; the ground gave a
          gentle heave, the base of the cliff bulged out like a barrel,

          and the rocks began to gape. Instantly after, the flagstaff
          at A (No. 2) began to sink, and the whole cliff slid down to
          the base, seeming to have changed its nature, and suddenly

          become semi-fluid ; and in about a minute the whole descend

          ing mass was spread over about twenty-five acres of ground,

          the outer part encroaching on the sea. I never saw a more
          glorious sight. There was very little noise, and not a puff of

BLOWING UP OF CLIFF AT DOVER.  53

 smoke was seen, so completely was the magazine buried                                 1843

under the enormous ruin it had occasioned. All was calm
and solemn, beyond that of any physical movement I ever
witnessed. A launch is a fine sight ; but the launch of a line-

of-battle ship is a cockle-shell movement compared with the
sliding down of this magnificent cliff.

                                                         Cambridge, Saturday evening.

    Soon after the explosion I descended to the rubbish

under the cliff, and saw the unbroken flagstaff lying on the
grass nearly 400 ft. below its first position. I then walked
back to Dover by the top of Shakespeare's cliff, and found

my friends assembled at the inn. I was easily persuaded to
spend the evening with them, so I dined with Mr Cubitt the

engineer, and met Sir John and Lady Herschel, and my
dear friends Mr and Mrs Airy, and a right merry and happy

evening we all spent together.

    Next day I went in a fly to Folkestone, and examined

some other great excavations, hoping to pick up some good

fossils ; but the ground was wet, and like bird-lime ; so that

I pulled off the cloth top of my right boot, and was compelled

to go 4 miles hopping on my left leg and sliding on the other,

to the great amusement of the sailors and workmen I passed

on the road. At length, however, I reached my fly again,

and pushed on to the terminus, hoping to meet my friends the

Airys and the Herschels there, but they had, I suppose, stuck

in the mud like myself and were too late for the four o'clock

train. Three hours brought me to London, and last night

I took up my quarters in a new and magnificent inn near

London Bridge, built expressly to catch railroad passengers.
Plenty of soap and water, a hot bath, and then a good scrub
bing and brushing put me once more to rights ; after which I

smoked a cigar with a philosophic quaker whom I met on

the road. We discussed religion, politics, chemistry, and
geology till our smoke failed ; after which we retired to our

sleeping-dens. This morning, while in the coffee-room, I

54 GEOLOGICAL PLANS.

3. wrote all the early part of this beautiful letter, beautiful from
58. its subject, and still more from its penmanship, and its sublime

      drawings. Pray begin from this day the art of design, and
      copy these charming models. Labour, dearest Fan, day and
      night, until you can produce the like, and then I will sit to
      you for my picture.... So good night, my little sauce-box !

                                                 Ever affectionately yours,

                                                               A. Sedgwick.

To R. I. Murchison, Esq.

                          Trin. Coll., January 31 si, 1843.

    "...I think of publishing as a large pamphlet or little
book, my synopsis of the classification of the old rocks of

England and Wales etc, with a few sections and plates of

fossils. Some of the fossils were actually, I believe, engraved

last year by Sowerby, and I meant to present them to your

Society, with my memoir a little rubbed up. But then came
a five months' intellectual death. This opuscule will be an
introduction to my larger work, should I ever have health and

courage to go through     which trust shall. Perhaps
II
             II

                                     a
                                                it,

                                                                a

                                                I
                                                                it I
                                                                            I
may retire for year into Germany, and hire lodgings at

some of the watering-places. This has been recommended,

and then could easily make smash of my volume. When

am well can write fast enough. And seems to me now

that all my materials are well in hand. But at Cambridge

am bothered out of all my senses...."

                        Sunday Morning, 19 February, 1843.

My dear Ingle,

                     ...I am now much better, though the root of the

malady in me, and cannot get back my power of sleeping.
I                    I

                 is
believe a few doses of colchicum would take away the

irritation (especially during night) of my sinews and muscular

fibres, but Haviland for the present forbids its use, as he thinks

my malady chiefly nervous. And so, no doubt,  it             but
                                                   is

                                                          ;

where the cause, the lurking cause, of the mischief? A goutyis

                                   CHRONIC GOUT.                  55

diathesis, as the doctors call        and constitution without
                                      it it,                                                                                                                     1843.
       a                                                                                                                                                                58-
                                                      a
                              it,
energy to smother or throw out in an active form, so as,
after few good useful racks of pain, to have done with it.

I  had this dire disorder five months, beginning with last

spring.

   On Friday went up to the anniversary of the Geological
       a
                 a

                I
                    I
Society, and the excitement of the day, for the time, did me

much good, and spoke as well as have ever done. But
                                               I

                                                     I

                                                              I
then came collapse, and now (Sunday morning) have risen

after      very bad sleepless night, and                 am cramped by

rheumatic pains brought on by the cold of yesterday during

my journey back to Cambridge. But mum as to these

confessions tell them to no one but you and train myself
   it                                                    ;
       is
                                                               I
           ;I
to be cheerful among my brother-fellows, or at least to seem

so, and they only think me now and then haunted by fancies.

But not fancy that makes me look at my watch every

hour of the long night -- and         it       no fancy that makes me,
                                           is

hour after hour, count the clank of our clock bells..."

To Rev. P. B. Brodie.                 Cambridge, May 30, 1843.
    "...I shall be most happy         to be Godfather to your

first-born. You say you wish he may follow my example in

all respects.  say, God forbid There are 10,000 things
   !

    I
         I
               II

                                                                                   !

                                           I

                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                              :
alas in which he ought not to follow me. But in all the

good ever learnt from my own Father and Mother, and

in all the ill from which (by God's grace and no good of
my own) have been saved -- in such things may he follow
me, and in no other. To my friends shew my best face

but by myself am often oppressed with miserable spirits,

and with the consciousness of doing so little of what ought

to do..."

To Miss F. Hicks.                  ?             Norwich, June 23, 1843.

    "...Do you know that              Lough the sculptor has asked
                                        He thinks me so handsome,
me to sit for my Bust

         5 GEOLOGY IN NORTH WALES.

1843.    that I half suspect he wants me for a model of some of the
         heathen gods. He had a figure of Bacchus in this Exhibition,
Et. 58.
         but, as I drink water, he hardly can want me to sit for a new
         Bacchus. So I suppose I must sit for Neptune, and my

         hammer must be replaced by a trident. Or perhaps he will
         dress me like one of the Welsh Rebeccites, and call me a

         water-nymph. Surely I should do vastly well for a water-

         nymph ! Don't you think so ?..."

              In June Sedgwick read to the Geological Society his long-
         promised paper, modestly called Outline of the Geological
         Structure of North Wales ; and a fortnight or so afterwards
         returned to his former field of exploration, accompanied as

         before by Mr Salter. When he started he said that he should

         attend the meeting of the British Association at Cork in
         August, and then " brush up " his old surveys in Westmoreland ;

         but the difficulties of his work in Wales, added to more than

         usually bad weather, detained him so much longer than

         he had expected, that he was obliged to give up Ireland in
         spite of a pressing appeal from Mr Griffith, who protested

         that " our section will be a complete failure without you." In

         Wales he continued, and " seemed to bring to a happy end "

         the revision begun in the previous year. "We came away

         rejoicing in the thought that we had done our work effectually
         and to a good purpose." Moreover, in spite of the " wetting
         and drying, and soaking, and wringing " inflicted on him by

         bad weather, he found his health improve, and that he could
         " bear a walk of ten or twelve miles over rugged mountains

         without feeling any very excessive fatigue1."

               From Wales Sedgwick went for a short visit to Dent, and

         thence to Westmoreland. But stormy weather at the beginning
         of October, with " snow which fell so thick upon the mountains
         that several flocks of sheep were, in the language of the

         country, overdriven, i.e. buried under the drifted snow,"

         compelled him to return to Dent ; and soon after a summons

         1 Preface to Salter's Catalogue, p. xxiv. To Miss Sedgwick, 3 August, 1843.

                  THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.                                               57

from Dr Whewell hurried him back to Cambridge "with the                                       ^1843.
speed of a rocket1." What happened when he got there shall                                              58-
be told in his own words.

                  The Queen's Visit to Cambridge*.

    Well --the hurly-burly is all done ! and after a double dose
of sleep, I am coaxing the morning air to play on my face through
an open window looking into our Great Court. Yesterday the place
was glittering with all the splendour of a royal pageant, and every
breathing thing seemed to be joining in acclamations. To-day,
a glorious morning sun seems to be shining on a dead world, and

everything about me is silent and motionless as the grave. I got so
far, and halted from excess of sentiment. Again I looked out of the
window, and what do you think I saw? Two dirty bedmakers
hobbling to the fountain, and drawing water from it ; one under

graduate skipping over the great grass-plot to his Tutor's room ; and

five pigeons pecking bread-crumbs under my chamber-windows.
It is                             all the world is not dead. What a pity
       pI laainm  therefore that    In half   aInamhoguor intghewitDheathne  of Ely is
that               interrupted.                                              said Dean
                                  afterwards
coming, and half an hour

to Ely.                  At Ely my
                         party, and
      Saturday evening.              Ialefttetrertema aIdewasnosoprtoirgerdesst,hatfor   the
Dean had a Cambridge                                                                    had

scarcely strength to prop my eyelids.
     The news of the Royal visit only reached me at Dent last
Friday week ; and
this joyful news?  what  do you      think was my first step                 on hearing
                                     forthwith to my tailor to               build me a
                   Why   I wrote
pair of shorts and a silk cassock. Pantaloons, you know, are an
abomination in the eyes of Kings and Queens. These important

Imatters and many others of lighter moment being ended, removed
to Kirby Lonsdale on Saturday ; did duty for a friend at that place
on Sunday ; posted to Lancaster in the evening in time for the
night train ; and so found my way to London
                                                 on Monday morning.
On Monday night I reached Cambridge, and       on Tuesday, from sun
rise to sunset, I was most actively employed,  along with my sapient
John, and three or four artificers and cunning men,
Museum in royal order. I believe every member of              in putting my
                                  I  was myself, but I must
was in   as great a bustle as     I                           the University
others.                              heard the wind howling,  not speak for
          All Tuesday night                                   and the drops
of rain pattering against my windows, and the early dawn broke
through a dark and dismal sky. The sun, however, did his work to
admiration, and before long sent all the clouds a packing to the

     1 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 30 October, 1843.
     a This narrative was originally written in the form of letters to Miss Kate
Stanley and Miss Kate Malcolm.

          58 THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.

1843.     unseen regions of the earth. The day became glorious. The town
      5g  was all alive, and the Great Court of Trinity College seemed the
          very centre of life and gladness. The Seniors met and deliberated ;
          thinking of many things little worth thinking of, and forgetting many

          things about which they should have thought. Still there was the
          semblance of order in the midst of our disorder, and by one o'clock,

          all things, and all persons, seemed to have slid into their intended
                                                                      second-hand,
          places.   We  knew   nothing, except at                  ;   but from all     of  what went on
          beyond   the  gates  of Trinity College                                           can hear, the
                                                                                         I
          passage of the royal train from Royston to the triumphal arch at the
          south end of Cambridge was such as royal eyes have seldom seen
          before. For the last ten or twelve miles more than 3000 yeomanry,
          headed by the Lord Lieutenant of the County, joined the escort.
                                                   the rate of 15
          aOcncidtehnety--alslomcaemtime esat      sweeping over   miles an   hour       without check or
                                                                    hedge    and        ditch -- sometimes

          rushing along the road in one dense and well-compacted mass ; so
          that on reaching the Cambridge Barrier every man was a pillar of
          mud, and every horse a mass of living vapour. Among the con
          spicuous persons of this mass of yeomanry was a master-tailor, who by
          a miracle reached the barrier in safety, and was there seen bearing a

          bright red flag high above his head. It was made of red cloth
          destined for the nether-garments of a livery-servant, but by a strange
          accident elevated to this high honour. 'Tis now said that this man

          of shears had married a prudent wife, who ordered his journeymen
          to stitch him to the saddle before he started. And by this deed
          of prudent forethought he became one of the miracles of the day.
                                                                                        nonsense.) The
                                                          sofojroywourist,ingthatthisI  declare would
          I(I beg your pardon, my                  dear,
                                                   was
          procession from Royston
          have foregone half the glories of the Royal visit to have been one
          of the party.
               By one o'clock the members of the University were marshalled in
          our Great Court, to the number of more than 2000, in silent and

          solemn order. My windows commanded an excellent view, and
          were filled with ladies. At length, about two o'clock, the sound of
          distant voices, and the clattering of bells, produced a slight undula
          ting sympathetic movement in our ranks, and before long the Royal

          standard was seen to rise slowly and majestically over the great gate

          way. A few seconds more and the gates flew open ; and down
          rushed the Guard followed by the Royal carriages. For a moment

          Iall was as silent as death ; each man was drawing in his breath that

          he might with more energy send forth a shout of gratulation.

          never heard such a shout before, reverberated as it was from every
          corner of our noble court. The most striking order was still pre
          served, and the Royal carriage advanced to the centre of the court,

          where the Master and Seniors were met to do homage, and present
                                                   oCpfoolnlleedagetehroeurkse--,ysat.hnidckYroueusntyon--uegvahenr dtosaswthraasvpuepchebdoauntongademthptheleer
          btounthcheiroSf okveeyrse--ignlartghee,

          by an old greasy bit
          limbs of unshaven Samson, and looking as if it had been cut from the

                 THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.                                            59

flank of a rhinoceros. Her Majesty contemplated this phenomenon                                                 1843.
with eyes of wonder, and then gently waving her Royal hand signi-
                                                                                                              jEt

fied thereby her will that the ponderous bunch should be restored to
the keeping of the
Lodge door -- order   Bursar.   On   --thtehecwarhroialegeUnmivoevresdity  towards  our
                     was at an  end                                          moved  like

a great wave, and threatened some dire confusion ; but the front
rank halted at a respectful distance, so firmly that no act of disorder
was committed. The very tumult, and sudden condensation of the
Academic mass, only added to the heartiness and joyousness of the
Igreeting.                              IonhaanvwdeithItolhmdayveyodueaslmocrfoipstthtieodnAo. ndedrTemhsesy

Queen

Ipaper.
in Hall.       Alas ! how slowly get
          is not yet within our Lodge
           But will not conclude till

     While  the  Queen was refreshing   the inner  woman, and preparing
her dress,  we   again took our ranks,             think we made a most
                                        and I do
goodly procession. The College Hall had been cleared of tables,
and a throne erected in the centre of the dais. This was therefore

to be the Presence Chamber, where the Addresses were to be pre
sented to the Queen and Prince Albert. No room could be better
for the purpose. It was full of historical associations, amply able to
contain the whole University, and had a private entrance from the
Lodge for the Queen. But there was a difficulty. The entrance
was narrow, and the members of the University (not wearing their
eyes in that part of their persons where Argus is said to have carried
a portion of his eye-establishment), are singularly clumsy in all
retrograde movements. Now if the Queen were once on her throne,
it would be absolutely impossible for her to stir, after the Address,
while a single soul remained in Hall; and supposing that we had

once backed out, we must again marshal and make our second entry
for the Address to the Prince. But it was a thousand to one against

our ever backing out at all, especially while three or four hundred
undergraduates were pressing behind to get a sight of Her Majesty.
The odds were that we should come to a dead-lock, and be converted
into one melancholy unwholesome mass of Academic jam. To

avoid this misery the Queen condescended to receive our Address
while standing, and to remain while the second Address was pre
sented to the Prince. Thus we avoided the misery of a double
retreat. Nor was this all. While we were moving away, and under

going a curious retrograde compression, the Queen turned round,
took the arm of the Prince, and walked out of Hall. We, like

dutiful subjects, followed her example, faced about, and so escaped

as best we could. These are small points, badly noticed in the

journals; but great events are often marked by small circum

stances.
At the appointed signal, the head of the procession entered the
College Hall. My place, as one of the Professors, was in the

second rank, behind the  Icircle made up by the    Noblemen,                Heads of
Colleges, and Doctors.                             as well as
                         But saw the Queen                                 I see you
during my visits (always formal and after long intervals) to the

         6o THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1843.  Palace Library. She seemed in a slight flutter, and her eye rolled

^t 68    ftroowmardosneheor.bjecIt    to   another   while  the  academic stream was flowing
                                    do    think the  sight  and  the occasion were most novel

         and imposing. Long before the tail of the procession was uncoiled
         from the great Court, the features of the Queen had put on an
         expression of repose, and she went through her part of the pageant
         with great sweetness and dignity. The Prince was looking well and
         happy. He has, you know, a noble figure, and he seemed well-
         fitted for his place beside the Queen. Far better than all this, it is
         plain that the royal pair love one another. They went together to

         every place she wished to see, and when she required some moments
         of rest he started on some expedition of his own, so that he lost not
         one moment from his entrance at our gates till the hour of his
         departure. As a proof of this I may tell you, that while the Queen
         was putting on her travelling dress just before she left us, he started

         on foot privately with our Master, and went on to the top of King's

         College Chapel to have a parting bird's-eye view from its battle
         ments. In short, everything went on brightly and gloriously from
         first to last, and the Queen and Prince have carried off all hearts
         with them from the highest to the lowest. Before the Queen left us
         she told the Master more than once that the kindness of our reception
         delighted her. And what glorious weather! the more delightful
         after the gloom and wet of the previous day.
             As soon as we were out of Hall, each man who had a ticket of

         admission, ran as best he could to King's Chapel. I had a place in
         the Choir, and I believe I only speak truth when I say that there was
         not anyone present who was not touched by the solemnity of the

         Service. Boisterous excitement cannot have a lasting place in the

         mind of man, and the passage from such a state to a sentiment of
         devotion, or something having the semblance of devotion, is not

         unnatural. But alas ! such impressions often fade away as soon as

         the external cause is withdrawn ; and whether any lasting good
         was produced amongst us, by the chanting of the prayers of our
         church, and the solemn swell of the organ in this glorious temple of
         the living God, can only be known to Him who looketh into the
         secrets of the heart

             From our childhood we are I think led to fancy that a Royal
         procession must have a slow and solemn movement. Not so, how
         ever, with our little Queen. Her movements are so rapid that her
         lady-followers are sorely put to                   and are forced to urge their
                    a
                                                           it,

                                                        I
         muscles into somewhat ungraceful activity, that they may keep up
         with their Royal Mistress. The Queen passed down the choir after
         service at her usual rapid pace, but just as she was descending to
         the ante-chapel she seemed to recollect herself, halted and turned
         round, and for some time stood, leaning on the arm of the Prince,
         and gazing at the choir and the painted lights of the east window.
         She then wheeled round, and again started at her rapid rate of
                      hurried to the                  great western door, and
         movement,                                   Newton's Optics, should   entered  her
         carriage.  If you had read                                            remind   you

            THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.                          61

of his theory of the  movements of     awLoisguulhndtb;ebaemalno,dsthatuevpellony"ofyuitosut--hoaftsoeatlhseeyt    1843.
Queen's movements,    like those of
transmission;" but I                                                                                             ,Et. 58.
                      fear the figure

that pass.
     After reaching our College, the plan was that the Queen should
visit our Library, and, as it was getting dark, a line of torches was in

readiness. But she began to feel some fatigue (no wonder), and
resolved instead to see our Chapel and Newton's statue, and so to

finish the labours of the day. In an instant the red carpet was
unrolled from the Hall steps and trailed from the Lodge door
towards the steps of the Chapel. But alas ! it was too short to serve

its purpose ; and while the Master and Seniors were conducting her
across the Court, there was, for about half a second, a horrible

conviction that the Royal footsteps would be brought in most
unseemly contact with the dusty pavement. But our undergraduates,
who lined both sides of the path, saved our credit by a Sir Walter
Raleigh movement. They simultaneously pulled off their gowns,
and spread them two or three deep under the royal footsteps. We
had a splendid Levee in the evening.
     After the pageant of Wednesday was   over, I am told
Queen retired to rest, and slept soundly                     that the
                                          in the state-bed.
                                                              If you
Ionly saw the cover of the bed you would understand what say, and
believe anything which may be told you about the soundness of the
Royal sleep. The outer cover was once a praying-carpet of a great
Mandarin, and was snatched from the fingers of his wife at the
storming of Ningpo, and brought to England for the solemnity of the
Royal visit. It was of bright scarlet, and adorned with golden
dragons. Their claws were symbolical of power, and their wings of
swiftness, and their horizontal position on the bed shewed the
suspension of all the terrors of the Royal will during the time of

sleep.
The sun rose brightly on Thursday morning. The Astronomer
Royal came to my room very early. He had made an observation

on the stars, and found that they continued most propitious. So we
sat down well-contented, and ate a loyal breakfast. This important
business was not quite done, when there was heard a rap at my door,
followed by a formidable note from our Master, telling me of an
intended Royal visit to the Woodwardian den of wild beasts,

immediately after Prince Albert's degree in the Senate House, and

enjoining me to clear a passage by a side-entrance through the
old Divinity Schools. For it was thought inexpedient that the

Royal Party should descend by the Senate House Passage, and enter
on the side of Clare Hall by the front door. This threw me off my
balance. For since the building of the New Library this place of
ancient theological disputations has been converted into a kind of
lumber-room, and was filled, from end to end, with every kind of
unclean thing You would have laughed to see this dark and dismal

chamber, just lighted enough to show its horrors. Mops, slop-pails,

chimney-pots, ladders, broken benches, rejected broken cabinets from

           62 THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.

1843.      the Library, two long ladders, and an old rusty scythe, were the
      5g.  things that met the eye, and everything was covered with half an inch
           of venerable dust. But there is at the end of the rooms a kind of

           gallery or gangway, by which the undergraduates last year used to

           find their way to my lecture-room.    But alas ! this gangway also was
           choke-full of every kind of rubbish and abomination. We did our

           best, and soon tumbled all impediments into the area below, producing
           a cloud as thick as that which hung over the land of Egypt. Huge
           mats, which the week before had covered the floor of the Senate

           House, were at hand, and spread over the slop-pails and other
           unsightly things, and in a time incredibly short, as men move in
           vulgar days, a goodly red carpet was spread along the gangway, and
           thence down my lecture-room to the door of the Museum . But still
           there was a dreadful evil to encounter. What we had done, brought

           out such "a rank compound of villanous smells", that even my
           Iplebeian nose was sorely put to it. How then could Queens and

           Princes bear it? So went to a chemist's shop, and procured
           certain bottles of sweet odours, and sprinkled them cunningly where
           most wanted. And art being now exhausted, the rest was left to
           nature. Inside the Museum all was previously in order. Inside
           the entrance-door from the gangway was a huge picture of the
           Mgaatergmthaeatnthtesp,rliaucamen,dIurnwadanes rtotwothhrieeccheSivetheneateHQeurHeeoMnusameje.ussttyA.pnadsSsoItowI athsdeujsuMtseutdsienmumytim,oeuatnetdor
                                  his degree,   and to  join in the acclamations.  That
           see the  Prince take  to the feet   of the   Megatherium ; and before   long,
           ended,
                    I ran back
           the Queen left the Senate House, and began her progress. Where
           carpets were wanting, the gowns of the undergraduates supplied their
           place, and, in a few minutes, the Royal Party entered the mysterious

           gangway above described. They halted, I half thought in the
           spirit of mischief, to contemplate the furniture of the Schools, and
           the Vice-Chancellor (Whewell) pointed out the beauties of the dirty
           spot, where Queen Bess had sat 250 years before when she presided
           at the Divinity Act1. A few steps more brought them under the feet
           of the Megatherium, which rose in the air spontaneously and allowed

           the Queen and Prince Albert to pass under,   followed by the attend
           ants and leading persons of the University.
                                                         I bowed as low as my

           anatomy would let me, and the Queen and Prince bowed again most
           graciously; and so began Act I. The Queen seemed happy and
           well-pleased, and was mightily taken with one or two of my monsters,
           especially with the Plesiosaurus and gigantic stag. The subject was

           new to her, but the Prince evidently had a good general knowledge
           of the old
           with great  world ; and  not    only  asked good questions, and listened
                       courtesy to          had  to say, but in one or two instances
                                    all I

           helped me out by pointing to the rare things in my collection,

                1 This is a mistake. When Queen Elizabeth visited the University in 1564
           the Disputations in Divinity were held in Great St Mary's Church. Cooper's

           Annals, ii. 194.

                       THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.                     63

especially in that part of it which contains the German fossils. I                                1843.
thought myself very fortunate in being able to exhibit the finest
collection of German fossils to be seen in England. They fairly                                 jEt- s8,

went round the         Museum,     and   had they not    been so greatly pressed
for time, would,                   most  willingly have
                       I believe,                        rIemthaininkedthme uQchueleonngwears;
for neither of them seemed in a hurry, and

quite happy to hear her husband talk about a novel subject with so
                                         He called her
much knowledge and spirit.                               back    once to look at a
fine impression of a dragon-fly          which I have    in the  Solenhofen slate.

  Having glanced at the long succession of our fossils from the youngest
to the oldest, the party again moved into the lecture-room. The
                                                                  of the Plesiosau-
Queen was again mightily taken with the long neck
rus. Under it was a fine head of an Icthyosaurus,                which I had been

just unpacking. I did not know anything about                       as had myself
  never seen its face before, for arrived in my absence. The Queena
asked what was.it      told her as plainly as could. She then askedit,
         it                                it
                                                              III
            I                                  II
                 I

                       I

                                       it
whence came, and what do you think said? That did not

know the exact place, but believed came as delegate from the
monsters of the lower world to greet Her Majesty on her arrival at
                       did not repeat this, till found that had been
the University.                            I

  overheard, and that my impertinence had been talked of among my
  Cambridge friends. All was, however, taken in good part, and soon

IIafterwards the Royal Party again approached the mysterious gangway.II
     bowed low, the Prince and Queen bowed, the Megatherium packedII

  up his legs close under the abdominal regions of his august body, the
  Royal Pageant passed under, and was soon out of my sight, and
  welcomed by the cheers of the multitudes before the Library. You
  now know all can tell you about this part of the Royal Visit, and
  will add that went through every kind of backward movement to
  the admiration of all beholders, only having once trodden on the
  hinder part of my cassock, and never once having fallen during
  my retrogradations before the face of the Queen. In short had

     been a King Crab could not have walked backwards much
                       aI
better. . . .

    When reached Cambridge from the North, immediately called
  on the Master, and offered him the use of my room that opens onaI
                                               I
the turret stair-case, and so communicates directly with the StateI
Apartments of the Lodge. He accepted my offer with joy, and next
morning early, saw bed put up in this room for the Lord
Chamberlain, after which the door of communication was closed on
the side leading to my other rooms. Had known what took place

afterwards should certainly have taken                   peep through the key
               II
hole. But remained in ignorance of the honour my dining-room

had come to, and only heard the news after the Queen's departure.

No sooner had Her Majesty arrived than all the attendant ladies were
shewn to their respective quarters. The two who were to dress the
Queen, and take care of the royal wardrobe, cried out against the
  destined apartment, as infinitely too small to contain them and
  tithe only of the Queen's petticoats. Necessity has no law, so Monsieura

         64 THE QUEEN AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1843.  le Grand Chambellan was bundled out head and shoulders, and the

Mt. 58.  tw0 ladies prepared all the decorations for the royal person in my
                         My walls, floor, chairs, and tables were covered with
         dining-room.
         the gorgeous  and costly trappings of royalty. When I again entered

         my dining-room last Friday week the very pictures on the walls were
         still nodding with astonishment, and even the old grave-looking
         Turkey carpet was in a state of most unusual excitement. I could
         not tell what was the matter with all my furniture, but I called on
         Mrs Whewell, and
                           she soon explained   this wonder.   thing        has  now
             Here I ought  to end my private   history. Every

         returned to its  old   place, and things in general  have taken    to their
         former courses.       am sitting in solitude, among  ill-arranged  papers,
                            I

         sometimes listening to the clock, at other times turning my ear to
         the melancholy murmuring of my dirty tea kettle.

         The next letter completes our account of the year 1843.

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.  Norwich, January 6th, 1844.
             My dear Kate,

                        As soon as the sun rises (for I am now writing by
         very early candle-light) will begin the last day of Christmas
         --a day of merry faces, clapping hands, and twelfth cakes,
         and I know not what besides --but these things are to me
         almost matters of memory ; for I have been a bad economist

         of my happiness--I am withering on the ground without

         fruit or blossom ; and am not permitted to live over again

         in the joys of the young who are near and dear to me. I
         must not, however, grumble above measure; for am I not

         beginning the day (while the sun has still two hours of hard
         work in trailing his limbs through the mists of morning

         before he can get his head above the dead level of Norfolk)
         in writing to a kind young friend who has sent me a large
         packet of good wishes, and has told me that she is willing to

         bear with me ?

             The last time I wrote to you was, if I remember right,
         very soon after the Queen's visit. The remaining part of the
         term, till I came hither at the end of November, was taken

         up in writing two geological papers for the London Society.

         At that time, I was in bad spirits, and not in good health.

                     DEATH OF CHARLES INGLE.                              65

The horrid death of an old and dear friend of mine1 gave me                                                       1844.
such a shake, that I did not recover from it till two or three

weeks after I came to this place. While I was in Cambridge

his image was, almost day and night, before my eyes. He

was a man of great reading and extraordinary conversational

powers ; the delight (and perhaps alas ! the victim) of society.
He had a tender conscience, and was not satisfied with the

retrospect of his own daily life, and at times he was liable to

fits of terrific melancholy. I have seen him, often, in a state

when he appeared not responsible for his actions. And then,

all at once, his soul would emerge from the dark and dismal

vapour that surrounded and he would blaze out in such
                        it,                                               aa

                                ;

                                     II

                                                             a
way that required all one's nerves to endure his vivacity.
I
                 it
had known him more than thirty years. He was in the

lowest sink of mental misery when saw him at Cambridge,

during the great festivity. He laid bare his whole heart to
me. He had formed an attachment --not prudent one as
                                       urged him to marry --
the world counts prudence and

believing in my heart that in so doing his mind and happiness

might be saved. He went and acted on my advice and then
                                                                       ;

alas sunk again into blank despair, and took away his own
1
    !life. The wretchedness felt for some weeks, ended in
                        I
                          I
                              I
                                           ;! I

                                                I
fit of rheumatic gout -- but, thank God, am now nearly well
-- or rather ought to say, am quite well.
             is I    very uniform -- rise early (often between five
     My life

and six) and do all my work in the mornings, often before

anyone  is           stirring. You see by this, that                   consider my

letters to you as part of my hard work So you must make
                     a

up your mind to read them over twice otherwise you will

     The Rev. Charles Ingle. His death took place 13 November, 1843. Mr
"IRomilly, who had known him through Sedgwick, notes in his Diary:
                                                                          have

always considered poor Ingle as most unfortunate and most ill-used man.
With talents of the highest order, with mind stored with all the treasures of
literature, with a most retentive memory, and wit only second to Sidney Smith's,
he was the delight of society. The Archbishop of York and all the nobility of
                        a
                                      a

                                                                    a

the neighbourhood vied with each other in making their houses attractive by
having Ingle for their guest -- but they suffered him to languish in poverty upon
                        a
                                                                                                               5

                                                                                                              a
miserable living of about ^150 year."

     S. II.

           66 LIFE AT NORWICH.

1844.      miss half their meaning. There is a great deal of mystical
      59-  and symbolical meaning in my crooked characters you will
           overlook at first sight ; and after making all this out you will
           begin to think my ugly, crooked-looking, letters quite charm

           ing. But of that by the way. At nine I meet my servants
           --quarter past, breakfast --at ten, morning service at the

           Cathedral-- after service, odds and ends -- callings and shop
           pings and I know not what -- lunch at one --then a scamper on

           horse-back (when I have time) with my niece, who loves a
           horse as much as you used to do--and she now rides a lovely

           bay thoroughbred creature I have hired for her. So you see,

           among other temptations for next Residence, I can promise

           you a glorious movement over our Norfolk sands on the back
           of a charger. But to return to my journal. Cathedral service
           again at four -- dinner at six : but our hours are very irregular,
           and we make Old Time our slave on this point -- somewhat

           to the confusion of my old house-keeper, who has so long
           been the slave of Old Time, that she has learnt to like his

           fetters better than our freedom. We are rather given to

           dining out ; and have many kind friends who would be greatly

           built up by seeing the Warfield1 party.

               A few days since I had a good Christmas party of children
           --blindman's buff and Hyde Hall romps over again ; and a

           good smattering of grown-up children, who thought them
           selves young again during the sparkling of fireworks and the
           boisterous mirth of snap-dragon. We will try a measure of

           this kind when you come. There ! my servant is stirring,

           and my man has brought me in my little white German dog.

           IfI offered you her brother, and you would not have him.

           you only could see his beautiful sister now at my feet, you

           would sorely repent your refusal of my offer; but an old
           bachelor of my age has had his offers refused so often that he
           gets used to and bears like lump of frozen starch, and

              none the worse for it. On Thursday evening gave two
           hours' lecture to the Society of Naturalists at this City.
           is

                            1

                                  it,
                                                     it
                                                                             a
                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                             a

                                                                                            I
           An estate in Berkshire, bought by Sir John Malcolm in 1831.

        LECTURES AT NORWICH.        67

think I had a class of nearly 300, and more than half the        1844.
number were of the softer sex-- at least they wore the outer
symbols of womankind --but whether their stockings were        iEt- 59-

blue I know not from ocular proof. I think I have heard it

said that a good woman might have her stockings as blue as

you like, only she ought to have petticoats long enough to

cover them. There are, however, one or two dragonesses

of blues here who mightily affect shorts. I don't know with
which set I must pack you, when you come to see me. The
second set will I think suit you to a t. My niece responds to

all your kind wishes, and longs for the promised visit of my

Warfield friends. But I must now conclude. So a thousand

kind wishes to you all. Ever, my dear Kate, affectionately

yours,  A. Sedgwick.

                              5--2

                     CHAPTER II.

                                     1844 -- 1849.

Invitation to British Association. Meeting at York.
     Controversy with Dean Cockburn (1844). Article in
     Edinburgh Review. British Association at Cambridge.
     Elected Vice-Master of Trinity College. Geology in
     Lake Land. Quarrel with Dr Whewell (1845).
      Geology in N. Wales (1846). Long illness. Prince
      Albert elected Chancellor. Sedgwick appointed his
     Secretary. Sir Harry Smith at Whittlesea. Installa
      tion of the Prince. Visit to Osborne (1847). Geology
      in Scotland. Lecture at Ipswich (1848). Jenny Lind.
     Trial of Rush. Accident. British Association at
     Birmingham. Death of Bishop Stanley. Breaks right

        arm (1849).

    The year 1844 was barely two months old when Sedgwick

heard of the death of one of his most intimate Cambridge
friends, Mr D. F. Gregory. He was introduced to him at
Edinburgh in 18341, when staying with Dr Alison, who had

married one of his sisters. A close intimacy with the Alisons,

and a frequent correspondence, resulted from that accidental

meeting. "The happy week I spent with you," he wrote
to Mrs Alison in 1844, "the way you made me one of

                                      1 See above, Vol. i. p. 431.

                          DEATH OF D. F. GREGORY.                                  69

 yourselves --the charming visit to the old patriarch at Wood-                                  1844.
ville1 --all these things are treasured in my memory, and bring                                       59-
delightful recollections." At that time Gregory was a clever
 undergraduate --he had entered Trinity College in 1833 --fond;
of natural science, and with a special aptitude for mathematics.
He was fifth wrangler in 1837 --a place which, high as it was,         it)

was considered to be inferior to what he might have attained

to, had his reading been less discursive; and in 1840 he was
elected Fellow of Trinity College. He was a man of varied

accomplishments, and great social gifts, which made him a

welcome guest, not merely in Sedgwick's rooms, but in the
general society of Cambridge. But his health, which had

never been robust, gave way in 1842, and during the next two
years he gradually faded out of life. The end came rather
suddenly in February 1844. Sedgwick's letters to him -- and
there is evidence that he wrote frequently -- have not been

preserved ; and it is only from allusions in his correspondence
with others, and from Mrs Alison's letters, that we get glimpses

of what was evidently a very real friendship. " I trust you
believe," she writes, " that, as a part of Duncan's happy life at

Cambridge, the feeling that he had your friendship was one

of the things he prized most of all. I dared not attempt
telling you (nor can I easily trust myself to write the sort

of way in which he used to speak of you often, when -- feeling
relieved from suffering -- he used to lie recalling and describing

to us all that had given him pleasure in his College life. He

not only admired, he loved you and was very grateful
(though not person of many words), for your kindness to
him. So are we all now*." Mr Gregory had always hoped
1

                       a
A villa near Colinton, four miles from Edinburgh, at the foot of the Pentland

hills, bought by the two sons of the Rev. Archibald Alison, as             residence for their
                                             of                            other works, died

                                                                         1a vols. 8vo. Edinb.
parents. Mr Alison, author of The Principles of Taste, and
                                             Sir A. Alison,
there, 17 May, 1839, set. 82. Autobiography

1883, 291.
        From Mrs Alison, 1844.
3                               A short Memoir of Mr Gregory, by Robert

    i.                prefixed to The Mathematical Writings of Duncan Farquharson
                  is
Leslie Ellis,

Gregory, M.A. Edited by William Walton, M.A. 8vo. Camb. 1865.

70 BRITISH ASSOCIATION INVITED TO CAMBRIDGE.

4- to persuade his friend to sit for his portrait ; and the
59" details of the plan had been discussed between them in

      the June before he died. After his death Mrs Alison re
      minded Sedgwick of his promise; and to please her his
      portrait was drawn in crayons by Mr Samuel Lawrence.

           On returning to Cambridge at the conclusion of his
     Norwich Residence a question concerning the British As
      sociation claimed Sedgwick's attention. The Council, in

      making arrangements for the annual meetings, had come

      to the conclusion that the towns most convenient for the

      purposes of the Association had been already visited, and
      that the time had come when it was desirable to revisit
     them, as nearly as possible in the original order. York had
      been chosen for the meeting of 1844; it remained to be seen

      whether Cambridge would be available for 1845, it being
      understood that Oxford was unwilling. This proposal en

      countered strong opposition from Whewell. Sedgwick and
      Murchison both did all in their power to conciliate him, but
      in vain1. The following letters will explain what happened,

      without further introduction :

To Sir J. F. IV. Herschel.  London, May 11th, 1844.

    My dear Herschel,

              I promised some of my friends to write to you
last Wednesday ; but I was labouring under a fit of gout,

which burrows among my nerves and makes me unfit for

every duty of life. So I procrastinated and waited for a

reprieve. I am now rather better; and hope I have sense

enough left to make myself understood. Some weeks

since we had, at Cambridge, a meeting to ascertain the
feeling of the University on the question of receiving the

British Association in 1845. I spoke on the occasion --said
that the body had not yet run its course --that it was

in full vitality -- that it would be an honour to Cambridge

1 Geikie's Life of Murchison, ii. pp. 22 -- 25.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION INVITED TO CAMBRIDGE. 71

to receive it again --and that I trusted you might be induced                           1844.
to take the office of Commander-in-Chief, &c. &c. The                                         59-
meeting went off well. The present Vice-Chancellor1, and the

Vice-Chancellor for next year* (1845), were both favourable,
and the Master of Christ's" attended, and is willing to take
any office in which he can be of use. Two hands only (out
of 60 or 70 present) were held up on the negative side4. Our
Master (Whewell) spoke against the meeting, but bolted, and
did not vote. I was advised not to write to you then; but to
wait till the Grace of the Senate (granting the use of our
public buildings to the Association) had passed. You know
the constitution of our Caput, and that any one veto from that

body would have been fatal, even though every other Member
of the Senate had been favourable. But the Grace passed on

Wednesday last : 24 or 25 placets, and four non-placets in the
Upper House ; in the Lower House no division. The glorious
minority of four was composed of three Tutors of Trin. Coll."

and one old paralytic man who is frighted to death at the

idea of a crowd. Whewell did not vote, and I doubt not he

will in the end join us, and heartily, after having discharged

the electrical accumulation from the negative pole. The
time of meeting cannot be absolutely fixed till we meet at

York ; but by universal consent the month of June, I mean

the latter part of it just before the Commencement, will be

fixed on. Indeed no other time would suit us at Cambridge.

To meet in term-time would be very inexpedient if not im
possible ; and after the Commencement I do not think you

could induce our active men again to muster, after they had

left College, and made their arrangements for the summer.

Sometime before the Grace was proposed we had heard,

1 William Hodgson, D.D., Master of Peterhouse.

a Robert Phelps, D.D., Master of Sidney Sussex College.                  Bishop of
3 John Graham, D.D., Master of Christ's College 1830--49;

Chester, 1848.

    4 Mr Romilly records that the Rev. J. W. Blakesley, Fellow and Tutor of
Trinity College, was the only person who voted on the negative side.

    5 For this act of subservience  to the   Master (as some   regarded  it) they were
nicknamed " the three stars in the  tail of  the Great Bear."

           72 BRITISH ASSOCIATION INVITED TO CAMBRIDGE.

1844.      through Murchison, that you had consented to be our Chief-
      59-
           tain. This gave us new strength and spirits, and neutralized

           any chance of opposition from St John's. For they love you
           so well, and glory so much in your honours, that they would

           never think of opposing any philosophic movement of which

           you formed the President. So the matter stands. Let me

           have one single line from you -- I shall be here all this week.

           Don't think the chair of state unworthy of you because I

           once sat on it. The young Society was then only crawling

           on all fours, and naturally clung to the earth. And, if an

           argillaceous impress was left by me on the bottom of the

           seat, surely twelve years must have driedis      and left time
                                                       it,
           for roses and other sweet-smelling things to grow out of it.

           So you will have throne of blossoms sending the sweetest
           ;

                                a

                                         it
           odours to the sky. But the Society now well-grown and

           vigorous. You will teach to turn its face upwards and kiss

           the sky and to rise on the wings of imagination far beyond

           even those star-clouds you watched so long from the other

           side of old mother earth's hooped petticoat. One good thing
           we shall have -- the pleasure of seeing you, and trust Lady
                                                            I

           Herschel and some of your asteroids, for a week amongst

           us. You will rub off some of our academic rust; and we shall

           profit a thousand ways, both in head and heart, by the grand

           reunion. How your great work coming on Is soon to
                             I is            is
                                                                      a

                                                                                        ?

                                                                               it
           see the light  ?        was at Greenwich the other day, and saw

           fourteen calculators working at the arrears of the Observa
           tory reductions In another year Airy hopes to finish this
                             !

           enormous task. But you know all this thousand times

           better than can tell you. It well that you, and Airy, and
           I

           your brother craftsmen are held to the earth by silken cords,

           twined by the hands of your wives and children. But for this

           you would long since have risen sky-high by mental energy,

           and been dissipated by internal elasticity into expanded

           masses of luminous vapour. Here must stop for were my
           legs even as long as those of St Christopher, could not see
                                             I

                                                            I
                                                                                ;

           clearly, or write sensibly, about things so far above the earth.

       HERSCHEL CONSENTS TO BE PRESIDENT.

     Give my kind regards to Lady Herschel, and my love to                                1844.
                                                                                               59-
your children. Ever, my dear Herschel, with most sincere

and cordial (though alas ! but ignorant) admiration of your

vast labours,                                          Most truly yours

J.From Sir F. W. Herschel.                                         A. Sedgwick.

     My dear Sedgwick,                                  COLLINGWOOD, 15 May, 1844.

--but  I    Many thanks for          your very friendly and        encouraging    letter
                                     you are such a sufferer       in the flesh.   Is it
          grieve to hear that
for this that hammer in hand, like a second Thor, you have gone
about the world cracking the crowns of rebellious mountains, and
reducing the very stocks and stones to order and obedience? I

thought gout was for those who wore soft raiment, and pressed

down-beds, and fared sumptuously daily, not for hard-working tough-
fisted brawny fellows like you Geologists, who live on three feeds of
flints a day, tempered with quantum sufficit of the Chaotic fluid, and
who ignore all turtle but what they find potted up in antediluvian
mud. However, be that as it may, if your lot be hard beyond that
of all others of your craft, you are so much the more to be compas
sionated, and apart from all joking I am very sorry to hear that you
are            to the attacks of so dreadful an enemy.
the  subject   hope I may                                                   chairman of
                                     make a       quarter   so efficient a  get on very
     I only     Association.           Indeed
                                                   I am    afraid I shall
     British

indifferently. Whewell's opposition to the meeting seems after all to
whaavseablle--enanndotstaanvdeinryg                                 animum suum -- that
                                     relentless one.    Liberavit  on two opposite sides
                                     in an influential  position
of the question (as a man does when he straddles across a ditch that
separates two counties) his two halves instead of neutralising one
another seem to have resolved on separate and independent activity.
So, having opposed the meeting in the first instance in virtue of his
               of                                 -- judging according to
membership          the              Association                              his own
notions what   was  best                          will I presume as Master  of Trinity
                                     for it--he
give it a good shove forward when it comes to Cambridge. All I
know is that I have a very cordial invitation from him to make
Trinity Lodge my head-quarters during the meeting, which does not
look like repudiation.
     For my    own part, if                       wish of               of the Associa
                                     it be the             the Council  prepared to do
      that     should take           the chair,   I shall  hold myself
Ition
     best ; and as I know what                         efficient supporters I shall have
my                                            Ivearym
in   yourself  and  nPoena-ccaonctkab(sa,ndI            quite sure Whewell too) etc. to
      nothing  of                             have     little fear we shall have a good
say

meeting.

                                              Believe me, dear Sedgwick,

                                                        Yours very sincerely,

                                                           J. W. Herschel.

          74 BRITISH ASSOCIATION INVITED TO CAMBRIDGE.

i844.         It was notorious in the University, that what Sedgwick
     59-
          called "a wrestling match" between himself and the Master
          of Trinity, was about to take place ; and the prospect of such
          a diversion attracted a large audience to the Woodwardian
          lecture-room on Tuesday, 26 March. The chair was taken by

          the Dean of Ely1, as President-elect of the Association. Mr

          Hopkins* proposed, in a temperate and well-considered speech,
          that in case the British Association should decide to meet at

          Cambridge in 1845, a friendly reception should be given to it.
          This was seconded by Professor Cumming. Then Whewell rose.

          So far as the meagre report in The Cambridge Chronicle enables

          us to understand his drift, he took the view that the Association
          ought to disseminate light through the darkness of provincial
          England ; that there were numerous large towns as yet un-

          visited ; that if it visited the same towns in a perpetually
          recurring cycle it would become "an object of terror" on the
          ground of expense ; and, finally, that it was a dangerous

          experiment to attempt to revive after so short an interval the

          enthusiasm which had distinguished Cambridge in 1833.
                Sedgwick's reply to these cautious sentiments is said to

          have been most spirited and amusing ; but, unfortunately, only
          fragments of it have survived. He opened fire with a direct

          attack, in some such words as these : "If the Master of Trinity

          will not lend us his active cooperation and sympathy, let him
          at least not oppose the generous wishes of the University -- let

          him go home and shut himself up in his Lodge and receive
          none of those whom it ought to be an honour and a pleasure

          to entertain :" and then, suddenly, feeling that he had gone

          rather too far, he stopped, and added : " But, while I am thus
          strongly expressing my views upon the point before us, I

          should scorn the man who would insinuate that any difference
          of opinion upon a question like this could interrupt the life

          long friendship that has subsisted between the Master and
          myself. " Then he went through the reasons which influenced

          1 The Rev. G. Peacock, D.D., had been appointed Dean of Ely in 1839.
          * William Hopkins, M.A. Peterhousc, the well-known mathematical tutor.

SEDGWIC1CS SPEECH.                                                                  75

the Council of the Association in choosing Cambridge for their                                      '844-

place of meeting in 1845 ; that the most suitable places had                                      Mt 59

been visited already; that there was some valid objection to

every one of the towns suggested by Dr Whewell ; that

therefore the former places of meeting must now be revisited

unless the Association cease to meet, or be so altered as to
                              "If Cambridge, coldhearted and
lose its original character.

cowardly, decline to receive the Association, and if other

towns of the original cycle, following this example, should also

refuse, then the Association dies ; but I should indeed feel
a chill at heart if I thought that the torch of science which

has burnt so brightly, and which has been passed from hand
to hand, warming and illuminating us, should only be handed
on when by us its light has been extinguished.... This question
you are now called on to decide, namely, whether you will
put your extinguisher on the zeal of those men amongst
you who are willing to assist in what they firmly believe to

be a great public good, and prevent them from exerting

themselves for the benefit of science. This is the point

of the whole matter ; this, I repeat, is the question which now

awaits your decision." Having disposed of this side of the

subject, he adopted and supported with equal eloquence the
"Ifopposite view.
                   we refused to receive                                            did we think
1

 I!
                                                        ;

                              II

                                                                             a it,
that the British Association would suffer from such treatment?

No our conduct would recoil upon ourselves. We should

be disgraced in the judgements of all right-judging persons,

while the Association would soar &c., &c." His arguments

might have been illogical, but the show of hands at the end

shewed that he had understood his audience. "My reply," he

wrote to Murchison, "followed Whewell step by step, and

argument by argument and do think, judging by the votes,

that had the best of it.      did not flinch point, kept my

temper, and had several good hearty laughs out of the

audience, so that even our Master relaxed and laughed among

the rest, and left the room in apparent good temper 1."

This account has been derived from The Cambridge Chronicle, 30 March,

     76 PAPER BY THE DEAN OF YORK.

4. At the end of May Sedgwick, accompanied by his niece
59- Isabella and her brother, left England for Germany, to try

     what effect the waters of Wisbaden would have on his gout.
     The cure ended, he took a short tour in the Black Forest,
     and did not reach home until the middle of September, when
     it was time to attend the meeting of the British Association
     at York. He had no paper to read ; his duties as Vice-
     President of the Geological Section were almost nominal ;
     and he probably looked forward to an agreeable holiday in
     the society of Professor Phillips, Archbishop Harcourt, and
     other friends. As events turned out, he was called upon to
     occupy a position of unexpected prominence.

           The Very Reverend William Cockburn, D.D. was at that
     time Dean of York. He was a Cambridge man of some dis
     tinction, having been twelfth wrangler in 1795, Fellow of St

     John's College, and Christian Advocate from 1803 to 18 10.
     It might therefore have been expected that his Cambridge
     training would have taught him at least the rudiments of

      scientific methods; and that he would not have propounded

      crude theories upon a subject in which he was a mere
     beginner. For some years, however, he had become pos
     sessed with the notion that the cause of biblical truth was
     being emperilled by the theories of geologists in general, and
     of Dr Buckland in particular; and in 1838 he had testified
     against the Association by warning the Duke of Northumber

     land, then President, against what he called, The Dangers of
     Peripatetic Philosophy1. The York meeting therefore was a
     golden opportunity. Under the shadow of his own Cathedral

      he would confute his special opponent, and in his person
     discredit the whole body of assembled philosophers. He

      obtained leave to read in the Geological Section a paper

    entitled : Critical Remarks on certain Passages in Dr Buck

       1844 ; Mr Romilly's Diary ; and the article Adam Sedgwick by the Lord Bishop
      of Carlisle, in Macmillan's Magazine for April, 1880.

           1 In this year he published : A Letter to Professor Buckland, concerning the
       Origin of the World, 8vo. Lond. ; and A Remonstrance, addressed to his Grace the
       Duke of Northumberland, upon the Dangers of Peripatetic Philosophy. 8vo. Lond.

   SEDGWICK'S REPLY.                                                    77

land's Bridgewater Treatise. A writer in Chambers's Edin-                      1844.
                                                                                     59-
burgh yournal1 has left a description of the scene :

The whimsicality of the attempt would have caused the Section
to reject such a paper from any man of inferior note ; but the local
importance of its author, and dread of being accused of fear to meet
such an opponent, determined them to give it a hearing. When
this was known on the morning of Friday, a vast multitude flocked

to the section, and thus gave additional importance to what was at
best a kind of indecent oddity in the course of the proceedings. In
due time the Dean, a tall and venerable figure, with an air of

imperturbable composure, walked through the crowd, and took his
place by invitation beside the President on the platform. His

paper, which he read with a firm voice, was briefly and elegantly
expressed, but otherwise was a most extraordinary production. To
the mind of the writer, the whole of those collections of facts and

illustrations which the geologists have made during forty years,
                                 He first presented a set of
seemed to have existed in vain.

objections against the view of the earth's early history given by Dr
Buckland in his Bridgewater Treatise; and then proceeded to de
velop a theory of his own, accounting for all the phenomena in a
manner designed to reduce them within a very brief space of time.
The theory was a wilder dream than any of Burnet's or Woodward's,
and such as could not be listened to with gravity by any one ac

quainted with the science ; yet, amidst the laughter which hailed
                                 a

                                                                ;

                                                                          it,
the author went on in an unfaltering manner to the end, when he

quietly sat down beside Mr Warburton.*

     The Dean attempted to explain the Mosaic cosmogonya
literally. Marine volcanoes, he thought, together with the
supernatural rain of the Flood, had deposited all the strata, as
we see them now, in the course of few days and the
embedded fossils represent the remains of animals that were

all alive when the convulsion began, and were so obliging as

to die in the definite and regular order in which their shells
and bones are now deposited.

     The task of replying to this attack was confided to
Sedgwick, who, the same writer tells us, " enchained the

audience for an hour and half, alternately charming them

by his vast learning, and throwing them off their gravity by
the most amusing and grotesque illustrations." He began by
pointing out at some length that the proper business of the

1  Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, New Series, ii. 322.
 - Harry Warburton, M.P., F. R.S. President of the Geological Section.

           78 REPLY TO THE DEAN OF YORK.

1844.      Association was to collect facts, not to propound theories, and
      59-  that such a discussion as the present would never, he hoped,
           be permitted again. Then he was at pains to follow the
           Dean through his " irrational guesses and absurd hypotheses,"
           as though he were dealing with an opponent worthy of his
           steel. His speech, as reported in The Athenceum, is severe;

           but we have been told by one who was present that as
           delivered it was remarkable for a scornful bitterness beyond
           the power of any reporter to reproduce.

               A castigation so thorough would have reduced most ant

           agonists to silence. Not so Dean Cockburn. He demanded a

           second discussion ; and, when this was refused, he published
           his paper with a new title : The Bible defended against the
           British Association. Moreover for some time he continued to

           harass Sedgwick with long letters, in which he not only
           questioned him on particular points, but entreated him to
           formulate a precise theory of creation. These letters the

           Dean published as soon as they were written ; but Sedgwick
           wisely declined to allow him to pursue a similar course with

           his answers.

               At the present time even the most devout and the most

           orthodox have abandoned those unprofitable attempts to

           give a literal interpretation to the figurative language of
           Scripture which were indulged in fifty years ago. Hence it

           is almost impossible to realise the alarm excited by the
           earlier results of geological research ; and the hysterical
           denunciations of science and its professors which were then

           so common can hardly be read without a smile. Ignorant

           and foolish as Dean Cockburn was, it is easy to see, from the
           number of editions of his pamphlet published in the course
           of a few weeks,1 that he represented the feelings of a large

           majority of his countrymen. At the meeting of the British

           Association Sedgwick wisely contented himself with saying

                 1  aAppefinftdheded"itiaoncoorrfesTphoendeBnibcele  defended  etc.  was published in 1845. To this
           was                                                       between   the   Dean and some members of the

           Association," including the first two letters to Sedgwick.

MOSAIC COSMOGONY.  79

that " truth could not be opposed to itself, and that the            1844.
highest discoveries of science would ever be found in perfect
harmony and accordance with the language and meaning of            /Et-
revelation ;" but it will be interesting to know what his views
on the difficult subject of the Mosaic cosmogony really were.
Soon afterwards he wrote a long letter to a friend, who felt
doubts and difficulties, from which some passages may be

extracted.
     " The two first verses [of the first chapter of Genesis],

are an exordium, declaring God the Creator of all material
things ; and I believe it means, out of nothing, at a period

so immeasurably removed from man as to be utterly out
of the reach of his conception. After the first verse there
is a pause of vast and unknown length, and here I would
place the periods of our old geological formations, not re
vealed because out of the scope of revelation. We are then
told that 'the earth was without form and void, and dark
ness was upon the face of the deep.' Who can dare to say
that he comprehends these short and mysterious words ?

They may perhaps describe the condition of the earth
after one of the many catastrophes by which its former
structure had been broken up, and of which we can, on its

present surface, find so many traces. But these are specula

tions. I value them not, for they are, perhaps, worse than

nothing. After the word ' deep ' there is a pause. The work
of actual present creation now begins. The spirit of God
broods over the dead matter of the world, and in six figurative
days brings it into its perfect fashion, and fills it with living

beings.

    "Why may He not have manifested His power while His

spirit moved on the waters in ten thousand creative acts
never revealed (because unconnected with the moral destinies
of man), yet recorded in clear characters on stony tablets to
be read and admired in after-times by the descendants of the

last created being, to whom faculties were given whereby they
might comprehend the laws of the material world, and rise

         80 HIS SIXTIETH BIRTHDAY.

  1845.  from them to some faint, glimmering perception of their

Kx. 60.  Creator's glory ?"

             In November of this year Sedgwick gave a lecture at Ely

         on the geological phenomena displayed in the cuttings for
         the Great Eastern Railway. This was succeeded by the
         usual winter residence at Norwich.

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                                     Cambridge, March 1st, 1845.

              How time seems to fly ! Two months of the new year

         gone, and in three weeks more I shall complete my sixtieth
         year! I ought, day and night, to thank God for the blessings
         I enjoy, and have enjoyed, not indeed uniform and uninter

         rupted, but chequered with some pain and sickness and such

         afflictions as must sometimes meet us on the way if we are
         permitted to live to sixty -- within ten years, you know, of the
         scripture limit of human life. My domestic griefs have, in

         comparison of what are often laid on my neighbours, been

         few indeed, and slight ; and none of them, thank God,

         without the comfort and consolation of Christian hope. Oh !

         that I could learn a lesson of patience during the long

         lingering attacks of rheumatic gout which fasten on me every

         spring ! This most worrying malady is already working

         among my extremities, and undermining my spirits and

         temper. A bad cold I had at Norwich will not quit its hold,

         and I move out with my face muffled in a respirator. I
         lecture six days a week in a voice which would sound
         charmingly in a frog-chorus. Spite of these little ills I am

         stronger, both in mind and body, than most men of my age,
         and indeed I ought to be thankful !...

             I have now given up all thoughts of marriage ; and it is

         high time, is it not ? But, do you know, it is a very hard

         thing for a man to give up, even at my own time of life....

             At the beginning of the Easter vacation Sedgwick read

         to the Geological Society a paper, On the comparative classifi
         cation of the Fossiliferous Strata of North Wales with the

             THE VESTIGES.     81

corresponding deposits of Cumberland, Westmoreland, and                          1845.
Lancashire, the object of which was to bring the successive                            6c
groups of the Cumbrian mountains into comparison with
the three primary divisions of the whole Welsh series, as

laid down in his paper read to the Society in November,

1843.

     We have now reached one of the most noteworthy of
Sedgwick's works --his criticism of the once famous Vestiges

of the Natural History of Creation. At the present day, if

the book be not entirely forgotten, it is alluded to with

languid interest as in some sort a precursor of The Origin of
Species; but when it first appeared, in the autumn of 1844, it

caused a prodigious sensation, and achieved a popularity

which to us is almost incomprehensible. It must be re

membered, however, that scientific treatises adapted to non-

scientific readers were at that time almost unknown, and

the Vestiges, with its agreeable style and reverential tone,
was probably regarded by many as a pious compendium of
all that had been most recently ascertained respecting the

world and its inhabitants. Moreover it was published

anonymously, so that interest was enhanced by curiosity.
The wildest suggestions were indulged in ; even the sex
of the writer was disputed ; and Sedgwick, as we shall see

presently, was for a time convinced that he had to deal

with a lady. It is now known that the author was Mr

Robert Chambers'.

     His avowed object was to supersede the received concep
tion of creation as a series of special and arbitrary acts by a
theory which should establish for the production of organic

life some such law as had been already established for the

celestial bodies. A review of the several geological formations

indicated a gradual progress ; speaking generally, lower forms

     1 An interesting account of the way in which the Vestiges came to be
written, the number of editions, etc. is to be found in the Preface to the 12th
edition, 1884, by Mr Alex. Ireland, one of the four original depositaries of

the secret.

S. II.                      6

          82 THE VESTIGES.

  1845.   had preceded higher. Further, it was argued, an obvious
vEt. 60.
          gradation may be observed among existing forms of animal

          life, and, at the same time, an obvious unity of structure ; in
          other words, all animated things are parts of one system, the

          creation of which must have depended upon one law or

          decree of the Almighty. From these considerations it was

          but a step to the hypothesis "that the simplest and most

          primitive type gave birth to the type next above that
                  a
                                  a;

                                                       ;

                                                                        a
                                                                                   a

                                                                           if

                                                                                                            it,
          this again produced the next higher, and so on to the very

          highest, the stages in advance being in all cases very small,

          namely, from one species only to another." To fortify this

          conception the author ranged " from heaven to earth and
          earth to heaven " the nebular hypothesis, the law of gravita

          tion, electricity, chemistry, botany, metaphysics, language,

          phrenology, psychology, zoology and its classificatory sys

          tems, embryology, physiology, comparative anatomy, were

          all laid under contribution, and made to supply facts or
          analogies. The explorer of a field so vast -- he was to
                     result of any permanent value --should have been
          effect

          endowed with  mind trained by scientific research. Mr

          Chambers, on the contrary, was man of letters, whose

          attention had been accidentally directed to scientific problem.

          As might have been expected, he made grievous, not to say

          ridiculous, mistakes and though the general public bought,

          read, and applauded, the essay was unanimously condemned

          by men of science, and held up to scorn and ridicule in the

          best critical journals.

          The tone of Sedgwick's mind was eminently teleological,

          as his Discourse on the Studies of the University has shewn.
          Any theory calculated to weaken the argument from design

          was certain to rouse his indignation and the mistakes which
                                      it
                                                       ;

                                                    it
          disfigured the Vestiges were not likely to soften him in the

          author's favour. Had the book, however, been ten times as

          ignorant and inaccurate as  was,                would still be im

          possible to defend the spirit in which he thought and wrote

          about it.

                     SEDGWICK'S INDIGNATION.                                                                                           83

To Charles Lyell, Esq.                               Cambridge, April 9, 1845.                                                               1845.

                                                                                                                                           Mi. 60.

...While in Residence at Norwich I had a note from

Macvey Napier1 asking me for a Review of the Vestiges

of Creation. I dared not undertake the task ; as I had a

course of lectures in certain, and a fit of the gout in probable,

reversion. I am now truly sorry for my cowardice ; for the

gout has treated me with more than usual kindness, and my

lectures have been finished for three weeks. To write a good

Review one ought to know a little of the subject, and one

ought either heartily to love, or heartily to hate, the author's

sentiments. I do from my soul abhor the sentiments, and I
believe I could have crushed the book by proving it base,

vulgar in spirit, (not so in dress and manner, and there is the
mischief of but would have strived to strip off the outer
                     ; it,

                       I
                            I

                                        ;
                                                                                                        !
                                                                                                           !

                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                            a
covering and show its inner deformity and foulness,) false,

shallow, worthless, and, with the garb of philosophy, starting

from principles which are at variance with all sober inductive

truth. The sober facts of geology shuffled, so as to play

rogue's game phrenology (that sinkhole of human folly and

prating coxcombry) spontaneous generation transmutation

of species; and know not what; all to be swallowed, without

tasting or trying, like so much horse-physic         Gross credulity

and rank infidelity joined in unlawful marriage, and breeding

a deformed progeny of unnatural conclusions!... What can we

think too ill of the silly philosophy of one who compares the

frosted vapour on our windows to the action of vegetable life?

or the electric brush to the organic energies which bring to

maturity a forest tree* ?...who breeds mites by electricity3, and

At that time editor of The Edinburgh Review.
Vestiges, Ed. iii. pp. 169 -- 171.
/
     af
                   {*
                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                 it
                                                                                                                                    a
         The author  "ofinthpereVpeasrtiingges  (p.  188) had cited, as an instance of the inter
vention of man                                  the  association of conditions under which the

:reative laws work," the production of the Acarus crossii in the laboratory of Mr

Crosse (foi whom see above, Vol. p. 461). It was believed for some time that
   new animal had been brought into being during the progress of a galvanic

experiment, but further investigation determined that was only well-known

species, Acarus horridus.

                                                     6--2

         84 THE VESTIGES.

  1845.  hatches rats out of a goose's egg1 ? And what shall we say

Mt. 60.  t0 his intellectual capacities, when he confounds (as pheno
         mena of the same order) the glorious conclusions of abstract
         language, and the inductions of pure intellect,... with the
         jabbering of apes, and the cawing of rooks ? And what shall

         we say to his morality and his conscience, when he tells us he
         has ' destroyed all distinction between moral and physical * ; '

         when he makes sin a mere organic misfortune3 ?.. .If the book

         be true, the labours of sober induction are in vain ; religion is
         a lie ; human law is a mass of folly, and a base injustice;
         morality is moonshine ; our labours for the black people of
         Africa were works of madmen ; and man and woman are
         only better beasts! When I read some pages .. oLjhe_JouL

         book, it brought Swift's satire to my mind, and filled me with
         such inexpressible disgust that I threw [it] down... and cried
         out to myself : ' Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary,

         to sweeten my imagination.'

              1 Having cited instances of "failure  of   thaeuthpoorweprrocoefeddsev:elo"pmHeenret,"                                                                                       e.g. a
         mammalian heart imperfectly organized,     the                                                                                                                                we have

         apparently a realization of the converse of those conditions which carry on species

         to species, so far, at least, as one organ is concerned.. ..How easy it is to suppose

         an access of favourable conditions sufficient to reverse the phenomenon, and make

         a fish mother develop a reptile heart, or a reptile mother develop a mammal one.
         It is no great boldness to surmise that a super-adequacy in the measure of this

         under-adequacy... would suffice in a goose to give its progeny the body of a rat,

         and produce the ornithorhynchus, or might give the progeny of an ornithorhynchus

         the mouth and feet of a true rodent, and thus complete  at two stages the passage
         from the aves to the mammalia " (p. 224).

         a Sedgwick does not state his adversary's argument fairly. The author is

         arguing (p. 309) that the "ordinary mental manifestations" of man are "simple
         phenomena resulting from organization, those of the lower animals being pheno

         imlnimepnithasy;sia"cbss,aonl"udteMfluyarnthetishr en(opsw.ams3ee1e4n)i,nttohacbtheaaraasnctseetnar,itgismtitachsoougnehxlyhiabdsietavnaelolianpwdediviniduwmaiotlrha;ilnsin   narrower
                                                                                                                                                                                       as well as
                                                                                                                                                                                        the mass

         he is a mathematical problem. It is hardly necessary to say, much less to argue,

         that mental action, being proved to be under law, passes at once into the category

         of natural things. Its old metaphysical character vanishes in a moment, and the

         distinction usually taken between physical and moral is annulled."
              3 ' ' When order is generally triumphant, and reason allowed sway, men begin

         to see the true case of criminals, namely, that while one large department are

         victims of erroneous social conditions, another are brought to error by tendencies

         which they are only unfortunate in having inherited from nature" (p. 341).

                   LETTER TO AGASSIZ.                                                                                           85

   " I cannot but think the work is from a woman's pen, it                                                                             1845.

is so well dressed, and so graceful in its externals. I do not                                                                      /Et- 6o-

think the ' beast man ' could have done this part so well.

Again, the reading, though extensive, is very shallow; and

the author perpetually shoots ahead of his facts, and leaps to
a conclusion, as if the toilsome way up the hill of Truth were

to be passed over with the light skip of an opera-dancer.
This mistake was woman's from the first. She longed for

the fruit of the tree of knowledge, and she must pluck right
or wrong. In all that belongs to tact and feeling would trust
                                       I

                                             ;

                                                   it,
her before a thousand breeches-wearing monkeys but petti

coats are not fitted for the steps of a ladder. And 'tis only

by ladder-steps we are allowed to climb to the high platforms
of natural truth. Hence most women have by nature a

distaste for the dull realities of physical truth, and above all

for the labour-pains by which they are produced. When

they step beyond their own glorious province, where high

sentiment, kind feeling, moral judgments most pure and

true, and all the graces of imagination, flash from them like

heaven's light, they mar their nature (of course there are

some exceptions), and work mischief, or at best manufacture

compounds of inconsistency. The mesmeric dreamer, and

                           think, no exception to this
economist in petticoats,  is,

                            I

                                    I
remark. But, my dear President, beg your pardon for

this nonsense. Did the author of the Vestiges see he, (orit,
she,) might perhaps think that had been playing monkey-
                           I

tricks on the corner of my breakfast-table, and proving my

apeish origin..."

To Professor Agassiz.      Tr1nity College, Cambr1dge,

" The British Association             April 10th 1845.
                           to meet here about the middle
I
                    I

                                 is

                               I
                                                                                                                             ;
of June, and trust that the occasion will again bring you to

England, and give me the great happiness of entertaining you

in Trinity College. Indeed, wish very much to see you for

many years have now elapsed since last had that pleasure.

         86 THE VESTIGES.

 1845.   May God long preserve your life, which has been spent in

Et. 60.  promoting the great ends of truth and knowledge ! Your
         great work on fossil fishes is now before me, and I also

         possess the first number of your monograph upon the fishes

         of the Old Red Sandstone. I trust the new numbers will

         follow the first in rapid succession. I love now and then to

         find a resting-place ; and your works always give me one.

         The opinions of Geoffroy St Hilaire and his dark school

         seem to be gaining some ground in England. I detest them,
         because I think them untrue. They shut out all argument

         from design and all notion of a Creative Providence, and in

         so doing they appear to me to deprive physiology of its life

         and strength, and language of its beauty and meaning. I

         am as much offended in taste by the turgid mystical bombast

         of Geoffroy, as I am disgusted by his cold and irrational

         materialism. When men of his school talk of the elective

         affinity of organic types, I hear a jargon I cannot comprehend,
         and I turn from it in disgust ; and when they talk of spon

         taneous generation and transmutation of species, they seem to

         me to try nature by an hypothesis, and not to try their

         hypothesis by nature. Where are their facts on which to

         form an inductive truth ? I deny their starting condition.

         ' Oh ! but,' they reply, ' we have progressive development in

         geology.' Now I allow (as all geologists must do) a kind
         of progressive development. For example, the first fish are

         below the reptiles ; and the first reptiles older than man.

         I say we have successive forms of animal life adapted to

         successive conditions (so far, proving design), and not derived
         in natural succession in the ordinary way of generation. But

         if no single fact in actual nature allows us to suppose that

         the new species and orders were produced successively in the

         natural way, how did they begin ? I reply by a way out of

         and above common, known, material nature, and this way I

         call creation. Generation and creation are two distinct ideas,

         and must be described by two distinct words ; unless we
         wish to introduce utter confusion of thought and language.

CRITICISM IN THE EDINBURGH REVIEW.                                          7

 In this view I think you agree with me ; for I spoke to                               1845.

 you on the subject when we met (alas, ten years since !) at                        /Et- 64
 Dublin.1..."

      On the day Sedgwick wrote the last letter he intimated to

the editor of The Edinburgh Review his willingness to try his
hand at destroying the influence of what he called "a rank pill
of asafcetida and arsenic, covered with gold leaf*." By return

of post came a most effusive reply. "At the close of my
first glance at the book," wrote Mr Napier, "I instantly said

to myself that you were the man, and the only one known to
me, capable of taking it to pieces aright ; capable of exposing

the shallow but imposing and dangerous fallacies of which it

is made up, and which threatens hy Ir<5 pnP"Janry with learned
 women, and half-r ead and shallow men, to deluge the country
of Bacon and Newton with modes of thinking upon philo

sophical subjects equally spurious and unmanly.... I have
only now to ask whether I may hope to see the wished-for

 Article for my next Number?" Sedgwick lost not a moment

in setting to work, and by the middle of June had com
pleted his first and last attempt at formal criticism. He

spared no pains. The best authorities on the points in dispute

were_consulted ; Herschel, Agassiz, Owen, and Professor
Clark, to whom the pages on fcetal development were in great

measure due. As time was precious, each section was printed

while the next was being written, so that Sedgwick had no
opportunity of having the whole essay under his eye at once*.

     1 The whole letter is printed in Louis Agassiz, His Life and Correspondence,
2 vols. 8vo. i. pp. 383 -- 387.

     a To Macvey Napier, 10 April, 1845. Printed, with three other letters on

the same subject, in Selection from the Correspondence of the late Macvey Napier,

Esq. 8vo. Lond. 1879.                                                       was

   "It3 Sedgwick told his niece Isabella, in a letter dated 3 July, 1845 :
written during the hours of the very early morning-- the only time when the

rheumatism gave me a reprieve, and when my head was clear. When I finished

a sheet or two I forwarded the MS. to Edinburgh, so that part of my article was

there passing through the press, while the other part was slowly uncoiling itself

from my brain in Cambridge. My last proof-sheet was sent off after the Association

      88 FIELD-LECTURE.

.45. Hence the unusual length of the article, notwithstanding
. 60. numerous editorial excisions --a length which drove Mr

       Napier to despair, as sheet succeeded sheet, and still the end
       did not come. The sixth sheet was all but filled before
       Sedgwick could be induced to stop. The result can hardly be
       called successful. No doubt everything that could be said to
        damage the Vestiges, both in conception and execution, is to
        be found in the article. But, notwithstanding its solid merits,
        and some eloquent passages, it is dogmatical, ponderous,
       dull. Sedgwick had said himself, in one of his letters to
      Mr Napier, that he wished for Sydney Smith at his elbow ; and
        his own laboured periods make the reader long for the light
       touch of that brilliant humourist. Sedgwick was too much in
        earnest to write effectively ; he attacked with savage ferocity
       instead of calm criticism or good-humoured ridicule; in a
        word, he used a sledge-hammer where a birch-rod would
       have been a suitable weapon. "Nevertheless, it is a grand
       piece of argument against mutability of species," as Darwin

     wrote to Lyell, "and," he added, "I read it with fear and

       trembling1"!

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.             April 27th, 1845.

    "...On Friday last I had my field-lecture. I did not enjoy
the scamper, as I had the gout hanging about me, and I was

excessively fatigued. We went round by Willingham and

Haddenham, so that we had passed over 26 or 27 miles
before we reached Ely. There we lunched, and examined

the new cuttings for the railroad. I have now a noble horse

I call Mercury, but in truth he is almost too much for me.
Several of the young men were well-mounted, and by no

means disposed to spare their horses, and in crossing Willing-

ham fen I came in second ; yet I pulled hard more than half

the way, and wished to go slower...."

1 Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, i. 344.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT CAMBRIDGE.                     89

To Hugh Miller, Esq.  Cambridge, May S/h, 1845.                    1845.
     Dear Sir,
                                                                 Mt. 60.

I have received several copies of The Witness

newspaper containing your instructive and most amusing

letters on the Hebrides. Whether I have to thank you

personally or some one else, for sending them, I cannot tell,

but I am sure I owe you a very large debt of thanks for the

information you have given me. I cannot persuade myself

to address you as a stranger, after having read your work on

the Old Red Sandstone, which gave me, on its first perusal,

and ever since, more pleasure than I can describe in words,
without seeming to run into the extravagance of flattery. I
only speak the plain truth when I tell you that I was, and

continue to be, delighted with it. The British Association

meets here next June -- I think on the 18th. I do not know

whether your engagements will permit you to come on that
occasion ; but come when you will I shall rejoice to see you,

and shew you my Museum....

                      Believe me, dear Sir,

                      very faithfully yours,
                                        A. Sedgwick.

     Sedgwick had done his best to bring the British Associa

tion to Cambridge. He delighted in these gatherings. "Were
there no other benefit from the British Association," he wrote

to Herschel1, "it would pay us well for our cost and labour

by bringing our honoured friends around us. For years back

I have been so bothered by gouty maladies that I have done

nothing. But these meetings give back to me a momen

tary life and energy. So I have a double cause to thank
them." At the same time he admitted to another friend that

he "dreaded its coming; my crazy body will be hard-taxed by
it." And this was no doubt the case ; for though he did not
allow outward signs of fatigue to appear, he was completely

knocked up when it was over. " It went off admirably,"

                     1 To Sir J. F. W. Herschel, n April, 1845.

         90 MADE VICE-MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE.

  1845.  he wrote, "the best and most intellectual meeting we ever
         had, though not the most splendid and numerous. I wish I
Mt. 60.
         had been in more vigorous health, but I did my best. My
         task was laborious, for I had the chair of the Geological
         Section, as I had at Liverpool. All the business over I went
         to Ely with a rather large party. I was so exhausted that
         when they went to see the Cathedral I undressed and went

         to bed ; and a comfortable sleep of two hours enabled me to

         keep my head up the rest of the evening1."

              Sedgwick opened the geological section with a paper On

         the Geology of the Neighbourhood of Cambridge, a subject on

         which he had already spoken to the Philosophical Society,

         and which he frequently recurred to in subsequent years. As

         usual, however, his most successful efforts were unpremedi

         tated ; and his speech at the last meeting, when he proposed

         a vote of thanks to the Mayor and Corporation, was probably

         far more effective than his elaborate lecture.

             In July of this year Sedgwick was elected to the important
         office of Vice-Master of Trinity College, vacant by the resig
         nation of the Reverend Thomas Thorp.

             It will be remembered that Sedgwick had done no field-
         geology since the summer of 1842, when his work among the
         Lake Mountains was interrupted by bad weather. This year,
         he says, " I spent the whole summer in going over a part of

         my old work in Cumberland, Westmoreland, and North

         Lancashire, endeavouring to bring the rocks above the

         Coniston Limestone (the equivalent of the Bala Limestone)
         into some accordance with the groups of the upper and

         true Silurian system*."

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.  Cambridge, Oct. 29th, 1845.
             My dear Kate,

                          I trust that you are happily settled at Rome.
         Your letter found me somewhere among the Lake mountains,

         1 To Isabella Sedgwick, 3 July, 1845.

         2 Preface to Salter's Catalogue, p. xxv.

RUTHVEN'S DOG CHARLJE.  9'

doing battle with the rocks. The weather was wet and            1845.

tempestuous ; twice I was made ill by it ; once I was fairly
laid up, and confined to my room for five days. I did,

however, contrive to do the task I had set myself, and my

summer was not unprofitable. For my companion I had a

famous fossil-collector named John Ruthven. There is an
old Latin proverb which in plain English tells us ' not to

trust a cobbler beyond his last.' But all rules have their

exceptions, and Ruthven, though once a cobbler, is now a
geologist whose fame will last longer than the stoutest shoe

that ever came off his ancient last. Your sister is a great
poet. Tell her to send me a song in which Ruthven and his
dog may figure like the spread wings of Pegasus. I beg her

pardon, I have not yet introduced the dog. His name is
Charlie --a beautiful gallant fellow, between a setter and a

spaniel. He soon took such a fancy to me, that he never left

me, except when he ran after the grouse and hares which he

started on the mountains ; and he soon returned to ask my
thanks for the merry interludes in my work. He ate from
my hand, and slept under my bed. After about a month's

ramble we turned back to Kendal, the native place and home

of the cobbler and his dog. There I deposited an enormous

heap of stones, which were put in a sack near the landing-
place on the first floor of the inn, The King's Arms. When
we started on our next round Charlie was missing --we could
not wait -- and the conclusion was that he had gone across the

fields with the cobbler's little grand-daughter, who, in spite
of his devotion to me, had still a corner of Charlie's heart.

So he was left behind. Just sixteen days after, our work
among the mountains brought us to Bowness --only nine

short miles from Kendal. It was Saturday evening. The

scientific Ruthven began to yearn towards his wife and
children. I remained over Sunday at Bowness, and my

companion spent the day at Kendal. Early on the Monday
morning he returned with Charlie, and the joy of the new
meeting was such as to be worthy of Olympia's pen of fire.

         92 RUTHVEN'S DOG CHARLIE.

  1845.  Charlie did everything but talk, and indeed his looks were
         beyond expression. But what had he been about during the
Mt. 60.  sixteen long days ? Listen and you shall hear.

              Not many minutes after we started from Kendal he came
         cantering up to the inn -- he looked wistfully--ran to my bed
         room --and took his place under my bed. From this position

         he was soon turned out by the maid's broomstick ; for a new
         guest had come, and the room was wanted. On changing
         his quarters he, however, spied the great sack of stones which,
         with curious eye, he had seen me pack. On it he mounted
         guard -- and when the maidkin asked him to come down he
         replied with a growl, ' This is my Master's and you shall not

         touch it. Here I mean to remain.' This speech was accom

         panied with such a significant grin, and such a show of fangs,
         that the lass was fain to come to a parley. The mistress was

         called up as umpire, Charlie stuck to his stone-bag, and was

         as little disposed to give up the point to the mistress as he had
         been to the maid. ' Let the poor fellow remain,' said Mrs
         Boniface. ' He is a faithful dog, and will soon be tired when

         he finds that the Professor's gone from us.' She was mistaken,
         however. He kept his station at the sack sixteen days, only

         rushing down stairs, from time to time, when he heard a
         carriage pulling up at the door. Then he would rush down
         to the yard, take a look at the travellers, and come back with
         a look of bitter disappointment. For three entire days he
         never tasted food. On the fourth day he ate greedily what
         was offered him, and then mounted guard as before. Now

         he began to be interesting. The servants fed him. He
         allowed them just to pat him on the head ; but if anyone

         dared to touch the sack, Charlie's blood was up in an instant,

         and the hand was compelled to retire. All Kendal was full
         of the story. All travellers were shewn the dog. One gentle

         man offered a large price for it ; but the landlady told him it
         was not her property, and that no sum could purchase it

         before our return.

              When Ruthven reached Kendal, he enquired of his wife

NEWMAN'S SECESSION TO ROME.  93

what was become of Charlie. ' I have not seen him for             1845.

a fortnight,' replied Dame Ruthven. ' He came twice, soon      Mi. 6o-

after you went away ; but, finding that you and the Pro

fessor were not come back, he ran out the moment the door

was opened for him ; and both times he refused to take

any food.' With much surprise my friend Ruthven then
went to The King's Arms to inquire there for Charlie, and

Charlie knew his voice and came rushing down the stairs
to meet him. Great was his joy ; but the moment after

he ran down the inn yard, looked into every carriage, and
then came back with an expression of deep disappointment.

Ruthven then heard the story I have told you. The dog

followed his master back to Bowness, and the rest you
know already. Here are the prose materials for your sister's

poem....

    Last night I returned to Cambridge; and here I am,

writing a long letter, about nothing, to my dear young friend

Kate Malcolm. Next Monday I begin my lectures. They

will be my chief employment till the beginning of the

Christmas vacation. Our Master, whom I saw at chapel this

morning, is well. He is putting up a statue of Lord Bacon
in our chapel. It is a glorious and worthy monument, and is

at Whewell's sole cost. What say you to this ? While I

have been away they have put up a noble statue of Lord

Byron in our library. It was executed at Rome by the
greatest of modern sculptors -- the author of Night and

Morning. So we have something for your classical eyes
when you come back to look upon us....

     You will before this have heard that Newman and more

than twenty others of the Oxford School have at length gone
over to Rome. Shame on them that they did not do so long
since ! Their attempt to remain in the Church of England
while they held opinions such as they have published, only

proves that fanaticism and vulgar honesty can seldom shake

hands and live together. I pity their delusion, I despise
their sophistry, and I hate their dishonesty. Personally I

         94 AN OLD BACHELOR ON MARRIAGE.

1845.    Iknow them not. It is not of persons but of principles
Et. 60.
         am speaking. Often in my younger days have I wondered

         at the proneness of the old nations to idolatry ; but I have

         ceased to wonder. The sin of idolatry is knitted to the

         human heart. We may worship a priest, or worship ourselves,

         or worship our own works, while we are talking of idolatry,

         and thinking that we are serving our Saviour. Ever, my

         dear Kate, your affectionate friend,           A. Sedgwick.

         To Miss Wakefield.              Cambridge, October, 25, 1845.

              "...This summer my way has been beset by honeymoon

         parties. I never halted at a private house without hearing of

         wandering brides, or of young persons who were on the very

         verge of the matrimonial precipice. I hope my kind friends

         on the banks of the Kent1 will look well to their steps during

         such a season, for if they slip into the gulf they will find it no

         easy matter to get back again. Perhaps it is envy that makes

         me hint this caution, for I did somewhat envy the happy faces

         which met me at every turn. I verily believe all I am now
         good for is that I am a warning to others -- stuck up like an

         old broken mast on a shoal to teach good people how to steer,

         without risk, into the haven of marriage. When you under

         take this voyage, may it be prosperous,        and may every
                                                     "
         blessing  follow  you  and  go  with  you
                                                    !

              The story of the dog Charlie was one of those dramatic
         narratives which Sedgwick never tired of telling, or his friends
         of listening to. Another, of equal interest, belongs also to this
         year. It is printed, as nearly as possible, from Sedgwick's
         dictation.

                                      THE STORY OF BOY.

             One summer, during the Cambridge Long Vacation, I had been

         working among the rocks in the Lake district, and at last had

              1 Miss Wakefield, afterwards Mrs Cropper of Ellergreen, was one of Sedg
         wick's earliest lady-pupils in geology. She lived near Sedgwick in Westmore
         land, a village on the River Kent, for which see Vol. i. p. 33.

                     MR BOWSTEAD'S DOG 'BOY.'                                                    95

reached the mountain-ranges overlooking the beautiful valley of the                                   ^,845.
                                                                                                              6o
Eden. After a long day on Crossfell, I went, towards evening, to
the house of Mr Bowstead of Beck Bank, near Great Salkeld. He
had invited me to stay at his house, knowing I was a friend of his
son, the late Bishop of Lichfield1. Mr Bowstead was a grand
example of a Westmoreland Statesman. He lived upon his own
land, looked after it himself, and had, besides, great flocks of sheep

upon the extensive moors which surrounded his estate.

Before going into the house he walked with me round his
garden and orchard. I observed under one of the apple trees, a
                  word Boy deeply                      anMd rsaBiodw:ste"aMd ysafwaiththfualt
stone,  with the  at it with some          cut on it.
        looking                            curiosity,
I was    is buried there ; I

dog Boy  was a young man                   have put  up that stone to  his memory.
When I                                     he saved                    tell you the
                                                     my life. I will
story after supper, if you care to hear it."
                                                                supper,                  for  I  had
    I did full justice to Mr Bowstead's excellent

been walking all day, and was very hungry. After supper we drew

"Iour chairs near the   fire, for          a September evening  in Westmoreland                  is
                       reminded                                 promise.
often chilly, and I                         Mr Bowstead of his

        am becoming an old man now," he said, "and Boy was my
                                           dwehsecnenIdawnatss"a--yopuoningtinmga, n.as  That dog
favourite dog many     years ago,                                                        he spoke,
lying at your feet is
                       one of his

to a    handsome     lothneg-fhiraei.red"   collie, which was lying on the                hearth,
lazily  blinking at                        Boy was my constant companion                 in many
a long tramp over the wild moors which lie above Great Salkeld,
and he was wonderfully clever and sensible. After a great snow

storm, when the sheep were covered up in the deep drifts which
collect in the hollows of the hills, he would go out with me, and
some of the farm-men, and having ascertained what we were in

search of, probably from seeing us dig out some sheep that were

only partially buried, he would begin to snuff about in a peculiar

manner, give a little whimper, and scratch with his paws on the
snow, look at us, and then run on, and repeat the signs by which he

told us a sheep was imprisoned below in the drift. We dug through

the snow with our spades, and there certainly, in a few minutes, we

came upon a sheep, which generally ran off, looking very wild, but

apparently none the worse for its imprisonment.
    "When Boy was four or five years old the winter had begun
earlier than usual. In the first days of December we had frost and

occasional snow-showers, and the cold increased as the month went

on. One morning heavy clouds were driving across the sky, and I
knew that the short winter's day would be followed, most likely, by

a wild and tempestuous night; so early in the afternoon I set off

with Boy and a younger dog, to see after the sheep on the moors.

The men were busy about the farm-work, and I told them I should
not want them. I had a hard afternoon on the fells, but at last, by
help of the dogs, I collected the sheep into a little, sheltered,

    1 James Bowstead, B.A. 1824, Fellow of Corpus Christi College ; Bishop of

Lichfield, 1840--43.

         96 MR BOWSTEAVS DOG 'BOY.'

  1845.  mountain-valley, and turned to go home. It had been freezing
         hard, and was beginning
Mt. 60.                            to   snow, and      the     dwaayllli,ghIt  was nearly gone.
         In jumping down from     the    top of a     high                     slipped and fell,

         tbmdIhrrayoattskgheeginlwnifnk,a.gsanIdiIdmomtwprtuoirnesisetdsdiinbtholtaeomv,deygraeatgfnbadeullme,pni,ynssoIemsilnftfeoutuonalnnhleodeernaadgvbIylaecttohsuetafolidrnngsgetrsnou:ouistnwhfdoshr,tiaIcnbwhdurh.etefaenIllil/MseIoudyopcnoaletmnhfgoeautmwnaetdosI.

         could get no help ; for I was more than three miles from human

         habi"taItioknn. ew my father would send to seek me, when the hours
         passed and I did not return home, but I knew also that it was most
         unlikely I should be found before morning, when I should be beyond
         Ihuman aid. The two dogs sat at a little distance, watching me ;
                                                             hands, but when I
         called  Boy to me, he licked   m" yGafancge   and                        pointed
         to my   broken leg, and said,                hame,   and tell 'em," and  tried to

         drive him away, he would not go, but sat down again at a little
         distance, and sorrowfully watched me. At last a thought struck me.

         I pulled off my woollen mitten, sopped it in the blood which was

         oozing from my fractured leg, called Boy again to me, showed him

         my bleeding leg, and the bloody mitten, tied it securely round his

         neck by a strip torn from my neckerchief, and again said, "Gang
         hame Boy, and fetch 'em." The words were scarcely out of my
                                                               out of
         mouth, when the  fodlologwbinogu.ndeId  off, and was  if Boy  sight in a moment,
         the young dog                           then knew,
                                                                       could save me, I
         should be saved, so I had a gleam of hope ; and having commended
         my soul to the care of Almighty God, I waited with patience.
         Indeed I think I was benumbed with the cold, and probably fell

         aslee"p.My father thought I was late in returning, and my mother had

         been watching the heavy snow-clouds through the fast-gathering
         darkness with some anxiety, when they heard Boy at the door,

         barking to be let in, and they supposed I was not far behind him.

         But the dog did not, as usual, lie down by the fire, but whined and
         moaned, and at last ran up to my mother, put his paws on her knee,
         and looked her earnestly in the face. In a moment, she saw the
         mitten tied round his neck, knew it was mine, and found it was
         bloody. The dog continued whining, and pulled at her gown. My

         father and mother recognized at once, that I had met with an

         accident, and that Boy had come for help. My father called the

         farm men together, and lighted the lanterns ; my mother got
         blankets and brandy, and in a very few minutes the party set out,
         Boy leading the way. He had waited patiently while the prepara
         tions were being made, but now he trotted on in front, looking back

         occasionally to see that the party were following, and as if he

         wanted them to make haste : and so he took them straight to the

         place where I was lying, a white heap in the snow. I was aroused

         to consciousness by Boy whining and licking my face. He seemed

         perfectly satisfied when I was lifted up on a rude litter made of the

MISUNDERSTANDING WITH WHEWELL.     97

blankets and poles the men had brought, trotted home besides me,        1845.
and for many days could scarcely be persuaded to leave my bed-               60.

side." Boy lived for many years after with us, as a much-loved friend,

and when he died was buried in the orchard, and the stone you saw
was put over his grave."

It was during this year that a serious misunderstanding

threatened to sever the friendship which had so long subsisted
between Sedgwick and Whewell. That their old cordiality

should be impaired by the altered relations in which they now

stood to each other was inevitable ; and it is perhaps surprising
that the explosion should have been so long deferred, when it

is remembered that both were vehement, impulsive men,

disposed to do suddenly and violently what they thought

right, without regard to consequences, and, in Whewell's case,
with but little regard for the feelings of others. The quarrel

began on this wise.

      When Sedgwick returned from Germany in 1839 he
brought back with him a pair of Pomeranian Spitzhunds,
which he called Max and Shindy. Max did not long survive,
but Mrs Shindy lived to extreme old age, and was rarely

separated from her master, either at Cambridge or at Norwich.

It may be doubted whether she actually slept in his college-

rooms, but she certainly passed the whole day there, and her

puppies were the most highly-valued gifts that Sedgwick
could bestow on his young friends. In short she became an

institution --as inseparable from Sedgwick's personality as
his voluminous great-coat or his respirator. No doubt her
presence in college was an anomaly. The statutes by which

the college was then governed proscribed dogs, ferrets, hawks,
and singing-birds; but nobody ever objected to a canary; nor

was it thought wrong to go out hunting or shooting, though

the statute went on to say that no person was to be addicted
to either of those sports. Besides, in the opinion of the

University, Sedgwick was a privileged person, whose conduct

was above all rules. Whewell, however, thought otherwise.
He was too conscientious to make exceptions in favour of his

S. II.                          7

          98 MISUNDERSTANDING WITH WHEWELL.

  1845.   oldest and most intimate friend. In this he was no doubt
/Et. 60.  right, but he had an unfortunate habit of doing what was

          right in the way most calculated to give offence. So, instead
          of speaking to Sedgwick privately, he wrote him a letter.

          My dear Sedgwick,                                       6 June, 1845.

          II have a request to make to you as Master to which I
          attach great importance.  think it very important that we should

          conform to the Rules made by the College for its good order, and [to]
          the Statutes to which we have so recently given our consent as the
          Laws by which we are willing to be governed. Your frequent

          appearance in the College Courts accompanied by a dog is in

          Ifconsistent both with those Rules and with the Statutes cap. xx.
          the practice is persisted in either the Master will be understood to
          be deficient in enforcing the Rules and Statutes, or you will be

          understood to be defying the Master and disregarding the laws and

          statutes.

              This being the case, I earnestly request that you will discontinue
          the practice to which I have referred. Your own regard to the

          College to which we have both so long been bound with ties of

          Iaffection and duty will prevent your feeling any offence at this

          request, and will, hope, [enable] ' you to comply with it.

                                          I am, my dear Sedgwick,

                                    Yours most truly,

                                                                  W. Whewell*.

               The inflexible justice of this letter cannot be denied ; but,

          having regard to Sedgwick's peculiar position, his frequent
          confinement to his rooms for many weeks in succession, and
          the pleasure which he derived from the society of his dog,

          it was both unwise and unkind. Sedgwick was exceedingly

          angry, and expressed himself in terms which, if they ever

          reached Whewell's ears, would not have mended matters.

               It is possible that this storm might have blown over, had
          not a second, and still more unfortunate, occurrence, added

          fuel to Sedgwick's indignation. Among the guests whom he
          introduced into hall at a large dinner given to the strangers
          present at the Association was Mr Jerdan, editor of The
          Literary Gazette. Whewell had been greatly incensed by

              1 This word is illegible in the draft.              preserved  in the Library  of
               2 Printed from a draft in Dr Whewell's diary, now
          Trinity College.

       WHE WELL'S GIFT OF BACON'S STATUE.                             99

some unfavourable criticism in that journal, and on seeing                                  1845.
                                                                                                  60
Jerdan, sent his servant to ask whose guest he was1. It is

hardly necessary to observe that Whewell was entirely in the

wrong. The Master of Trinity College has no control over

the hall ; and no right to interfere with the privilege of the
Fellows to introduce whom they please. An angry corre

spondence followed, which, perhaps fortunately, has not been

preserved. Whewell was as quick to forgive as he was to

take offence, and it is conceivable that he fully admitted his

error. Nor did he and Sedgwick have any further open

difference; indeed early in the following year we find

him asking Sedgwick's advice on the geological chapters

in his History of the Inductive Sciences, of which he was
preparing a new edition, and Sedgwick prescribing for Mrs
Whewell " a few days of Norwich air breathed by my

fireside;" but it may be doubted whether their friendship

was ever really reestablished on its old basis.

    At the beginning of the Michaelmas term it became

Sedgwick's duty, as Vice-Master, to convey the thanks of

the College to Whewell for his gift of Bacon's statue. The

letter is a formal document, into which personal feelings

could not enter; but the private letter which Whewell

appended to his official answer shews that he was anxious

to seize the opportunity of saying something which might

convince Sedgwick of his sincere wish for a complete re

conciliation.                        Trin. Coll. November 7th, 1845.
     My dear Master,

                 The enclosed letter*, though dated November 1st., only

reached me on Wednesday evening, and I now employ my first
moments of leisure in complying, as far as I am able, with the
united wishes of the Resident Fellows of the College.
    I
       must  say, with truth,  that   a more     delightful task could not
have   been  imposed on me;    for               common with every good
                                     I feel, in

    1 Our account of this affair is derived from Mr Jerdan's Autobiography, iv.
295, compared with Mr Romilly's Diary.

    * A letter from the resident Fellows requesting him " to express to the Master,

in our names, and in the amplest terms, our grateful acknowledgment of his
munificent donation."

                                                                                      7--2

         ioo WHEWELUS GIFT OF BACON'S STATUE.

  1845.  member of our Society, that the noble Monument with which you

Mt. 60.  nave adorned our Chapel entitles you to our heart-felt thanks, and
         the expressions of our deepest personal gratitude.

             You give us credit, I am well assured, for such sentiments ; and

         it is in no hope of convincing you that we entertain them that we

         now address you ; but we do so to satisfy our own feelings, and to

         Iperform a positive duty we owe to ourselves and the College.

                 have often longed to see a Statue of Bacon erected in our
         Chapel, and it is a matter of most honest and heart-felt exultation

         to see one now, worthy, as far as any sculptured stone can be,
         of that illustrious Philosopher, given to us by the munificence of
         one whom Providence has placed at the head of our Society, who
         has spent the best years of his life as our brother, and who has

         drunk deeply from those fountains from which Bacon and Newton

         drew their strength.

             IWhen the heart is full a few words will best tell its meaning ;

         but hope you will allow me to add a few words more on my own
         account. Let me then congratulate you on having so well completed
         an object you have long earnestly wished for. The statue you have
         erected is a noble work of art, combining, as it does, the severity of
         the old Monument with the grace and freedom of more modern
         sculpture. It  in this respect, worthy of place by the side of
         our glorious statue of Newton.is,
                                           is

                                                It

                                                                              a
                                                                             it

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                         I
                                         represents Bacon, as we may
         figure him to ourselves, in his latter days, when his life was most

         truly great and glorious.  our best inheritance. You, my dear
              Our College History
         Master, by your example, your great intellectual labours, and your
         munificence, have done your utmost to keep in our minds this
         goodly inheritance, and to make us worthy of
                                                              and trust that

         under Providence you will be permitted (to whatever station you
         may be called) to enjoy the happy fruits of your long-continued
         services in the great cause of scientific truth and sound academic

         learning.                                            moral fitness in having

             It delights us all to think that there
         ;

                                                                          is
                                                                             a

                                                                                  if
         the sculptured figures of Bacon and Newton in our house of daily
         prayer one represented in the repose of philosophic age, the other

         in the vigour of life, and gazing towards the heavens as under the

         inspiration of some great discovery.
              The philosophic labours of these men were not carried on to

         exalt themselves. They bowed before a power above all material

         nature, and they had an aim far above this world's knowledge and

         all the honours could bring them. They laboured honestly and
            '

                       a it
         nobly to erect rich storehouse to the glory of the Creator,' and
         the good of the human race. It
                                         a                    high privilege to have
                                                   is
         contributed, as you have done, to keep alive such remembrances asa
         these, both among the older and younger members of our Society;
         and trust that the sobering as well as the exciting influence of
         I

         these sentiments will be felt among us, and those who follow us, so

         long as England shall last as nation, and its institutions and

              CHRISTMAS AT COLLINGWOOD.                           lOl

monuments are the admiration of wise and good men. Pray accept
this expression of my hearty good-will and gratitude, and believe me,
my dear Master,

                                               Affectionately yours,

                                                     A. Sedgwick, Vice-Master1.

My dear Sedgwick,   Trinity Lodge, November Sth, 1845.

              I enclose herewith a letter containing my acknowledge
ments of the kind things you have said to me on the part of the

Fellows who requested you to address me ; and I cannot help
adding a few lines to thank you, though I cannot do it adequately,
for the manner in which you have discharged this office. I think it

fortunate that the communication on this subject was to be made
              who                            the purport and the value of
through you,  did.  Iknow and feel so well
what Bacon                                   in a book in which I have
                         have already said,
ventured to treat of Bacon's philosophy, that you seemed destined
to be my fellow- labourer in such a task*; and we have lately had just
reason to say so. The admirable and noble sentiments respecting
the influence of our monuments which your letter contains, give an
additional value to your expressions of kindness relative to the

monument now erected. May you, my dear Sedgwick, long continue
to exercise upon us and upon the world a beneficial influence by the

utterance of such sentiments; and may you and I long see the
continued and increased prosperity of the College which we both so
dearly love.
                    I am always, my dear Sedgwick,

                    Affectionately yours,

                          W. Whewell.

     Sedgwick spent Christmas at Collingwood with the

Herschels. A pleasant party of old friends had been got

together, and there were games for the young people, into
which he entered with as much delight as any of them.

It is amusing to read his account of a grand Christmas

tree, then a novelty in England, for which he apologizes to

his correspondent as "a German custom which old Sir
William religiously kept up, and which Sir John continues3."

     Early in January Sedgwick laid before the Geological
Society some results of his last summer's work. The paper,

On the Classification of the Fossiliferous Slates of Cumberland,

1 Printed from the original, preserved in Trinity College Lodge.

2 The Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences.  See Vol. I. p. 2.
3 To Miss Malcolm, 30 January, 1846.

          GALLANTRY OF JOHN EATON.

  1846.   Westmoreland, and Lancashire, was a continuation of the
          paper with the same title read to the Society in March,
JEt. 61.  1845; and at the end of May he wrote a fourth letter to
          Wordsworth, embodying his latest views on the geology of
          the Lake district.

               The two next letters make us think of the Christmas
          Vacation of 1804, when Sedgwick first visited the Aingers
          at Whittlesea, and made the acquaintance of young Harry

          Smith1.

          To James Ainger, Esq.  Cambridge, April $th, 1846.
              My dear Ainger,

          I send you by this post a copy of The Cambridge

          Independent Press for the past week. On the last page you

          will see a letter by J. Eaton --a son of my servant. I think

          it a delightful production ; and (excepting Harry Smith's

          despatch*, which nothing can reach) it is one of the most soul-

          stirring letters that has come from India. Yet the writer is a

          private soldier. I will do my best to get him at least made a
          serjeant. I believe he is an excellent steady lad, and I am
          sure he deserves promotion. All his letters are first-rate --

          full of eloquence and spirit, and quite correctly written. But

          enough of the letter. Let me from my heart congratulate

          Sir H. Smith's friends on the honour shed on them and their

          native town. It must indeed be a moment of exultation to

          you all. Of course you have read Wellington's and Peel's

          speeches of last Thursday, and indeed all the speeches. I do

          not believe the old Duke ever spoke so much praise in the

          course of his life before, and all he said was from the heart.

          I came back from Norwich only yesterday. Pray send

          me some Whittlesea news. Where are Dr Ainger's family ?

          Where Mr Cook's3? &c. &c. If Miss Eleanor Smith is now

              1 Vol. 1. p. 76.
              2 Sir H. G. W. Smith won the battle of Aliwal, 28 January, 1846, with

          12,000 men and 32 guns against 19,000 Sikhs with 68 guns.

              3 Rev. J. T. Cook, Fellow of St John's College, an early friend of Sedgwick's,
          married one of Dr Ainger's sisters.

GALLANTRY OF JOHN EATON.                              '03

in Whittlesea, give my best remembrances to her, and my                 1846.
heartfelt congratulations. What eventful years have passed                    61

since I met her at a Whittlesea Ball ! At that time your

poor brother was over head and ears in love with her. My
best wishes to your family. Ever most truly yours,

                                                          A. Sedgwick.

     What a lucky fellow Sir H. Smith was to get a battle to
himself! and such a battle !

To Miss Fanny Hicks.

              Good Friday Morning, [19 April,] 1846.

Dearest Fan,

            ...I have written to the Chancellor of the Exchequer
about young Eaton, and he promises to write to India, so I
hope the heroic lover will be a serjeant. I have his original

letter before me. One or two sentences have been altered by

the Editor of The Independent Press, and not for the better.
After describing the three cheers given to them by the line

after their charge, it goes on as follows : ' Give my best love

to my dear Brothers and Sisters. I wish they would all write

and send some newspapers. Kiss my little niece. Also, my

dear mother, tell Rhoda Harding I thought of her in the
battle's heat, and that as I cut at the enemy and parried their
thrusts my arm was strong on her account ; for I felt at that

moment that I loved her more than ever, and may Almighty

God bless her. Tell her to write to me often, for something

assures me that I shall surmount all difficulties.' This is, I

think, exquisitely beautiful, for it is the strong language of

pure feeling in the hour of severest trial. You would suppose

you were reading the letter of some Middle Age hero, rather

than one by a private in an English regiment, and in the

19th century. I have  no more paper and no more     time.
Ever, dearest Fan,           Affectionately yours,

                      A. Sedgwick.

         104 HARROGATE WATERS.

  1846.       The gout was Sedgwick's " close companion " from the
         beginning of March to the end of June, when he betook
Mt. 61.  himself to Harrogate in the hopes of shaking it off. But
         the " sweet waters " as he called them, " offended my nostrils,
         and did no good to my hands and feet." Still, Yorkshire

         was always a pleasant place to him, and excursions with his
         relatives compensated him for his disappointments. " What
         glorious expeditions!" he wrote afterwards: "what noble

         scenery ! such scenes not merely delight the senses, but
         minister food to the heart and understanding. Two cathe

         drals --one of them perhaps the finest in the world ! And
         three such noble middle-age ruins ! the monuments of bygone
         days, and of sentiments of piety which, however misdirected,
         belonged to the loftiest aspirations of the human heart -- nay,
         which, during a barbarous age were often a refuge for the
         oppressed, and the means of keeping up whatever was left of
         letters and of science1."

             The first days of July found him in Wales accompanied by

         John Ruthven, "polishing up some of his old work." The
         weather interfered a good deal with their expeditions, and
         Sedgwick was out of sorts and out of spirits. Still he could
         give a good account of what he had accomplished to Mur-
         chison. After pointing out that it was impossible for him to
         come to the meeting of the British Association at South

         ampton (at which Murchison was to be President), he
         proceeds :

                                                         Carmarthen, August 7th, 1846.

             " Spite of the merciless rain I did some good work in

         North Wales. I have my Cambrian System better in hand
         than I had, having now locked Carnarvonshire and Merioneth
         shire together. There was a screw loose before. As a great

         physical system they are inferior to all South Wales (ex
         cepting Pembrokeshire of which I speak nothing and know
         little or nothing). Again, much of South Wales is inferior to

         1 To Isabella Sedgwick, 13 July, 1846.

WELSH NAMES.

the two bottom groups of your Silurian System, and therefore     1846.

out of your System in the sense in which you first used the          6'-

words.

    I will not now touch on controversy, only I state thus
much ; that I have now the precise general views I had at the
end of 1832 --of course with infinitely improved details and
better sections. South Wales is a great puzzle, with much of
which I mean not to trouble my head."

    A lesson on the way to pronounce Welsh names will

contrast agreeably with these stony details.

To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Tremadoc, July 23rd, 1846.

" ...The miserably damp weather made me rheumatic and            

low-spirited, so I nursed one day at Carnarvon, and then drove

to Pwllheli. What a charming name! In order to pronounce

the first part (Pwll), you must blow out your cheeks just as

you do when you are puffing at a very obstinate candle ;

then you must rapidly and cunningly put your tongue to the
roof of your mouth behind the fore teeth, and blow hard

between your cheeks and your tongue, holding your tongue

quite steady all the while, as a man does a spade just before

he is going to give a good thrust with his right foot. With

such a beautiful direction you cannot fail to pronounce Pwll

quite like a genuine Celt. Should the word be Bwlch, take

care to observe the previous directions, only, in addition,

while the wind is whistling between your rigid tongue (sticking

forwards spade-fashion), and your distended cheeks, contrive

by way of finale to give a noise with your throat such as you

make when an intrusive fishbone is sticking in it. So much

for my first Welsh lesson. Take care, dear Fan, that it be not

thrown away.                           Yesterday I packed
     I remained two days at Pwllheli.

my baggage, and drove to this place. I have now been
eleven days in Wales, and have not once seen the tops of the

mountains ; they are covered by trailing clouds.

         106 GEOLOGY IN NORTH WALES.

  1846.      If you write by return of post you may address me at
Mx. 61.
         Dolgelly, North Wales. (N. B. this word is by no means to be
         sounded like our maid Doll's jelly-bag. The // must always

         be blown, in the way I told you, between the tongue and

         the cheeks.) If you put off writing for a day or two, why

         then address me at Post Office, Machynlleth, North Wales.

         What a charming word again ! Mach has the bone-in-the-

         throat sound ; yn is sounded as the grunt given by a broken-

         winded pavier, when he is using his rammer ; lleth you

         already know how to sound, if you have cared for my lessons."

              Having settled the particular points he wished to in
         vestigate in North Wales, Sedgwick " spent about ten days

         in beating to the right and left, along the valley of the Towy
         between Llandovery and Carmarthen1." This, it will be
         remembered, he had already visited under Murchison's

         guidance, in 1834: but evidently he had no longer the
         strength and spirits which in former years had carried him
         triumphantly through tedious traverses. " I have during

         summer been wandering through a lovely country;" he wrote
         after his return, " but I was almost in solitude. I had no one
         to talk to ; and I could not multiply my pleasures, or add to

         their greatness, by seeing them reflected from a friend's eye,

         or echoed back by a friend's tongue. And my health was
         never quite what I could have wished. In short, I am old,

         and cold-hearted, and torpid, and ricketty, and there is no

         help for it. Finally I cut and run, so as to be in Trin. Coll.
         by the 1st of October to take part in the Fellowship Ex

         amination"."

                                                             Cambridge, December 19M, 1846.

              My dear Lady Herschel,

                          The season reminds me of the delightful visit I

         had last Christmas at Collingwood House. I trust that the

         tree will flourish; and that it will be surrounded with a ring
         of happy faces, and that no sorrowful heart may be inside

         1 To Miss Fanny Hicks, 13 September, 1846.
         3 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 16 October, 1846.

                    THE NEW PLANET.              107

your house, though your house be full. Pray spare me a                1846.
minute to let me know that you and Sir John and all the
                                                                    Bx. 61.
young people are quite well. I did know the Christian names

of ten; but an old man's memory is full of chinks, through

which things pass as fast as water through a riddle. Let me

see ! Miss Herschel has no name, and the second is my dear

niece Isabella. Then I am at a dead stop, and cannot go a

step farther without the risk of stumbling, so I had better not

expose myself by guessing. Give my love to them all. I
have been lecturing all the past term to an immense class --
                    " revival   "
quite a geological                 and  several  ladies did me the
                               ;

honour to sit under me. Just as I finished last week, my

voice struck work. A dire cold took possession of me, and

made me good for nothing ; and, though much better, I am

still a grumbler. I must however endeavour to clear my

vocal organs against Tuesday, when we are to celebrate by

every festive demonstration our three-hundredth anniver

sary.

    I have no news to send you. We, some of us, grumble at

our Astronomer for not securing the new planet, after Adams

had tied a noose tightly about its neck so early as September,
1845. I dare say you have seen Airy's paper read before the
Astronomical Society ; and Challis has just published (as an
Observatory Report) a similar document, which puts Adams'

claims to honour in a stronger light than before. Is not the

whole thing provoking ? What says Sir John to it and of it ?
Is it not a pity that young Cantabs should be so modest ?

and that old Professors should not trust them ? When are we

to have the sweepings of the southern sky ? I remember a

nursery rhyme which runs as follows :

Oh Herschel ! oh Herschel ! where do you fly ?

To sweep the cobwebs out of the sky.

No doubt the cobwebs      of the old saw meant nebulce. At
least it seems probable.
the southern concave !     Cobwebs and diamond-dust from all
                          I am so stupified with cold that I

          io8 TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL AT TRINITY.

  1846.   hardly can spell my own name. A thrice happy Christmas

JEt. 61.  t0 an within your door, and round about you! Ever truly

          yours-             A. Sedgwick.

               The year 1846 ended with the celebration of the three
          hundredth anniversary of the foundation of Trinity College by

          a grand banquet in hall (22 December), an occasion which
          would have been welcomed with enthusiasm by Sedgwick,

          had he been in better health. But he had caught cold in
          London early in December, and made it worse on his return

          to Cambridge by helping to entertain Lord Brougham in

          hall when he ought to have been nursing himself by his
          fireside. The commemoration therefore found him " as melli
          fluous as a frog." Mr Romilly, however, has recorded that at
          the end of dinner, when " Lord Monteagle made a warm

          hearted address (about old recollections) in proposing the
          Vice-Master and Seniors, Sedgwick made one incomparably

          better in returning thanks."

              At that time the twelve days of Christmas were celebrated

          with special hospitality, and on the last day of the old year
          there was a midnight gathering in the Combination Room.
          " We had a very merry evening," says Sedgwick, speaking
          of the latter festival ; but, when it was over, he broke down

          completely, and was confined for several weeks to his own

          rooms. The following letters describe his condition and his

          occupations.

          To Miss F. Hicks.  Trinity College, January 3rd, 1847.

          "...I have no news -- I hardly -see a soul -- the college  is

          deserted, except by men looking dismally forward to the

          Senate House examination. Only think ! to fill up time I

          have been reading Robinson Crusoe ! For in the stupid

          soddencd state of my brain I can think of nothing worth
          thinking about, except indeed when I sometimes think of

          my friends, and wish myself amongst them. So, in pity, my

          dear Fankin, and to do my cold good, pray send me a long

                     INFLUENZA.                      109

letter--the longer the better -- all full of Scalby news. I                        1847.
                                                                                         6
hope you are all well, and then I am sure you will all be

happy ; for you now make a full family muster. How infi

nitely better than my most miserable solitude ! even though

you be a little bothered by the elements. The last account
your Mamma sent me gave a frightful account of the snow--
up to the eaves of the houses ! Now, I suppose, it must be
over the chimney-tops. It lies thick in the court of Trinity,

and to all appearance, means to keep its place for some time

to come, and whenever I look out of my window it makes
me sneeze. The noises I make are horrible --my nose is
quite indecent --my eyes are two living fountains of salt
water --voice I have none that is human, but I sometimes
bark like an old toothless mastiff. As for my figure -- I have

spectacles on nose -- a black velvet cap on my head -- a large
padded dressing-gown wrapped about me -- and my shoes

are slip-shod -- so I put them on in the morning, and so they
have remained ever since. In short I am little better than a

barking automaton. Having thus sent you my charming

picture, pray send me yours in return, or rather send me a

family picture -- Darby, Joan, and the chickens, etc. etc. A

thrice happy new year to every one of them !..."

To Archdeacon Hare.  Cambridge, February 2nd, 1847.

    My dear Hare,

                 The great bell sounded for chapel this morning,
so I found that it must be a surplice day ; and on leaving my

bedroom I looked in the Calendar and saw that it was the
feast of the Purification. The sun was shining at the moment,
and there was some promise of a clear sky, which brought

two old monkish lines into my head I have formerly heard

Pugh1 repeat in our Combination Room :

Si Sol splendescat Maria purificante
Major erit glacies post festum quam fuit ante.

    1 William Pugh, B.A. 1789, for many years a senior Fellow of Trinity College.
He was a learned, but eccentric, person, of whom Sedgwick used to tell several

         I 10 LITERARY AMUSEMENTS.

1847.    I am sure you know these lines well, but my Latin is in a
Et- 6,1
         small compass, and I make the most of what I have. Old

         saws are not always sure, and perhaps the monk, should he

         fail in giving us a biting spring, might shelter himself under

         splendesco, for though the sun has done his best, I think he

         has not to-day been resplendent. 'Tis in general a sign a

         man has nothing to say when he begins to talk of the

         weather; but indeed there are many things I wish to say,

         and more than I can well pack in this sheet.

         I promised to visit you during this Christmas vacation ;

         and the vacation, in the widest sense of the word, is now

         over, for college lectures were resumed this morning. I first

         intended to visit you before the Commemoration ; but ill-
         health forbad it. Then I hoped to come after--soon after ;

         but since then I have been almost a prisoner in my own

         chambers. Several times I went out and tried to resume my
         duties, and each time I was seized by the throat, and driven
         back to my solitary fireside. So at length I struck work

         absolutely, took to slops and thin potations, and treated my

         brain with things as light as those I put in my stomach.

         But for old Daniel de Foe I should have died. I steadily

         read through eighteen volumes of his works, at the rate of

         about a volume a day. What a wonderful genius he was,

         and unlike any one else in our literary history.... His style is,

         you know, natural, idiomatic, and pithy ; and he sometimes,

         without knowing it himself, rises into expressions both

         grand and touching. But he is careless, and often ungram-

         matical, and sometimes very coarse and vulgar. Some of
         his vulgarisms I began to like, though they had no smack of

         the north of England, which always has great charms for my

         senses. He often uses such expressions as : 'while this was

         a-doing  '    ' as  we  were  a-going ' etc. etc., and  I suspect that
                    ;

         this form belongs to the old Saxon element of our tongue,

         does it not ? Now I hate what I think is the modern form,

         good stories. There is a notice of him in Gunning's Reminiscences, Ed. 1855,
         Vol. ii. p. 53.

DANIEL DE FOE.  m

such as : ' while this was being done ' etc. ; and I remember    1847.
                                                                      6*-
being quite angry with a good idiomatic vulgar writer when

I saw in his page the words 'while the straw was being
moved.' I suppose you have read The Adventures of a
Cavalier; The Adventures of Captain Carleton, and The Life
of Mother Ross. The first gives you the best account of the
Civil wars of the reign of Charles the First I ever read ;

the second gives the only good account of Peterborough's

romantic campaigns in Spain that is to be found in our

language ; and the last, though too vulgar for an unmarried
lady to read, gives us a most animated picture of the camp-

followers and low scenes attending the great Marlborough's

victories. These, I am almost ashamed to say, were new to
me. In his homely descriptions he shoots far ahead of Sir
Walter Scott, and he is infinitely more true to real history ;
for in these historical romances he narrates the leading facts
with perfect truth, and then decks them out with minute and

domestic incidents so like truth that one is almost constrained

to believe them true. I have also read one or two of his

political pamphlets ; and they are as clever, and as natural,

and yet as unlike anything ever written by any one else, as
his romances. The two pamphlets for which he was twice

sent to Newgate are both admirable; and looking at the

events of the day from a distance I am astonished at the

folly as well as the wickedness of those who punished him.
But he was a dissenter, and that was enough for the poli
ticians of the day, who were French-ridden in taste, vulgar
in sentiment, narrow-minded, sceptical, and intolerant. I
think he was a firm believer, and on the whole a good
practical Christian. Yet 'tis very hard to believe that he
could think all his novels had a moral tendency. We must,
however, remember the change of times and manners. But

halt, my friend ! If we go on at this rate we shall get through

this sheet before I have done even with the eighteen volumes
of De Foe. My pen has been running as my nose did while

my influenza was at the very worst....

         I 12 MR HARE'S NOTE ON LUTHER.

  1847.       During this melancholy vacation I have been very solitary.
         The college has been empty, so that for days together, I have
Mt. 62.
         seen no faces but my own ugly withered face reflected from

         my looking-glass while I was a-shaving, and the ugly face of
         old Mrs Eaton, who is about as old as I am, and had, I suspect,

         no great stock of charms to begin the world with. As for my

         man John, he has been worse than myself, poor fellow ; and

         I have not seen his face in Trinity College for weeks. About

         a fortnight since I became much better, and my stomach
         required something more stimulating. So I took to a course

         of polemical theology. During this fit I read Note W}
         You know the author well, and truly did I relish both himself

         and his long quotations.... Indeed, my dear Hare, deeply do

         I thank you for this admirable note, and it was sent forth in

         the hour of need, when good and sound men who ought to

         have known better, mincing dilettantes, and rabid reviewers,

         had joined in open-mouthed cry against the greatest and best

         man who has lived since the days of the first Apostles. This
         is my honest opinion. I like Luther's homely style (I speak
         only of his Latin) far better than I expected. It is not, nor

         does it profess to be, Ciceronian ; but it is strong, masculine,

         and clear, and tells us just what we want to know. One

         never doubts his meaning for an instant. He was a man,

         and not an angel. I wish he had been less coarse. In more

         than half his disputes with Zuingle he was either wrong-
         headed or wrong. I do not like his stiff-neckedness soon

         after the Augsburg diet ; and I think he put the infant

         ********protestant cause in the utmost peril. But he acted on

         principle ; and I think Ranke well says, on some such
         occasion, that if his conduct was not prudent, it was great.
             During my confinement, I took to polemics as one does

         to cayenne pepper, by way of seasoning to the light matter

             1 The Mission of the Comforter and other Sermons, with notes; by Julius
         Charles Hare, was first published in 1846, in two volumes 8vo. In this edition

         Note W. (ii. pp. 696--878) contained the vindication of the character of Luther
         afterwards published as a separate work.

RANGE'S HISTORY.                                                     113

I had been gorging. I read Cureton's edition of the Epistles                           1847.
of St Ignatius1 with very great pleasure ; and his prefatory
matter is, I think, excellent of its kind. Then I looked at                          /Et. 62.

the right orthodox and pompous review of Dr Wordsworth*.

What a pity he should spoil his good scholarship by his

mouthiness and hyperorthodoxy ! Cureton, in his reply', has,
I think, laid the Doctor sprawling in the mire. Dr Lee has

also come out to do battle on the same side ; but he is not a

clear writer, and though he gives hard hits they are not well

planted. But he has not yet done. To improve my orthodoxy
I read at the same time two volumes of Gibbon, and I picked

out again all he has to say on the early controversies and
councils. What a miserable picture that history gives us of

the Church of Christ after the Nicene Council !

    You see by this long story that I have been industriously

idle during my long and gloomy confinement. I have to

thank the author of Note W. for setting me on Ranke's

History of the German Reformation. I have carefully read

the three volumes of Mrs Austin's translation. What a glorious
history ! how full, how rich, how wise, how honest ! I shall

never again endure the rounded periods and syllabub of
Robertson. I seemed to be in a voyage through a new

world of mind and matter as I went along, and I hardly
allowed myself time for sleep till I had finished the three

volumes....

     There ! I think by this time we must all have done
breakfast, and in half an hour I must pack up my things

and return to Cambridge from Hurstmonceaux, after my

short but pleasant visit. In a day or two I hope to revisit
my Museum. I have half a dozen great boxes to unpack,
and I have an excellent naturalist hard at work arranging my

    1 The Antient Syriac Version of the Epistles of Saint Ignatius.   By William
Cureton, M.A. 8vo. Lond. 1845.                                       iv. pp. 309 --

    * An article in The English Review for December, 1845 (Vol.              8
353), by Chr. Wordsworth, D.D., afterwards Bishop of Lincoln.

    * Vindieia Ignatiamr. By Rev. W. Cureton, 8vo. Lond. 1846.

       S. II.

         114 CANON WODEHOUSE

1847.    organic remains. He is to remain a year with me, and before
         he has done I trust my Museum will be fair to look upon....
Et. 62.
              Give my kindest regards to your other and better half,
         and believe me your affectionate friend,

                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

         Mrs Eaton and her husband, referred to in the above

         letter, were Sedgwick's college servants for many years. It

         was their son whose letters from the field of Aliwal interested

         him so much. Mrs Eaton is said to have been the heroine of

         the celebrated episode of the pound of tea. Her master,

         observing that his teacaddy emptied itself with inconceivable

         rapidity, bought a pound secretly, locked it in a drawer and

         filled his teapot from it. When the usual period for ordering

         a fresh supply came round, Mrs Eaton displayed the empty

         caddy, whereupon Sedgwick opened his drawer and ex

         hibiting his packet still half-filled, exclaimed triumphantly :
         " Bless                                                          "
                  me    !  my  pound  has  lasted  longer   than  yours
                                                                         !

                                                  Sunday Morning, February 7, 1847.

         My dear Wodehouse,

                       I have just returned from a walk to the bottom of
         our bowling-green -- I hope to dine in Hall --and to-morrow
         (should the weather-cock still point west) I mean to ride my
         horse ; so you see I am now advancing, and I trust I shall have

         no back-reckonings. So much for myself....

             I advise you to take the Archdeaconry1 by all means.

         There are no duties of the office you may not do with a

         good conscience ; and you will do them, if God spare your

         life, with a good conscience. The office may enable you to
         do the cause of honest scriptural truth much good --and your

         peculiar views about certain unfortunate passages in our

         Liturgy (in which I agree with you entirely) will not, and

         1 The Archdeaconry of Norfolk, offered by Bishop Stanley. The proposal to

         appoint a clergyman known to object to certain passages in the Prayer Book (see

         above, p. 20)   aroused   great opposition among   the clergy. The Bishop was
         determined to  persevere                           legal difficulty was discovered,
                                   in his course, when " a

         which practically precluded him from offering the Archdeaconry to any incumbent
         in his diocese." Addresses and Charges of Edward Stanley, D.D., p. 65.

AND THE ARCHDEACONRY OF NORFOLK.  115

ought not to, interfere with your proper and energetic Archi-                                  1847.

diaconal duties. Let not good Evangelical men flinch, and                                    Mt- 2-

refuse office. Now is the time for them to take the front rank,

that the ultra high-church have gone over to the enemy.

Julius Hare has some views like your own. He is a low-
churchman according to the vulgar abuse of words. I should
call him and you very high churchmen --men who are not

content to bathe in tainted streams, but wish to steep
themselves, soul and body, in the pure waters of life gushing
from the fountain-head. Ordinances of men are, or may be,

good things in their way ; and they are necessary for diffusion

of the waters of life, and for irrigation --all this is plain to
common sense. Hare had some scruples, and stated them to
his Bishop (Otter). The Bishop replied ' I can allow these
objections to be of no weight, for my opinions on these points
are just the same as your own. Therefore I again offer you
the office and I hope you will take it.' Now this is your
exact position, if I mistake not. Act like Julius Hare, and
take the office. So now you have my opinion, and I hope all
your objections will at once kick the beam....

     To-morrow I must seek sermons in stones and go to my
Museum, which I am putting in its last arrangement, so far,
at least, as my own labours are concerned with it. I wish this
work were over, and then I would emancipate myself from

Geology, and set my house in order for the evening of life.
Such are my day-dreams. Perhaps I may come over some

Saturday, so as to return on Monday to my work. I want

to have a peep at Norwich again. My nephew1 is coming
into the rooms opposite mine and in the same staircase. He

is well and working hard : but his general health is not quite
good, and he has the family failing of a weak stomach -- a

stomach desirous of doing work, but not doing it well. For

hard Cambridge grinding, a good gizzard is next thing to a

good brain ; and were I a materialist (which I am not) I

     1 Richard Sedgwick, son of the Rev. John Sedgwick, Vicar of Dent. He had
matriculated as a pensioner of Trinity College in November, 1846.

                                                                                       8--2

          u6 CRITICISM OF STANLEYS SERMONS.

  1847.   should say that the seat of the will was in the stomach, as
          the seat of benevolence is said to be in the bowels.
JEt. 61.
               What wonderful days we live in ! Parsons by the dozen
          turning blind Papists ; honest Canons spiking their touch-
          holes, and crying Nolo Archidiaconari at the time they ought
          to be going off with a crack ; men and women talking to one
          another at 100 miles distance by galvanized wires ; Old
          England lighted with burning air ; the land cut through by
          rails till it becomes a great gridiron ; men and women doing

          every day what was once thought no better than a crazed
          dream, doubling up space and time and putting them in their

          side-pockets ; new planets found as thick as peas ; nerves
          laughed at, and pain driven out of the operating-room ; some
          sleeping comfortably, some cutting jokes while you are
          lithotomizing them or chopping off their limbs (this I have

          not seen, but D.V. I hope to see it soon) --in short 'tis a strange
          time we live in ! But is there no reverse to this picture ?
          Yes ! a sad and sorrowful reverse ! our friends are dying

          around us ; famine is stalking round the land ; peace is but a

          calm before a tempest ; sin and misery are doing their work of
          mischief; by God's judgment, the same kind of disease which
          has destroyed the daily bread of our Irish brethren, may, for
          aught we can tell, next year consume our daily bread by
          attacking the grain on which we live. And then what becomes
          of art and science and civilisation ? Gold will not feed us ; the
          heart of man will not beat by steam ; but I will not dream of
          coming evil, I will hope for the best ; and I do trust that there
          are good men yet in our land to make it an object of continued

          blessings, and that through us these blessings may be diffused
          to the farthest corners of the earth....

          Ever, my dear Wodehouse, affectionately yours,

                                                          A. Sedgwick.

               Among other books read by Sedgwick during this long
          seclusion was Arthur Stanley's Sermons and Essays on the

          Apostolical Age. Affection for the author, as much as interest

               STANLEY'S THANKS.                                       117

on the subject, no'doubt determined the care he bestowed upon                                                                                                                                                  1847.
it. The result was recorded in a long and detailed criticism,                                                                                                                                               Mx- 62-

forwarded, as soon as written, to the Palace at Norwich.

"I have looked at your Commentary," wrote Miss Stanley,

" and seen many a gentle slap which will do the Author good

for years to come ; in his name let me thank you, for I know
he will be grateful to you, if it was only that you should have

thought it worth your while to spend ' a hard day's work'
upon it1." The author's own sentiments are recorded in the

following letter :

From Rev. A. P. Stanley.           Palace, Norwich, 4th August, 1848.
     My dear Professor,

                    Better late than never, but certainly better after having

carefully used them than before having read them, I return my most
cordial thanks for your long MS. notes on                          For the
                                                   my Sermons.
last few days, at such odd times as I could                     have been
                                                   command, I

at my book on one side the table, and Mary reading your notes on

the other side ; and now that they are finished, and their results duly
recorded in the margin of the Sermons, the first duty as well as
pleasure of the Author is to express to the Critic how much he and

his book are indebted       for the kindness and   care  with  which it has
been read, and for the                             must  not   forget adding
                             instruction --and he
ctbhoeeerrneAacmltlfeoutdlshloeecwmoreeepdnmyt.--a--rakwFssohyrhicoahuvoentehweboheueuClngdoemwsmmeeelealsnsatiafttoreyyfnocduhoeardrswigeeftruonerd--naitsmo--hoegsdthlt.aanotcfeotfhoetvmheerhmatvihsee-
references, I have no excuse to offer -- nothing but apologies -- and
the ignorance of a young author who relied too much on the
sagacity of the printer. I trust that these are now all rectified.
The metaphors and the sentences which you have so successfully
pulled to pieces, have most of them had their limbs reset, and are

now set on their legs again. Some few were found to be incurable.
The graver matters of censure have all been retouched ; and alto
gether, if the Author is ever able to present you with a Second Edition,
I trust                                            and give you fewer
         that  it will cost you less  trouble,
shocks,  than  the first. The only                 think, where I have
                                      point, I

entirely resisted your solicitations is in the refusal to go at length

into  any new matter.       Once   more accept my hearty    thanks   for this
real  boon -- the greatest   boon  that an author can have  -- the  criticism

of a Reviewer who is kind enough to read, and critical enough to
censure, and sagacious enough to improve, all that he has written.
    All this benefit has been turned to account at this particular

moment, not because I expect a Second Edition, but because I hope

               1 From Miss Stanley, 15 February, 1848.

          118 MCCOY'S WORK AT CAMBRIDGE.

   1847.  to go to Jerusalem in November, and wished to wipe off old scores
          at home. Have you any commissions to the rocks of Mount Sinai,
/Et. g2.  or Moriah, or Carmel ? Seriously, any suggestions which you can
          give me about those parts will be most thankfully received.

                                                                                Ever yours truly
                                                                                  A. P. Stanley.

               The arrangement of the geological collections, alluded to
          in two of the last letters, had now made considerable progress.
          The vast accumulation of material, due in great measure to
          Sedgwick's own energy as a collector during twenty years

          of hard work, had been unpacked, sorted, and to some extent
          arranged. This task was commenced, as already noted, by
          Mr Ansted, under Sedgwick's direction, and their joint labours
          brought the collection " into approximate order." He was
          succeeded by Mr Salter, the young geologist who had accom
          panied Sedgwick to Wales in 1842 and 1843 ; but, before
          long, he was drawn away from Cambridge by an appoint
          ment on the Geological Survey of England. Sedgwick next
          secured the services of Mr Frederick McCoy -- a naturalist
          who had already performed similar duties in Dublin. He

          came to Cambridge in 1846, and for at least four years
          devoted himself "uninterruptedly and with unflinching zeal "
          to the determination and arrangement of " the whole series of
          British and Foreign Fossils " in the Museum. The value of

          his work is known to the world by numerous scientific papers,

          and by the Description of the British Palceozoic Fossils in the
          Geological Museum of the University of Cambridge, first
          issued in parts, and finally published in a complete form,

          with a valuable preface by Sedgwick, in 1855.
                McCoy's energy soon produced visible effects. In a year's

          time Sedgwick could write: "My Museum is coming out
          gloriously. It will soon be the most instructive and useful

           Museum in England, thanks mainly to McCoy's enormous
          labours. He works like a Turk"1. No wonder that he looked

          on these collections with parental pride, and watched McCoy's

           work upon them much as a father watches the education

                                     1 To R. L. Murchison, 5 February, 1848.

PRINCE ALBERT ELECTED CHANCELLOR.  119

of his children. His energy and influence had brought them                      1847.

together ; his liberality was now providing for their arrange-                      6,.
ment. The cost of this fell almost entirely upon Sedgwick.
Dr Woodward's trustees made two small grants to Mr
Ansted, and 100 to Mr McCoy during his first year of

office ; but the surplus in their hands had been exhausted by
defraying the cost of the fittings for the new building, and it

was intimated to Sedgwick that no further grants could be

expected from that source. He had already paid Mr Salter's
salary ; and during the whole of Mr McCoy's residence in
Cambridge he regularly paid him 200 a year out of his

private income1.

     At the beginning of February in this year the University

was startled by the news of the sudden death of the Chancellor,
the Duke of Northumberland. Dr Whewell happened to be
in London, so that the conduct of affairs in Trinity College

devolved to a considerable extent on Sedgwick. It at once

occurred to him that Prince Albert should be invited to accept
the vacant office; and it is probable that this expression of
opinion on his part did much to influence the conduct of the

other resident Fellows, who, as a general rule, supported the

Prince. At the same time neither residents nor non-residents

were unanimous ; and though Sedgwick espoused the Prince's

cause with hearty conviction, he was obliged, as Vice-Master,
to observe, to some degree, an official neutrality. He appears

to have discharged his public duties with admirable judgment.
On the first day of polling (25 February), there was of course

a large party in hall. Sedgwick, Mr Romilly tells us, " spoke
excellently, and in a kind way for both sides. We were too

large a party (above 240) to go upstairs [to the Combination
Room]. He gave the non-resident voters, and Earl Nelson,
London chairman of Earl Powis' Committee, returned thanks.
He proposed Sedgwick's health, which was received with
great applause. Sedgwick made an excellent answer." On

    1 Report of Cambridge University Commission 1852, Evidence, p. 118. Letter
from Dr Philpott, Vice-Chancellor, 4 December, 1846.

         120 MADE CHANCELLOR'S SECRETARY.

  1847.  the following day he again presided, and " spoke briefly and
         wen ;" and on the third day, when the result of the poll had
Mt. 62.  been declared, he made a speech in the Combination Room,
         and presided for an hour after the departure of the Master.

              This exciting contest was the beginning of a closer

         connexion between Sedgwick and the Prince, who soon after
         the election invited him to " undertake the duties of his

         Secretary at Cambridge, as Chancellor of the University " '--

         a proposal which was accepted without a moment's hesitation.
         Those who are jealous of Sedgwick's scientific reputation

         will regret this decision. It entailed upon him new duties and
         new responsibilities, of the extent of which he had no idea
         when he accepted the Prince's offer--and it put geology,
         viewed as the serious pursuit of his life, still farther into the

         background. On the other hand, it was hardly to be expected
         that he would decline. He was animated by a chivalrous
         loyalty to the throne and the person of the Queen ; and it
         gave him infinite pleasure, in the evening of his life, to feel
         that he could in any way make himself of use to her husband.
         He performed his duties zealously, but without either subser

         viency or affectation ; and in all his relations with the Court he
         maintained the same simplicity of manner, and the same plain
         ness of speech, by which his whole life had been distinguished.

         To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Cambridge, March *h, 1847.

             "...If you ask me what I am doing I reply that I am

         Igrumbling -- that I have a geological paper in the press*, for

         sent the MS. up to Town yesterday for the printer, and that

         I am preparing a new edition of my Discourse on the studies

         of Cambridge, with additional notes and corrections &c. (I
         worked five hours at it last night before I retired to roost)

             1 From Colonel Phipps, 6 April, 1847. It is usual for the Chancellor to

         select some distinguished resident Member of the Senate, to keep him informed of

         what is going forward, to answer questions arising out of his correspondence, and

         occasionally to write letters in his name.

             2 The paper on The Classification of the Fossiliferous Slates of North Wales,
         read 16 December, 1846; a supplement to the paper read 11 March, 1845

         (see above, p. 80).

DEATH OF MR CLARKSON.                                                                   121

--and that I am butchered by letter writing. We chanted                                      1847.
the paean of victory on Saturday. Early on Sunday morning
I drove over to Great Barford near Bedford to take leave of
Mr Clarkson1, one of my oldest and best friends, who is on
his death-bed. It was indeed a change from a house of
feasting to a house of mourning, and I felt in my heart that
the latter was better for me than the former. Mr Clarkson

has been a consistent and pious man, and fears not death,

because he knows in whom he trusts in his hour of trial. His
wife is one of the sweetest and wisest and purest women I
ever have had the happiness of knowing. She is a pattern of

Christian patience, and shews by her whole bearing what it
is to be a Christian in our times of greatest bereavement...."

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.
                                                  York House, Bath,

                                                Easter Tuesday, [6 April], 1847.

    "...I came to this place last Saturday evening. After the

influenza left me I fell into low languid spirits. My old enemy

rheumatic gout then began to burrow among my limbs and

took away my sleep. So I resolved (under medical advice)

to try these waters, and give myself rest and exercise in the

open air. Rest and exercise mean the same thing with me....

Pray write soon, and fill a long letter with all manner of

fireside news. How are the poor people ? How are your

schools going on ? How flourish the infant schools ? What

are you reading ? How goes on German ? What music are

you labouring at ?             Life of St Paul* were more
                               excellent notwithstanding. I
    I wish Tate's Continuous   so as to have a clear view of

pleasantly written, but it is
should wish you to master
a1

                     of
                                                 it,

                                                                                    it
St Paul's life and labours in true historical order, and would

be a good exercise to read his Epistles through once every

       Rev. John Clarkson, B.A. 1805, afterwards Fellow of Trinity College.
        The fiord Paulina of William Paley D.D. carried out and illustrated in a
continuous history the Apostolic Labours and Writings of St Paul. By James
Tate, M.A. 8vo. Lond. 1840.

          122 LIFE OF SIMEON.

   1847.  year in true historical order and continuously, ever bearing
          jn mind that the Epistles, though in a certain view historical,
JEt. 62.
          are also devotional and doctrinal ; and though drawn forth by
          local occasions, contain truths for all ages and all occasions,

          and can neither be felt nor understood unless read in a

          devotional spirit....
               I have been interrupted nearly two hours, very pleasantly,

          by Mr Wordsworth. I hope to spend the greater part of

          to-morrow morning in his company.

               I must off to the bath-house. So good morning...."

          To Canon Wodehouse.              York House, Bath, April 9, 1847.

          "...Since I reached Bath I have finished Cams' Life of
          Simeon.1 It is a very remarkable book, and likely to do

          much good. Tis the history of a devout and faithful man,

          who stuck to his principles through evil report and good report,

          and ended by gaining the love and good-will of all men about

          him. Pray read it soon. There are in it several letters on

          cases of conscience not very different from your own. Most

          of good old Simeon's views are wise and sound. And what a

          consistent man he was after he was called to the ministry !

          He never flinched. He had many small faults, but he knew

          them, and was humble under them, and after all they were

          motes in the beam of light, which only serve to show the

          track of the light more plainly to the senses. What a grand

          Christian death ! And what a fine, eloquent, and Christian

          summary by the Bishop of Calcutta!*..."

               During the whole of the Easter term of 1847 the
          University was occupied with preparations for the Public

          Commencement, at which the new Chancellor was to

          preside, in the presence of the Queen. It was not long
          before Sedgwick had to enter upon his duties as secre

          1 Memoirs of the Life of the Rev. Charles Simeon, M.A. Edited by the Rev.
          W. Cams, M.A. 8vo. Lond. 1847.

              2 Recollections of the Rev.  Charles  "SCimaelcoun,ttab, y18t3he7,"RaigphptenRdeedv.  Daniel Wilson,
          D.D. Lord Bishop of Calcutta,      dated                                                  to the Memoirs.

                                            123

tary. Early in May we find him attending the Prince in            1847.
London ; discussing details of the ceremony ; writing letters
about honorary degrees --and the like. The result of these            6l-
preliminary labours is described in the next letter.

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  July 12, 1847.

" I have lost all reckoning, and I know not how long it

is since I last wrote to you. From Oxford I ordered papers

to be forwarded to Dent, so you will have seen an account

of all our doings there. The meeting went off admirably ;

but I remained only till Monday evening (the 28th) as I

thought I might be wanted at Cambridge. One day, the

Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar and Prince Albert came over,

and went round to the different sections. I was obliged to go

in their suite, as the Prince's Secretary ; and a very pleasant
break it was in the hard work of the meeting, as it enabled

me to witness the Prince's reception, to visit all the different

section -rooms, and to partake of a magnificent lunch given

by the Master of Exeter College to the Royal Party, and to

about 150 Members of the Association who came by cards of
invitation. Every one was in high spirits ; and this Royal

visit, without interrupting any work, gave an e'clat to the

meeting. They really were in great luck. The weather was

glorious and not too hot ; and Oxford (I will show it you

someday) looked magnificent. When the Royal visitors

entered the Physical and Mathematical Section, the great

French mathematician Le Verrier was on his legs discussing

the orbit of a comet. When he sat down, Airy, Challis,

Herschel, Adams, Sir W. Hamilton, and Sir David Brewster
took part in a short discussion. In all Europe it would not

have been possible to bring greater astronomical names

together. This was not got up but mere accident, for they

took their chance, and interrupted no business. In the

geological section they were also in great luck. A Swedish

nobleman was exhibiting some physical maps of Scandinavia,

         124 SIR HARRY SMITH AT WHITTLESEA.

1847.    and a Danish Professor was expounding his views about the
         changes of sea-level all along the Danish and Swedish coasts,
Et. 62.
         manifested by deposits of modern sea-shells at different levels

         on the cliffs. This was followed by a short discussion, in

         which several of us took a part....
              Well ! on Monday evening about eight I left Oxford, and

         arrived in London in two hours by the train. Early on

         Tuesday the 29th I ran down to Cambridge, and began my
         work in my Museum, putting everything in order for the
         reception of the Installation company. Next day (the 30th)

         I meant to employ in the same manner, but I was called away
         by the Dean of Ely to meet my old friend Sir Harry Smith.
         I could not resist the temptation. So next morning (the 30th)
         I went to the station, and there I met the hero and his family

         party, and joined them in a saloon fitted up by the directors

         for their special reception. The entry into Ely was triumphant.

         Thousands were assembled, with flags, branches of laurel, and

         joyful, anxious faces. The Dean had provided me a horse,

         so I joined the cavalcade. After going through triumphal
         arches, and I know not what, preceded by a regimental band
         of music--Sir Harry mounted on the Arabian charger he rode

         at the battle of Aliwal, and greeted by lusty shouts from
         thousands --we all turned in to a magnificent lunch. We

         then went on to Whittlesea -- a similar triumphant entry -- I

         should think not less than 10,000 men to greet the arrival
         of the hero at his native town. He was much affected, and
         I saw tears roll down his weather-beaten, but fine, face, as

         he passed the house where his father and mother once lived.

         I roosted with James Ainger, and the next day (July 1)
         we had a most hearty dinner in honour of Sir Harry, at
         which more than 300 sat down. I was glad to see Whittlesea
         once again under such joyful circumstances.... On the follow
         ing day (July 2) I returned to Cambridge; and did hope to

         have two quiet days before the Installation ; but the evening
         post summoned the Vice-Chancellor and myself to London to

         have a long talk with the Prince about matters of Academic

PRINCE ALBERT AT CAMBRIDGE.  125

form --degrees etc. etc. So we went up early on Saturday, and      1847.
                                                                         61
were several hours in Buckingham Palace talking over the

business of the Installation. During the morning I had eight

letters to write, so I really was acting at length as Secretary

to the Chancellor. I told him Sir Harry Smith was coming
on Tuesday. He said that the Queen would wish him to be
there on Monday, to take an honorary degree. So I fired

a shot to Whittlesea, not doubting that I should bring the

hero down in time ; for the Queen's wishes are, you know, a
soldier's law. I returned to Cambridge late on Saturday. On

Sunday about 5 a.m. I crept to my Museum to see that my

orders had been executed in my absence. Better day better

deed ! there was no help for it. I then rested, for I was half

dead with fatigue. The churches were crowded to suffocation.

After evening Chapel I was rejoiced to find Sir H. Smith

waiting at my rooms ; he took my bed, and I took Dick's.
My inner room was cut off (as at the former Royal visit), and
became the Queen's wardrobe. This was inconvenient to
me ; but there was no help for it. I spent a delightful quiet

evening with my hearty and gallant friend. We took a turn

in the walks, but he was in plain clothes, and was not known

by the multitude.

      Next day (Monday the 5th) began the great hurly-burly.
Everything went off well. On Monday John told me that
more than 100 people came to lunch at my rooms, no doubt

partly drawn there in the hope of meeting Harry Smith, who,
(after the Duke of Wellington), was the most popular of all

the visitors. I could not be there myself, except at very short
intervals, as I was officially in constant attendance on the

Prince. This gave me an excellent place in the Senate House,
where my post was just behind him. The raised platform
was crowded, --but in the area of the Senate House the M.A.'s

were literally almost squeezed to death. There was a grand
cheer on Monday morning when Sir H. Smith had his degree.

After the honorary degrees were over the Chancellor went to
visit several colleges, and he told me that in all these visits I

         126 PRINCE ALBERT AT CAMBRIDGE

  1847.  must go with him as his official attendant. So I found myself
         before long in an open carriage with the Prince, and the Duke
Mt. 62.  of Wellington sitting opposite. This was a rather novel
         position, but I found it quite comfortable. The Vice-Chan
         cellor that day had a dinner; the Queen attended --to a party
         of about 60. I presided in Trin. Coll. Hall over a party of

         more than 300 ; and a right merry party it was. Sir Harry
         Smith was at my right hand, as the Vice- Master's guest ; and

         I think 20 noblemen were present ; and among the distin

         guished foreigners were Le Verrier and Struve\ whose names

         you must have heard. If we had not so much dignity as the

         Vice-Chancellor, we had more numbers and more fun. In the

         evening a concert. The Queen attended, almost covered with
         diamonds. The Senate House was not by any means so full

         as in the morning. Concert over, a pleasant talk in my own

         rooms, where I found Le Verrier, Struve1, and Sir Roderick

         Murchison* all smoking cigars.

              On Tuesday (see the papers) we had the Installation ode
         performed in full chorus, and of all the cheers I ever heard,

         the cheers after God save the Queen in full chorus accompanied
         and joined by a thousand voices, were the most enthusiastic.

         Le Verrier was quite overcome, and went out and wept. I

         saw him just after, and he said he was ashamed of himself,
         but he could not resist so noble an enthusiasm : " j'ai pleure

         1 Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve, director of the observatory at Pulkowa,

         near St Petersburgh.

         2 Murchison had become a member of Trinity College, probably through

         "ISedgwick's influence, and had been admitted to the honorary degree of Master of
         Arts. On getting home he wrote to Sedgwick a characteristic letter:  fled
         without shaking you by the hand and taking leave : but I cannot embark for the

         continent without thanking you from the bottom of my heart for your kind and

         friendly reception at our College of Trinity. Little did I think when I first began
         Ito hammer rocks with you, that should one day be admitted by the Prince

         Consort your Chancellor, as one of the noble College of Trinity, in which you

         Ihave been so long beloved. Nothing, I assure you, has given me greater

         satisfaction than the glorious days have just passed with you, enhanced as the

         pleasure has been by being admitted in company with the gallant and able soldier

         Sir Harry Smith, your old chum.... I think that like myself you wear best under
         excitement, for I rejoiced to see how well you looked at Cambridge."

PRINCE ALBERT AT CAMBRIDGE.  I -7

comme un enfant." After we left the Senate House, the             1847.
                                                                        67 
Prince again went round to some of the colleges accompanied
by his Secretary --a handsome young man of your acquain
tance, is he not ? The dinner in our Hall was splendid. As
Vice-Master, I had to sit at the Queen's table, but the
paper puts me at the wrong end, and the persons are not
in right order. Of course the Master was in the centre --
the Queen on his right and the Prince on his left. I sat
at one end, in my usual seat ; on my right were the Duke

of Wellington and Lady Hardwicke, on my left Lord
Fortescue and the Marchioness of Exeter. So I think

your uncle had no reason to complain of his company.
After dinner there was a drawing-room. After being pre
sented the Prince's Equerry told me I must not go out,

but remain as one of the Prince's suite. I ought to have

known this before ; but I continually wanted drilling. When

all was over I had the honour of a short conversation with

the Queen. She told me that she was delighted with her
reception, and wished to express herself in the strongest
terms. I told her that the value of our cheers was this :

that they were given in all loyalty, and with the whole heart.

      Wednesday was our great public breakfast, attended I

think, by more than 4000 persons. The Queen went away
early, but the dancing was continued to a pretty late hour.

A few drops of rain fell about the time of the Queen's

departure, but the evening was glorious. There was an

enormous tent erected in St John's walks for the dancers.
It was more than 300 feet long. The breakfast was in our
cloisters, and a bridge connected the Trinity and St John's
walks. I saw Fanny Hicks dancing away right merrily. Next

morning (Thursday) the Corporation brought an address to

Sir Harry Smith, to which he read them an answer. Soon
afterwards he went away. I then went round the colleges with
Dr and Mrs Buckland and their daughter, and dined with Mr
 Hopkins, where I again met the same party. On Friday I

was fairly done; hardly able to drag one foot after another...."

         128 RECOLLECTIONS OF HYDE HALL.

  1847.  To Miss Kate Malcolm.    Dent near Kendal,
             My dear Kate,
MX. 67.                                    October 15 th, 1847.

                          Your long kind letter reached me at Norwich
         in the latter part of September. I wished to answer it

         at the moment of its welcome appearance, but my house was

         full of company, and I had no leisure ; and the moment

         my residence was over I had to run to Cambridge to take

         part in the Fellowship Examination. That troublesome

         business over (and it nearly put out my eyes) I ran down
         to this place where I first saw the light. Two days I have
         devoted to the genius of Indolence -- the third I am giving

         to those whom I love, and who are far away. My dear

         friend Kate must surely be of the number. Thanks for

         your picture ; accept my heartfelt congratulations on your

         restoration to health and joyous looks. May God long

         make you healthy, happy, and the joy of your friends !

         The little drawing must be a good likeness, and assuredly

         it brings into my mind's eye the image of a merry, skipping,

         blue-eyed child with clustering locks, whom I first saw in
         the drawing-room of Hyde Hall1. Your letter I read with
         great interest ; and while I read it I fancied that I saw

         you all, and heard you all, and that I was living with you ;

         so let me thank you for  and ask you to write again
         aI

                                            1

                             II

                                                 ; it,

                                                           I

                                                                                       is
         very soon --to tell me all about the reforming Pope -- all
         about Lady Malcolm and your sisters -- common fireside
         gossip -- the more the better--how many Cardinals have
         made love to your sister Olympia -- whether she to convert

         the Cardinals, or the Cardinals are to convert her-- etc. etc.

         etc. All these things ask you to tell me, and to send

         your answer to Cambridge for to my den in Trinity

         College hope to return before many days are over, and

         then to begin my annual course of lectures, and to be once

         more kind of College fixture. So now must write

         about myself, as in truth have little else to write about.

         See above, Vol. I., p. 183.

        LIFE AT NORWICH.     129

     During three months of winter I was almost confined                       1847.
                                                                                     62
to my fireside (and part of the time to my bedroom) by
an attack of influenza. As soon as the influenza left me

the rheumatic gout took its place; so I went and tried to

boil the fiend out of my bones in the hot springs of Bath,

where I remained during the month of April. The treatment
did me some good, and in May I was much better ; but

before the end of that month my nephew1 became very
dangerously ill. For better air I removed his bed to my

dining-room ; his mother came to nurse him and had

also a bed in my College chambers, which were thus

converted into a hospital. I had, however, the happiness
of seeing my nephew recover; and during a part of the
month of June I accompanied them to the seaside, where
the recovery of poor Dick became almost complete*... Before
the end of July I was obliged to take up my Residence at

Norwich to meet the Archaeological Institute, who this year

held their annual week's meeting at that city. On the first

of August began my cathedral duties, and lasted two months.

I had two nieces with me -- merry lasses and good horse

women, and we were excellently mounted. In addition to the

daily cathedral services I this year undertook the chaplaincy
of the County Hospital for the two months of my Residence.

They have prayers twice a week, and prayers and a sermon

on Sundays; so that on Sundays I had to attend three full

services. In short I became one of the working clergy. How

much I should delight to see you scampering with my niece

over the heaths of Norfolk, and now and then turning round

to laugh at my clumsy horsemanship. When are you to pay
me your promised visit ? We had Jenny Lind at Norwich
about the end of my Residence. She drove us all mad -- at

least sober unmusical people thought so. But we thought

ourselves quite in our senses, though we were led by the ears.

     1 Richard Sedgwick, son of Rev. John Sedgwick, had been admitted       a
pensioner of Trinity College, in October, 1846 (see above, p. 115).

     3 The omitted passage contains an account of the Public Commencement.

S. II.                    9

                              VISIT TO DENT.

1847.   The singing Jenny was an inmate of the Palace, and is a
        most charming and interesting person in private life, and of
Et.*1.  most spotless purity of conduct, spite of the atmosphere in
        which she has lived. You know not my friends and relations
        here. You know not my niece Isabella, who is to me as a
        daughter. You know not Zoe1 (the daughter of Hong-soo,

        perhaps I don't spell his name right) who is the picture of

        her mother, and quite as wild. Said Zoe was born at the
        kennel of Windsor Castle and now lives here. She shakes her

        tail, and sends her love to you, and I send mine to Lady

        Malcolm, your sister, and yourself.

                                    Affectionately yours,

                                              A. Sedgwick.

        To Miss Fanny Hicks.

                                    Cambridge, October ysth, 1847.

        "...I had a quiet visit at Dent, and was very happy there.

        I preached four times extempore, having no sermons with
        me --no 'dried tongues,' as old Rowland Hill used to call

        them. On Monday I left Dent. I saw the Cumberland
        hills white with snow as I posted over the hills between
        Dent and Kendal. At a quarter past two I entered the
        express train, and at twenty minutes before eleven I was

        safely set down at Euston Square ! What a charming change

        since I was an undergraduate, when I used to be two nights

        out on my way from home to Cambridge...."

        To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  Cambridge, October 27th, 1847.

            "...Alas ! forty-three long years are gone since I came up
        a freshman. Would that I could show more fruit for so long a

        trust ! I seem to myself to have led a useless life, and I am

        certain that I have not been a good economist of my own

        happiness. But I am never in good spirits for a day or two

        after my return to College. 'Tis after all but a cold home.

        1 A Chinese dog given to Sedgwick by Miss Malcolm's brother.

     PETITION AGAINST JEWS IN PARLIAMENT. 131

And my health is now not equal to my daily academic tasks,              1847.

for I never entirely shake off the miserable gouty symptoms.         Mt- 62-
On Monday my lectures are, I hope, to begin ; and I am to

give them five days a week. On the whole the excitement

of them does me good...."

     In November of this year a petition against the admission
of Jews to Parliament was offered to the Senate. Sedgwick
gave the first non-placet in one of the two houses into which
the Senate was then divided, Dr Lamb in the other. Their

efforts, however, were unsuccessful. The Grace to affix the

University Seal to the petition was carried by fifty votes

to twenty-five in the former, and by twenty-eight to fourteen

in the latter.

     Early in December Sedgwick was honoured by the Queen
with an invitation to visit her at Osborne. " The Prince,"

wrote Colonel Phipps, " thinks a little change of air will do
             "
you  good       and  it was  further  intimated  that advice on the
           ;

chances of obtaining good water by boring an artesian well

would be acceptable.

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                             Osborne, Isle of W1ght,

                                      Tuesday, December 14/A, 1847.

     My dear Isabella,

           I doubt not you will be glad to hear how I am

passing my time in the Queen's country-house ; and therefore

I will begin from the hour of my arrival here. I have not

yet seen either Her Majesty or the Prince ; but in about

two hours I am to join the small family party at dinner.
Meanwhile, I will begin my little journal. At eleven this
morning we--that is I and my servant John --started from

the London terminus of the Southampton line ; and in less

than three hours were at Gosport. The day was charming;

and, spite of the absent leaves, the view down the channel,

as we approached Portsmouth, was delightful. A boat

was waiting to convey us to the Queen's beautiful steamer

                                                      9--2

    132 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

     the Fairy, and in a few minutes more we were on our

n- way across the channel to Osborne. I found Colonel
    Phipps and Colonel Grey (both of whom I knew before)

     waiting for us at the landing-place under the park. There
     were also carriages waiting. John went in one of them

    to look after the baggage. I walked to the house with

     the two Colonels ; and we were soon after joined by General
     Bowles. The sun was going down gloriously, and the sky
     was beautiful. After eating some lunch in General Bowles'

    room, I took a stroll by moonlight. The Queen only

     purchased Osborne a few years since, and since then has
     made great improvements. Two very large square buildings

     are already nearly finished ; and they are to be connected
     by a kind of covered cloister. One of them is backed by a

     lofty tower bearing the royal standard ; and near this tower
     appear to be the state apartments. The old house is still

     standing, but is to come down so soon as the second great

    square building is finished for company. I have myself an

     excellent room in the old building. When the house is
     finished it will cut a regal figure ; but at present it is in a

     very chaotic state, though the state-rooms are in excellent

    order, at least so I am informed. On entering the house I

     was amused at seeing carts, toys, and other signs of young
     children, scattered about the hall in considerable confusion.

     Human nature is the same in whatever rank, and with what

    ever garb it may be covered. So far as I have seen, every
    thing here has a peaceful, happy, domestic look. There ! I
     have actually written three pages and a half about nothing.
    So now I must dress for dinner, and see how I can behave

     myself at a Queen's table.

         Wednesday morning. The sun is not risen ; but I have

     light enough to see across the channel to Portsmouth, and it will
     every moment be lighter. The morning is beautiful, and the

     scenery from the great terrace before the house such as makes

    the heart dance. I always delighted in the Isle of Wight ;
    and many are the pleasant, and sometimes toilsome days I

VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.  133

have spent in it. But to business. We assembled last night      1847.
at eight. The party consisted of the regular household, viz.         62.

the Queen's two military attendants, General Bowles and
Colonel Grey (Lord Grey's brother); the Prince's Equerry
Colonel Bouverie ; the Prince's two Secretaries, Colonel

Phipps and a foreign gentleman ; and in addition to these
were three visitors -- Lord and Lady Normanby, and your

uncle. I declare I have not learnt good manners by coming
here ; for I am forgetting the Ladies of the Household, viz.

the Lady in waiting, Lady Canning ; and the Honorable
Miss Kerr, the Maid of Honour-- by the way a very pretty

young lassie. The Queen in public life is the most punctual
of womankind ; but here, in private, she is more irregular.

She drives about the grounds in all weathers and sometimes

returns late. Last night she and the Prince did not come to

the drawing room till half-past eight, when we instantly filed
off for dinner. No form or ceremony was used -- the only

distinction being that the Prince led the Queen out first, and
the others followed. The little Maid of Honour fell to my

share ; but we were soon parted, for the Queen commanded
me to sit opposite to her and to say grace. Next me was the

Marchioness of Normanby -- a lady whom I have often met
before. Her husband, whom I knew well at Trinity College

when he was an undergraduate, sat at the Queen's right hand.
The Prince sat on the Queen's left. The two military officers
of the Household (General Bowles and Colonel Grey) sat at
the top and bottom of the table. Very great people you
know always sit at the middle of the table. We had a very
good, but not an ostentatious, dinner. The plate was massy

and abundant, but in no other respect remarkable. The

conversation was general and cheerful, without the shadow

of any formality either seen or felt. While the Queen re
mained, I did remark that they avoided talking across the

table ; but persons addressed those near them without any

restraint whatsoever; and I am sure my neighbour Lady

Normanby was both chatty and cheerful ; and we talked over

         "34 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

 1847.   all the North of England, Whitby, Scarborough, etc. and she

Et. 62.  pressed me to come and see them when they next went to
         their house near Whitby, promising me all sorts of under

         ground treasures. The Queen went away early, the ladies
         following her out of the dining-room. After Her Majesty

         had gone, the conversation became a little more general, and

         perhaps a little more noisy ; but before that we had by no
         means been a silent party ; quite the contrary. Infirmities of
         the senses were the subject of discussion. Many cases were

         mentioned. I mentioned one of old Dalton the chemist, who

         mounted, at Oxford, a Doctor's scarlet gown ; and being
         laughed at for his splendid uniform, replied : 'What its colour

         may be to you I know not ; but to my eyes the colour is just

         the same with that of the leaves of the neighbouring trees.'
         The discussion ended by an attempt made by one or two of

         the party (and not always with success) to walk, with closed
         eyes, the whole length of the dining-room without deviating
         to right or left. The Prince joined the ladies about a
         quarter of an hour before the other gentlemen. This is the
         custom when they are what they call in private. He and the

         Queen sing together before the ladies in waiting ; but the
         Queen does not like to sing before the gentlemen. Coffee is
         handed round during this interval. We then all went to the
         drawing-room. There was no formality. The Queen and the
         ladies were sitting round the fire, and the conversation was
         general. The gentlemen generally stood, but not always, the
         party being private and not formal. About five minutes

         after I entered, the Queen rose from her chair and came

         across the room to speak to me. She coloured deeply when

         she first began to speak ; and I am certain that, by nature,

         she is rather shy and bashful, though compelled by her

         exalted station to live in public. I thought so before, when I

         went with the Duke of Sussex and the Council of the Royal

         Society to present an address to her, not long after she came

         to the Throne. She was very kind and gracious, enquired

         about my health, hoped I had not such restless nights as I

                   VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.                        '35

once had etc. etc.; alluded to the pleasures of her Cambridge                                                                 1847.
visit; and then asked me many questions about the Isle

of Wight, its internal structure, the chances of obtaining

water by a deep boring, for the water they have at Osborne

is not of the first quality, etc. etc. In talking with a

Sovereign, the rule of good breeding
                                        ;                   not to lead the

conversation                                 I
    might go                                            is,
                                                     I
too much.
                                                                I
                                                                 I
            is iIf I ;  but when the Queen had once given the lead,

I                     on at my discretion, taking care not to say

                        hope  I   did not offend --but think           must

have a good stock of assurance for was as much at my

ease as               had been talking with yourself; and am sure

there was nothing more oppressive in Her Majesty's manner

than there              in yours. This conversation lasted about a

quarter of an hour. The Queen then returned to her seat
and most of the gentlemen went to the part of the large
                                  a is
                                         a

                                                                                                                           ;
drawing-room where there                      billiard-table. The Prince

and Colonel Phipps had                  well contested game. Prince

Albert was not only cheerful but mirthful and joyous. The

game over, the Queen took his arm and they walked off
exactly at eleven. We all followed soon after; and the
                                              ;

                                                        a
housemaid had basin of water-gruel and foot-bath ready
                        a

for me in my bed-room.               ordered these things as remedy
                              B is                                a
against a rising cold, and this morning am nearly well.I
                                              I                     j

The drawing-room                  very beautiful, and of the following

shape              Entrance.      Fireplace.
C
                :
          A
   large bay window. D. E Two                 t             ----
                                                         '

columns and two marble statues.         is

F Billiard table. The furniture

beautiful but not ostentatious the
                                     ;

curtains of yellow silk damask. In

the recess for the great window

(C) are four beautiful small granite

pillars, surmounted by four statues

of the Queen's four oldest children in the costume of the
four seasons. 1. Prince of Wales as Winter. 2. Princess

Royal as Summer.              3.  Prince Alfred as Autumn. 4. Little

          136 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

   1847.  Alice as spring. These statues are beautifully executed in
          white marble, and are said to be excellent likenesses ; but I
Mt. 62.

          have not yet seen the children. I must now go and finish my

          breakfast ; but I need not trouble you about          as the Queen
                                                              is it,

                                                                 it

                                                                                     ?
          and Prince will not be there. So my journal so far up to

          the mark, and full enough, of all conscience. Is not

          Wednesday, P.M. Before sit down to dress for dinner
          7

             I

                                 a

                          I
                               I
          let me again resume my journal. After breakfast with the

          Royal Household took stroll in the park. Lord and

          Lady Normanby went away; so was left the only visitor.

          The Prince came about twelve and joined me in the park                        ;

          showed me some quarries, and then asked me to his private

          room or study. We there had rather long discussion on the
                                      a

          Geological Map of the Island, and discussed the question of

          finding water by boring, &c. &c. His Royal Highness then

          entered at great length on the studies of the University, and
          has, am certain, the deepest interest in the well-being of
          I

                                  is
          Cambridge. He a well-read man, whose mind admirably
                                                              I
          cultivated in many departments of learning little studied by
                                                                I is
          our young noblemen, and he often undervalued by stupid      I
                                      is

          persons who have no true conception of his real character,

          and no power of estimating his sound and very extensive

          knowledge. He               called proud and formal.  have not
          ;

                 is
          found him so but on the contrary, kind, frank, and cour

          teous. Our discussions lasted nearly two hours.                               then

          went and joined the Household at lunch. A drizzling rain

          prevented me from walking to Cowes. So sat down in

          my room and read reviews and newspapers.              Colonel

          Phipps, about three, tapped at my door, and told me the

          Prince wanted me. The children were with him, and he

          kindly offered to introduce me to them. So put on my
          I
                                                                     II

                                                                                                              (a
          coat and went across to the state-rooms on this charming

          errand. Five finer and more healthy children never saw.

          The youngest, Princess Helena, was in the arms, though

          am told able to run about the nursery. The other four

          came and held out their little hands. To Prince Alfred

VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.  137

very fine merry boy, who asked me to tell him a story) I        1847.

told the story of old Mrs Woodcock lost under the snow.             6l-
The Prince of Wales is a fine sharp-looking boy, but old

enough to be a little shy. His sister the Princess Royal

is not a bit shy, but laughed and talked away with great

glee. Her father had told her I knew a great deal about

beautiful stones ; so she asked me to look at her collection
of stones and shells she had picked up in Scotland, about

which she was quite communicative. I must now think of

dressing for dinner. So adieu for the present.

     Thursday morning. I observed yesterday a piece of for

mality which had escaped me before. We all assemble in

the drawing-room before the Queen comes. A servant in
waiting announces her approach. All the ladies and gentle

men of the Household then move to the door, bow rather low,

and escort the Queen into the room. She bows to the
company, and instantly after takes the Prince's arm and walks
off to dinner. There never is any waiting; for she orders

dinner to be put on the table a certain number of minutes

after she begins to dress ; and she only allows herself ten
minutes (and seldom takes more than a quarter of an hour)
for dressing ! There is an example for you ! of course she

is well helped in this operation. Yesterday she wore a kind

of dark green silk, with a great profusion of beautiful lace,
but with no diamonds. The day before she had the order of

the Garter, and diamond bracelets. Both days she wore a
pretty wreath of flowers about her head. The gentlemen who

have orders wear them ; but in other respects dress like
gentlemen in a private party -- with one exception however.

They wear not loose trousers at Court, but tight pantaloons or
shorts; of course I had, as a clergyman, a pair of shorts.
I wish this custom had continued in society. For more than
twenty years after I came to College men commonly appeared
at dinner in shorts and silks. Another thing I forgot to

remark before. A dish of well-toasted oat-cake is handed
round with the cheese. I believe the Queen likes it; and

138 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

I partook largely of it both days I had the honour of dining
with her. The conversation yesterday was more general than
the day before. As I was the only visitor, and acting as
chaplain, it was considered a family party of the Queen's
Household. The weather, the news of the day, and other
profound subjects were discussed in order. The merits of
the dishes had their share of comment. When the cloth
was removed the Prince began to talk of Alpine scenery,

glaciers, etc., and led to some geological questions in which
I was called on to give my opinion. From glaciers we
travelled naturally to Alpine snows. This introduced the
story of Mrs Woodcock who lived eight days under the snow
near Cambridge1. The Prince said the children had been
talking of it to the Queen, who now wished to hear of it from
my own lips. She smiled, and said she really wished to know

the exact truth of so remarkable a story. So I told old Mrs
Woodcock's tale at full length ! This was followed by a
string of wonderful stories, after which Her Majesty rose with
the ladies and left the room. The Prince soon afterwards
followed. We remained and had coffee in the dining-room.
In the drawing-room tea is handed round ; and just before

the Queen retires, negus, lemonade, and some other nice

things of which I never tasted. Her rule is (and she very

seldom breaks her rule) to retire about a quarter before
eleven. Dinner and drawing-room take therefore only about
two hours and a half from her day. And her day is a long

one, as she is an early riser.

     1 Mrs Woodcock was riding home from Cambridge to Impington, between
six and seven o'clock in the evening, 2 February, 1799, when her horse took
fright at a meteor (as was supposed) and became unmanageable. She dis
mounted, and tried to lead him ; but in attempting to do so she wandered
for some distance out of the road across the then unenclosed fields. At last,
thoroughly tired out, she sat down under a hedge, where she was soon over
whelmed by drifting snow. She was not discovered until about half-past twelve

o'clock on Sunday, 10 February. She died 13 July following, aged 42. A

small column marks the spot, near Impington, where she was overwhelmed.
An Account of the providential preservation of Elizabeth Woodcock. By Tho.
Verney Okes, surgeon, 8vo. Camb. 1799. Cooper's Annals, iv. 463.

              VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.                    '39

The recess in the drawing-room with the billiard-table                                             1847.

answers an excellent purpose I did not quite understand                                          /Et-

till yesterday. In the drawing-room it is contrary to the old

formalities of Court for any one to sit down, except by

the Queen's special invitation to her own table. When she
talks to any one she rises and walks up to them ; and the

conversation over she walks back to her table. Round this

table are generally sitting the ladies of Court, and men of

high rank, officers of state, &c., &c. ; but they are supposed
to go there by special invitation. At the farther end of the

room are card-tables round which the company may sit ; but

by courtesy they are, at that distance, supposed to be out

of the Royal presence. But in the recess, where is the

billiard-table, any one may lounge and sit just as suits him :

and there are sofas, chairs, and cushioned benches in abun

dance. For the room is very large, though it looks small

in my miserable sketch. The moment the Queen leaves

the drawing-room the guests and Household retire to their

respective apartments. Before the Queen retired I was sent

for to receive the Royal adieu. There is no formality in it.
The Prince then held out his hand and said adieu--and so

ended the Royal visit ; for I shall not see them again, unless

it be by accident, before I start for the steamer this morning.

But the young ones are visible ; and the little Prince of

Wales  at this moment, riding rocking-horse just underis,
                                                     a
my window. ThereII                         have done.      must dress for break
                                          !             I

                            it I I
fast, then find my way to the pier, and embark in the Fairy

for Gosport.  hope to dine in London, and tomorrow to be

again in Cambridge.                          have sent you this account of my

visit, because thought would amuse you all.                   have been
                                                              if I

                                                                             it

                                                                                             ;;
scrawling in the greatest hurry, and by snatches of time.

You may read parts of this letter to your friends you like

but take care of and don't let any one have a copy of
I

                          it,
for have sent the kind of gossip which a newspaper editor

would like to lay hold of, but which would not supply him
                                                       I

with on any account whatsoever. Of course have written
                                                           I

140 LADIES AT SEDGWICK'S LECTURES.

1847. about myself, because I have told things exactly as they

Et. 62. happened to myself. So now a happy Christmas to you all.

                                            Ever, dearest Isabella,

                                                    Your affectionate uncle,
                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                       Cambridge, February 7th, 1848.

"...I began my lectures in the latter part of October,

immediately after my return from Dent. It was my 30th
course, and I had a very large class. Do you know that the

Cambridge daughters of Eve are like their mother, and love

to pluck fruit from the tree of knowledge ? They believe, in

their hearts, that geologists have dealings with the spirits of

the lower world ; yet spite of this they came, and resolved to
learn from me a little of my 'black art.' And, do you

know, it is now no easy matter to find room for ladies, so

monstrously do they puff themselves, out of all nature, in the

mounting of their lower garments, so that they put my poor

lecture-room quite in a bustle. Lest they should dazzle my
young men, I placed them, with their backs to the light, on

one side of my room. And what do you think was the

consequence ? All my regular academic class learnt to
squint, long before my course was over. If you can't under

stand this, come and see for yourself ; and I will promise

you, that when you set your foot in my lecture-room, and sit

down with your back to the light, you will make them all

squint ten times worse than ever.

    About the end of term I received the Queen's com

mands to spend two days at Osborne House. I had a

charming visit, and was treated with a kindness which

has made me very grateful as well as very loyal. There
were no red coats -- no bands of music-- no state. Every

thing savoured of domestic peace and love; and the Queen
and Prince seemed as happy as human beings can be in

this world...."

INFLUENZA.                                                 141

     During the winter of 1847 --48 Sedgwick was nearly                              1848.
as ill as he had been during that of 1846-- 47, with the
additional discomfort of being obliged to travel about                             ^^63-

when he ought to have been nursing himself at home.

He was called to Dent on family business in December,

caught a cold, and had to return to London before it was
cured, having been bound over to prosecute a thief who

had stolen his portmanteau. A quiet visit to Hurstmon-

ceaux restored him to comparative health, thanks to the

skilful nursing of his host and hostess ; but a hasty journey

to Norwich brought the worst symptoms back again. " A
few hours after my arrival," he wrote, "I was smitten down

by an attack of influenza, and almost confined to my bed.

Mr Brooke the Rajah of Sarawak was there ; but I only
once attempted to dine with the Bishop, and I did so in
much misery. You have read of the cup of Circe, which

whoever tasted, lost his upright shape,
and downward fell into a grovelling swine :

but the influenza is worse than Circe's dose. It turns a man,

even a beautiful man like myself (for surely, my dear Kate,
you might say of me in Milton's own words ' Adam the

goodliest man of men since born into slimy reptile1."
it

                                      '),
                                             a
Under these circumstances mental exertion was out of

the question, and Sedgwick was obliged to decline writing the

article on Geology for the Admiralty Manual of Scientific
Inquiry, which appears he had consented to undertake. He
told the Secretary of the Admiralty that he was " good for

nothing, and could do nothing," even in the way of advice.

But to Herschel, who was editor of the work, and to whom the

application to himself was no doubt due, he made an excel

lent suggestion: "I should think Darwin's advice valuable;

he knows practically what                                wanted*." This was acted
*1

          J.

                               is

                                                       22
upon, and Darwin consented to write the article.

To Miss Kate Malcolm, January, 1848.
To Sir W. Herschel, January, 1848.

          142 THE MYSTERY OF NUMBERS.

  1848.        Sedgwick was to be in Residence at Norwich during May
          and June, and he was very anxious to induce the Herschels to
iEt- 63-  pay him a visit. After some correspondence Sir John had
          suggested May 16 or May 17, and had added : " How are you
          off for Chartists about you ? Is it necessary to travel armed
          with patent double-action revolvers ? " He received the

          following reply :

                                    NORWICH, Thursday Evening, [27 April, 1848].

               My dear Herschel,

                        Norwich ! no, I mean Cambridge ; for I am at
          Cambridge still, but indeed I am as stupid as an ill-fed
          jackass, and cross as a cat with its foot in a trap. But I

          mean to be all sweetness the moment you are all with me.

          The 1 6th suits me exactly, as I have made no engagements

          yet for my Residence. But do come on the 16th and not

          on the 17th, for the philosophy of Pythagoras tells you

          that 16 stands for good luck, which is more than you can
          say of 17. The former is a buxom number, the latter looks

          angular, ugly, and old-maidish. Merry 16 for ever! Is it

          not made up of one and a perfect number? Is it not the

          square of four ? And is not four like the ace of diamonds ?

          Turn 16 upside down, and, like the housewife's cat, does it

          not again stand on good legs. And is it not then made
          up of the number of the muses, and the square of the
          number of the graces + one over for luck ? Come then on

          the 1 6th, and you will come in the nick of time, and old

          Nick is in it if you don't nick in on the right day. Per
          contra look at 1 7 ! Tis made up of one and a gibbet-post.

          And does not the upper shank of said gibbet-post point to

          the left hand, which is a sign of ill luck ? A spoon-fed
          baby --one who has not yet learnt ' to lisp in numbers '--

          would choose 16 before 17. Come therefore on the 16th

          of the merry month of May; and when come you will

          then surely be well come. So there is a bargain struck !
          And stay with me as long as you can -- the longer the

LETTER TO BISHOP WILBERFORCE.                        143

better. Lady Herschel and your two daughters will do                   1848.
me a thousand times more good than a thousand doses                          63.
of colchicum, which alas ! has for the last month been my

meat and drink.
     So good night. My kindest regards to your best rib, and

my affectionate remembrances to all your young folks, though
I fear some of them are too young to remember me.

                                                   Ever truly yours,
                                                         A. Sedgwick.

    P.S. I know nothing about Chartists; but bring your
patent revolvers with you to take care of Lady H., and
I will find some sharp blades to guard your daughters.

To Bishop Wilberforce.    Cambridge, July 16, 1848.

    My dear Lord Bishop,

                   Surely 'tis no sin to write to a Bishop on a

Sunday morning ; especially if the writer have risen at 5 a.m.

I(as have done) in the hope of paying off some of his many

debts. I am only passing through Cambridge that I may
arrange some matters of business, and pack my geological

apparatus for a tour in Scotland. My table is covered

with notes and parcels, which have come since I left

Cambridge at the end of April. Among them I find the

sermon your Lordship preached at Oxford on the occasion
of the meeting of the British Association. I heard it then,

I rejoice to have it now, and I send you my best thanks

for it.

     What strange turns the political world has made since

I last saw you ! I used to call myself a whig ; I don't

know what to call myself now. The whigs have disgusted
me ever since their admission of slave-grown sugar in
1 84 1, and I think they cut a shameful and sorry figure
in the long debate in the House of Commons during this
session. You may judge of my opinion when I say that

the only speeches I quite liked in that wire-drawn debate

       144 FRONTIER CHAIN OF SCOTLAND.

148. (on the sugar question) were those of Lord Nugent and
. 63- Sir Robert Inglis. Sir Robert spoke like himself --Lord

       Nugent spoke above himself. The earliest pictures shown

      to me by my father when I was a child were ugly
      pictures of the horrors of slavery. As soon as I had

       learnt to scrawl my name in child's characters I remember

        asking leave to sign a petition against the slave-trade.

      Leave was granted, and I felt proud of the first political
       act of my life, when my dear father patted me on the
       head. Oh that some of the spirit of old Fox were still

        left among the whigs ! with all his faults he always felt

      nobly ; and he would, I think, never have allowed beggarly

       economical views to seduce him out of the road of humanity

        and national honour.

           I shall have no opportunity of meeting any of my friends
      at Swansea this summer. Two months I have spent in
      Residence at Norwich. It will never do for me to cut my

        Scotch work in two by a run to South Wales ; especially

      as I must be here to attend the Fellowship Examination
      the first week in October. I know your many engagements,

       but Cambridge is now only two hours from London, and
       I should rejoice to conduct your Lordship through my
       Museum, and to offer you the hospitality of the College.

                                 Believe me,
                                            My dear Lord Bishop,

                                                          very faithfully yours,
                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

            Sedgwick's summer was devoted to a revision of his work
       in 1 841 along "the southern chain of Scotland that runs
       from St Abb's Head to the Mull of Galloway." After a
      brief visit to Dent and Kendal -- where he picked up John

      Ruthven and his inseparable companion the dog Charlie --he

      travelled by way of Glasgow to the coast of Ayr. There and
      in Wigtonshire he enjoyed himself exceedingly in the society
      of old friends both recent and fossil. " The weather is
      charming," he wrote, "and the country delightful, and day

        SCOTCH LANDLORDS.                            '45

by day I get younger and stronger." As before, he dwells          1848.

enthusiastically on the scenic beauties of the district -- the
wooded shores --the warm and fruitful valleys opening to the
south --and the glorious views seaward ; but on this subject
enough was said while describing the former visit. Of geo

logical details his letters are provokingly barren, for, as he

was no longer collaborating with any one, he had no reason
for keeping a correspondent informed of his discoveries.
That he collected vigorously, is evident from the following

anecdote :

     " Near Girvan I met a pretty lassie about seven or eight
years old. She was very curious about our employment. I
asked her name. 'Primrose Caldwell', was her answer, and

she lived near a large limestone quarry, and could show us
' flood-shells in plenty.' By flood-shells she meant shells left

at Noah's flood, as I soon made out. ' Ye are just the bonnie
lassie I want,' said I, ' and if you will show us the quarry, I
will give you a penny for every flood-shell you can pick up.'
Away went little Primrose on her bare feet, and worked so
effectually, that she emptied my pocket of coppers, and

drew sixpence over from me. She beat Ruthven two to one.

I never saw a child in greater ecstacy1."
     As a pendant to this picture may be quoted Sedgwick's

comments on Scotch landlords and their habits. " In many
parts of Scotland the inns are very good and well kept, but
a geologist pokes into odd nooks and corners, and certainly

I found some true old Scotch dirt among them. The land

lords in these out-of-the-way places have a sad habit of
drinking whiskey, and their noses look like the ends of hot
pokers. An old fellow of this class was very angry that
I disturbed his lasses so early in the mornings. ' There's the

man wi' the hammer fashing a the hoose,' he groaned one
morning about six. Soon afterwards he turned out, and
went to his fountain of comfort, the whiskey-bottle. ' You

        1 To Miss Fanny Hicks, 21 August, 1848.

S. II.                                           IO

         146 FRONTIER-CHAIN OF SCOTLAND.

  1848.  will burn your gizzard,' cried I, 'if you swallow that hot stuff

Mt. 63.  so early, and you will make your liver as hard as a lapstone.'
         ' Hout awa,' cried Boniface, ' a drap o' whuskey does hurt to
         na man. Ye wash your mouth wi' a brush and cald watter.

         I ken a better way. I wash mine wi a drap o' whuskey.'

         But he did not let one drop serve him ; for soon afterwards
         one or two brothers of the bottle-nose corporation came in
         for their 'drap o' morning,' and they all seemed to be

         gathering round the neck of the whiskey bottle with most

         spiritual devotion1."
              From this corner of Scotland Sedgwick worked his way

         by Dumfries to Edinburgh, and then along the east coast to
         Berwick, whence he made a fresh start, and ascended the

         Tweed, "following its sinuosities for about 100 miles." By
         the end of September he was once more at Dent.

              The results of this summer's work, combined with that of

         1841, and some further researches made in 1849 by John
         Ruthven, were read to the British Association at Edinburgh
         in 1850. The opening sentences of the paper give a general
         summary of Sedgwick's conclusions.

              Leaving out of account all igneous and intrusive rocks, the
         chain is essentially composed of a peculiar form of greywacke,

         often coarse, and sometimes, though rarely, passing into a very
         coarse conglomerate, not unlike some of the conglomerates among
         the old rocks of South Wales. These hard coarse beds alternate

         indefinitely with a peculiar soft, earthy, and almost pyritous alum-
         slate, which frequently has undergone such compression and in
         duration that it passes into an earthy flag-stone, and, more rarely,
         into a pretty good roofing-slate; but in no instance is the slaty
         structure distinct from the stratification in any quarries that are

         worked for use.
              From one end of the chain to the other the beds are highly

         inclined, strike generally in the mean direction of the chain, and
         are thrown into contortions and undulations. The great protruding

         granitic masses never form any true mineralogical centre, though
         producing, as might be expected, considerable local derangements,
         and local changes of structure ; and, in a few instances, they are
         accompanied, near their junction, with the phenomena of mineral
         veins. The axis of the chain, the centre of the vast undulations,

         To Lady Herschel, 23 September, 1848.

FRONTIER-CHAIN OF SCOTLAND.                                           147

seems to be very ill-defined ; and the difficulty of determining this         1848.

point is greatly increased by the bogs and extensive vegetable             Mt. 63.
accumulation by which the sections are much covered1.

At Edinburgh Sedgwick was much disappointed at

failing to meet Mr Hugh Miller, with whom he had already

corresponded. The letters that he wrote to him subse

quently throw some light upon this summer's work, and are

further valuable as showing the continued interest he took in

fossil fish. In the first letter, after expressing regret at

having missed him repeatedly in Edinburgh, Sedgwick
"Iproceeds:
             am told you have a magnificent collection of

the Old Red Sandstone fishes. Have you many species not

in the monograph of Agassiz ? Though my collection from

this formation is by no means first-rate, yet I have several

undescribed species. Of course you are well acquainted with

the discovery of scales, teeth, and other fragments of the

skeletons of fishes from the Old Red Sandstone of Berwick

shire. I visited the localities near Dunse along with Mr

Stevenson, the first discoverer of these fossils. They are

satisfactory, though not good as specimens. I have little to

say of the greywacke chain that you do not know already.

Graptolites are the prevailing fossils. Wherever thin dark

aluminous beds occur between the hard, thick, arenaceous,

greywacke, we hardly ever failed to discover them, and

sometimes in most incredible abundance. The absence of

limestone and of fossil shells in the greater part of the chain

from St Abb's Head to the Mull of Galloway is very remark

able. Wherever calcareous matter appears, whether in beds

or large concretions, you may, however, find fossil shells, and

they are by no means rare in the chain which extends south

of a line drawn from Ballantrae and Girvan. The stratifica

tion of the chain is so confused, and so much concealed, that

I literally could make nothing of it*."

1 Report of the British Association  for 1850 (Sections),  p. 103.
2 To Hugh Miller, 28 September,      1848.
                                                              10-- 2

         148 FISHES OF OLD RED SANDSTONE.

  1848.  To Hugh Miller, Esq.  Cambridge, October 11 th, 1848.
             My dear Sir,
Mt. 63.

                          Let me thank you for the pleasure and instruction

         your papers have given me. I shall take them with me
         and look them over while I have more leisure. I only told
         you the plain truth when I said I thought it quite a misfortune

         not to have seen you at Edinburgh. I wished to make your
         personal acquaintance, and I wished to see your collection ; and
         I had another, and in some respects a more selfish, motive.
         I make no collection for myself; but I am anxious for the
         honour of the University collection, which has grown up under
         my hands, and is now very valuable and instructive. Now
         I thought I might engage your interest in behalf of Cambridge.

         You know the localities in Scotland better than any man

         living, and you know the persons who collect the Old Red
         Sandstone fishes. Many valuable specimens of species you

         possess already may be submitted to you from time to time.

         Specimens you do not want for your own collection might be
         of very great value to us, and I should be anxious to purchase

         such on your recommendation. This was one subject about

         which I wished to speak to you. But I know how much you
         are engaged, and perhaps I am unreasonable in making this

         request for your kind intervention whenever an occasion may

         turn up. Believe me,

                       My dear Sir, very faithfully yours,
                                                          A. Sedgwick.

         To the same.

                       SCALBY, near SCARBOROUGH, December 2nd, 1848.

         My dear Sir,

                          I ought long since to have thanked you for your
         copies of The Witness. Your remarks on the stones imbedded
         in your Drift Clay, and grooved parallel to their longer axis,

         were quite new to me, and I think very instructive, though I

         was not quite satisfied with your mechanical reasons for the

              FISHES OF OLD RED SANDSTONE.                                                                  149

phenomenon. I have seen nothing like it in the Drift Clay                                                                   1848.

(almost exactly like your Till) of the flat southern countries                                                            /Et. 63.
of England. I believe our Till (if we may so call was formed

exclusively by water-- by waves of translation -- and not by ice
                                                 I                                                          ;

                                                                    it)
and by no means agree with what Lyell has written about
       II
it. still think a misfortune that missed you and your
collection -- and hope before long to come again to Edinburgh
              I it
                   I

                                              ;
to make up for what lost and by the express from London

'tis but one day's journey, thanks to steam. ...Have you seen

McCoy's paper on certain fishes in my Museum derived from

various parts of the Old Red Sandstone           It published in
                                                 ?

                                                            is

The Annals of Philosophy1, and contains some good and new
matter, and the description of one or two new species.

     Let me, before conclude, thank you also for a second
              I
                    I
great pleasure had last term while reading over, a second

time, your account of your English tour.         I  doubt whether

there be another man living who could have visited the

several spots described in your narration with like feelings. A

geologist might have rejoiced with you in the Dudley quarries;
and thousands would gladly walk with you through scenes

consecrated by Cowper's poetry, but few indeed would travel

the whole road with you.                         could enter into the most of your
                       I
                            II                   should perhaps have

                                       I
feelings and descriptions, though

yawned my way through the wreck of poor Shenstone's walks,

cascades, and temples, had been your companion*. All your

descriptions, however, like.

           Believe me, my dear Sir, very truly yours,
                                                           A. Sedgw1ck.

    The Michaelmas term was spent as usual in lecturing. At

the beginning of the Christmas Vacation Sedgwick fulfilled

5         McCoy's paper was read before the Cambridge Philo-ophical Society,
      1
       June, 1848, and an abstract printed in The Annals of Philosophy, XXXIII. 311.
The complete text will be found in The Annals and Magazine Natural History
for 1848, II. -- 10, 115 -- 133.                 a
           1
                                                                                   of

                                                                                                         a
       3  First Impressions of England and its People. By Hugh Miller, 8vo. London,

1847. Chapters VIII, IX, X, describe visit to The Leasowes,                                                 small domain

laid out by Shenstone the poet.

                              LECTURE AT IPSWICH.

1848. a promise made long ago to Henslow. " On Monday the

       11th" he writes "I went to Ipswich. On the 12th I lectured

         to a class of six or seven hundred people. On Wednesday
          we had an anniversary dinner with the usual accompaniment
         of speeches, and then in the evening a grand promenade in
          the Museums1."

               The subject of the lecture was the anatomy and physi
         ology of three of the gigantic extinct mammals of South
           America, the Megatherium, the Mylodon, and the Glyptodon.

        It is difficult to understand how such a subject could have

          been made interesting to an audience not specially ac
         quainted with paleontology -- but we are told that they were
         "alternately charmed with the vast learning of the lecturer,
          and thrown off their gravity by the most grotesque illus
         trations." No doubt Sedgwick did his best with his extinct
         mammals --he was always fond of paleontology; but, just as
          the most important part of a letter is not seldom to be
           found in the postscript, it is evident that he threw his whole
          strength into the second part of the lecture, where he dilated,
           with characteristic vigour and emphasis, on the lessons to be
          learnt from such discoveries. Sedgwick's lectures -- no matter
           what the subject-matter with which they began -- usually
           ended with whatever was uppermost in his mind at the
           moment. When he appeared before his friends at Ipswich
          he was forging fresh thunderbolts against the author of
          The Vestiges ; and in consequence we find a considerable
          space devoted to the argument from final causes. He con
          cluded with a noble passage on the true method of recon

        ciling science with revelation. "If," he said, "we believed,

          as we did believe, that the Author of Nature allowed us
          to call Him Father, and that He called us children, and that
          He gave us the hope of a heavenly hereafter, let us also
           believe, at the same time, while obeying those instincts which
          He has implanted in our bosoms, and reading the records

                                      1 To Miss Fanny Hicks, 19 December, 1848.

SCIENCE AND REVELATION.                                151

of His will as written in the solid framework of the earth,                     1849.
or in the glittering phenomena of the sky, or in what the                             64-
broad generalisations of science had manifested, that these
two kinds of truth, embodied in physical history and revealed

religion, so far from being conflicting, were entirely in unison

and harmony, if we investigated the one, and read the other,

in a right spirit1."
     The year 1849 may be introduced by the following

letters :

To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Cambridge, January 27 th, 1849.
    My dear Fanny,

                 I reached Cambridge this day fortnight, after a
very pleasant visit to my old friend and pupil the Arch

bishop*. On my table were many letters requiring answers,

and among them a note from Mr Armstrong*, an old

schoolfellow and college friend, whom your papa must
remember, though he left Cambridge and went to the Bar
before my brother James came to college in 18 13. His
wife and niece were with him on a visit to Professor Starkie4

of Downing College. When young, Mrs A. was very beau
tiful, and I believe there was a strong attachment between

her and my friend Armstrong about thirty years since ; but
they had no money, and so Love flew away, and Hymen
put out his torch. In course of time Armstrong became
Recorder of Manchester, and the emoluments of that office,

with what he made as a barrister, enabled him again to
think of marriage ; and a considerable fortune had also come
to Miss Blamire, now Mrs Armstrong. Twenty years or
more had not extinguished the fires of love; they were still

      1 The Suffolk Chronicle, 16 December, 1848.

    2 Rev. T. Musgrave, formerly Fellow of Trinity College, became Archbishop

of York in 1847.
     3 R. B. Armstrong, of Trinity College. See Index.

    4 Thomas Starkie, of St John's College, B.A. 1803; afterwards Fellow of St
Catharine's College, and Downing Professor of the Laws of England 1823 -- 49.

         152 JENNY LIND AT NORWICH.

1849.    smouldering in the embers. So off he set, made an offer of
         marriage, and soon converted a very old maid into a very
Et. 64.  happy old wife. I dined with them on the 14th at Downing,

         and they dined with me on the 15th.

             Then, after a day spent in letter-writing, I went up to a
         meeting of the Geological Society ; but I returned early on

         the 1 8th, to prepare for my visit to Norwich. Jenny Lind
         was to sing on the 22nd and 23rd, and I had asked four

         college friends to my house. Isabella's bed and yours were

         occupied by two of our Tutors1. My best bed fell to the
         share of Martin our Bursar, and Professor Walmisley* had
         the dressing-room. I had my own bed, and the ground-floor
         study was made into --what think you ? A smoking-room !

         Was not this a charming arrangement ?...
              Jenny Lind had quite a triumphal entry on the Saturday.

         She was greeted by lusty cheers, and followed with acclama

         tions to the Palace, being conducted in the Mayor's carriage.

         St Andrew's Hall was filled almost to suffocation ; but my

         party had good reserved seats secured by the kind fore

         thought of my friend Kate Stanley. I had a gay luncheon

         for some ladies on the Tuesday, and in the evening we all
         went to the Palace. Jenny Lind played some Scotch and

         Swedish airs, but did not sing. Walmisley then gained

         great applause by a performance on the piano. Jenny

         turned over the leaves for him, and turning round once or
         twice cried out in German, 'splendid, glorious, and he feels
         it.' He then laid a trap for her. He played a sweet
         national Swedish air, and spite of herself she began to sing.
         On Wednesday morning all my party (except Walmisley
         who performed again at the Palace on Wednesday evening)
         came away. Two ladies joined our party ; so we filled one

         carriage, and had a right merry journey to Cambridge. I

             1 Rev. W. H. Thompson, M.A. afterwards Master; and Rev. W. C. Mathi-
         son, M.A. then one of the Assistant Tutors.

              2 Thomas Attwood Walmisley, Professor of Music 1836 -- 56, and organist to

         Trinity College.

JENNY LIND AT NORWICH.

was truly sorry when it was over. So now, dearest Fankin,                1849.
you have my history. I am again dull and busy, and on                          <M-
Thursday I was half dead with fatigue and the pressure of a

bad cold. I went out for a few minutes yesterday, but I

could not stand the cold air, though the day was charming,
and the sun shining. So I came in again and read Layard's
account of his great discoveries among the ruins of Nineveh.
The two volumes are full of wonders. You may see an
excellent Review of the work in The Quarterly, written
by Milman. Vanity Fair I have also read since I returned

to Cambridge from Scalby. It is a very clever book ; but I
am not sure that it is profitable reading. Tis late and I am

rather tired, so lift up your mouth and give me a kiss, and
then pass it round. Ever affectionately yours,

                                                          A. Sedgwick.

     P.S....'Tis said that the Norwich Charities will gain 1200
by Jenny's visit. She gave her services ! Indeed she is a

noble creature.

     Sedgwick's account of Jenny Lind at Norwich may be

supplemented by what Miss Stanley wrote after her de

parture :

     It was a wonderful evening that Wednesday. We had no

regular party -- only the Committee and some of the manufacturers,
etc. She sang like a bird of paradise, till the whole house rang again.

It was impossible to keep the people out; the stairs and passages

were thronged, and when at last they were obliged to lock the front
door the people stood under the windows, and all down the walks, in

hopes of catching some remnants of the heavenly sounds

      The next day she went. She showed the deepest emotion at
leaving us, and we feel as if a ray of sunshine had departed. It may
seem extravagant to say so, but it is impossible, after spending five
days in her society, not to feel that we have been in the presence of
one of the great ones of the earth. She is a wonderful being!

      From one young lady to another the transition is easy ;
and therefore we will next quote a playful note written to
the second daughter of Mr Hopkins, the well-known mathe
matician and geologist. He and his family were very
intimate with Sedgwick.

          154 THE ROMANCE OF A GLOVE.

1849.     To Miss Augusta Hopkins.

      *'                               Trinity College, January 2%th, 1849.
             My dear Miss Hopkins,

                        I have found your lost glove and now return it.

          Call therefore all your lady friends together, and tell them to

             if
                it, it I

                                                it,
                                                                                  it,

                                                                                                    ; it,
                                                                                                             it
          rejoice with you. But it was cruel of you to ask for as

          was the only glove of the kind in my old College den and

          indeed had watched and fostered with as much care

          as had been the big Punjaub diamond. Now that you

          have     pray take care of it. Gloves have done much mis

          chief -- sometimes they have been symbols of love -- sometimes

          of deadly hate and furious fight -- sometimes they may have
          symbolized both love and hate--for purring and scratching

          are often close together. But these are mysteries have

          long outlived. All have to say --take care of your glove
                   it                                                           I

                              I                                                                    ;

                                                       a
                                                             is
          and keep safe till the day priest orders you to pull off

          your glove, and give your bare hand to the happiest man in

          England. After that day you may throw away, such be
                                                                 it

                                                                            if

          your liking.  made mistake yesterday and grasped the
                   a

                         it I
                                 I

                                             a
          hand of stranger who was between you and your sister. If

          she thought odd pray tell her that, though am sometimes
                                                                 I
                                                                                     I
          out of my mind, am generally looked on as harmless.

          really at first imagined that the lady had been a duplicate of
          yourself-- another Miss Hopkins. My act only proved that
          she dazzled me --and so hope she will forgive me. So now
                        I
                          I

                                        '

                                                 I
                                                                   a

                                                              'I
          good morning. Had been forty years younger should

          have cried out with Romeo Oh that were glove (by the

          way have all my life been thought like Romeo, and like him
          I
                I
             have been sadly crossed in love) or perhaps might have
          come with your glove pinned to the left side of my waistcoat,
                                is ;
                                    it

                                                        ?
                                                             ;

                                                             it
                                                                   I
          and asked you to wear the man that bore so near his heart.

          These are grave matters but 'tis right to speak with gravity

          on a Sunday morning,                  not So, with all kind wishes,

          1  am Most truly yours,
                                                                     A. Sedgwick.

JENNY LIND AT CAMBRIDGE.

To Mrs Homer.                                                               1849.

                            Cambridge, March \4th, 1849.                  Mt. 64.

     ...Jenny Lind has been here. She sang like an angel on

Monday. On Tuesday I showed her the lions ; but the

admiring mob so pressed upon us that she became quite

nervous, and was obliged to retire to her lodgings. She now

speaks English admirably, and begins to relish our best

writers. She is a person of great simplicity of purpose, of
a heart glowing with kindness, and of a great genius -- not in

music only, but in anything to which she turns her mind, and

her mind is open to all subjects that best adorn a woman. I

was surprised at her information, considering how very large

a portion of her life must have been absorbed in professional

studies. She is very religious without any cant, and she

seems to rejoice inexpressibly at her emancipation from the

theatre. Were it not a sin I should envy the man who is
going to marry her. It once or twice struck me how charm

ing it would be to have her at one's side and to teach her

English. Is it not said that ' old men dream dreams' ?...

    At the end of March we find Sedgwick at Norwich. He

affected to be drawn thither by Chapter business, and the
presence of the judges, but admitted that " above all " he

hoped to attend Rush's1 trial. Mr Jermy, the elder of the
two victims, had been Recorder of Norwich, and perhaps

was personally known to -Sedgwick ; but even without that
additional inducement, the atrocity of the crime, and the
dramatic incidents of the trial, offered irresistible attractions.
We have often heard him describe in conversation the scene

recorded in the following letter :

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  Cambridge, April 6th, 1849.

"...On the 29th began the great trial. I went with the

     1 On the evening of Tuesday, 28 November, 1848, a man named James
Bloomfield Rush entered Stanfield Hall, near Wymondham, the residence of
Mr Jermy. He shot Mr Jermy and his son dead, and severely wounded Mrs

Jermy and her maid, Eliza Chestney, who ran to help her mistress.

         156 TRIAL OF RUSH.

  1849.  Bishop at 7 a.m. to secure a seat in the Sheriff's gallery.
         You can hardly conceive the excitement. The Bishop and
xx. 64.
         six Peers were sitting on one bench, and all the aristocracy of

         the county seemed collected in the Crown Court. The trial

         began at 9 exactly. But I need not tell you of details which
         are so well given in the papers. On the afternoon of that
         day Eliza Chestney was brought on a couch into the Court.

         She had resolved to come, and many thought she would die

         on the road from Wymondham. It was not like anything in
         real life. It seemed like some scene in wild romance conjured

         up by magic before the eyes. She was in deep mourning,

         and pale as death from long suffering, and thin as a skeleton,

         yet her features were beautiful, and her voice most sweet and

         touching. She spoke in good English, and with the accent
         and manner of a well-bred woman. Her evidence you have
         read, but no words can convey to you the thrill that ran

         through the Court when at the conclusion she was asked if

         she could tell who was the murderer. She stretched out her

         right hand, and pointing to the prisoner said : ' That is the

         man.' It seemed as if she had expended all her strength in

         this one effort. Her thin pain-worn hand sank down, and for

         several seconds there was through the whole Court a death
         like silence. Even Rush seemed to be abashed for an instant,

         but soon recovered, and commenced a cross-examination, by
         which, however, he gained nothing....

             I attended the whole of Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.
         On Monday I was out of Court a few hours. On Tuesday

         afternoon I attended a Chapter meeting of two hours, and on

         leaving Court on the same evening I was so tired that I could

         not dine at the Palace, but took a basin of broth at my own

         house, and went to bed for two hours, and then joined them

         in the drawing-room. Now, however, I had an excellent seat

         close to the judge, procured for me by the Chief Baron.

         During the week before I had been cramped to death in the

         gallery. On Wednesday (the last day of the trial) I was in
         Court from 8 a.m. to 8.30 p.m., when sentence of death was

ACCIDENT.

pronounced by the judge after a short and most impressive       1849.
speech, delivered with great solemnity and feeling. The
prisoner was the only man who seemed to hear his sentence
with hardihood and indifference....

To Sir R. I. Murchison.  Thursday, 5 April, 1849.

...It [the trial] has been a wonderful psychological pheno

menon.. ..The monster Rush is a man not without feeling; is

capable of being moved to tears, susceptible of deep religious

emotion, not, I believe, put on to cheat, but, for a moment,

felt. He was, of course, without any steady moral principle:

and he had become so hardened and selfish, that he was

persuaded that whatever he was inclined to do was right....

     Sedgwick's Residence at Norwich this year was to occupy
him during May and June, after which he hoped to be able to
resume his work in Scotland. But early in May he fell over
the sill of a window on the ground-floor of his Norwich house,
and bruised one of his legs. The wound seemed so trifling
that he went about as usual for a week or so, until the pain

became excessive. " So I sent for a surgeon," he says, " and

he looked glum, and called in a second surgeon, and they
ordered me to bed, where they kept me for a fortnight with
a cradle over my leg1." During this period of quiescence the

inflammation culminated in an abscess, which produced
sleepless nights, and great weakness. The end of June
came before he could " hobble to the drawing-room on
crutches ;" and even then his recovery was slow. Perhaps
it was retarded rather than accelerated by the assiduities
of his friends ; for during a subsequent illness he was re
minded by one of his lady-friends of the time "when you
bore your confinement with heroic patience, and reclining
in Asiatic state, you graciously received courtiers, and ad
mirers, and friends, and lovers." But a short spell of quiet

1 To James Ainger, Esq. 14 July, 1849.

                                      SLOW RECOVERY.

   1849.  at the sea-side did wonders, and when he got back to

iEt- 64-  Cambridge at the end of July he announced that " I am

          now, thank God, in excellent health ; and my leg is quite

          free from pain, though still rather stiff, so that I halt a
          little when I walk. But I improve hourly ; and in a day
          or two I hope to resume my horse-exercise1." For the

          next six weeks he remained quietly in Trinity College,
          preparing the final edition (the fifth) of his Discourse, to
          which reference has been already made*. He then hoped

          to publish at no distant date; but from various causes, to

          be narrated as we proceed, the complete work did not appear
          until the year 1850 was far advanced. We will therefore
          defer the remarks we have to make on and for the present

          content ourselves with the two following letters.
                                                  2
          To the Master of Trinity College.         4
                                                       i.
          My dear Whewell,            Cambridge, August 2gth, 1849.
                                                          it,
                    You are now out of England, and resume my
                                                               a

                                                                 I

                                                                                          '
          old address. When you come back you must again be Dear

          Master.'  have just returned from the grave-side of the poor
                    I
                                   I
          Marquis9, to which went with the family as mourner. He

          died on Sunday morning about nine of mere exhaustion. For

          long he has not been able to swallow any solid food, and

          latterly he has only swallowed liquids in small quantity, and

          with great uneasiness and difficulty....                             II  hope to

                 arrived here towards the end of July; and
          I
                it

                      is

                            I
          attend the Birmingham Meeting on the 12th of next month.

          When      over trust that shall be able to go back with
                                      i. I
          Isabella to Dent, and to drink in health and happiness among

          my native hills. On or before the 1st of October, mean to
          be again in Cambridge. My leg continues stiff and rather

          troublesome, but can bear horse exercise, and Mercury
                    '*1
                         To Mrs John Sedgwick,               July, 1849.
                        ISee above, Vol. p. 401.
                         The Marquis Spineto, Vol.              p. 457, note.

      NEW PREFACE TO DISCOURSE.                                 '59

    is in such flighty spirits that he sometimes, in the hot weather,       1849.
                                                                                  64-
    gives me more exercise than I like. I mean to be on his
    back as soon as I have finished this sheet....

        As I cannot climb mountains I am trying to pass through

    the press a preface that ought to have appeared more than

    two years since. I wish you were here that I might consult
    you on some points where I do not feel myself strong. A

    preface of three hundred pages to a sermon of but eighty
    will look somewhat out of proportion, but it will be a

    dissertation on many weighty questions, and I must try not

    to break down under the load of them. I trust that your
    residence at Kreuznach has entirely restored Mrs Whewell's
    health. I must stop, for my hand will not bear crossing.

                           Ever truly and affectionately yours,

                                                             A. Sedgwick.

    To Hugh Miller, Esq.        Cambridge, September yd, 1849.
        My dear Sir,

                    Your beautiful little book, Footprints of the Creator,
    came to me about ten days since. As I was then very busy,

    and McCoy longed to see     lent to him, and he returned
                             I I iIt,
      on Saturday evening.
                                           it
I it                            have now skimmed over one

    or two of its chapters, and will lose no more time before

    heartily thank you for the great delight has so far given
                                               I it
me, and for the great profit and pleasure promise myself

from its perusal and study.     I  am here in consequence of

a severe accident, the effects of which make me at present

incapable of climbing mountains, or doing any good field-

work. But for this misfortune      should have been now
                                   I

                                                         I
hammering in the frontier chain of Scotland.                am however

making virtue of necessity, and passing through the press
      a                                                         a
                     a
long preface to little work which was printed early in 1847.
The geological part of my preface or dissertation was written

in the spring of 1847, and meant to pass the whole through
                             I

         160 FISHES OF OLD RED SANDSTONE.

  1849.  the press during the spring of that year. But my old tor-

XX. 64.  mentor, the rheumatic gout, came upon me, and drove me

         to Bath, and since then I have never had time or nerve to

         continue my long-interrupted task.
              In the early part of this preface, which has been some time

         printed, I have replied to the remarks on my Review by the
         author of the Vestiges, but, as I wished to write popularly, so

         far as possible, and not technically, I have thrown my remarks

         upon heterocercal tails, Ganoids, etc. etc., into a note (not yet
         printed), which is to appear in a supplement to the appendix.
         In this note I have adopted McCoy's nomenclature (diphy-
         cercal) for what you call tails set awry. I think his tripartite
         division a good one. He had shown from my specimens that
         the Diplopterus was not truly heterocercal, as it is represented
         in the restoration of Agassiz. But he never meant to speak
         disrespectfully of Agassiz. He only meant to say that his

         own specimens showed more than those figured in the mono
         graph of the fishes of the Old Red Sandstone. Agassiz is a
         great naturalist, but not a prophet. I wish Egerton 1 had not

         attacked McCoy, whose reply* seems to me quite satisfactory.

         I honour and respect them both, and neither of them wishes

         for anything but the promotion of truth.
              In the note I have said a word or two about the place of

         the Ganoids of the Old Red Sandstone, and mentioned the

         peculiarities of the intestinal canal, as indicated by the
         coprolites. This I find well noticed in your book (parts
         of which I have skimmed by help of the pictures -- a very
         common way with me of reading), but I think I have, by help
         of McCoy, pushed the matter a little further than you have
         done. He pointed out to me last year a remark of Miiller's,

         that all Ganoids with the spiral intestinal valves have a
         muscular bulbus arteriosus. Their hearts are therefore almost

         identical with the hearts of the lower reptiles. This remark I
         have endeavoured to turn to good account. I have hinted at

         1 Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 1848, ii. 189.
                                          2 Ibid. 177.

        NEW PREFACE TO DISCOURSE.      161

the fact of degradation, both in my Review and in the forth-      1849.
coming dissertation ; but I have not said how this was done            6*'
in the anatomical economy, except so far as this -- that the

heterocercal tail is of a higher type than the homocercal in
the great archetype of nature. As my appendix is not yet

printed, I shall be able to refer to, and perhaps (with your

permission) make a short abstract of, your views of degrada

tion, which, so far as I have read them, seem to me ad

mirable....

     You will find that your opinions on religious points nearly
run parallel with mine. I hold (against the Huttonians) that

Creation had a beginning in time, and that this conclusion is

based on inductive evidence : viz. that man is the last of the

existing order of things, and that animal creations are not
now going on, as Lyell seems to think probable. I have

made this one of the links of an analogical argument in

favour of Christianity.

     What I have alluded to ought to have appeared long since.
The spring is the only time of the year I have any leisure for
writing or thinking. In the autumn I am fully engaged with

 my lectures, in the winter my time is filled with my clerical

duties at Norwich Cathedral, and in the summer, ever since

 1818 until now, I have been out in the field. But alas! during
all the spring months of 1848 and 1849 I was absolutely
crippled both in mind and body --without temper, or spirits,

 or memory, or power of application to anything requiring
 continued thought. Still my little work -- spite of so many
 obstacles in my way -- would have been out, and you would
 have had a copy, about last March --had not my views

 on certain moral questions expanded. I am writing ex
 pressly for the use of our undergraduates, and I could

 not pass these subjects over. So I have said something
 of Christian Evidences -- of systems of Metaphysics --of

 Mysticism and Rationalism both as dealing with nature and
 Revelation -- and something also of our enlarged plans of

 academic study. In doing this I have been forced to wade

S. II.                             11

          162 DEATH OF BISHOP STANLEY.

  1849.   through mud and mire, and then to halt and wipe my shoes--

iEt. 64.  all which takes time. My geological task has been done some
          time -- and my first sketch of all these latter subjects has been
          some time finished, and part of it is passed through the press ;

          but the parts remaining want revision ; and I shall be forced

          to postpone this necessary task till my return from the North
          after the British Association. And then alas ! I shall be for

          ten days pinned down by our Fellowship examination. God

          granting me health, I hope to send you and my excellent friend
          Dr Fleming copies of my book sometime during the October
          term. I am only talking of an embryo : you have sent me

          a mature and developed work, for which, after this long

          rigmarole, I now return you my most sincere thanks.

                                                             Ever truly yours,

                                                                         A. Sedgwick.

              P.S. All you have said of the Asterolepis is new and

          excellent. McCoy says he is delighted with it. May God
          long spare your health and give you all earthly blessings ; and,
          may you use them through His help for His glory, and the
          good of your fellow-creatures !

               Early in September, while Sedgwick was "counting the
          hours" till he should reach Birmingham, and have the happi
          ness of again meeting his niece, whom he had not seen since

          his long illness, he was startled by the mournful intelligence

          that Bishop Stanley was at the point of death. A second

          letter, following close on the heels of the first, told him that
          all was over. The Bishop was in his 70th year, and had
          been in failing health for some time ; but no immediate

          danger was anticipated, and he had left Norwich with his

          family in the middle of August, to pay a few visits in York
          shire, followed by a short tour in the west of Scotland. They

          had reached their farthest point, Brahan Castle in Rossshire,
          before he was taken ill. There, however, just when they
          were preparing to start homewards, congestion of the brain set
          in, and he passed away in a painless sleep on the evening of

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BIRMINGHAM.                 163

Thursday, 6 September. " What this will be to you, I know 1849.
too well", writes Miss Stanley; "you have ever been our /EK 64-

truest friend, and ever will be, whether in trouble or in joy,

and may God bless you for all that you have been to us."

Sedgwick was profoundly affected. He felt that Norwich

would henceforward be a changed place to him. "If I may

speak of my own sorrows now ", he wrote to his niece, who
knew and loved the Stanleys almost as well as he did, " it is a
sad blow to me, and I am sure you will feel the same. The
delightful society of the Palace, the charm and solace of my

life, is gone for ever. I meant to leave Cambridge today, but

I have had no spirits, and my health is a little suffering." He

was pledged, however, to attend the meeting of the British

Association, and on the following day he kept his engage

ment, but what his feelings were during the week at Birming

ham may be gathered from the next letter.

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                   Birmingham, Sunday evening,

My dear Isabella,           September \6th, 1849.

I reached this place on Tuesday evening. On

Wednesday the work began by a great public meeting, when
Professor Robinson of Armagh was called to the chair.

Thursday and Friday we attended the sections as usual. On

Friday we had a great dinner in the Town Hall, and my nerves

were put to a rather severe test. Without any notice from the
President I was called on for a speech ; and as they could not
hear one from the spot where I sat I was forced to go to the
top of the hall, and speak from one of the benches to an
audience of five or six hundred, not to count those in the

galleries....

    I should have enjoyed this meeting had I not been in very

bad spirits when I came. In the midst of our labours in the

sections my mind wanders from the subjects before us, and
begins to think of Norwich and the afflicted family at the
Palace. The poor Bishop's body was sent forward in a steam-
vessel, and was to be landed at Yarmouth. I have not yet

                                                                      --1 1 2

         164 FUNERAL OF BISHOP STANLEY.

  1849.  heard whether it has reached Norwich.. ..I believe the funeral

Mt. 64.  will take place on Friday. Should it be so I purpose to go to

         Norwich on Thursday ; and of course to pay the last mournful

         offices of respect to the remains of the Bishop at the grave

         side. What I shall do afterwards I cannot at present say ;

         but I still hope to come to Dent for a day or two. Ever,
                            Most af_fec^ti.onatAel.y yours,
         dearest Isabella,

                                     A. Sedgwick.

              For a moment, on learning that the Bishop was no more,

         Sedgwick had considered the loss as it would affect himself.

         Such thoughts, however, were soon banished by heartfelt solici

         tude for his friends. They were much comforted by his sym

         pathy. "I know not how to thank you for your note", Miss
         Stanley said ; "I could not have believed a letter had in it so

         much power of consolation. I feel as if you bore our sorrows for

         us ; they could scarcely affect you more were they your own. I

         could almost wish that you felt less acutely, for I think with
         dread of the sorrow which I know that it will be to you."

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  N orwi ch, September 2 1st, 1849.
              Dearest Isabella,

         I have just returned from the dear Bishop's

         funeral, and will endeavour to employ a few melancholy

         minutes in writing to you....

             It was the most touching and striking ceremonial I ever

         witnessed. The Mayor and Corporation, in their civic dresses

         covered with crape, led the way. Then followed the coffin

         and pall-bearers; then the family and mourners, among whom

         went Mr Wodehouse and myself. About four hundred

         clergymen, in full robes, followed. And lastly, a great

         multitude of the respectable inhabitants in the city and

         neighbourhood. The procession was so very long, that I

         could only see a very small part of it. On reaching the

         western door of the Cathedral, there was a short halt. The

         doors were then thrown open, and on each side of the central

FUNERAL OF BISHOP STANLEY.

aisle of the nave eight hundred children, from the different                      1849.
schools of the city, were arranged in triple rows. The                                 6*-
members of the Corporation descended through the nave to
the choir, followed by the choristers in surplices and scarfs,
chanting a psalm. Then the coffin and pall bearers, followed
immediately by the family, and the rest in turn and in the

order above described. I was told that the clerical body,

walking four abreast, extended from the west door to the

organ-screen. As soon as the choir was filled the door was
shut, and the funeral service was read by Dr Philpott and
the Dean. After which we returned to the grave in the
centre of the nave, keeping the same order as before, the
organ pealing the solemn Dead March in Saul. At the

grave-side the choristers sang a solemn dirge, and then

the concluding service was read by the Dean. There were

thousands in the Cathedral. All parts of the triforium were
filled. The organ-gallery was covered with spectators. All

were in mourning. Many were deeply affected. Many
thousand eyes were dim with tears; and you could hear the
modest and half-concealed sobs of the little children as you
passed down the nave, for the Bishop had visited all the
schools again and again, and was loved by the children ; and
it was at his request, expressed in a written paper found in his
study after his death, that they were all invited. The day
was beautiful, and between the Palace-gate and the Erping-
ham gate, we marched through, I should think, not less than

20,000 spectators, who were all respectful and silent, and
many of whom were sorrowful. Nothing happened to break
in upon or mar the moral sublimity of the solemn procession
and service1...."

     On Christmas Eve --after a Term spent in lecturing,
writing the above-mentioned Preface, entertaining the dis

tinguished French geologist M. de Verneuil, and other
academic occupations -- Sedgwick had a severe fall from his

     1 Printed, with some slight alterations, in Addresses and Charges of Edward
Stanley, D.D. with a Memoir. By his son, Arthur Penrhyn Stanley. 8vo. London,

1851, p. 101.

        166 RREAKS RIGHT ARM.

'849-   horse, and again broke his right arm. " I was riding quickly ",
 t- 4'
        he wrote, " the ground was hard frozen, and the horse rolled

        upon me, and inflicted dreadful bruises on the right side of
        my body, from the sole of my foot to my shoulder. After

        recovering from the first shock I crawled to a bank, and was

        thankful that my leg, though it gave me great pain, was not

        broken. Soon afterwards I found that my right arm was
        fractured a little below the shoulder. With great difficulty,
        and helped by a man and two boys, I made my way to a
        turn-pike gate, where I remained till a fly came to carry me
        to Trinity College. The fracture was simple, and the bone
        was easily put in right position, and I was bandaged up like
        a mummy. My surgeon for some days was more afraid of

        the bruises than the fracture : but, thank God, no violent

        access of fever followed '." Recovery, after such an accident,

        was as rapid as could be expected at his age ; but many weeks
        elapsed before he could do any serious work, and, anxious as

        he was to publish his Discourse in its new form, the confine

        ment was specially irksome. It was cheered by the affectionate
        care of his nephew and Mr Romilly, who acted as his
        secretaries. If they answered all the letters of condolence

        that poured in upon the patient, their office could have been
        no sinecure. The Queen and Prince Albert expressed, through
        Colonel Grey, " the sincere regret with which they had heard

        of the accident"; Mr Hudson Gurney prescribed "a quiet

        sojourn at Keswick*", for, said he, "I am told that your

        doctors have recommended more quiet and seclusion than
        their patient has been willing to submit to"; another friend,

        with a turn for satire, sent a sketch of Adam's Second Fall,
        and suggested that there ought to be "a special geological
        horse that could guide itself, with a perception of good and
        evil paths"; and, lastly, some of his numerous god-children
        indited a joint letter to their " dear Seddy," regretting that he

        was not at Norwich, where they could " help him to pass away

        the many hours he would be obliged to spend on the sofa."

                                   1 To Miss Gerard, 19 January, 1850.
                                   a Mr Gurney's country-house near Norwich.

                    CHAPTER III.

The Royal Commission of Inquiry. Sedgwick asked to be
       Commissioner. His hesitation. British Association at
      Edinburgh. Visits Duke of Argyll. Fifth Edition of
       his Discourse (1850). Receives the Wollaston medal.
       Account of his Geological work since 1838. Geological
      tour in Cornwall and N. Wales (1851). Estrangement
       from Murchison. Action of the Council of the Geo
       logical Society. Visits the Queen at Osborne. Publi
       cation of Commission Report (1852).

The year 1850, on which we are now entering, is memor

able in the history of Cambridge for the appointment of a
Royal Commission of Inquiry into the state, discipline,
studies, and revenues, of the University and the Colleges.
As Sedgwick was one of the Commissioners, and devoted
much time and thought to the work, it is necessary to say a
few words on the causes which led to such a step on the part
of the government.

     It had long been admitted that there were points both in the

constitution and in the educational system of the University,
which might be altered with advantage. From time to time,
even during the previous century, isolated reformers had put
forward proposals for the removal of an abuse, or the intro
duction of a progressive innovation. Such attempts, though
they ended in failure, and may be thought to have achieved
no result more permanent than the addition of a pamphlet to

         168 PROJECTS OF REFORM AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1850.  collections of ephemeral literature, ought in truth to be
Mx. 65.  regarded as finger-posts set up to mark the road which led to

         reform. It is conceivable that that road might have been

         prolonged to an almost indefinite length, had not action been
         precipitated by the large increase in the number of students

         after the close of the continental war. It soon became

         evident that it would no longer be possible to restrain so
         large a body of young men, representing, to a far greater
         extent than heretofore, different classes of the community,
         within the narrow limits of mathematics tempered with a
         modicum of philosophy ; nor to expect them to submit
         without a murmur to the exclusive enactments of the

         existing statutes. Again, the passing of the Reform Bill
         gave a general impulse to the correction of abuses, and it
         seemed only reasonable that national institutions such as

         the two Universities should be thoroughly investigated, and
         remodelled in conformity with modern ideas. But the

         University, as a whole, was averse to change. It has been

         already related1 how a proposal made in 1834 for the
         removal of religious tests, though energetically promoted by
         many distinguished members of the Senate, and supported
         by a large and influential section of the public at large, failed
         to command a majority among residents ; and after its re
         jection by the House of Lords it was evident that it would
         be mere waste of time to renew the struggle then, even on

         the narrow field to which it had been restricted.

              Reformers next turned their attention to the studies of

         the place. A voluntary Classical Examination (established in
         1822), had been the first step taken in this direction. It was

         succeeded by proposals, more or less definite, to offer similar
         facilities for distinction in theology, history, law, and natural

         science. Sedgwick, as we have seen, animadverted generally
         on the Cambridge course of study in his Discourse (1832'); a
         suggestion for the establishment of five new triposes was

         1 Vol. i. pp. 417--425.
         3 Ibid. pp. 402 -- 405.

PROJECTS OF REFORM AT CAMBRIDGE.                                       169

made by Mr Walsh, a resident Fellow of Trinity College                          1850.

(18371); and Professor Whewell advocated a General Tripos
in all the Inductive Sciences (1840*). No attempt, however,
was made to give practical effect to these suggestions until
1848, when the influence of Prince Albert led to the establish
ment of two new Honour Triposes --the Moral Sciences
Tripos, and the Natural Sciences Tripos ; together with a
scheme for filling the lecture-rooms of the Professors, by
compelling every candidate for the ordinary degree to pro
duce a certificate of having attended at least one course of

professorial lectures, and passed a satisfactory examination

in their subject-matter. In The Life of the Prime Consort
we read that from the moment of his election as Chancellor

the Prince began to make himself thoroughly acquainted
with the studies of Cambridge, recognised the importance of
extending them, and discussed with several of the leading

residents -- as for instance, Whewell, Sedgwick, Philpott --the

means by which this end might be achieved with the least
friction and opposition*. The establishment of the new

Triposes was succeeded, early in 1849, by the appointment
of a syndicate to revise the statutes of the University.

     While internal reformers were thus cautiously picking

their way through the quicksands that beset them, more
drastic remedies were loudly demanded from without. In

December, 1847, Lord John Russell, then Prime Minister,
informed Prince Albert that he was in favour of advising the
Crown to " appoint a Commission to inquire into the state of

Schools and Colleges of Royal Foundation4." A similar

Commission had been moved for in 1837 by Lord Radnor in
the House of Lords, and by Mr Pryme in the House of

1 A Historical Account of the University of Cambridge and its Colleges; in
a letter to the Earl of Radnor. By B. D. Walsh, M.A. 8vo. Lond. 1837.
2 Of a Liberal Education in General. By W. Whewell, D.D. 8vo. Lond.
1840. Part I. pp. 224 -- 228.
    '* The Life of His Royal Highness the Prince Consort.
8vo. Lond. 1876. Vol. ii. pp. 114 -- 130.                  By Theodore Martin,

4 Ibid. p. no.

          170 PROJECTS OF REFORM AT CAMBRIDGE.

1850.     Commons; and again in the latter house by Mr Christie in
     65-  1 844. The Prince wrote at length to Lord John, informing
          him of what was being done at Cambridge, and expressing
          a hope that he would " pause with the recommendation of a

          Royal Commission of Inquiry till we have seen whether any

          good can be effected in the way now proposed to be

          followed1."

               Early in 1848 a Memorial to Lord John Russell was
          circulated among "graduates and former members of the

          Universities of Oxford and Cambridge," and to some extent
          among Fellows of the Royal Society, setting forth :

               That the present system of the ancient English Universities has
          not advanced, and is not calculated to advance, the interests of
          religious and useful learning to an extent commensurate with the
          great resources and high position of those bodies.

               That the constitution of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge
          and of the Colleges (now inseparably connected with their academical
          system) is such as in a great measure to preclude them from introduc
          ing those changes which are necessary for increasing their usefulness
          and efficacy.

               That under these circumstances, believing that the aid of the
          Crown is the only available remedy for the above-mentioned defects,
          your Memorialists pray that your Lordship will advise Her Majesty
          to issue Her Royal Commission of Inquiry into the best methods of
          securing the improvement of the Universities of Oxford and Cam

          bridge.

              This document received 224 signatures. Of these Cam
          bridge contributed 133, Oxford 62, and the Royal Society 29.
          It however, noteworthy that only one resident Fellow of a

          Cambridge College appended his name, and only one Profes

          sor. The resident reformers of Cambridge were evidently of

          opinion that the time for calling in extraneous assistance had

          not yet arrived. This Memorial was presented to Lord John
          Russell, 10 July, 1848. He received the memorialists with

          the courteous indefiniteness usual on such occasions and,

          probably out of deference to the wishes of Prince Albert, took
          no action in the matter. Two years afterwards (23 April,
          1

            is,
                           of

                                                                                                                                                         ;
                 The Life   His Royal Highness the Prince Consort. By Theodore Martin,
          Vol. ii. p. 123.

ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.                              171

1850'), Mr James Heywood, then M.P. for Lancashire, who            1850.
had been one of the prime movers in getting up the Memorial,
moved in the House of Commons, that " an humble address         Xt-

be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty would
be graciously pleased to issue her Royal Commission of

Inquiry into the state of the Universities and Colleges of
Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin." Lord John Russell de
clined to support the motion, but, he added, " it is certainly
our intention to advise the Crown to issue a Royal Com
mission to inquire into the state of the two Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge." It is evident, from what subsequent

speakers said, that this announcement took the House by
surprise. That the Government had itself been surprised by

Mr Heywood's action, and had hastily adopted an unwel
come policy, is evident from Prince Albert's letter to the
Vice-Chancellor, Dr Cartmell (27 May) : " You are already
aware," he says, "that I did not know of the intention of Her
Majesty's Government to advise the issue of a Royal Com
mission in time, before Lord John Russell's speech in the
House of Commons, to be able to communicate with the

University, or to express any opinion on the proposed

course."

    At Cambridge the news of the Prime Minister's intention
was received with alarm and indignation. It is true that he
had spoken in a conciliatory strain. " I am glad," he said,

" that no such Commission was issued some eight or ten years

ago, because, seeing the state in which the studies at the
Universities were ; seeing how inadequate they were to the

then state of knowledge, there would have been some
appearance of hostility in issuing a Commission of Inquiry
at that time. But at present, if persons are appointed who

have belonged to those Universities, who have themselves
been educated at them, and who maintain regard and

reverence for those seats of education ; and if the inquiries

1 Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, Ser. 3, ex. 691--763.

         172 ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.

 1850.   they are directed to make are made in a friendly spirit, I
         own I can see nothing but advantage from such inquiries."
Et. 65.

         Further, he addressed a letter to the Chancellor (8 May)
         written in a similar strain. But the University turned a deaf

         ear to the voice of the charmer. Within a fortnight after this

         letter was written the Vice-Chancellor received an Address,
         signed by 156 residents -- Heads of Colleges, Professors,
         Tutors, Lecturers --praying him " to take such steps as the

         emergency may appear to require, and to consider especially

         whether it may not be proper to represent to His Royal

         Highness our Chancellor the interference with our freedom,

         rights, statutes, possessions, and usages, which appears to be

         threatened."

         Such was the state of feeling in the University when

         Sedgwick received the following letter from Lord John

         Russell :

         My dear Sir,          Chesham Place, May 29, 1850.

                    I have asked the Bishop of Chester, and the Dean of
         Ely, to be Members of a Commission to inquire into the state of the

         revenues of the University of Cambridge. I feel confident of their
         assent, and I shall be very much obliged to you if you will allow me
         to place your name before the Queen as that of a distinguished
         Professor, who will take part in the labours of the Commission.

                               I remain, My dear Sir,

                               Yours very faithfully,

                                                J. Russell.

              Sedgwick's sentiments on the whole question, both as it
         concerned himself and the University, will be best gathered

         from the following letters :

         To Lient.-Col. Grey.  Trinity College, May yath, 1850.
             My dear Sir,

                        I write in a distracting hurry, for the morning
         post starts in a few minutes, and I must go to consult the

         Dean of Ely. Lord John Russell wishes to place my name
         on the list of the intended Royal Commission to inquire into

         revenues of the University &c. &c.

   SEDGWICK'S HESITATION TO JOIN IT.                                                                   173

    Personally I should dislike the task, and it might deprive                                                 1850.
me of some of my most valued friendships; but, if the Prince                                                         65

wishes me to accept                 will do so and,                                         do accept  is it,
I
                      iIt,

                                        I
                                                                                         ;
                                                      if
                                                                    I
then will try my very best to do my duty in it. Pray learn

His Royal Highness' wishes.                     have not the most distant

notion what are our academic Chancellor's feelings on this

matter. Do you not think that an old man, who like myself

has led kind of half-monkish life at Cambridge, must be
   a

                             ?
full of prejudices, and little fitted for the task Lord John
would put on me On the other hand might perhaps be
                                                it
well that some of the Commission should be men who knowI

Cambridge well, and have natural leaning in its favour.
                                    a
                                         is                           hope you will
Pray excuse this hurried informal note.

understand     it,            and do what needful for me, and what

best for Cambridge, under the circumstances.

To the same.                                 Very faithfully yours,
                                                          A. Sedgwick.
    My dear Sir,
                                             Cambridge, May 31 st, 1850.

I              The Dean of Ely was unfortunately absent... anda
                 I
   again write, not in so hurried manner as yesterday, butI
with very little time before me to save the morning post to                                 I
London, for am naturally anxious to give definite answer a
Ito Lord John Russell's letter, which cannot do before hear        a
from you.
                                             a
        have for many years believed that Commission (Royal
or Parliamentary) must before long come down to the old

Universities, and that no Prime Minister (whatever his
opinions) could long prevent searching inquiry. About
fifteen years since a Petition to the two Houses of Parliament
was sent from Cambridge, praying for the abolition of religious
tests before conferring academic degrees in Arts, Law, and

Physic. The present Archbishop of York1 and myself waited

Thomas Musgrave, at that time Fellow and Senior Bursar of Trinity
1
                      i.
                          p.
College. Vol.                 419.

          174 ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.

   1850.  on your late father, Earl Grey, with this Petition, which he
IBa. 65.  soon aftenvards presented to the House of Lords. In a long

          conversation we held with him at the Treasury, he made
          many inquiries into the working of our system, and he

          appeared very heartily to agree with a statement made by
          myself, viz. --that a searching Commission, composed of men
          who loved and honoured our old institutions, but were not

          blinded to their imperfections, might be of great national

          importance, and might give additional strength and security

          to Cambridge. I retain the opinions I then expressed to
          your honoured father, but not without some modification ;
          for our University has now greatly amplified its course of

          study, which is perhaps as wide as is expedient ; and a
          Committee of Inquiry into a modification of the University

          Statutes has been sitting for more than a year, and is making

          secure though slow progress. It is known (though of course not

          officially published) that the liberal party in this Committee
          have, on most important points, had a majority of votes.

               Hence I cannot but feel that the intended Royal Com
          mission is rather unfortunately timed. It might well have
          come sooner ; or, under present circumstances, it might well
          have been put off a year or two, that Parliament might have
          seen what the University had done spontaneously. I believe
          however that Government had no choice-- that it is now
          impossible to postpone the Commission -- and that Lord
          John Russell has every wish to send a friendly Commission
          to the old University. I believe, moreover, that if a friendly
          Commission be not appointed now, before long an adverse
          Commission might be sent down to us. Entertaining these
          views I refused to sign the paper that was forwarded to me
          by the Vice-Chancellor ; and I am convinced that the present
          opposition to inquiry can only produce doubt, suspicion, and
          hostility on the part of those who are seeking for public and

          official inquiry....
               I am flattered by Lord John Russell's wish to place my

          name before Her Majesty, as a fit person for the honour of a

SEDGWICK'S HESITATION TO JOIN IT.  175

place in the Commission ; but I think myself ill fitted for the    ^1850.
                                                                            65-
office, for the following plain reasons :
     1. I have very interrupted health; I am becoming old;

and I never was a good man of business.

2. I have engagements already more than sufficient

to employ my leisure, and all my professional work is greatly

in arrears.

    3. I have three works on the stocks -- one almost ready

to be launched ; but two others in which I have made little

good progress. My honour as a Geological Professor requires

that the accumulated observations of many past years should

not be thrown on one side before they are reduced to some

order.

   4. If I accept a place in the Royal Commission I know

full well that I should forfeit the friendship of many of those

among whom I have lived in the interchange of good offices.

I should therefore be continually warped in the performance

of my plain duty as Commissioner, and I might forfeit the

good opinion both of the University and of the Commission,

by halting between two opinions.

     5. I have contracted very solemn obligations both to the
University and Trinity College, under the sanction of an oath.

Questions might (and I think would) arise before the Com
mission in which I might agree with them on general grounds,

but might be compelled to differ from them, on account of

my anterior obligations to the University or my own College.

These were the special matters on which I wished to

consult my friend the Dean of Ely, who has considered them

more than I have done. These are some of my reasons for

thinking that my name ought not to appear in the Com

mission. You will kindly mention them in whatever way is

best to His Royal Highness. I will, as I stated before, obey
his commands ; but I cannot help expressing a hope that he

will not express a wish that I should accept an office for

which I am unfit, for which I really have not sufficient leisure,

and which might produce serious discomfort, and perhaps

           176 ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.

1850.      dishonour, during the remaining years of my academic life.
      6S-
           I have just a spare moment to close this sheet in time for the

           early post.              Believe me, My dear Sir,

                                    Very faithfully yours,
                                                 A. Sedgwick.

           From Lieut. -Col. Grey.  Osborne, May 31, 1850.
                My dear Sir,

                         I have this morning received, and have lost no

           time in submitting to the Prince, your letter of yesterday.
           H.R.H.'s opinion was very much against the propriety of
           issuing this Commission. But he had no opportunity of

           expressing it in time to have any effect, as he was ignorant

           of the intention of Her Majesty's Government till Lord John
           made his announcement in the House of Commons.

                As, however, notwithstanding all that has since occurred,
           Lord John persists in his intention, it is of great importance,
           in H.R.H.'s opinion, that the Commission should be composed
           of men whose station and character would be a guarantee to

           the University that the inquiry would be conducted in a

           friendly spirit --having said which I need hardly add that he

           is most anxious that you should accept the offer made to you
           by Lord John.

                The Prince has expressed very fully in a letter to the Vice-

           Chancellor his opinion as to the course which, as the Govern
           ment will not give way in this matter, he thinks it will be for
           the advantage and dignity of the University authorities to

           pursue under the circumstances, and he would wish you very
           much to ask Dr Cartmell to show you his letter. As, however,

           H.R.H. intended it to be communicated to the Senate, you
           will probably have already seen it.

               I trust you have by this time quite recovered the effects
           of your accident, and remain,

                                                           Very faithfully yours,

                                                                           C. Grey.

SEDGWICK'S HESITATION TO JOIN IT.                     177

To Limt.-Colonel Grey.  Cambridge, June 2nd, 1850.                                        1850.
    My dear Colonel,
                                                                                        m. 65.

                I replied yesterday morning to Lord John Russell's
letter, but unfortunately before I received your note of May 31.
Had it reached me before I wrote to his Lordship, my reply
would not have been what it was, for I sent a modified refusal
to act on the Commission, stating, however, that I had
communicated with Prince Albert, and would ultimately be

guided by his commands1....

     But there was another reason (and to me a very cogent
one) which I quite forgot to mention in my two letters to

yourself. By the severe letter of Dr Woodward's Will I can
hold no preferment with my Professorship. It is only by the
tacit connivance of the Senate that I continue to hold my

Stall at Norwich, and they could, during any full Term,

compel me either to surrender my Stall or my Professorship.

At present I have nothing to fear from the members of the

Senate, for they know that, at a very great personal expense,

and after thirty laborious geological tours, I have brought

together and placed in the Cambridge Museum, a very noble

Collection. They know also, that I have continued to do my
yearly duty as a lecturer, and that I always have had a large
and earnest class of young men, who were endeavouring to
profit by my lectures. But, if I accept the office of Com
missioner, I fear the Senate would turn against me, and that

some angry member would call on the Vice-Chancellor to

do his duty by introducing a grace to compel me to fulfil

the condition of Dr Woodward's Will.

    I had written so far early this morning, when I was
interrupted, and I have since seen the Vice-Chancellor (who

read to me the Prince's admirable letter), and the Master of
Trinity College, and if I mistake not they think that my fears
of losing my Professorship are chimerical.

     1 In the omitted passage Sedgwick recapitulates  the reasons given in the
above letter to Colonel Grey, dated 31 May.                                         12

        S. II.

         i78 ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.

  1850.      I must therefore withdraw or palliate the last objection to
         my acceptance of the office of Commissioner, and, if His Royal
Mt. 65.
         Highness thinks my other objections (as they are stated in

         this and my second letter) invalid, I will then write again to

         Lord John, and tell him, that in consequence of the Prince's

         wishes, I withdraw my former letter, and am willing to accept

         the honour he has offered me.

             If I torment you by writing such long letters, I certainly

         torment myself, for I have only begun to use my right hand

         again for about a fortnight, and it does its work not

         without some pain, and much grumbling on the part of my

         fractured humerus. I am recovering, but very slowly.

         Believe me, my dear Colonel,

         From Lieut.-Col. Grey.  Very faithfully yours,
              My dear Sir,                       A. Sedgwick.

                                           Osborne, June 2, 1850.

                        I was prevented answering your last letter yester
         day till it was too late to save the post. The Prince read it

         with much interest, and, sorry as he is to ask you to do

         anything to which you express so much dislike, he cannot
         help desiring me again to say how much he should personally
         regret your refusal to serve on this Commission, now its issue
         appears inevitable. He would fain hope that the fears you
         express of weakening the ties of old friendships by such
         acceptance would not be realised -- sure he is that they ought

         not to be so --that the character which you have established
         after so many years' connection with the University ought

         to be a sufficient guarantee to those who disapprove most
         strongly of the Commission, that you do not accept a place
         in it in anything but a friendly spirit. H. R. H. thinks it
         most essential that the Commission should be formed of the

         friends of the University; and, if the fears of displeasing those
         who, having disapproved of the issue of the Commission,

         would now resist it to the utmost, were to be allowed as a

SEDGWICK'S HESITATION TO JOIN IT.                                                                                              179

sufficient excuse for refusal to act upon where could those
                   ?                                                                                                                1850.
                                                                                                                                          65-
                                is
                                                               it,

                                                                   is
friends be found By accepting, H. R. H. sure, under ex-

isting circumstances, that you will best consult the interests

of the University. Much, therefore, as he dislikes urging you

to do anything which  unpleasant to yourself, he cannot

refrain from once more expressing his hope that you may

be induced to answer Lord John's offer in the affirmative.

                      Believe me,

                                Yours very truly,
                                             C. Grey.

From the same.        Osborne, June                                                      1850.4,
     My dear Sir,
                                                                                           I
I                     have this morning read to the Prince your letter
of the 2nd inst., which received yesterday evening.                                                       a
             I
      His Royal Highness would not on any account have you
                                                  aexpose yourself, in consequence of wish expressed by him,
to any such risk as that which you mention as possibly
attending your acceptance of the proposal made to you by;

Lord John Russell. If your fears as to the possible conse

quences to you are at all well founded, he will at once admit
the validity of the grounds on which you decline to act as
Royal Commissioner. But this point can only be decided by
yourself, on consultation with those friends who are best
acquainted with your University Regulations and Statutes.
His Royal Highness can only form an opinion upon the
other objections put forward by you and on these need
only refer you, for that opinion, to my former letters, and
repeat that while H. R. H. thinks these objections are not
such as should prevent your acceptance, he believes that your
nomination as one of the Commissioners would have the best

possible effect, and that your services in the Commission
would be most valuable.

         am, however, at the same time to repeat, in the strongest
manner, that nothing could give His Royal Highness more
concern than to think that anything said by him should

                                                                                    12 --
I

                                                                                                                            2

          i So ISSUE OF A ROYAL COMMISSION.

  1850.   induce you to act in a manner which you believe might be
          prejudicial to your own interests, and endanger the tenure
/Et. 65.  either of your Stall or your Professorship.

               H. R. H. hears with great concern of your continued

          suffering, and trusts, as you say you are recovering, that your

          progress may soon be more rapid.

                                                       Believe me,

                                                       Yours very truly,
                                                                     C. Grey.

          To Lieut.-Col. Grey.                         Norwich, June                       1850.
              My dear Colonel,

                           Your last letter has followed me to this place.
              I will not again torment you with a long letter ; indeed I
          have nothing more to say, after I have requested you to

          convey to the Prince the heartfelt expressions of my thanks

          for his condescending kindness towards me, and for his good

          opinion of me --alas ! a far better opinion of me than I

          deserve. I mean, by this post, to write to Lord John Russell,

          and to accept the office of Commissioner ;                I if,                  after my long

          letter to him, he still think me worthy of having my name

          submitted to the Queen for her sanction.                                         trust that His

          Royal Highness will permit me to keep your last letter, in

          order that may shew hereafter to any academic friend
                      it I
                             I

                                             it
                                                    I
          with whom may be my fate (while the Commission sits) to

          come in rude collision. It will prove that did not seek to
                                                       I

          thrust myself into the office.               count the cost of what am
                                                                                           I
          undertaking, and know that the Commission will be abused
                                                                                                          :
          in good set terms, and without any regard to truth, honour,

          or reason.

               After the Petition for mitigation of our Tests (to which
            alluded in former note) had been presented to the House
          of Peers by your late father, leading article appeared in The
          I
               I

                                  a

                               Ia
                                                     a
                                                         a

                                                                      a
                                                                                        a

                                                                  I
          Standard newspaper, which professed to prove three things

          that was coxcomb, sceptic, and liar. must, however,

          conclude, lest should seem to confirm the last of the three

SEDGWICK'S HESITATION TO JOIN IT.                                           181

charges, by contradicting  what I have  said in the                         second  1850.
portion of this note.                                                                     6S-
                           Believe me,

                           Very faithfully yours,
                                       A. Sedgwick.

From Lieut.-Col. Grey.           Osborne, June 7th, 1850.
     My dear Sir,

I have read your last letter to the Prince, and His

Royal Highness desires me to thank you most sincerely for

the readiness with which, contrary to your own wishes, you

have acceded to the desire he has expressed through me, that

you should accept Lord John's offer to place you on the
Commission to be named for inquiring into the state of the

Universities. And His Royal Highness hopes that your

acceptance may not entail any of the unpleasant consequences

to yourself, which you still seem to fear. Nothing could give

His Royal Highness more pain; and by shewing my letters,
                                 it
you can remove any misapprehension on the subject, you areis if,

perfectly at liberty to show them to any of your friends you's

please. They will clearly prove that so far from this appoint

ment having been sought by you,  most reluctantly, and

only in deference to His Royal Highness expressed wishes,

that you have withdrawn the refusal which you had in the

first instance given to Lord John's offer, and have allowed

your name to be placed on this Commission.

Believe me, My dear Sir,

                                 Ever very truly yours,
                                              C. Grey.

     The remaining incidents of this year are recorded with
sufficient minuteness in Sedgwick's letters. It should be
premised that he spent the greater part of the summer at

Cambridge, putting the finishing touches (at last!) to the new
edition of his Discourse. " have been leading very dull,
uniform, yet busy, life at Cambridge," he wrote, "but, thank
                           I

                                                                         a

         182 QUEEN'S CONCERT.

  1850.  God ! my book is finished --a fat volume of nearly 800
         pages!" In August came the meeting of the British Asso
Mt. 6s-
         ciation at Edinburgh, at which he read the pape1k Sw the

         Geological Structure and Relations of the Frontier Chain of
         Scotland, to which reference has been already made1. This

         was succeeded by a short tour in Scotland with Murchison.

         Lastly, the Michaelmas term afrCambridge brought its usual
         tale of work, interrupted, to some extent, by the first sittings
         of the Commission.

         To Miss Fanny Hicks.       Cambridge, July yh, 1850.
             Dear Fanny,

                        So you want to know all about the Queen's party.
         We assembled in the great picture-gallery of the Palace, and

         the arrival of the Royal guests was the best part of the

         evening's work. The old Duke came very early, and looked
         as brisk as a young man of twenty-five. He was full of life
         and spirits, and looked as if he meant to live for ever. There

         were multitudes whom I knew, and multitudes whom I knew
         not -- Court ladies glorious to behold and shining in diamonds
         --officers of state --weather-beaten generals and admirals --
         foreign ambassadors --Turks and Nepaulese !

              By the way the Nepaul party were the smartest fellows

         there. They wore a kind of Oriental tunic spangled with
         lace, a gorgeous sabre, slippers of gay colours, and a kind of

         flat turban covered with gems and pearls, above which rose

         in front a circle, (about the size of a small saucer) literally
         covered with diamonds surrounded by a ring of large emeralds.
         Over this blazing circle waved a kind of crest, formed of the
         tails of the bird of Paradise. They speak not a word of
         English; but several officers who had served in India were

         able to talk with them, and they seemed cheerful and cour
         teous. Their mode of salutation was first a low bow, after

         which they raised the right hand to the forehead, and then

         gently let it down again.

                               1 See above, p. 146.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH.                                        183

     The concert began at ten. The Queen of course sat on                        1850.
the front seat, a little on the left side. There was no instru-

ment but a grand piano touched by Costa, and we had six or
eight of the first singers from the Opera, including Grisi,
Lablache, and Mario. First act over, the Queen went to the
supper-room. You never saw such a blazing sideboard !

What think you was my royal supper? Two cups of very

weak black tea and a biscuit. Supper over the Queen
returned to the grand saloon. We made a lane for her,

and she bowed to us all, we bending our backs till they

crackled like castanets. She also shook hands with many of

the ladies. Then followed the second part. So soon as it

was over I walked off. The night was glorious, and the

moon was shining over the towers of the Abbey. I therefore

entered the Park, and walked to the Athenaeum Club down
the Mall -- enjoying the fresh breeze and the delicious moon

light. There ! I have done my paper, so good night.

                   Ever affectionately yours,

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  A. Sedgwick.

Foot of Loch Lomond, August 12th, 1850.

Dearest Isabella,

                 Here I am at a snug inn, waiting for the next
steamer to convey me up Loch Lomond. I remained at

Cambridge till I had finished my book, and corrected the
last proof-sheet ; so I did not reach Euston Square station,

on my way to Scotland, till the morning of August 2nd.
We ran down to Edinburgh in thirteen hours ! I remember

my weary journey to the Scotch capital in December, 1824,
when we were two entire nights out, and a part of a third

night !
     The following day I devoted to several excursions, for

the sections of the British Association did not assemble on

that day. I was domesticated with Bishop Terrot1, whom

     1 Charles Hughes Terrot, Trin. Coll. B.A. 1812, afterwards Fellow.  He was
made Bishop of Edinburgh in 1841.

          184 TOUR IN SCOTLAND.

   1850.  you saw at Norwich last year. On Sunday evening I drove

Ait. 65.  0 Woodville, a sweet cottage under the Pentland Hills, now

          the property of my excellent friend Dr Alison, but I returned

          early next morning. Monday and Tuesday were busy days !
          Committee meetings --discussions at the sections --dinners --
          public speeches --lectures --exhibitions of works of art and
          science-- etc. etc. filled them from nine a.m. till midnight.

              On Thursday I examined a noble collection of fossils,
          and there met the Duke and Duchess of Argyll. I quite

          started when the Duchess came up to me and held out

          her hand, telling me I was an old acquaintance. ' You don't
          remember me,' she said; 'but I remember your kindness
          to me at the Queen's coronation.' ' Then,' said I, ' you
          must be the living representation of a little girl who several
          times sat upon my shoulder during the ceremony.' ' Yes,'
          she said, ' I am the very person, and without your help

          I should have seen nothing. So now you must come and
          see me at Inverary Castle.' I said that the visit would

          be impossible, however much I should be delighted to wait

          on her Grace. Impossible things do, however, come to pass ;

          and to-morrow I mean, if all be well, to go to Inverary
          Castle. Good morning ! I am interrupted.

                                                                                            Monday, 3 P.M.

               Oh ! what a charming run in a steamer from the foot
          of the lake to a little inn called Inversnaid ! But let me
          turn back to my journal. After the collection of fossils

          I drove with Murchison to the Lord Advocate's, with whom

          we remained all night. Next morning we went to the
          nearest station, and thence by the northern railroad to

          Dumblane1....
                                                         Inverary Castle, August 14.

               Yesterday morning was fine but hazy. We crossed the
          lake to Tarbct, and there met Mr Prescott the American

              1 The portion omitted describes a visit to the field of Sheriff Muir, Loch
          Katrine, etc.

VISITS INVERARY CASTLE.                       185

historian. We joined him, and hired an open carriage,                            j8jo.

in which we drove through Glen Croe, a very fine Argyleshire                               5-

pass ; but not equal to the famous pass of Glencoe, which

I saw in 1827. At the head of Loch Fine we hired a boat,

in which we ran down to the shore just under Inverary

Castle. The scenery is enchanting, but on a less scale

than that we had left behind : but still the country is
much broken, and the hills round the castle are clothed

with magnificent woods, and from the terrace you command
a charming view of Loch Fine. We have had a most kind
reception, and an excellent dinner, and a good deal of chat
afterwards. I had a wrangle with Prescott, who contended

that the blacks are an inferior race of animals, and I think

the company was on my side. About 12 I retired, much

fatigued, but I am up first, and before breakfast I hope to

walk to Inverary to put this letter in the post. After break
fast the Duke, Mr Howard (Lord Carlisle's brother), and

Sir R. Murchison go to the moors. I must remain behind

to finish my wrangle with Prescott1, and perhaps to have
a short drive with the Duchess through the park. To

morrow, or at latest the day after, I must find my way to

Glasgow, and thence to Dent. God bless you !

To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Dent, August 19, 1850.

...On Friday morning I left Inverary, not without sorrow;

and I had a glorious drive through the Devil's Glen to Loch

Goil, and thence down to Loch Long and the Firth of the

Clyde, and so up to Glasgow. Saturday I started at 10 a.m.

by the express. It does not pull up at Low Gill, so I went

on to Kendal, where I halted a few hours, during which they

contrived to book me for a lecture on Friday next. Will you

come and hear me ? I reached Dent about half past nine,

      1 These conversations were not forgotten by Prescott. The Duke of Argyll,

writing to Sedgwick, 28 May, 1852, says: "We have had a letter lately from

Prescott, who always mentions with wholesome respect the terrible Professor of

Geology, to whom he always desires to be remembered."

          186 SENDS DISCOURSE TO PRINCE ALBERT.

   1850.  and found them all well. Yesterday was dreadfully wet. I

/Et. 65.  gave them in the morning an extempore sermon of three
          quarters of an hour ! Were you not well away ? So now you
          have my latest news. Only this post has brought me a
          letter from Mr Mc Coy at Cambridge, which will make it
          necessary for me to return immediately. Both he and a
          London artist are working in my Museum, and at my expense,
          and they cannot get on without me. So off I must go in a

          few days at longest, and I must put off my Scalby1 visit

          either to October, before I begin my lectures, or till Christmas,

          when I can remain a little longer. There is no help for this,

          my dear Fan, for the business presses....

          To Lieut.-Col. Phipps.  Cambridge, September gth, 1850.

              My dear Colonel,

                           The rheumatic gout has laid hold of me, and

          mutilated every faculty of mind and body, so that I am at
          present hardly responsible for my actions. I have just sense

          enough left to order my London bookseller to forward a

          bound copy of my brain-monster to Balmoral; and I hope

          you will give it to the Prince with the best expressions of

          respect and gratitude which you can muster on the occasion

          in my behalf...

          The Prince will never think of reading my book through ;

          but should he turn over certain pages, and see the freedom

          with which I have attacked some great German names, I
          hope he will not be angry with me. I think His Royal

          Highness (should he glance at the extracts from Oken) will
          see that I have quoted matter to justify all that I have said.
          In every branch of learning and science the Germans are

          fighting in the front rank, and doing inestimable service ; but

          my conviction is that some of their speculative philosophers

          have done, and are doing, much mischief.

              The Royal University Commission is now out, and I
          rejoice to see the names of the persons with whom I shall

          1 The living near Scarborough held by the Rev. James Sedgwick. Vol. i. p. 38.

FIFTH EDITION OF DISCOURSE.

have to act. They are all my personal friends ; and we shall,                                   1850.
I trust, be able to do our duty without wrangling, or any                                             65-

material difference of principle or opinion....
                                                   Ever truly yours,
                                                         A. Sedgwick.

     The Commissioners to whom Sedgwick refers were the
Lord Bishop of Chester (Dr Graham, formerly Master of

Christ's College); Dr Peacock, Dean of Ely; Sir J. F. W.

Herschel ; and Sir John Romilly. They appointed as their
secretary Mr Bateson of St John's College, afterwards Master.

     It would be beside our purpose to give a detailed account
of the "brain-monster'' alluded to in the last letter. The

Discourse has been already criticised1; and Sedgwick's object
in writing the Preface has been described by himself in one

of his letters to Hugh Miller2. Still --on account of the

author's natural interest in a work on which he had bestowed
such protracted labour, as well as the importance of the

subjects discussed in it--we must briefly describe the fresh
subject-matter, from the mere extent of which the new

edition may be regarded as an original work.

     It was obvious that a Discourse on the Studies of the

University, preached eighteen years before, could not be
republished without some prefatory remarks. The argument
from design, as stated in the first section, needed extension
and reinforcement in consequence of the popularity of such a
book as the Vestiges; " the mischief of modern pantheistic

doctrines when applied to physical, moral, and religious

questions3," had to be exposed ; while the second and third
sections, treating of the literary, ethical, and metaphysical
studies of the University, had lost much of their point

through recent academic changes, and required explanation

and defence.

     This Preface, or Preliminary Dissertation, is divided into
two parts. The first begins with a formal refutation of the

1 See above, Vol. i. pp. 402 -- 405.                                  2 Printed above, p. 159.
                                             3 Preface, p. ccexxiii.

        188 FIFTH EDITION OF DISCOURSE.

850.    views advanced in the Vestiges ; and     is,                  in fact, little more
 . 65-                                                                                    a
        than the article in The Edinburgh Review expressed in

        somewhat different language, and expanded so as to be an

        answer to second work by the same author called Expla
           a
                          a
        nations, in which reply to the Edinburgh Reviewer and

        other critics had been attempted. The sections dealing
        " with the author's pretended facts," are succeeded by
        discussion of his " adopted philosophy," and, says Sedgwick,
        " my remarks apply to the whole school of modern Mate

        rialists, so far as comprehend their doctrines." This leadsI
        to the " conditions of the mind that have led men to deny a

        Personal Creator," atheism, pantheism, the absurdities of

        phrenology, and the support which the author of the Vestiges

        sought to obtain for his theory from the calculating machine

        invented by Mr Babbage. From these subjects we pass, by

        a  somewhat abrupt transition, to the ideal theory of Locke,

        and to idealism generally. Sedgwick was led to this partly

        by what he had advanced in the Discourse, partly by the

        recent appearance of Oken's Physio-Philosophy in an English

        dress under the auspices of the Ray Society. The lofty

        flights of the transcendental German,

                                                 who taught to his profit and fame
                   That something and nothing are one and the same,

        are treated with unsparing ridicule. " have read his Work,"
        says Sedgwick, " and have striven to perceive some glimmer
        ings of steady light among the mists of his first sixty or seventy

        pages and nothing have seen but an ignis fatuus playing,
        here and there, on darkness that palpable and impenetra

        ble1." Justice however, done to Oken so far as his specula
        tions were based on experiment, and the next section gives a

        sketch of the vertebral theory of the skull, with the archetype
        and homologies of the vertebrate skeleton, as developed by

        Owen from Oken's observations. Such theory, as exhibiting
        evidence of scheme conceived in the Divine Mind from the

        beginning, and adapted to the wants of His creatures in
           ;

                            is,
                                     a

                               I

                                           I
                                                                is

                                                   I

           a

                                           1

                                                                   a
                             Preface, p. cciii.

                   HISTORY OF CREATION.                       189

successive acts of creation, was unhesitatingly accepted by                           18
Sedgwick. But on this point -- and especially on the geo-
logical questions with which the theory had to deal --he shall                      Xx

speak for himself.

In every successive Fauna of Geology we find the same kind of

animal subordination we meet with now in the living world ; and the

very earliest Genera and Orders were not organically inferior to the
Genera and Orders of this day which we derive from corresponding

grades in the scale of Nature. Nay, sometimes the primeval Genera
and Orders are organically superior to their corresponding types in

the living world.   Again, the general organic plan of        Nature has
been at all times  not merely analogous, but identical.
                                                               If Genera,

Orders, and Classes be now distinct and separate, they were equally
distinct and separate in all periods of the old world. There is no
development on the lines of organic ascent such as to produce
confusion : but if the theory of development were true, there must
be, on some parts of the organic scale, such a blending and penetra
tion of types as would blot out and obliterate our lines of separation

between Genera and Orders and Classes. But we look in vain

for any semblance of such obliteration : and if we try to complete
our present scale, by interpolating within it the organic types of the
old world, we find no incongruity in our task. The oldest types fall

into their place in the general scale, as naturally as the newest. We

may, by this interpolation, improve and perfect our general scale ;

but we break not down the barriers between Genera and Orders and

Classes. They continue as strong and as abruptly marked as they

were before.

The elevation of the Fauna of successive periods was not there

fore made by transmutation, but by creative additions ; and it is by

watching these additions that we get some insight into Nature's true

historical progress. Judging by our evidence (and by what else have
we any right to judge?) there was a time when Cephalopoda were the
highest types of animal life. They were then the Primates of this
world ; and, corresponding to their office and position, some of them
were of noble structure and gigantic size. But these creatures were
degraded from their rank at the head of Nature, and Fishes next took
the lead : and they did not rise up in Nature in some degenerate
form, as if they were but the transmuted progeny of the Cephalopoda ;

but they started into life (if we are to trust our evidence) in the very
highest ichthyic  type that ever was created.      Following  ofouNrathuisreto--ry
chronologically,  Reptiles next took the lead  at  the head
not by transmutation, but by creative addition -- and (with some
almost evanescent exceptions) they flourished during the countless
ages of the Secondary Period as the lords and despots of the world ;
and they had an organic perfection corresponding to their exalted

rank in Nature's kingdom ; for their highest Orders were not merely

great in strength and stature, but were anatomically raised far above
any forms of the Reptile Class now living in the world. We have

                                HISTORY OF CREATION.

   1850.  seen, however, that this Class was, in its turn, to lose its rank at the

Mt. 65.   head of Nature ; and what is more, we have seen that it underwent

          (when considered collectively) a positive organic degradation before; (if
          the end of the Secondary Period, and we may trust our evidence)
          this took place countless ages before terrestrial Mammals of any

          living type had been called into being. Mammals were added next
          (near the commencement of the Tertiary Period), and seem to have
          been added suddenly. Some of the early extinct forms of this Class,
          which we now know only by ransacking the ancient catacombs of

          Nature, were powerful and gigantic and we believe they were

          collectively well fitted for the place they filled. But they, in their
          turn, were to be degraded from their place at the head of Nature
                                                                                           :
                                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                                      ;
          and she became what she now        is,  by the addition of Man. By this

          last addition she more exalted than she was before. Man stands
                          is

          by himself the despotic lord of the living world not so great in
          organic strength as many of the despots that went before him

          hiopbidnnoypresopevtesNirecnpsaoalcoetntitpcuotctmhrneievaospe'etsftnlioyothcfnc--ahosomvrmfeboeytbnhctiinhahncetolaaentc,itfbioorcurannablalnslui--cnsticfs--erebkunrnyiailcbtldeiyi--soenttdhheparhffterasenasurmracmepirae--reaeknorbewcwaobseodvyrdeklhieamitdmnhtitathhstreaieamntambotseoofeflnarilntshnlsal--isbbhhlcbeyiivamymipstaoiaofctnohiolstrai--yogwchtai--bheaocyerltfa
                                               by

                                             a

          rising from individuala      facts to the apprehension of                        goefnesreanl sela--wasn--d
          by conception of          a  Cause for all the phenomena
          aa
          by consequent belief         in    God of Nature.
                                          a

          Such the history of Creation. It not the dream of disordered
          fancy, but an honest record of successive facts that were stamped byis isis is;
          Nature's hand on the chronicle of the material world. Where our                           a
                       ;
          chronicle broken and defective, we may acknowledge our ignorance

          and be silent or we may speculate analogically on points where true

          historical evidence wanting. We may, in part at least, endeavour
                          is
                               is
          to explain what unknown by what known for we believe that

          Nature has been consistent with herself.                                We are   ocferthtaeineatrhthat--thtehraet
          have been great successive changes in the                               surface
          some of these changes were slow and gradual -- that others were
          brought about by the sudden eruption of the pent-up powers of

          Nature, and were comparatively rapid and violent. But each change
          was in subordination to the general laws of material Nature, and was,

          we believe, but prelude to the material conditions which followed,
                      in
                          a

                             a
                                     a

                                                      in
                                                                        a
          till physical Nature became what she now is. We also believe that
          the successive creations of the
          with these physical changes        organic kingdoms                              were in     harmony
                                             the surface of the                            Earth --    and that
          the Fauna of each period formed kind of prelude to the Fauna

          that was to follow, till living Nature became what she now is. Nay,
          we can sometimes discern this kind of organic relationship or analogy,
          not merely      broad statement of facts (like some of those above
          enumerated), but in closer comparison of the Genera and Orders
          that enter into the Fauna of two successive periods. Thus the
          gigantic Edentata (the Glyptodons and Mylodons, &c.) in the super

          PROGRESS OF THE UNIVERSITY.                                                                         191

ficial drift of South America, formed a prelude to the part taken up,                                              1850.
in our days, by the burrowing Armadillos and the climbing Sloths ;
and the gigantic Marsupials in the caverns of New Holland have a                                                       6,,

like relation to the Kangaroos now bounding on the surface of the

country. But, while we admit all this, we are not so mad as to
affirm that the giants of the former period were the natural progenitors
of their dwarfish representatives in the living world. What we do
          that the past history of Nature, as
believe   is,                                                  seen in her
                                     '.                        it
                                                                    is
                                                           is
                                                                                             ;
Geological records, though strange and altogether unanticipated in
the speculations of human reason,
                                                               consistent and coherent and
that, before the creation of all worlds, there was an archetype of

Nature (dead as well as living, past as well as present) in the
prescient mind of God

     In the last section of this first division of the Preface
Sedgwick returns once more to his old antagonist reasserts
                                                               is
the argument for final causes; discusses the credibility of
                                                                            ;
miracles and the rival views of Paley and Hume and finally
proclaims induction to be " the fountain of all material truth."            a;

The second division of the Preface opens with sketch of

the evidences of Christianity. The reader not to expect a

formal treatise-- but only                                 reference to one or two points
is

                          a
                                                        a
which " seem to arise quite naturally out of the previous
discussions -- series of short hints, thrown out in sincerity

and good-will, for the student's guidance*." This sketch

succeeded by a masterly exposition of the scope and

meaning of the principal arguments advanced in Butler's

Analogy.

     This sketch concluded, Sedgwick passes to the existing
condition of the University -- moral, intellectual, and material.

He begins with the probable results of the introduction of the
new Triposes -- of which he cordially approved. " Some men,"
he says, " fear that our old and severe intellectual discipline

may suffer by these changes. Had partaken of these fears,
I

                   1

                                              I

                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                  a
and believed that our stern mathematical studies, which ever

since Newton lived amongst us have been the glory of

Cambridge, would descend from their high place, as natural

consequence of the Graces last year passed by the Senate,

should then have been almost willing to cross England

         Preface, pp. ccxv -- ccxix.                           Ibid. pp. eclvi, ccciii.

          192 PROGRESS OF THE UNIVERSITY.

   1850.  barefoot to record my vote against them. But we have

Mt. 65.   nothing to fear from this quarter. Our highest prizes will

          still be carried off by those who reap their honours in the

          Mathematical and Classical fields.. ..It is not excessive activity,

          but an unhealthy deathlike stagnation, that is the bane of an

          Academic body like our own1." Thence he passes to the

          beneficial labours of the Philosophical Society, and their

          practical results in Professor Airy's work at Greenwich; to the

          extension of the Museums belonging to the University, and

          of the buildings of the Colleges ; to the increase in the

          number of the undergraduates, and the changes for the better

          in their pursuits and habits since he came to Cambridge at

          the beginning of the century. From the condition and

          prospects of the University the transition to the religious

          movements of the day is easy and obvious ; and the Preface
          concludes with a denunciation of the Oxford Movement and

          the principles of the Tracts for the Times, then recently
          published. In writing this Sedgwick was doubtless stimu

          lated by his dislike of the Cambridge Camden Society,
          the later developments of which he had strenuously -- not
          to say violently--opposed. The unfortunate Society comes

          in for its share of adverse criticism*.

               Here the Preface ends, but not the volume ; for, as soon as
          Sedgwick's arm was sufficiently recovered to allow him to

          resume his pen, he set to work upon A series of notes to the

          preface, which occupy one hundred and forty-six pages at the

          end of the Appendix. They deal with most of the important

          subjects touched upon in the Preface, strengthening and

          explaining the positions there brought forward, or supplying

          valuable illustrations.

          The book, like the article in The Edinburgh Review, is

          a storehouse of arguments against transmutation of species ;

          and further, against the tendencies of modern speculation
          towards materialism. As such it will have a permanent

          historical value. But it must always be remembered, in

          1 Preface, p. ccexxv.    - Preface, p. cccxcvii.

              DEFECTS IN THE DISCOURSE.                                             193

justice to Sedgwick, that his arguments ought to be weighed                                             1850.
                                                                                                             6s-
against the statement of facts as then known, and the

evidence then offered ; and not against the data now

available in support of theories of evolution and interpre

tation. At the same time we must allow that the form of

the book is unfortunate. The perpetual recurrence to the
Vestiges gives it an air of having been written to serve one

purpose only, and that a transient one ; while the dispersion

of the matter through the Discourse, the Preface, the Appendix,

and the Supplement to the Appendix, wearies the reader, and

prevents him from feeling the full force of his author's argu

ments. Sedgwick's friends were not slow to perceive, and to

draw his notice to, these defects. Lord Brougham spoke of
" the somewhat amorphous --at least oddly-proportioned --
       "                                                  " It
book          Professor  Owen                  wrote :             reminds  me  of the
      ;

germ of a goodly tree between two fat cotyledonal leaves.

I hope you may be spared to expand it into a form agreeable

with its true nature and importance, and bearing a title that

would attract hundreds to possess and profit by who now,
                                                                            it,

                                                                                                     ;
fear, will scarcely suspect that in an Essay on the Studies of
I
                 J.                            the best work on the principles of

                                           is
the University there
Revealed and Natural Religion extant in our language "

and Mr W. Conybeare, son to his old geological friend and

teacher, regretted that "discussions of so much value, and

of such permanent interest, should have been made to appear

dependent upon so flimsy a book as the Vestiges. May we
not hope," he said, " that some time or other you will recast

all that part and publish                      in separate and independent
      ?

                                         it
                                                       a
form      The extracts from Hegel and Oken are most

delicious, specially the latter, over which my wife and                             I

have enjoyed some very exhilarating laughs."

The arrangement of the Woodwardian Museum, to which

Mr Mc Coy had given his time almost uninterruptedly since

18461, and which he had fortunately nearly completed, was

in this year brought to an abrupt close by his appointment

                         1                     See above, p. 118.

      S. II.                                                                    13

         194 WOOD IVA RD1A N MUSE UM.

  1850.  to a Professorship in the Queen's College at Belfast. His
         work in Cambridge had been thoroughly congenial to him,
Mt. 65.  and he left it with unfeigned regret. " I feel as if parting
         from all I care for, leaving you and the Museum," he wrote
         to Sedgwick, soon after his arrival at Belfast1. His engagea it,
         ments there, however, did not wholly sever his connection
         with Cambridge. He had undertaken in 1849, by a private

         arrangement with Sedgwick, to describe the British Palaeozoic
         Fossils in the Woodwardian Museum ; and considerable

         progress had been already made with the text and illustra
         tions of the proposed work. They were both anxious to
         complete and therefore Mc Coy undertook to spend the

         spring and summer months of each year in Cambridge. It

         was then expected that no long period would elapse before

         the whole could be published but from various causes was
         frequently retarded, and was barely finished when Mc Coy
         accepted Professorship at the University of Melbourne in

         1854. To this work, and to the important preface contributed

         by Sedgwick, we shall return in future chapter meanwhile

                gratifying to record that the arrangement of the Museum
         received cordial recognition from the Inspectors of 1850.
         After noticing the condition of Dr Woodward's cabinets, they

         proceed
                                            ;

                                                  a

                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                       it

         it

             is

                  :

               We cannot let the opportunity pass without noticing the valuableis
         Collection, commenced by the late Professor Hailstone, and so
         greatly augmented by the exertions of the present Woodwardian
         Professor and his friends. The classification, which now almost

         entirely completed, does the greatest credit to the accurate know
         ledge and unwearied industry of Mr McCoy. The arrangement
         which he has made under the judicious directions of the Professor

         6        Sedgwick had          very high opinion of McCoy. Writing to Murchison,
               1          :
                                     a
         October, 1851, respecting the post in the British Museum afterwards filled by

         Owen, he says '"Whatever happens,a                verily believe, matter of the very
                                                                            a
                                                     it

                                                       iIs,

                                                                       it,
         first importance to secure to the British public in some form or other the services
         of man like McCoy -- an excellent naturalist, an incomparable and most philo
         a

         sophical palaeontologist, and one of the steadiest and quickest workmen that ever

         undertook the arrangement of Museum. You have seen his Cambridge work,

         and where  ! isthere  anything  to be named with                   either in extent or perfection of
         arrangement    "

ON FOREIGN TRAVEL.                                                   195

will render the Museum practically of the greatest use and value                 1850.
henceforward to all those who are studying the subject ; and we
consider that the thanks of the University are due to the Professor            ^t. 65.
for having secured the assistance of so able a man, and more
particularly when we recollect that this new order of things has
been almost entirely effected at the personal expense of the Professor
himself.

     At the same time it is to be hoped that some means may be
hereafter found of more liberally assisting him in adding to and
perfecting this most valuable Collection. Several valuable fossils
have been in the present year added to the Museum from the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh. We would suggest that the cost
of these should, if possible, be defrayed by the University.

     The two following letters will conclude our account of the

year 1850.

To Miss Isabella Sedgtvick.  Norwich, October 1st, 1850.

...I have seen most of the places you mention ; but only

looked at them over my left shoulder, for I was travelling to

see the rocks, and not to halt at the cities. I agree with you

that the Dresden gallery is the most interesting of all you

have had the happiness of studying. Next to the Madonna

di San Sisto (which is out of all comparison the most glorious

painting I ever beheld) the most valuable pictures at Dresden

are the Correggios, though I did not admire them so much
as I wished to do, and I think you are right in selecting his

Magdalen as the object of your special love. And what a

glorious city is Prague ! Edinburgh, Prague, and Lyons are,

in my mind, the three most interesting and picturesque cities

I have ever seen. Is there not something oriental in the

ponderous barbaric grandeur of the palaces of Prague ?

Saxon Switzerland I have seen far better than you have

done, for I hammered my way through                           partly on foot.
                        a
The greatest pleasure of    atour  not at the moment

                               it
                                            is
                                                         it,
of first enjoyment, but in the store of knowledge and

happy thoughts with which    fills the mind. And these

happy memories become part of yourself, and no one can

rob you of them. Besides, your tour will give you new

sympathies with friends and with books, which are your

                                                              13--2

          196 ON CHURCH POLITY.

1850.     private friends. But these things we can talk about till we
     65-  are tired -- rest --and then talk about them again and again.
          Thank God ! you are come back safe, and I trust with
          renovated bodily health....

          To Rev. G. H. Ainger.  Cambridge, December 26th, 1850.
              My dear George,

                             ...Many thanks for your sermon. I agree heartily

          with most of though think should not agree with you
                             it,

                                    I
                                         I

                                                  II
          about the right of private judgement. You are too much of a

          high churchman for me. If the right did not exist our Reforma

          tion has no principle to stand on. adopt, on this point, Bishop

          Marsh's views, which think are sound, and reasonable, and

          true. The right of private judgment may have led to folly

          and schism and fanaticism. But what of that Liberty
                                                                                         aI ?
          leads to republicanism and licentiousness, and are we on that

          account to seek the despot's collar                                            verily believe the
                             it
                                                              is

                                                                                      ?

                                                          I
          world. mean the Christian world, would be ten times worse
                    it I
          than               were kept to the semblance of uniformity by
                         is

          church authority. Forced unity                   not spiritual unity.                it

          take for my definition of the Church Catholic the words of                             I

          one of our canonical prayers, the 'bidding prayer' (as is

          sometimes called), used before the sermon on state occasions,

          and always in Cathedrals. In my definition -- the orthodox
          definition of our Church -- good sincere Presbyterian
                                 a                                                             is  as

                                      it                                                 member of the
                                               is

                                                   I is
                                                                    a
          true member of the Catholic Church as
                  8a
          Church of England. Don't think that undervalue our

          Church polity, and don't think better than the Presbyterian.

          'Tis not so. But Church polity not Christianity                                      ;

                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                       is

          only one of the helps to it....

              I     caught my terrible cold at Windsor, whither went the

          day of our Address1 to the Queen. We had                                             gracious

          reception, and most regal lunch but they did not save me
                             a                          ;

              1   An address against Papal Aggression,  presented to the Queen 10 Decem
                 1
          ber,      5o.

                OX CLARISSA HARLOWE.                         197

from one of the worst colds I have ever endured within the              ^1851.
                                                                                 66
period of my memory....

                                       Ever, my dear George,

                                        Your affectionate friend,
                                                         A. Sedgwick.

    The winter of 1850-- 51 was spent by Sedgwick, as so

many previous winters had been, in solitude and sickness.

In the previous autumn he had suffered from his "first

autumnal attack1" of gout, which hitherto had afflicted

him only in the spring, but henceforward was to be his

unwelcome attendant during the greater part of the year.

Subsequently a long and wearisome attack of influenza kept

him a prisoner under doctor's orders. As usual under these

circumstances, he took to literature. Accident led him to

Richardson.  "  Well   "  he  wrote,  " it struck  me that, after all,

                      !

Clarissa might be made into a gentle piece de resistance -- a

kind of cushion for my cold to lean upon ; so I got it from

the public library, and once more blubbered over it almost as

much as I did about fifty years since. Indeed I read it pretty

honestly, only skipping a little here and there, when the author

proses too much for a modern reader. It is a wonderful

novel, and exactly answered its purpose, but you must not

attempt to read it. 'Tis infinitely too long, unless you have

an influenza of six weeks, and nothing better to do, which I

trust will never be the case so long as you live*."

The year which began thus inauspiciously was one of

bustle and excitement, and Sedgwick, whether well or ill,
was compelled to lead what he once happily described as " a

shuttlecock existence." His duties as Commissioner took

him frequently to London, and compelled him to pass long

and weary days in Downing Street ; while his position as

Prince Albert's secretary entailed upon him numerous social

engagements which he enjoyed while they lasted, but which

             1 To R. I. Murchison, December, 1850.
             a To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 26 January, 1851.

          [98 VISI7 TO WINDSOR CASTLE.

   1851.  occupied his time and over-taxed his strength. He was
          beginning to feel his years, and, had he not been an unthrifty
/Et. 66.  economist of his powers and his time, he would have sought

          repose rather than fresh employment.
               Early in February he spent two days at Windsor Castle.

          Her Majesty and the Prince received him with gracious
          kindness : " everything went off as smooth as silk ; everybody
          seemed perfectly comfortable and at his ease ; and the Queen
          seemed the merriest and happiest of the whole party. She
          looks the picture of good health, and realises that charming
          description in the Bible where a woman is called 'a joyful
          mother of children ' I."

               The next letter needs no explanation.

                                               Athenaeum Club, February 12M, 1851.

               My dear Mrs Stanley,
                          I had a very busy day yesterday --beginning very

          early and ending rather late-- and I returned to Suffolk Street

          in a state of great fatigue. But warm tea did wonders, and
          after dissolving my curdled brain in its fumes, I sat in an

          arm-chair, put my legs on another, and read through the

          Memoir* without halting ; except indeed that I was sometimes

          stopped by a sudden dimness in the sight when the tale told
          me of events that must ever live in my memory, and reminded

          me of persons whom I loved, and whom I must never see
          again in this world. I think the Memoir excellent. I

          wished some parts to be expanded ; to know, for example,
          a little more of the Bishop's domestic life, and to see one or
          two specimens of his correspondence with those whom he

          most loved and confided in. But perhaps in this respect I

          was unreasonable....

               In the place where the Memoir appears it is but an

          introduction to the Essays &c. that follow (Essays by the
          way is not the right word ; but let it pass). The Memoir

          1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 6 February, 1851.
          2 Arthur Stanley's Memoir of his father. See above, pp. 164, i65.

MEMOIR OF BISHOP STANLEY.

therefore is confined to the unfolding of his clerical character,    1851.
and his practical views of clerical duties, as shown in his
                                                                   /Eu
parochial life at Alderley ; and afterwards to the illustration
of his principles and conduct during the twelve years of his

episcopal administration at Norwich. Read with this limita

tion, the Memoir is excellent. It brings out his motives and

character, and puts them exactly in the right point of view.

Hence it will do his memory good service ; and it will, I

trust, do a still higher service by helping to teach us lessons

of liberality (in the right sense of that word), and mutual love,
and forbearance of rash judgments in judging one of another

on points where we cannot make up our minds to agree.

In all the essential points of practical conduct in clerical
life the dear Bishop's example was admirable. He was a

specimen of a warm-hearted, high-minded, liberal, Christian

gentleman, such as we (alas !) very seldom can meet with,
or even hear of; and Arthur has done well in perpetuating
the influence of such an example ; which may tell upon,

and do good to, and liberalize and christianize (as a secondary
help) the clergy of the Church of England long after all

those persons are dead and gone who (like myself) have had
the happiness of knowing and loving their diocesan.

     This is exactly the time for such a biography -- when men
are idolizing shadows, and mistaking what all men of sense

think unessential, and what many think but fooleries and
fopperies, for the simple truths of the Gospel, and a life of
faith and purity and love.... I think there should have been a

sentence or two on his power as a good-tempered and

humourous artist. ...I return the book with my very best
thanks. I daresay when I am in Cambridge this evening

I shall find a copy on my table from my bookseller.
     It may seem very strange, but it is true, that when you or

Miss Stanley asked me about the letter1 from which Arthur
has taken an extract near the end of the Memoir, I had

forgotten all about it. And even now I cannot bring before

1 Printed above, p. 164.

          200 RECEIVES THE WOLLASTON MEDAL.

  1851.   my mind's eye the place where I wrote it. I doubt not that
          J wrote honestly ; yet the extract is inaccurately expressed
JEt. 66.  in one sentence, and another contains an untruth. The
          choristers did not chant a Psalm as I have stated ; but they
          did chant the solemn sentences in the opening of the service.
          How hard it is to be right in all minute points, even for an
          eyewitness who has no motive or wish to write anything but
          plain truth ! May God bless you, my dear Mrs Stanley, and
          make you happy. The Memoir may revive painful remem
          brances, but it must and ought to make you happy, by
          giving you new materials for Christian hope, and steady
          anticipations, through God's favour, of enjoying hereafter
          the society of those you loved here in the presence of a
          Redeemer, and in a place where sorrow has no entrance, where
          wailing is never heard and tears are for ever dried from the

          eye.

                          Ever affectionately and gratefully yours,
                                                                    A. Sedgwick.

              At the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society

          (21 February) the President, Sir Charles Lyell, presented to
          Sedgwick the Wollaston Medal, awarded to him by the
          Council " for his important and original researches in Geology,

          more especially for his Memoirs inserted in the Transactions
          of the Geological Society of London and Philosophical
          Society of Cambridge, developing the structure of the British

          Isles, the Alps, and Rhenish provinces."
               This public recognition of Sedgwick's position as a geo

          logist suggests an examination of the work accomplished by

          him since 1838 ; and it must be understood that what we are
          now about to say is a continuation of our remarks at the close
          of the former volume 1.

               The period between 1838 and 1851 was important in many
          ways. Though Sedgwick did not so frequently publish the
          fresh results of what he had just been doing, he still continued

          1 Vol. i. ch. xi.

                   GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838-- 185 1.

to bring forward much that was new, and much that was the 1851.
result of original research. He was now engaged chiefly in /Et- 66-
filling in details, in defending the positions he had formerly
taken up, and in correcting errors into which he had fallen,
either from generalising on insufficient data, or from having
too hastily accepted the incorrect sections of others.

     The beginning of this period was memorable for the
appearance of that splendid work The Silurian System of
Murchison. Carefully worked out, fully illustrated, giving
the results of an examination of the fossils by some of the
best palaeontologists of the day, and embodying the results
of much of the lifelong work of such shrewd observers as
Lewis of Aymestry and Williams of Llandovery, it is a work
the publication of which may well be claimed as an epoch-
marking event in the history of scientific progress.

      The Geological Society would naturally try to avoid
the confusion arising from the same names being used in
different senses, or from different names being applied to what
the consensus of original observers pronounced to be the
same; and their Publication Committee would, where possible,
modify the terminology of papers referred to them in accord
ance with the received nomenclature when such a course did
not alter the general statement of facts ; and, where the results
of observation did not accord with the theories involved in
such nomenclature, would, in the interests of science, en

deavour to induce the authors to alter or suppress such parts

of the paper. This would not produce immediate results.
The bearing of it would only become apparent by degrees.
But, as Sedgwick's Bala beds included nearly the whole of
Murchison's Lower Silurian, it was obvious that sooner or
later the difficulty of correlating the rocks of North and South
Wales on the lines so far followed would be seen to be in

superable.
      This explanation is necessary in order to understand

Sedgwick's Cambrian and Silurian papers of this date. Some
of the difficulties arise from his straining the evidence to try

202 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838-- 1851.

1851. to make it fit with sections in the accuracy of which he
"If/Et. 66. could not but believe.
                                    that be true, then it must be thus

explained," was what he had to say over and over again.
Further, we find that his papers and illustrations are absurd

in many respects unless we remember that a new nomencla
ture was substituted for his in many cases. For instance he
was made to say that the Lower Silurian stretched from Bala
Lake to the Menai Straits as shewn in the Map appended to

his paper read before the Geological Society in November,

18431. That map shows what Sedgwick included in his
' Protozoic,' but not what either Sedgwick or any one else
then called Lower Silurian. The truth was that Mr Henry

Warburton and the Publication Committee did not know the

ground, nor understand the points of difference. No one did

at that time except Murchison and Sedgwick themselves.

There is plenty of internal evidence, even if we had not other

means of knowing  that Sedgwick did not finally revise
                  it,
                          ; I.
                                                      it
                                                               is

                                                                                                                               ;
this paper or its illustrations; for there are foolish mistakes,

such as making Section              start from Arenig Fawr instead

of from the other Arenig the omissions on the map of the

Berwyn synclinal of Silurian rock, though  clearly shown

and marked a on the sections, and referred to in the text

common names wrongly spelt in the tables and elsewhere, and
so forth. In this paper, however, we find Sedgwick working
out the details of the Bala Series, and pointing out, by

reference to fossils determined for him by Salter and Sowerby,
the succession and reappearances of the different zones.

     The work that chiefly occupied his thoughts and time was

the Cambrian and Silurian but he did not confine himself
to that, for he had the Geology of the neighbourhood of
Cambridge forced upon his attention, and he was still
1

                                               a;
                                                                a

                                                                                                                                   5
following up the Devonian with Murchison. They had

proposed, as explained in their previous papers, to place all
the older slates of Devonshire, and considerable part of the
slate rocks of Cornwall, in group intermediate between the

Published in the Journal of the Geological Society, Vol. I. pp. -- 22.

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838--1851.  203

Carboniferous and Silurian Systems, and to the rocks which                         1851.
they had so defined they had given the name Devonian
System ; and now they visited together Belgium, the Rhenish                      /Et- 66.
provinces, the Hartz &c., in order to ascertain whether in any
of these countries there was a group of strata in a position
between the Carboniferous and Silurian Systems and con
taining the same fossils as those found in the Devonian rocks
of England.

      Sedgwick was much interested in this attempt to correlate
the rocks of the long traverse they made from the Thurin-
gerwald to the north flank of the Fichtelgebirge, the country
so celebrated from the labours of Count Miinster, and in the
attempt to bring the rocks of that area into relation with
their previous observations. With a view to studying the
fossil evidence he acquired the large series of specimens
selected out of the duplicates in Count Miinster's collection
which is now in the Woodwardian Museum1. The working
out of the Devonian Rocks was much advanced by this

paper ; but that some points remained unexplained is not to
be wondered at, when we remember the difficulty that is still
felt in determining the exact equivalents of the Hercynian,

and the various explanations that have been offered in recent
times of the occurrence of the Graptolite shales in the Hartz
near Thale. The results of this excursion appeared in the
 Transactions of the Geological Society as a long paper of
ninety pages, with map, sections, and plates of fossils, the
palaeontological part of which was mostly contributed by
d'Archiac and de Verneuil.

      We know from Sedgwick's printed syllabus of lectures
(1832), and from the minutes of the Cambridge Philosophical

 Society, that he had long been watching the various artificial
operations which revealed the geological structure of the
 neighbourhood of Cambridge. The Fens, and the attempts
to reclaim them, were always a favourite subject of his, and
 the artesian wells made by piercing the Gault, or as it was

                     1 The history of this acquisition is related above, p. 18.

             204 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838-- 1851.

At1851.      then written, Galt, furnished a very suggestive theme. In
        66.  j 345 he read a paper before the British Association, which
             met that year at Cambridge under the Presidency of Sir John
             Herschel, On the Geology of the neighbourhood of Cambridge,
             including the Formations between the chalk escarpment and the
             great Bedford Level. The sections drawn for this paper are

             still preserved. It forms the first sketch for most of the work

             that has since been published on the district.
                   His friendship for Wordsworth perhaps chiefly determined

             his publishing so much work on the North of England in this
             period, for he had promised him a sketch of the geology of the
             Lake District for his guide-book ; and three editions of this

             passed through his hands between 1843 ar,d 1846. We need not
             give any lengthy notice of this work, as it embodies what has
             been generally accepted as the classification of the rocks of
             that area. Some points, however, require explanation. In
             attempting correlation there was still the great source of error
             in the confusion as to the age and position of the Caradoc

              Sandstone, which was further increased because the fact had

             not been observed that the flaggy beds above Ireleth, like

             those near Coniston, ranged from the Upper Bala to high up
             in the Silurian.

                   Besides the summaries given in Wordsworth's Guide,

              Sedgwick read a paper before the Geological Society, On the

             organic Remains found in the Skiddaw Slate, with some remarks

             on the classification of the older rocks of Cumberland and West
             morland. In this he gives a section across the whole of the

             Cambrian and Silurian formations of the Lake District, and

             describes in ascending order: (1) the granite of the Skiddaw
             Forest ; (2) the Skiddaw Slate metamorphosed at the base in
             contact with the granite ; (3) the green slates and porphyry,
             which he correlates with the volcanic series of Snowdonia &c.;

             (4) the Coniston Limestone (a) and calcareous shale (b), beds

             which are now known as the Ash Gill or Fairy Gill Shale ;

             (5) Coarse grained siliceous grits. These were probably the
             bands of grit in the lower part of the Coniston Flag series,

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838-- 1851.

which, owing to their hardness, protrude beyond the softer          1851.
                                                                         66-
flags, and thus give the impression of having a much greater

aggregate thickness than they do really attain to ; (6) Ircleth
Slates, that part of the series in which the great quarries were

then opened on the hills above Ireleth, and therefore the

equivalent of the Coniston Flags ; (7) his ' Slaty flagstone
ending in Tilestone.' This must include the rest of the

Silurian, namely, the Coniston Grit (which often contains
more fine than coarse material, and is more closely linked to

the beds above it than to those below it), the Bannisdale

Slates, and the Kirkby Moor Flags.

These subdivisions of the Silurian are not yet so well

defined as to be clearly traced across the whole district, and

the zones of life have yet to be worked out more carefully

before we can correlate the different areas even in the Lake

district, Scotland, and North Wales, where the northern types

prevail. The correlation of these life-zones with those of the

Silurian of South Wales is still more remote.

Sedgwick has some very judicious observations on this
"Isubject (p. 218):
                     would first remark that all the preceding

groups are true physical groups : and I may venture to affirm

that any one examining the region in detail would inevitably

be led to some arrangement, at least nearly resembling that

given above, and without any reference to the consideration

of organic remains. Good physical groups are the foundations

of all Geology ; and are out of all comparison the most
remarkable monuments of the past history of our globe, so

far as it is made out in any separate physical region.
     " Organic remains are, in the first instance, but accessories

to the information conveyed by good sections. But when the

successive groups of organic remains are once established, in

coordination with actual sections, then they tell us of succes

sive conditions of organic life, which were (as we know by

experience and might perhaps have conjecturally anticipated)

of far wider Geographical extent than the local physical

movements which produced the successive groups of deposits.

         206 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS, 1838- 1851.

  1851.  Hence it follows that, in comparing remote deposits, organic

Mt. 66.  remains become no longer the secondary but the primary terms
         of comparison." In this paper we see an attempt to make
         his interpretation of the Lake District and North Wales
         Sections fit in with the Lower Silurian Sections of South

         Wales in the suggestion that the Coniston Limestone was the
         equivalent, net of the Bala Limestone of Bala, but of a higher

         band which occurs in the Bala Series near Llansantffraid.
         But that he was here only trying to force his facts into

         harmony with what was put forward on such good authority
         "Ifelsewhere is evident from a note (p. 219):
                                                        our classification

         had been based on the Westmorland Sections, I think No. 5
         would have been regarded as the commencement of the Upper

         Silurian Series." The value of this paper is much lowered

         by the obvious attempts to get out of the observations it

         records some arguments in favour of his views of the cor

         relation of other districts, which would have stood far better

         on their own merits, and were only weakened by hypothetical
         schemes of reconciliation.

             At the end of the period we find many details filled in

         in Sedgwick's sketch of the rocks between the base of the
         Harlech and the top of the Bala Beds, but the data for the
         correlation of the rocks of North and South Wales were not

         yet forthcoming.

              March and April, 185 1, were spent in the comparative
         quiet of a Residence at Norwich ; after which Sedgwick
         became again immersed in a whirl of engagements which
         lasted until the summer came to an end, and he was able

         to seek health and refreshment in a geological tour, the first

         he had taken for three years. May and part of June were
         occupied with long sittings of the Commission, diversified by

         the opening of the new Museum of Practical Geology in
         Jermyn Street by Prince Albert --a concert at Buckingham
         Palace --a performance of Not So Bad As We Seem by the
         Guild of Literature and Art at Devonshire House -- visits to
         the Crystal Palace --and a performance of Handel's Messiah

VISIT FROM DUKE AND DUCHESS OF ARGYLL. 207

at Exeter Hall. The play, with the exception of the acting          1851.
of Charles Dickens, which Sedgwick thought admirable,                     66
whether he were " grave, gay, or farcical," did not interest

him so much as the oratorio. " It was gloriously per

formed," he told his niece, " but did not so much delight
me as did the performance of the same oratorio at one of

the great York festivals, about 25 years since. The solos
were good, but I have heard them sung far more nobly, and

I always think of Bartleman when I hear sacred music like

this. Herr Formes has a far finer voice than Bartleman had,
but wants soul and intellect. Some of the sublime songs,
such as ' Thus spake the Lord,' came from him without any
stirring or inspiring effect. Bartleman used to put the

whole house in movement when he sang Handel's glorious

songs. But the choruses were grand beyond expression --
perhaps a little too full for the room. They would have
been better in York Cathedral, and I suspect they spoilt the

ear for the solos1."

    At the Queen's Concert Sedgwick met the Duke of

Argyll, and arranged that he and the Duchess should spend
Whitsuntide with him at Cambridge. They were to see all
 the sights of the place, spend an evening at the Observatory,

 and generally enjoy themselves in a quiet leisurely fashion.
Their host specially stipulated that they " should allow time
enough really to see our old-fashioned Alma Mater, and to

become acquainted with her manners and temper. Now and

then she is a little odd and crusty, but she is a good old-

fashioned Lady in the main." Sedgwick delighted in enter

taining strangers, but, as the time drew near for his friends

to arrive, his spirits gave way, and he almost dreaded the
exertion. " Want of good sleep," he wrote, " is my great
misery. In consequence, irritability and savage temper, low

spirits and a great stupidity during the day, amounting some
times to a nervous torpor. I never was myself during any part
of my late Norwich Residence. Sometimes I think that this

                        1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 4 June, 1851.

         208 RAPID TOUR IN CORNWALL.

1851.    long-continued nervous and gouty worry will end in positive
         insanity, or perhaps paralysis. But God forbid ! I am at
Et. 66.
         present pressed by too much work. And how seldom have I
         any time to work for myself!" Society, however, usually

         acted as a tonic ; and this occasion offered no exception to

         the rule. The weather was provokingly bad, so that they
         failed to get their promised glimpse of " an old belted knight
         of the sky through the Northumberland telescope; " but they

         saw what they could between the showers, and when unable

         to go out sat in Sedgwick's rooms and talked.

              This brief interval of quiet was succeeded by a renewal of
         the whirl of conflicting engagements which had characterised
         the weeks that had preceded it. Frequent meetings of the
         Commissioners -- sittings to Boxall for a portrait (to be hung
         in the small Combination Room of Trinity College) -- a
         geological lecture to the Harrow boys--visits to all that was
         interesting in London, including Rachel in Phedre --the
         meeting of the British Association at Ipswich -- occupied the
         rest of June and the first two-thirds of July.

               Sedgwick's geological tour this summer began with a
         hasty scamper through part of Cornwall with Mc Coy, to
         examine some points in connection with their joint work on

         the fossils of the Palaeozoic rocks. As ill luck would have it
         the weather was extremely bad --an almost continuous
         drizzle of damp rain --and Sedgwick's spirits sank as low

         as the barometer. " It is really melancholy," he wrote from

         Launceston, " to revisit a place like this after so many years

         of absence. One gentleman was left whom I had formerly

         known, and with him we spent a pleasant evening. Another

         evening we drank tea with two middle-aged ladies who

         remembered one when they were little children. You will

         not wonder at this when you bear in mind that my first

         visit to Penzance was in 18 19 --my second in 1828--and
         my last but one in 1836. I am becoming every year more
         and more unfit for hard work ; and 'tis not likely that I

                                1 To Mrs John Sedgwick, 7 June, 1851.

              RAPID TOUR IN CORNWALL.                       209

should ever visit Cornwall again1." Wherever he went the           Mt. 66.
same sad contrast between past and present forced itself

upon his mind. At St Michael's Mount he remembered

with regret his happy visit with Whewell, when they slept
at the Mount, and walked by moonlight on the battlements
with two charming young ladies. " Whewell," Sedgwick de
clared, " had a palpitation of the heart for a month after, and

used to walk in his sleep, maundering about battlements,

sparkling waves, bright eyes, and ruby lips, and I know not
what besides*." He called on his old friend Mr Le Grice

in anticipation of much cheerful talk, but found that he had

gone away to attend his brother's funeral, that he was para
lytic and had lost his memory, and had he been at home,
would probably not have known him'. Another friend was

too ill to see anyone ; and a third was broken down with

grief from the recent loss of his wife and eldest son. In
spite of some good geological work Sedgwick was not sorry
when this part of his tour was brought to an end by Mc Coy's
engagements in connection with the second Fasciculus of their

joint work, which he was anxious to finish before his winter
work in Ireland began.

     Sedgwick's original intention was to go from Cornwall to

Wales, and from Wales to Scotland, where he had left several

questions unsolved in 1848. For part of this expedition he
had tried to secure the society of Murchison. After describing
what he wanted to do in Cornwall, he proceeds as follows :

    ...I shall then try to revisit a few sections in Siluria, and

a few in North Wales, especially in reference to the uncon
formable Caradoc of the Berwyns, etc. as laid down by the

Government surveyors. Perhaps I may get old John Ruthven

to join me after Mc Coy quits the field. All this will require

only a few weeks. Can we correspond ? Above all (after you
quit Ireland) could you for a fortnight meet me in Scotland,

and go over a section or two to ascertain, if possible, the true

1  To   Rev.  John Sedgwick,  2 August, 1851.  * Ibid.
   To   Miss  Fanny Hicks, 8  August, 185 1.
'

S. II.                                                  14

         2io DIFFICULTIES OF SCOTCH GEOLOGY.

'85i-    place of the great central graptolite zone ; and perhaps to have
Et. 66-
         a peep at the Balmae group which I cannot (on the evidence
         I have yet seen) bring into Upper Silurian (i.e. Wenlock
         Shale) ? Allowing it to be Wenlock Shale, then I think the

         great graptolite zone must also come into Wenlock Shale.
         But I cannot make my sections work into this view. And if
         it be the right view then I cannot bring the South Chain of
         Scotland into any comparison with the system of Cumberland
         on the other side of the Solway. That the Irish rocks opposite
         are the physical prolongation of the Galloway is quite

         certain ; and after you have seen these rocks you will be

         prepared for the questions above alluded to far better than

         I can pretend to be at present ; for the analogy between
         the Galloway and Cumbrian series is only hypothetical... I
         hope this will catch you. My dear friend of the hammer,

                                                                  Ever yours,

                                                                      A. Sedgwick1.

              Murchison had made his plans for the autumn*, and could
         not accept this invitation ; so the Scotch part of the tour was
         given up, and Sedgwick had to content himself with the
         society of Ruthven, and an examination of part of North
         Wales, which he had not visited since 1846.

         To the Duke of Argyll.             Cambridge, October 1$th, 185 1.
             My dear Lord Duke,

                  It is very kind of you and the Duchess to tell me

         of your  ' pleasant     visit  to  Cambridge            '  and  I  do hope you
                                                               ;

         will both, before long, repeat the visit under a better sky:

         indeed as her brother is coming to reside here I cannot help
         indulging in the hope that I shall have the happiness of

         again receiving the Duchess in my rooms, and of doing my

         best to entertain her. I cannot do more. I say happiness

         1        The letter is  undated, but was   evidently  written  in July,  185 1.
                  Geikie's Life  of Murchison, ii.  148.
         '

VIEWS ON CORNISH GEOLOGY.  211

rather than honor; for the latter word would only express a                        1851.

truism, but the former is the honest language of my heart.                       ^t. 66.

     During the latter part of July I spent about a fortnight
in Cornwall. The weather was hot and damp -- not a day

without rain -- and when the rain was not falling in big

drops we seemed to be living in a kind of hot vapour like
that of a wash-house. Mc Coy was with me, and we did
some work spite of gout and bad weather. The slate rocks
of Cornwall are essentially Devonian --but there is one ex

ception. Part of the promontory running down to the
Dodman (between St Austell Bay and Falmouth Bay) is

certainly older. I should call it Cambrian ; Murchison would

call it Lower Silurian. The sections are extremely puzzling.

There is either a great concealed fault, or a positive inversion
of the strata, in the great promontory. Had I been myself

I should perhaps have worked out this point a little better ;
but at the time I felt as if my bones were all gelatinized, and
my brain turned into cold starch. Of the general fact, how
ever, there is not the shadow of a doubt. Pardon me ! I do

not mean the fact touching gelatine and starch ; but the fact

that very old rocks form the southern end of the headland
S.W. of St Austell. Last year Murchison put in a colour

for Upper Silurian rocks through a part of Cornwall and

South Devon. He was misled by false information. The

parts so coloured are all Devonian.

    All the fossil fishes talked of in Cornwall turn out to be

fishes in a mare's nest. Mc Coy has settled this point. The

supposed fishes are closely allied to sponges ! We found
some admirable, self-taught naturalists on the coast--among

them a very learned surgeon living a half-amphibious life in

a natural cleft among the cliffs. He laughed the fishes out

of countenance, and was delighted to talk with Mc Coy

about their mock representatives.... Another point, of some

importance, we also made out. The highest groups in Corn

wall and Devon, viz. those immediately under the Culm
Measures --have latterly been considered as a part of the

                                                                        14 -- 2

          VIEWS OK CORNISH GEOLOGY.

  1851.   Carboniferous Series, and therefore to be packed along with

Alt. 66.  the Culmiferous beds. They seem to be in the exact place
          of the Irish carboniferous slates, and the great majority of

          their fossils are carboniferous. But in these groups (near
          Petherwin and Barnstaple) are also some of the most

          characteristic Devonian species. Of course I am using the

          word Devonian in a technical sense. Hence, these highest

          groups form a connecting link between the Devonian and
          Carboniferous series, both physically and zoologically. Mur-
          chison and I asserted, on what we thought good authority,

          that the Devonian Corals were specifically the same with the

          Silurian. Mc Coy has, I think, demonstrated this to be an

          entire mistake.

               In North Devon the weather changed and became glorious,
          but hot almost past endurance ; and I became better with the
          weather, though not till I had rested three or four days at
          Bristol, and put the inner man in better order. There I
          parted with Mc Coy to my great sorrow. Afterwards I

          threaded my way through Monmouthshire, Herefordshire,

          and Shropshire --the garden of all Silurian Geology. Having
          plucked many flowers in that garden, I then rolled along a

          railroad to Chester, and thence to Bangor, from which, after

          walking through the giant tube, I started on a tour through
          North Wales. This trip over, I ran to Liverpool, and spent

          three days in tracking footsteps in the New Red Sandstone
          on the Cheshire side of the Mersey.... After leaving Liver
          pool I did some work among the Carboniferous hills of

          Craven and Westmoreland. In some deep valleys of denuda

          tion the lower rocks are laid bare, and by help of the fossils
          I was able to make out their exact places in the lower
          palaeozoic series. This hole-and-corner labour took me about

          a week. It was doubly delightful to me because done in

          the land of my childhood ; but the delight was not without
          alloy, as I was reminded at every turn of the melancholy
          changes produced by the lapse of time. In one little village

           among the mountains where I spent a joyous vacation more

                 GEOLOGICAL PAPERS.            213

than fifty years since, I enquired after old friends, and looked     1851.
out for old faces, but in vain. All were gone to distant lands,
or gathered to their fathers. Finally I left my birth-place --
the old parsonage at Dent --in time for our Fellowship

examination, and in time for the gout.
     Your Grace began by talking of " firing a shot to bring

me up." Before this you will, I think, have been longing for

a long gun to bring me down. But I will now, after this

long run, bring myself up and strike sail. Pray convey my

heartfelt good wishes to the Duchess, and believe me, my

dear Lord Duke,  Ever faithfully yours,
                                 A. Sedgwick.

     The Michaelmas term was spent in lecturing, and attending
frequent meetings of the University Commissioners, subjects
over which it is unnecessary to linger. As before remarked,
Sedgwick's spirits had lost much of their former buoyancy,

and he worked on doggedly, from a sense of duty. " I have

too much on my hands for an old man," he wrote. " Rest

for a winter -- absolute rest --spent perhaps abroad, might
set me on my legs again. Wherever I go I am bothered1."

He found time, however, to write, and to read to the

Geological Society (5 November) a paper On the Slate Rocks

of Devon and Cornwall, giving the results of his summer's
work in that part of England, which shews no sign of
feebleness. This was succeeded (3 December) by another,
On the Lower Palceozoic Rocks at the base of the Carboniferous
Chain between Ravenstonedale and Ribblesdale. To both

these works we shall return in a future chapter.

     The Christmas Vacation was spent in Cambridge. Sedg
wick was an admirable Vice-Master, and though he sometimes
said that he had "company more than enough" in College,
and longed for "a quiet domestic fireside with cheerful
domestic talk," no man was more anxious to maintain old
customs, or to promote the general hilarity of Christmas.

                     1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 22 October, 1851.

        THE LAST NIGHT OF THE OLD YEAR.

1851.   To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

Et-66'                                       Cambridge, December 31st, 1851. 61 a.m.

            "...Ever since Trinity College was founded it has been

        the custom to welcome in the new year by a merry party.

        I never eat supper, but, as Vice-Master, I must be present,

        and I expect five or six guests whom I have invited. A few

        minutes before twelve St Mary's twelve bells strike off a
        merry peal. Exactly at twelve our butler walks in with
        a goblet of seasoned hot wine we call Bishop. 'Gentlemen,
        I wish you all a happy new year, and prosperity to Trinity
        College.' We then stand up and cheer, three times three,
        to the toast ; after shaking hands we sit down again. Some
        will sit long ; but I am happy to say that no man will now
        drink deep...."

             The course of our narrative has now brought us to a
        subject which we would gladly pass over in silence, were it in
        our power to do so -- the estrangement between Sedgwick and

        Murchison, to which allusion has been already made. On the
        personal question as little as possible will be said ; but, as the
        subject-matter of the quarrel was one of the most important
        pieces of Sedgwick's geological work, it is necessary to give
        a full account of what may be called the Cambro-Silurian
        controversy ; this will be relegated to a separate chapter.

            It is difficult to state precisely when or how the final
        rupture between the Kings of Cambria and Siluria was
        brought about, if indeed there ever was any distinct rupture
        at all. Their friendly intercourse came to an end, but it

        would be more accurate to say that they drifted asunder

        rather than that they formally quarrelled on a definite

        occasion. At the point we have now reached we have
        merely to describe a preliminary skirmish, which, though it

        brought the principal combatants into the field, and led to
        the disastrous consequence of estranging Sedgwick from the

        Geological Society, did not amount to a formal declaration

        of war. It was a sort of reconnaissance in force --a massing

   CAMBRIAN OR SILURIAN?                            215

of troops on the frontiers, to be ready for active service                       1852.
                                                                                      67-
should a need for action present itself. This movement was

caused by the publication, on the part of the Government

Surveyors under Sir Henry de la Beche, of a geological map
of North Wales. On this map the colours used to distinguish

Silurian rocks were extended over a large part of those

heretofore described as Cambrian by Sedgwick. In other

words, his territories were declared to be annexed by the

neighbouring potentate ; and, in fact, nothing was left him

except certain rocks, then supposed to be non-fossiliferous, at

the very bottom of his Cambrian System.

   No geologist who had worked out a district as Sedgwick

had worked out North Wales could have submitted to such

an overthrow of his own conclusions without making an

attempt to justify himself ; and, in consequence, he read to

the Geological Society (25 February, 1852) a paper On the

Classification and Nomenclature of the Lower Palceozoic Rocks
of England and Wales, which, while it professed to be merely
a continuation of the paper on some of the same rocks read

two months before (3 December, 1851), was in reality an

indignant protest against the treatment to which he had been

subjected. The paper has been criticised as too personal in

tone; but it must be remembered that the geological questions

involved were of the greatest importance to Sedgwick ; and

that any defence of himself could hardly avoid including an
indictment, more or less detailed, of " my friend and fellow-

labourer, in this instance my antagonist1."

    It is to be regretted that no contemporary record of what

took place in the Society when the paper was over should

have been preserved. It        however, no stretch of the
   ;

             it is,
                   is

                                          a
imagination to assume that the excitement was great, and

the discussion animated. It was long since such a bolt had

fallen out of the blue and     evident, from what followed,

that the conscript fathers of Somerset House were scared out

1       See Sedgwick's account of these matters in  letter to Murchison printed
below, pp. 250 -- 256.

                            /

          216 SEDGWICK AND THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

  1852.   of their propriety. In their anxiety for peace they lost their

/Et. 67.  heads, and only precipitated the explosion they were anxious

          to avert.
               On the day the paper was read it was " referred " in the

          ordinary way. The referee selected was Professor John
          Phillips, F. R. S., of York, the distinguished geologist. When

          returned by him, with suggestions for its amendment, it was

          sent back to Sedgwick for revision, after which the referee

          again saw and suggested the omission of certain notes. It
          a
                              it,
          was then " ballotted for and ordered to be printed in the
          abstracted form recommended by the referee " April). Mr
                                          appeared in print " there was   (7
          Geikie tells us that when a                                                 is

          very general expression of sympathy with Murchison 1."it

          This may have been the case, for his personal influence

          would attract to his side body of men of whom very few

          had any knowledge of the facts of the case, or the real points

          of the question under discussion. One thing at least clear,

          namely, that the paper excited so much observation and

          comment that the Council arrived at the extraordinary

          conclusion that they ought to remove the unclean thing

          from their Journal, and actually decided (19 May) on can

          celling the number in which     it  had appeared*. Reflexion,

          however, shewed that such a course was impracticable, as

          the number in question had been in circulation for more

          than fortnight. They therefore rescinded the resolution1
          (16 June), and, as Mr John Carrick Moore, then Secretary,
          wrote to Sedgwick, "at the same time paper by Sir R.a
                  I. of                       a
          Murchison was laid on the table, containing an historical            

          Life Murchison, ii. 141.                                                                ;
          2 Minutes of the Council of the Geological Society, 19 May, 1852.
                                                                                          8.

          "Sir R.      Murchison called the attention of the Council to certain passages in

          the paper of Professor Sedgwick published in the last Number of the Journal."
                9. "The Council observing with regret that the paper of Professor Sedgwick

          in No. 30 of the Journal, May 1st, 1832, has been published inadvertently with

          certain passages which the Council had required to be omitted,

               "Resolved, that the number be recalled, and pages 152 to the end cancelled

          and that a notice to this effect be printed on the first page of the next number of

          the Journal."

   SEDGWICK AND THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 217

statement of his labours among the Palaeozoic rocks1. This 1852.
paper had been shown to three Members of the Council, who Mt-

all vouched for its not containing a syllable that could give

you offence. The President then directed that it should be
read at the evening meeting (in point of fact the title only
was read, as was the case with about fifteen others). It will
then be referred, and treated like other communications ; and

the Council expressed a strong determination, both parties

having said their say, not to allow of any more words from

either party. I may add that many expressed, and all seemed
to feel, that if there was anything in your Paper which ought

not to have appeared in the Journal consistently with rules

and customs, no blame either directly or by implication was

to be cast on the author, the Council alone being the govern

ing body who direct or forbid publication2."
      With this attempt to undo that which ought never to have

been done, the matter ended. But it left on Sedgwick's mind
an indelible sense of wrong, and his subsequent relations with
the Society were formal and constrained. In after years he

spoke of the attempt to suppress his Paper as "a personal
stigma unexampled in the history of any other Philosophical
 Society in London*;" and of the further determination to
impose silence for the future on both parties -- the secret
article of the treaty, so to speak, for no formal resolution to
that effect was entered in the Minute Book -- with even greater
bitterness. In the following year (13 November, 1853), the
 Council tried to give a new colour to the transaction by
shifting the responsibility of publication from themselves to
their officers4. But this subterfuge --like the sacrifice of a

1 On the Meaning of the term Silurian System as adopted by Geologists in

various countries during the last ten years. (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. viii. 173).
It is a reply to Sedgwick, expressed in courteous and considerate language.

a From J. C. Moore, 17 June, 1852.
3 Preface to Salter's Catalogue, p. xxix.
4
   The following   resolution was entered in the  Minute   Book :          Sedgwick
"  Resolved, that  the Council have learnt with    regret  that Professor

is under the impression that the Minute passed in May, 1852, and subsequently

rescinded, imputed to him that he had not complied with an order of the Council.

         21 8 MURCHISOITS EXPLANATION.

  1852.  minister to screen a sovereign -- could hardly have deceived
         anybody, least of all Sedgwick1.
SA. 67.
              While the Council of the Society was floundering in a
         slough of its own making, the two persons most keenly
         interested were dealing vigorous blows at each other in the
         pages of The Literary Gazette. Two days after Sedgwick's

         paper was read, Murchison wrote him a letter evidently
         intended to be explanatory and conciliatory. This, however,

         was only a preface to what followed.

         My dear Sedgwick,      Belgrave Square, February 27, 1852.

                  In enclosing you one of my cards for soirees, let me beg
         of you to prepare the abstract of your paper so that there should be

         /nothing in it which can be construed into an expression on your part

         that had acted unfairly by you.
         This is the only point which roused my feelings the other night,
         and made me speak more vehemently than I intended. But I did
                                                                           (what I
         intend   to tell the  meeting, in  reference to that very point  out your
         forgot  to say) that               and over urged you to bring
                               I have over

         fossils and complete the subject you had undertaken.
             It was no fault of mine that you did not do          And as to the
         Cambridge Syllabus of 1836 you must recollect    this.
                                                          that   this was after I

         had been describing and naming specifically the fossils from the

         Silurian Rocks, Upper and Lower, during the years 1833, 1834, and
         1835, the System with all its names being promulgated in print in
         1835. What was done after this was simply elaborating the details of

         maps, sections, and so forth, until 1838, when all was completed.

             The Cambrian System was unnamed in 1835. It was then simply
         called Lower Greywack.

             It was not me, I repeat, who made Cambrian into Lower Silurian,

         but the Government surveyors and palaeontologists.
         It is true that hearing of their labours I threw an eye over a part
         of them                Keyserling, when I was convinced,
                  in 1842 with                                        and still more
         when I   explored the  critical points last year with their  maps in hand,

         that no separation, physically or zoologically, could be made between

         Lower Silurian as defined by me, and the Snowdonian and Bala rocks.
              The analogy of every place on the Continent and of America
         had led me to come to this conclusion before. In fact, all foreign

         They disclaim having had any such intention, and request the President to
         communicate with Professor Sedgwick, and to assure him that no such imputation
         was intended to be conveyed by that Minute ; the real meaning of which was that
         the Officers, charged with the publication of the Journal, had inadvertently
         printed matter which the Council had ordered to be suppressed."

              1 See his account of this, printed below, pp. 254, 255.

          MURCHISON'S EXPLANATION.                                             219

geologists, without my having anything to say to them, named the                                 1852.
                                                                                               yEt. 67.
very groups which you call Cambrian, Silurian.

     I, therefore, had no choice. You will find, on mature reflexion,

I am persuaded, that there is but one natural history group of life in
Cambria and Siluria.

    I did not like to rise again at midnight to talk about Barrande

and others ; but you are really mistaken as to their views. Barrande

has already about sixty species common to Upper and Lmver. But it is
true that his very uppermost limestones have so much of the

Devonian character, that it may be questioned whether they can be
held to represent any part of my Upper Silurian.

     This remark applies to almost all the shreds of Upper Silurian in
France and on the Continent. So that, as there is no sort of

sLtloapnpdinegil-oplaocreBalabestwereieesn--Csoa,raifdoacll  and the very      bottom of the
                                                             this were to be  taken away from

the Silurian, the very name must be expunged from the Continent.
     Again, in Norway and many other places Upper and Lower (the

latter with a full series of all your North Welsh fossils) roll over and
over in small compact masses in which no general distinctions can

be made.

My opinions are based on a conscientious conviction that the
whole is one Natural History Series, if you object to System.
But enough of this. I cannot presume to do more than speak
                             I
frankly to you ; and whilst  I  dare                         say you will not change your
opinions about nomenclature     again                        entreat you to allow nothing to

appear in print which can lead the world to suppose that we can

quarrel about a name...1. Pray let us wrangle no more about the
vexata qucestio. We have done many a stroke of good work together,
and if we had united to describe the whole Principality and the
bordering counties of England the lamentable position in which we

Inow stand as apparent antagonists could never have occurred.
    But I am told by Logan and others, that if had delayed a single

year or two in bringing out my Silurian System with all its fossils the
Yankees would have anticipated me. And you well know that
Wales, North and South, was not to be puzzled out in less than many

Iyears of hard labour.
         have been grievously pained to be set in antagonism to you, but

I can solemnly assure you that I know no possible way by which my

present position could be altered without stultifying my original
views of the Silurian System as a whole, and my confirmed and
extended views respecting it as acquired from a general survey of the

world.

          Yours, my dear Sedgwick, most sincerely,

                                                             R. I. Murchison.

     The abstract referred to, when published, was so worded
that Murchison thought proper to let the world know what he

          1 The om it ted paragraph deals with a totally different subject.

         220 WORK AS A UNIVERSITY COMMISSIONER.

'85l-    had said, when the paper was first read. This was promptly
Et. 6?'
         answered by Sedgwick ; whereupon Murchison wrote a second

         article, to which Sedgwick sent a second answer, and there the

         war of words ended1. As might be expected, some hard things

         were said, but, on the whole, the controversy was a temperate

         one, and both combatants were at pains to assure the world
         of their unaltered friendship. Nor, strange to say, do their

         relations appear to have suffered in cordiality by what had
         passed. The private letters which Sedgwick wrote to
         Murchison in this year are no less friendly than heretofore.

              In any other year it is probable that Sedgwick's time
         and thoughts would have been completely absorbed in
         this exciting geological controversy. It happened, however,
         perhaps fortunately, that the labours of the University Com

         missioners were drawing to a close, and that the preparation

         of the Report demanded his constant attention. It is mani

         festly impossible to determine which passages of that ponder
         ous document -- it occupies two hundred folio pages -- may be

         assigned to him, and which to his brother commissioners ;
         but it is evident that he actually wrote a good deal of it.

         In February, for instance, he says : " I am working for the
         Commission, and this morning finished the 16th sheet of

         foolscap ; " and, at various intervals through the year, his
         correspondence tells the same tale. The summer was ex

         ceptionally hot, but even in June and July his labours in

         Downing Street were not interrupted. Here is a description

         of himself in the latter month on his return to Cambridge
         from a spell of Commission-work.

         To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Cambridge, July 6th, 1852.

         "...I am smoking at every pore. The perspiration hisses

         from me with a noise like a steam-whistle ; I am in a state of

         fusion and confusion -- ever moping and mopping, a miserable
         Iwalking machine d vapeur. Sometimes
                                               think my poor

         bedmaker will find me running all over the floor, and have

         1 The articles are in The Literary Gazette for 1852, pp. 278, 338, 369, 417.

         VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSFORNE.

to pick up my organic remains in slop-pails ; at other times,                                                                                                   1852.
I fancy that I am undergoing sublimation, and that all my
corporeal parts will mount into the sky, and find their place                                                                                                 A'A- 6i-
in the regions of cloud-land. So, dearest Fan, I must

conclude ; first asking you to give my broiling love, hot out
of the dripping-pan of my thoughts, to all in your house,

from my brother James down to prick-eared Shindy...."
      By this time the Report of the Commissioners for Oxford

had been before the public for some weeks; and Prince Albert

was naturally anxious to learn from his secretary what line

the Commissioners for Cambridge were likely to adopt.

Sedgwick's attendance was therefore commanded at Osborne.

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  Osborne, July 17th, 1852.
    My dear Isabella,

             You cannot expect many adventures on the railroad
between London and Southampton. But Southampton did
astonish me. It is quite a new town since I saw it last --
alas ! more than twenty years since. The terminus is far
from the old part of the town ; and a new city has risen

around it ; and they have excavated a great new dock and

harbour. We went immediately to the dock, and waited till

the Queen's Messenger arrived from Osborne in the royal
yacht ; and then, without delay, we embarked in her. The

voyage was charming. The atmosphere was bright and cool,

thanks to the thunder-storm. I have had a walk in the park,
and been playing ball with Prince Arthur -- a very fine merry

child --but I must dress for dinner.
    You have never, I think, seen the Isle of Wight, and now

it is in all its quiet glory. I love because have worked
through all corners of hammer in hand and because have
spent in some of the happiest days of my life. From my
         I it
                                   it,

                                         a
                                                             it,

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                         I
                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                                           ;
window   look over the channel to the Hampshire coast

and beautiful woodlands hang on both sides, down to the

water's edge, producing combination the eye delights to rest

upon...

          222 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

  1852.       Sunday Morning 7 a.m. Already I have had my morning
          coffee, ordered to my room by the Master of the Household.
/Et. 67.

          The Prince and Queen cantered past me yesterday. Each
          wore a wide-awake. I should not have known them, had not

          the Prince uncovered, and I immediately took the hint and

          pulled off my hat. They bowed and passed on. They were

          followed only by one lad on horseback to open gates. Every
          thing here is unostentatious -- no bands of music, no soldiers.

          There is a policeman at the gate of the Park, and at the

          landing-place ; with this exception there is nothing here that
          much differs from a private gentleman's house.. ..The Court

          is in mourning; and all the ladies were in mourning --with

          plain head-dresses, and without any jewels. So the table

          was not at all splendid, for the gentlemen, at Osborne, never

          wear any uniforms. We had a good dinner, but not by any

          means an ostentatious one. The wines I never tasted, as I

          found at my elbow a bottle of seltzer water with a little

          brandy in which you know my best beverage.
                 it,                                                aI  acted
                                           is

                                                     is
          as chaplain. The Queen in excellent health, and in joyous
          spirits. She was amusing her friends by an account of the

          terrific thunderstorm of the preceding day, which began in

          the Isle of Wight several hours sooner than in London. She

          and the Prince were caught, and obliged to shelter in house

          near Ryde, where they remained till the tempest had passed

          over. The consequence was that on Friday night they did

          not dine at Osborne before half-past nine. Our dinner did

          not last long, and the Queen did not sit long after dinner.   a
          After coffee in the dining-room we adjourned to the drawing-
          room and there we found celebrated German pianist --
          young lass from Bohemia whom the Queen patronizes --who

          went through some wonderful brass-wire evolutions which
                 I;
                          I

                                                                 a
          bothered my senses. She did, however, play some charming

          music which could understand. During the intervals of

          this wonderful performance the Queen went round to make

          talk.  had my turn. She asked me several questions

          about the big pieces of ice which had fallen the day before

THE PRINCE AND THE OXFORD REPORT. 223

-- one bit 7 inches in circumference. She had picked up              1852.
some large hailstones which exhibited a peculiar radiating
structure. I endeavoured to explain it by the analogous           Xx-
structure of balls of iron pyrites in chalk, etc. Of course

we, at first, all stood in the Royal Presence ; but the Queen
soon ordered us all to sit down ; and then you could see no
difference between the Osborne drawing-room and that of a
private house. So, good morning. I must finish my dress,
take a turn, and then join the breakfast-party. How
beautiful is the view from my window ! The Channel and

the Hampshire coast shining in the cheerful light of morning.

Once more, good morning.

    Sunday, 1 p.m. I read prayers in what they call the

council-room, for there is no regular chapel at Osborne and
there was no sermon. The Queen formerly attended the
parish church ; but she found such a press of people (especially

the visitors from Cowes) that the little church became op
pressive ; and she has lately engaged some clergyman to read
prayers here on a Sunday. They talk now of building a

chapel, which does indeed seem necessary to make this rural

palace complete....

     Monday Morning. After lunch I walked with the Master
of the Household to the parish church (about a mile across

the fields from Osborne), the ladies followed in carriages.

On my return I found that the Prince had sent for me to talk

about the Commission ; but when we got back the Queen and
Prince in one carriage and the Duchess of Kent in another,

were starting on a drive with all the children. So the Com
mission talk was put off till the evening in the drawing-room.

I then found that the Prince greatly admired the Oxford

Report. He seemed to like the idea, there started, of mixing
the foreign and English systems. The Oxford Commission
suggest a plan of admitting any numbers who like to come,

without belonging to any college, or being under the ordinary

restraints of academic discipline --just as at Edinburgh and

the foreign Universities. On this scheme there would be

         224 VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE.

  1852.  two classes of candidates for degrees and University honours --
         Town-men and College-men. I told the Prince, honestly, that
&t. 67.
         we should not recommend this plan. Each system might do
         by itself -- but the two never would, we thought, work well to

         gether. I think he was a little disappointed at this ; for 'tis just

         the part of the Oxford Report that has been puffed by the
         bellows of The Times and of the whole daily press ; and he

         evidently does not wish us to fall behind Oxford. But if they,

         on any single point, advance too far, 'tis well, regarding that

         point, to be behind them. Besides, Cambridge has been far in

         advance of Oxford in everything regarding internal administra

         tion, and we have not half so much to reform as they have. I

         made some remarks of this kind, to which he assented, adding

         some remarks about the multitude of close Fellowships at

         Oxford, which he had learnt from their Report. He has

         studied it from end to end, which is more than I have done,
         or mean to do. I read it in the way in which Jack Horner ate

         pie. Our dinner yesterday went off exactly as the day before ;

         only Lord Hardwicke (the Lord in waiting) was present.
         He does not commonly attend at Osborne ; but is come now

         to accompany the Royal party on a visit to Plymouth and

         other places on the South Coast, and, you know, he is a sailor.

         They start this morning from Osborne pier, and I hope to be
         a looker-on from the neighbouring cliff. It must be a splendid

         sight. I do not mean to cross in the little royal yacht to

         Southampton, but to take a packet at Cowes and go up the

         Channel to Ryde and Portsmouth. I want to take a peep at

         the modern improvements.... The house is all in a bustle for

         the voyage, and the Queen is off about nine. Perhaps I may

         add a word or two about the embarkation, but I do not

         promise. I must go down and join the breakfast party.

         They are early this morning.
              Brighton, Tuesday, 7 a.m. The embarkation was a very

         beautiful sight. I went down in good time and sat on a bank

         by the seaside along with the children of Colonel Phipps

         (the 'Privy Purse'). Five war-steamers, rigged as frigates,

        THE ROYAL EMBARCATION.                            225

and decorated with all their colours and signal-flags, were at     1852.
anchor about half-a-mile from the pier. Nearer still -- a few
                                                                 Mt-
hundred yards from the pierhead --was the Victoria and
Albert Royal yacht steamer. The captains and officers, in

full uniform glittering in the bright sun, were arranged in

rows on the pier to conduct the Royal party to two twelve-
oared barges, from one of which was floating the Royal
standard. A sailor was stationed on a part of the cliff which
showed the turn of the road from Osborne to the beach, and
exactly at half-past nine -- the time decided on at the break
fast--Jack pulled off his hat and gave the signal of approach.

All fell into their right places, and the sailors in the barges

stood up with their oars held erect above their heads. The

Queen and Prince went first, very plainly dressed, and four
children followed; but did not long follow; for they scampered

about and sometimes ran round their father and mother. The

Court followed in good order, and in a few minutes all were

embarked-- by signal the oars dropped into the water, and off

they all went. Before long the great barge with the Royal

standard was up with the Victoria and Albert, and all were

on board. We could not see this distinctly, but I knew that

the fact would soon be known by the salutes fired from the

broadsides of the five war-steamers. For several minutes the

roar of the great guns was magnificently exciting. I then

went back, and drove to Cowes.... There, I will endeavour
Ifto seal this load of a letter, and put it in the post.
                                                          you

think it worth while you may show it to any of your prudent

friends, but do so with a caution. Great people don't like

their private habits to be talked about. I described what I
saw at Osborne in a former letter to yourself, and I talked

about my visit to several of my friends. And what do you

think ? My descriptions, and almost my very words, some

time afterwards found their way into the newspapers, through

the prating, meddling, busy, impertinent folly of some one or

other. Who was the meddling fool I shall never know ; but

if I knew who he was I should like to pull out his ears

s. II.                          15

         22' REPORT OF THE COMMISSIONERS.

1851.    till their asinine length showed the metal he was made of.
Et. 67.  To-morrow, Commission. I have much enjoyed my trip.
         Measure my love by the length of my letter. Love to all.
         Ever, dearest Isabella, affectionately yours,

                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

             After this most of July and August was spent in work
         for the Commission. At the end of the latter month, when

         they were sitting for almost the entire day to get their work

         completed, he writes :

             "...We do not work so hard this week as we did last, yet
         I did work very hard on Tuesday. I was writing the
         conclusion of our Report in my lodgings from six to ten.
         From eleven to three we were looking over, altering, and

         putting our papers in final order. I then dined, and had a

         nap upon a sofa. At seven the Commission met at my

         lodgings, and we were at work till near midnight, discussing

         and arranging the conclusion. We met yesterday for about
         two hours, and then I had the happiness of going with the

         secretary to the Queen's printing-office and putting the last
         sheets in the printer's hands. We felt as happy as does a

         mail-coach horse on reaching a stable after a hard drive1."

              After this the conclusion was not long delayed. Four
         days later Sedgwick records, with evident exultation : " We

         meet at 5 p.m. to-day to sign ; and then, farewell Downing
         Street ! I am heartily tired of it*."

              Our readers would be as tired as Sedgwick were we to
         attempt an analysis of the labours then concluded. The

         whole volume, by which we mean the Evidence as well as
         the Report, deserves careful study. The former is a most
         valuable storehouse of information on the University, the
         Professorships, and the Colleges; the latter embodies, at
         least in substance, most of the reforms subsequently adopted.

         Among the more important recommendations are the follow

         1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 26 August, 1851.
         2 To the same, 30 August, 1852.

WOODWARDIAN CHAIR AND MUSEUM.  227

ing: the abolition of the Caput, and the substitution of                                             1851.
Council ; the abolition of certain usages offensive to the Town                                            67-
and of no advantage to the University; the institution of
Boards of Studies, corresponding in number to the depart
ments of learning for which it is proposed that honours

should be given ; a preliminary examination in the course
of the second year, after which it should be competent for
students to transfer themselves to any branch of study which
they might select ; the establishment of Public Lecturers,
nominated and regulated by the Boards of Studies ; all
Fellowships and Scholarships to be the rewards of merit
only, and for this purpose all local and family claims to be
abolished ; to open all close Fellowships and Scholarships
to all Her Majesty's subjects wherever born ; contributions
from the colleges towards the remuneration of the Public
Lecturers, and Professors ; a revival of the ancient system of
hostels affiliated to colleges; and, lastly, the erection of new
Museums of Science.

      Sedgwick's own evidence respecting the Woodwardian
Professorship and Museum is extremely interesting and
valuable, not merely as giving the history of the collection
up to 1852, with the names of many benefactors who might
otherwise have been forgotten, but as containing many useful
suggestions for the future, intermingled with personal details
respecting his own discharge of his duties. Some of these

suggestions have been already acted upon, and have a purely
historical interest ; others still deserve careful consideration.
We will extract a few of the most important.

      (1) So far from being detained in Cambridge during the Long
Vacation, the Professor ought to be employed in making field-surveys,
either in the British Isles or on the Continent, during three or four

months of each summer. To secure this very essential object,

an allowance for travelling expenses might, perhaps, be made him out

of University funds. Within the thirty-four years of my service I

have many times, during the summer's geological tour, spent more

than the whole stipend of the Professorship. I do not by any means

make this statement by way of complaint, for the work was one of
good will ; but this state of things cannot and ought not to last; and

                                                                                              15--2

         228 WOODWARDIAN CHAIR AND MUSEUM.

  1852.  in making this recommendation I have no personal interests to serve
         m anv vulgar sense, as my period of service is nearly over, and I am
^x. 67.                                           vdiugtoierosuos fhaanndosf.ficeIf  which I hope
         now   becoming   unfit for the robuster
         soon  to resign  to more youthful and                                       the Professor

         confined his labours to the closet, his lectures, however ably
         elaborated, might fall almost dead from his lips ; but if he meet his
         class, year by year, after a voyage of discovery, he will be rewarded

         Iby finding an animated and earnest audience.

               (2) venture very earnestly to recommend that, in addition to
         the two Woodwardian Inspectors, at least one good naturalist and

         geologist be annually appointed by the University to inspect and

         report upon the new collections. ..In this way the collection will not
         stagnate, but will advance with the discoveries of a progressive

         science, and the Academic Collection will, in successive years,
         represent, as it ought to do, the actual condition of geological
         discovery. For this end it would be well for the University from time

         to time to appoint some scientific Inspector, who was not a member
         of the University, but well acquainted with the state of the great
         British collections... The occasional report of such an Inspector

         might produce a very healthy rivalry, and might very greatly benefit
         the University, by suggesting an interchange of duplicates or

         redundant specimens.
              (3) The custody and exhibition of the old Woodwardian

         cabinets belongs exclusively to the Professor ; but the present
         condition of the Museum requires the daily presence of an assistant-
         curator.... For nearly a hundred years the University but ill discharged

         the obligations that were contracted by the acceptance of the

         Woodwardian bequest. She provided neither an adequate Museum

         nor a lecture-room ; and, although all the surplus derived from the

         Woodwardian estates has been very properly expended on the New

         Museum, I think the Senate still owes a large arrear of debt to the
         equitable claims of the Professorship. All the proceeds of the
         estates are devoted to specific objects by the express terms of Dr
         Woodward's Will, and the increased rents of the estates are by no
         means more than sufficient to meet the present annual demands for
         such specific objects. But other objects have arisen out of the

         Iprogress of geological science, and their importance has been

         sanctioned by recent Graces of the Senate ; and it is not, trust,

         improper for me respectfully to urge upon the Senate the appoint

         ment of an assistant-curator of the Museum. It now contains a
         noble collection of very great value which is the property of the
         University, and which has been brought together at great cost, but

         without any tax on the ordinary Academic funds. During the
         latter half of the period in which I have filled the Professorship,
         I have, at my own cost, contributed more than
                                                        ^1300                        towards the
         collections and arrangements of the Museum     ; and,
                                                                                     I may add,

         several liberal friends have also, at great personal cost, contributed
         to the fossil stores of our cabinets.
                                                  Now that the University

         possesses such a new collection, and that geology is an acknowledged

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE.                                  229

subject of academic study, the Senate would do well to sanction the                 1852.
appointment of an assistant-curator, with a salary to be paid out of
the funds of the University. No menial duties should be imposed                   /Et. 67.

on him ; and he would find ample employment in working under

the Professor, in making catalogues, in mounting and labelling

specimens, and (while the Professor is absent) in daily explaining to
visitors and students the nature and arrangements of the collection.
     (4) When a new side of the intended library-square shall have
been erected, it will, agreeably to the architect's plan, contain a
series of lecture-rooms. It would greatly forward the interests of
science were the Collection of Comparative Anatomy hereafter

arranged in this new building on the same floor with the Geological
Collection; for palaeontology cannot be studied to good effect

without a constant appeal to Comparative Anatomy; and Comparative

Anatomy would gain continual interest by an appeal to analogous

organic structures derived from the Old World. In that case
the present Anatomical Museum might be appropriated to Human

Anatomy and Pathology, etc.
     (5) It might be said that the Woodwardian funds are all appro
priated, and that the corporate funds of the University are too low to
meet any costly demands which may be made upon them. But if

the corporate funds be low, the aggregate College incomes are very

great; and the Colleges are bound to uphold, by every honest means
compatible with their corporate obligations, that great cause of liberal
academic instruction of which the Professorial lectures now form an

essential part. The Colleges can only exist in honour, and con
sequently in safety, by a wise and generous use of those great

instruments which Providence has placed in their    hands ;  and
                                                    without  any
I doubt not that by a wise and liberal policy, and
unreasonable sacrifice of private interests, ample means might be
found within the University for giving full life and activity to every
institution or organ of public instruction that exists within it1.

      Sedgwick's time was now once more his own ; and in the
next chapter we shall relate the use he made of his emanci
pation from official cares.

    1 Report of Her Majesty's Commissioners, etc. Fol. Lond. 1852, Evidence, pp.
119, no.

                     CHAPTER IV.

                                              1852--1855.

Domestic life. Funeral of the Duke of Wellington.
       Lectures at Leeds (1852). Refuses Deanery of Peter
      borough. Fifth Letter on Geology of Lake Land.
      Naval Review. Geology in Wales. British Association
      at Hull. Visit of the Duke of Brabant. Death of

     Dr Mill (1853). Archaeological Institute at Cambridge.

      Geology in Wales. British Association at Liverpool
      (1854). Proposed Parliamentary Commission. British
      Association at Glasgow. Tour in Scotland. Lecture
      at Kendal. Publication of British paleozoic rocks and
      fossils (1855). General Criticism of his Geological
      Work.

As soon as Sedgwick was set free he hastened to the North
of England, where family business detained him so long

that September was drawing to a close before he could turn

his attention to geology. In pursuance of his scheme for
correlating the rocks of Cumbria with those of Cambria, he

was anxious to re-examine the so-called Caradoc Sandstone
of May Hill, an eminence on the outskirts of the Forest of Dean,
between Gloucester and Ross. The visit, in which McCoy
accompanied him, was a very hurried one, extending only
from 21 September to 29 September, as he was obliged to
be back in College for the Fellowship Examination, and,
moreover, it included an examination of the Malvern Hills.
Sedgwick had time, however, to collect materials for an im

              THE CARADOC SANDSTONE.                                                     23"

portant paper, read to the Geological Society 3 November,                                                                                                      ,852.

On a proposed Separation of the so-called Caradoc Sandstone                                                                                                  /Et 67.

into Two distinct Groups ; viz. (1) May Hill Sandstone; (2)
Caradoc Sandstone. It seems to have called forth a lively

discussion, to judge from Sedgwick's reference to the meet
ing at which it was read, " I was battling at the Geological
Society till near midnight;" and afterwards his patience was
sorely tried by the formalities which delayed its publication.

It was " referred," and " re-referred," so as to exclude all

controversial matter, and it was not until August of the

following year that it found its way into the Journal1.

To Miss Isabella Herschel.     Cambridge, November 12, 1852.
     My dear Niece,

              Thanks for your charming letter. I fully intended

to reply to               as well as to your sister's P.S., by the return
I

                   I I it,
post, but after had written to her was so direly oppressed
                               is I
with cold that could no longer hold up my head. Yesterday
                                     it ;
was completely disabled, stupified, fevered, and withis I
                                                                                      a
                                                     a                                           a

                                                    if
                                                                                   ;
racking headache. To-day am much better but in sorry

condition to write to young lady about love and marriage.a

For am sitting in my bedroom in warm dressing-gown,
I

           a
and with nightcap on my head my eyes are like two lumps

of wet starch my ears are roaring as two water-wheels
              ;
                     ;
were in my head my voice inarticulate and emits unearthly

sounds and as for my nose,                run quite wild.                             I  have,
;

however, enough of feeling left to rejoice in the happiness of

my friends, and send them my warmest and truest con
I
                 ;
               II
                                             it I

                                                    II
                                                                                                                                                          ?
gratulations. Like a reckless booby that am have mislaid

your letter but think you said that December the second

was to be the happy day. But why put off so very long
Had not been born about 40 years too soon would have
made love to you in such an ardent manner that you would

surely have been melted, and should have carried you in
   1

                                       I
   See Sedgwick's complaint at this, printed below, p. 255.

           232 MARRIAGE OF RICHARD SEDGWICK.

1852.      my arms to the altar-rails, while Cara was only thinking about
      67-
               and then she would have had to dance bare-foot at your

           wedding. A wheezing old man makes, however, but sorry
           it it,                                       ;

                         !                                    a
                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                         !
           bridegroom, and, besides, you are my niece, and therefore

           within the prohibited degrees so we must let your sister
           move towards Hymen's portal at her own pace. May her

           arrival there be the beginning of long life of domestic joy

           and may you soon follow her, and be as happy as your

           sister

              By the way, have told you of the ardent manner in which
                            I

                                               ;
           the Sedgwicks make love when they are young, and set about

              with all their hearts and of this will give you domestic
                                                        I

                                                           a
                                                                                        a
           example. My nephew Dick (now B.A. of Trin. Coll. -- a
           Priest --and an Incumbent at Norwich) was once, about six

           years since,     boy of nineteen, and, naturally enough,
                            a
                                                 a
           desperately in love with pretty little girl about three years

           younger than himself. But they were separated Dick heard
                                                        a

                                                                                     ;
           no more of his first love or of her family for full five years                     ;

           and the faithless dog has been in love dozen times, and once

           or twice with his forefoot upon Hymen's threshold. And

           how, my dear niece, could be otherwise The Sedgwicks
                            ;                              a

                                           it                    ?
                                                                               ;
           are all like tinder and tinder fires with spark and the fire

           of tinder has long, you know, been used in lighting matches.

           I  returned to Cambridge for the Fellowship Examination,

           which begins on the first of October and Richard was to
                                                        ;

           leave his father's house on that day that he might be at

           Norwich to do his own duty on the third. Judge my

           surprise when, about the middle of the week following, Dick

           came into my room, and found me in state of obscuration
                                                        I

                                                                  a
           behind big stack of examination papers, and cried out,
            Spare me but one hour for talk -- am going to be married
           --yes, in three weeks -- to my first love, Mary-- you will
           '                                                                            if

                    I,'                                                                                             ;
                            expanded my eyes, and held up my hands
                            a

                                            !
                                               '

                              I

                                                     a
           but help me

           and replied, with some surprise, that never had suspected
                                                        I

                                                            I
           him of keeping up correspondence with that child. Nor                           '
           had said he; 'till last Friday evening never had heard

MARRIAGE OF RICHARD SEDGWICK.                               233

whether she was married or single, alive or dead. But listen,           1852.
                                                                              61-
and I will tell you all.' He then informed me that a

stranger whom he met in the train near Bolton told him

about her family --how the mother was dead, a sister and a

brother married, &c. -- Dick then, not unnaturally, asked

about his old love, Mary.  ' Oh    '  said  the  stranger,  ' she is a
                                 !

beautiful girl, the admiration of all Bolton. She has had a

dozen offers, but refused them all. She fell in love, when a

child, with a man who is a parson in the South of England,

I am told, and she will hear of love from no one since.'

This set Dick's heart in a flutter. He had to rest at

Warrington that evening, at the house of an old Quaker
cousin of ours ; and told old Broadbrim how the spirit had

Ifmoved him. ' so, cousin Richard,' said the old Quaker, ' thou

owest obedience to its motions.' Dick assented ; and what

think you ? Ten minutes after dinner the old Quaker (a
venerable man, years older than myself) called his carriage,

and started during a dark night of storm and tempest across

ten miles of wild country to the house where Mary and her

father had been on a visit. They were gone to Blackpool, a

watering-place on the Lancashire coast. So the Quaker went
back ; and Dick next day worked his way to Blackpool. He

saw papa, who received him kindly ; and the moment he saw
Mary they rushed together like two globules of mercury.

Vows were renewed in an instant. ' Let us be married at

once,' said Richard. ' I will make no difficulties,' said papa.
' Mary has never been happy since you parted, but you must
have a house to live in.' ' Then I must go and ask my uncle

to lend me his house,' said my nephew. Accordingly he
started ; and burst into my rooms, as I have stated. I felt

exactly like the old Quaker; promised the full use of my

Norwich house, and the key of my cellar, &c. In short, I
applied a spur rather than a drag-chain -- Isabella went to

Bolton to help in getting all things ready, and on the 25th of
last month I presented my youthful person to the family there,

and the day following made two young people happy.

2 3-4 VISITS THE QUEEN AT WINDSOR.

     My new niece is little in stature, with very small hands
and feet, of good figure, fair and ruddy, with beautiful hair
and blue eyes, and a roundish, pretty, happy-looking face.
As you are my niece, you of course want to know all about
your new relation. She and Dick pass through Cambridge
to-morrow, and are to dine with me. How I wish you could
be of the party! What a tremendous long gossip I am running
into. But love-stories, like barley-sugar, spin out, you know, to

any length you like. And does not this story prove what I

said before -- that the Sedgwicks are all warm lovers ? Even
old Quakers with a drop of the family blood are fit to serve
among Hymen's sharpshooters....

    Of myself I have no news to tell you, unless I were to
count the number of times I cough or sneeze. So the less

said about myself the better.

                                        Ever, my dear Isabella,

                                         Your affectionate Uncle,

                                                        Adam Sedgwick.

To Mrs Richard Sedgwick.

                                              Windsor Castle,

Dearest Mary,  Saturday, November 6th, 1852.

           I have come over to spend two days with the

Queen, who did me the honour to invite me. 'Tis the Prince,
I suspect, who wants to talk about some reforms at Cambridge ;

and the Queen is always very kind and courteous to all

persons who have any official connection with him. As I
have brought no books with me, and must wait a little
before dinner is ready, I have begun to kill Time (but Time
will have his revenge, and kill every one of us) by writing to
you -- though in truth I have at this moment nothing to say

except that the wind is howling, and the rain pattering against

the Castle windows. So, good morning, my dear niece !

     Sunday Morning, 7 a.m. I have had my early coffee and

attempted a walk on the great castle terrace ; but wind and

VISITS THE QUEEN AT WINDSOR.  -35

rain forbad it. By the way, I said good morning yesterday        1852.
when it was almost night. Now I may say good morning with              67-

very truth. There is a little formality at a Court dinner

before you sit down. All visitors assemble in the Green

Room as it is called, before the Royal party enters. The

gentlemen, when the Queen approaches through a long gallery,
arrange themselves in a rather formal semicircle. She shakes

hands with the ladies, bows to the gentlemen, and then

moves off first. When any foreign Prince is present she takes

his arm, otherwise she marches off with her own husband.

Yesterday Prince Hohenlohe (who married the Queen's half-
sister) was present with his family. He therefore handed out
the Queen, and Prince Albert handed out the Duchess of
Kent, and sat opposite to the Queen ; and as usual in the

centre of the table. I was in great luck, as Lord and Lady
Hardwicke were there, whom I know almost intimately ;

especially Lady Hardwicke, who is still a handsome woman
with a happy round face ; and you know I like round faces,

and so does Richard, does he not ? And my seat was a very

happy one; as on my right was the lady in waiting (Lady
Desart) whom I knew when she was a child ; and Miss
Cavendish (one of the Maids of Honour) whom I have known
ever since she was a child was on my left. Our conversation was

anything but formal. Miss Cavendish told me that Colonel

Gordon was just going to marry Miss Herschel (Sir John's
eldest daughter). She (Miss H.) was once at my house at

Norwich, and Isabella knows her well. I praised Miss H. to

the skies, said that she was a 'celestial body,' and that
Gordon would be the happiest man in the world. Miss
Cavendish then turned round, and told the Colonel what I

said, with a little dash of quizzing amplification. In very
truth Miss Herschel is a beautiful young woman, and I said
enough about her to make the ladies talk of her to the Queen

after they retired, for soon after we entered the drawing-
room Her Majesty came up with a very condescending and

cheerful face, and began to ask me questions about Miss

         236 VISITS THE QUEEN AT WINDSOR.

'85*-    Herschel. I told the same story I had done to Miss Caven-
Et" 6?'
         dish, and said that Miss H. was supremely beautiful, quite
         a ' celestial body.' ' It is quite right,' replied the Queen,
         ' that Sir John Herschel's daughter should be ' a celestial
         body,' and I rejoice to hear it.' She then asked me questions
         about my summer tour and passed on. With the Prince I

         had a very long talk about our Report, (I mean the Commis
         sioners' Report) but that is a dull subject. We had no
         military music-- because of the old Duke's death, but the

         Queen's private band always plays in one of the drawing-
         rooms. The table was very gorgeous. Besides the side

         lights and chandeliers, there were twelve golden branches

         (each with four wax lights) on the table, and between each
         pair of branches a magnificent silver-gilt vase. About half-

         past eleven the Queen rose, the band struck up God save the
         Queen, and we all, after walking a little in a long corridor or

         gallery, went to our respective dens. Mine is in Lancaster

         Tower. I can see John of Gaunt's tower at Lancaster from
         the hill immediately south of the village of Dent. So I am
         in the right place here, quite at home, am I not ? The long
         gallery I spoke of is just 152 yards from end to end, and is
         ornamented with busts and pictures. All the private sets

         of rooms diverge from the gallery ; and to each tower there

         is a separate establishment of servants and housemaids. So

         in this vast castle you may be as snug and comfortable as

         in a private house. Indeed more snug and comfortable in

         some cases; because here you may do what you like, and
         keep entirely to yourself if you like. After my early coffee,

         I breakfasted with the Master of the Household and the
         Queen's Equerries. At 1 1 I am to read the Morning Service.

             And now, my dear Mary, what do you think I was talking

         about in the drawing-room to Lady Hardwicke? She said
         that she had seen in the papers that I had been at a

         marriage. I then told her of your early loves, of Richard's

         nocturnal journey with an old Quaker, of my hearty approval
         of the kind of game of matrimonial leapfrog &c. And what

DUKE OF WELLINGTON'S FUNERAL.                                 237

do you think Lady H. said in reply ? ' I think,' said she            185

laughing, ' that the grave Professor and the old Quaker were
quite as mad as the young people. But it was all for the

best, and I should like very much to see your new niece.'

All the gossip of the day is talked over with the Queen by

the ladies in the drawing-room. So I have no doubt, my

dear Mary, that your love-story has been fairly talked over at

Windsor Castle.

     Sunday, 1 p.m. I have just returned from the Chapel,
where I have read the Service. In the afternoon I mean to

go to the service at St George's Chapel. There they have a
regular Cathedral service. Tomorrow I return to Cambridge.

There ! I must conclude. My love to Richard.

                 Ever, dearest Mary,

                 Yours with the heart's best love,
                                                A. Sedgwick.

To Mrs Richard Sedgxvick.

Dearest Mary,    TrIN. COLL., November 21st, 1852.

                I mean to send you a letter, if all be well, by the
early post tomorrow ; and as I shall have very little time for
it I might as well begin it now, before I retire to my bed.

You would make out by my last, that I had given up all
hopes of attending the old Duke's funeral. I should indeed

have very much liked to have seen the last honours paid to so

great and good a man ; and I think I could not have been

present without feeling deeply, and deriving a lasting moral

benefit from the impression. But I was obliged to submit ;
and I did so without murmuring; and I did feel a deep

emotion, sometimes producing a sinking, and sometimes a

kind of devotional swell, of spirits, as I stood on Thursday

night, at my solitary window, and listened to the solemn
moan of the dumb-peal that sounded from St Mary's tower.

     What thoughts came back to my mind as I stood and

listened ? All my early life was passed during years of war

and blood-shed. I well remember the death of Lewis the 16th,

          238 LORD NELSON'S DEATH.

 185l.    though I was then but seven years old. I remember the
/Et. 67.  exultation at all the great victories of Nelson ; and the
          exultation was then, I think, far greater than was ever called
          forth by the victories of the great Duke in Spain. For

          nations and kingdoms were falling, year by year, before the

          conquering sword of France. Between us and France seemed
          to be a struggle for life or death. The power that had

          swallowed up Europe, threatened to devour us, and was
          hovering within sight of the British coasts. England had

          then 500,000 men in arms. Even the peaceful Universities

          were banded, armed, and exercised. Such was the condition

          of England when I came hither in 1804 as a Freshman.
               The next year, 1805, was a year of desolation to the

          Continent, but, at the critical moment, by one mighty blow,

          Nelson crushed to atoms the naval force of France ; and from

          that time all immediate fears for our houses and homes were

          at an end. With mixed feelings --of sorrow most deep for
          the loss of a great deliverer --of joy and gladness inex

          pressible for so great a triumph won at a moment which
          seemed the crisis of England's fate -- came the news of the

          great victory of Trafalgar. I was then on a sick bed, in great
          personal danger (of which I was myself not conscious) -- and
          hardly conscious of what was passing ; but I urged my nurses

          so vehemently that they were forced to comply ; and they

          rolled me up in the sheets and blankets, and bore me to the

          window ; where I saw the illuminations in the street near the

          great gate, and listened with half-delirious but deep sorrow
          to the booming of the muffled bells which were sounding for
          the dead hero. And after 47 years, in the same great court

          of Trinity College, am I now, in my old age, listening to the
          same solemn peal, sounding the accents of a nation's sorrow

          for a hero greater than Nelson ! These, my dear Mary, were
          the kind of thoughts on which I fed on Thursday night.

              But I must not write any more about my thoughts. I

          have had a very kind letter from your papa, and it is plain
          that you cannot have the happiness of seeing him at this time.

                      DOMESTIC GOOD WISHES.                    239

So far as I am concerned, it is better that he should visit                           1852.
Cambridge at another time ; as I am still almost a prisoner,
and cannot yet dine in Hall. I did lecture on Friday and                            *L'' 67

Saturday, but not without pain to myself, and I yesterday

caught a little additional cold : but this quiet day of rest,

which I have spent by my good warm fireside, has set me up

again. There was an excellent sermon, I am told, preached at

St Mary's Church by Professor Blunt1, which I should have

liked to hear, but I could not go with any safety to my own

voice. Your father writes in a way to make me blush. I do

not deserve any praise from him. I have only obeyed the

impulse of my heart ; and only done towards you that which,

if left undone, would have made me unhappy. To you, my

darling, I owe an infinite obligation. Have you not given

me a loving little niece -- a young creature whom in my old

age I can love and honour as a family treasure, and in whose

happiness I can find a treasure of happiness for myself? You
Ifand Richard are to me as a son and a daughter.
                                                               I can be

of use to you, 'tis so far well ; and you pay me back a

hundred-fold by kind looks and kind words coming from the

heart. Don't talk of obligation. Tell me that you love me,

and I will believe it ; and tell me that you are happy, and I

shall rejoice at and be happy along with you. Your letter
                      it,     like --sweet fireside gossip.

                           I
was just the letter                                            hear
                                                               I
you are to dine en famille with Mr Wodehouse on Tuesday.            I
   hope you like my god-daughter Alice. She was always
I                                                                          a
pet of mine. Tell her send her paternal kiss. Give
                ;             II                                              aI a
my love also to her sister.
                                     I
                                                          a
                              meant only to write few

lines but the moment began to write to you fancied

was talking to you, and that you were looking up in my face,

and asking me to go on. But must now stop. So with
                              I

paternal kiss say good night, and may God bless you and
                   I

your husband, and give you His grace to make you good and

happy
1
           !
A Sermon in Memory the late Duke
                      of                          Wellington.  Tiy Rev. Joli. Ta.
                                              of

Blunt, B.D. Lady Margaret's Professor of Divinity.

              -4 NELSON AND WELLINGTON.

  1852.         Monday morning. I was bewitched to go on writing. I

Ma. 67.       meant to go to bed at ten, and I did not retire till after

              eleven. In fact a long day had been spent almost in solitude.

              So, when I began to gossip upon paper, I felt happy and

              went on. What a contrast there was between Nelson and

              Wellington ! Nelson was vain, fond of popular admira
              tion, warmhearted, and a creature of impulse ; capable of

              committing acts of egregious folly ; and all the latter years

              of his life I believe unhappy, because dissatisfied with

              himself. His sailors adored him, and so did his personal

              friends. Wellington had no vanity, cared little for popular

                                                         was stern to those under his
              applause, perhaps despised;

                                                      a
                                                               it,

                                                                                           ;

                                                                                  a
              command, rigid in discipline, and not personally beloved by
              his soldiers was guided through life by the maxims of

              common sense, had no poetry in his system, seemed in public

              life incapable of committing any act of folly, and almost

              incapable of making      mistake calm, prescient, and of

              indomitable resolution when the means of victory were in his

              hands. Duty, not glory, was his watchword. He seemed a

              being raised up by Providence to do work memorable in the

              history of civilized and christianized man, and he died

         is inquietly in his own bedroom, after the nation (as the natural
              inheritance of his victories) had been living almost forty years

                  peace. You know all this, dear Mary, and why should
                                                                                              I

                                                                                                    II
                                                                                                                      is I
              write  it         Because, though have nothing to tell you that
                                   I
                          ?           is

                new,  I         like to have a gossip with you while Johnif
                                            II
         preparing my breakfast. Were my lungs better would come
                                                      a
         over some Saturday after my lecture, and spend Sunday

         with you but in my present croaking state, could not
                             ;

              travel with safety, and                  did come                                  should make a

              noise like the bird of ill omen.

                I    wish there were an artist in Norwich one might trust to

              take your portrait.  should like to have                                           it,
                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                 and put on

              the other side of the glass, to match that of Isabella. But to
              effect this we need not be in great hurry --only watch the

         occasion. Thurlburn come back and must shut up this
                                                                                              I

        DOMESTIC HAPPINESS.                                  241

sheet or miss the post. So good morning. I must reluc-            1852.
                                                                      6'*
tantly conclude, with my blessing and love to you both.

                         Ever, dearest Mary,

                         Affectionately yours,
                                         A. Sedgwick.

The marriage which Sedgwick has described so graphi

cally and so humorously in his letter to Miss Herschel was

a source of infinite gratification to him. Our task will have
been imperfectly performed, if we have not shewn that he was

romantic as well as affectionate. The stories he took most

pleasure in telling were those in which love had been victorious

over difficulties; and the mere fact that Richard Sedgwick

was about to marry a lady whom he had once been forbidden

to marry, was in itself a passport to his good-will. At first

he was somewhat shocked at what seemed to him indecent

haste. "Old Hymen's chariot," he said, "used to drag on

slowly, and only got to the terminus after many a halt to

take in the needful supplies ; but now he moves at a railroad
speed, and is personified by one of the drivers of the Great

Western Express1." But, before many days were over, he

was deep in considerations about a suitable wedding-present,

and on the wedding-day probably no one echoed more
approvingly than he did the cry of the bystanders : " It's all

right now, the young ones have got their way!" Again, he

had reached an age when home had greater charms than

general society ; and he delighted in the prospect of having
"a dear daughter" -- as he called his niece from his first
introduction to her-- to brighten his old house at Norwich.

Nor did this feeling wear off as time went on. Most old

bachelors would have disliked the interference with their

ordinary habits which such a change in their household

arrangements involved. Sedgwick, on the contrary, made

light of cares and difficulties; and he was rewarded by

finding in his nephew's wife and children a compensation for

having none of his own.

        1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 3 October, 1852.

S. II.                                                   16

         242 LECTURES AT LEEDS.

  18s *.

ML 67.

                            I promised to write again from Dent, and as I
           only arrived here at 10 p.m. yesterday, you must allow that I
           am pretty punctual in the performance of my promise. The
           celebration of the 500th anniversary of Corpus Christi College
          detained me at Cambridge on the 16th. I meant to have
           gone to Leeds that day ; but Prince Albert informed me,
            through his secretary, that he could not attend in person, and
          that I must, if possible, attend and answer for him. So there
          was no help for it. I did attend, and saw a sumptuous feast,
          of which I hardly dared to taste. We had several good hearty
          speeches. I spoke very early, in reply to the health of our
           Chancellor, Prince Albert ; and, as all geologists improve
            their lungs by mountain climbing, they naturally become
           rather long-winded. This may partly account for the fact
            that my speech was unmercifully long-- the longest spoken

         that evening. I returned to my chambers before midnight.
         Retired and slept till five, when I rose and lighted my fire,

           and began to pack my maps and drawings of big beasts, and

            my geological sections, &c., sipping my coffee at intervals.
          About half-past six my servant came -- an hour behind the

         appointed time. He packed, and I grumbled, and between
         packing and grumbling I forgot my memorandum-book, out
         of which I was to spin a portion of my Leeds lectures. At
         half-past seven I was off. There was a halt at Peterborough

           for the northern express, which allowed me to lay in store a
          good solid breakfast. That done, I found my way to Leeds

         by 3 p.m. My friends met me, and conveyed me and my
          baggage to the great room of the Philosophical Society.
        There I unrolled my big beasts, gave orders to certain work
          men about fixing them, and then went to a friend's house
          where I had ordered dinner -- yes! ordered dinner, for I had
         written to the lady of the house, and told her if she hoped to
          hear me lecture, to provide me a basin of plain mutton-broth.

LECTURES AT LEEDS.          243

and a nursery pudding. So I dined simply enough --then             1852.
threw myself on a bed for an hour --drank a cup of coffee --
and at half-past seven went to the lecture-room. My beasts       Mt- 67-

were all glorious to behold. The audience consisted of about
300, or perhaps 350 -- many petticoat-wearing bipeds among
them. My beasts roared most harmoniously, and the assem

bled party sat silently watching their gambols, and listening
to their ancient music, for two mortal hours.... We got

home a little after midnight I think.

After breakfast we went down to prepare my sections and

pictures for the lecture at the Mechanics Institution on Monday

evening. You know, my darling, what a sweet voice I have,

especially when I am recovering from a bad cold ; so they

resolved that I should hold forth in the Music Hall, and

sundry carpenters, and other cunning persons, were put in

requisition to construct a great framework to hold my maps

and plans and pictures. It was made to stretch across the

orchestra, just before the steps where, in common concerts,

the fiddlers and tweedledee operators stand all in a row.

But mine was not a common concert, being confined to

one wind-instrument... Next day (Sunday) I attended the
New Old Church at Leeds and heard Dr Hook. In the

afternoon Mr James Marshall called by appointment, and
drove me to his brother's house, about four miles out of
Leeds. I had a very pleasant visit, and some glorious

games at romps with two young boys. The youngest,
about three years old, I called William the Conqueror.

' You shall call me William the Conqueror,' said the child,
' if I may ride on your back.' So we were not long in

striking a bargain. Next day they drove me to Leeds in

good time. I ate a nice lunch-dinner at two ; and then went

to my bedroom to rehearse my long piece of wind- music

for the concert-room in the evening. It was crammed to the
utmost. Full 1200 I was told were present on the floor --

three-fourths of them members of the Mechanics Institute.

I never addressed a more patient and attentive Class. They

                    l6-- 2

         244 LECTURES AT LEEDS.

1852.    were silent as death ; except when there was a pause, and

Et. 67.  tlien fhey all applauded heartily yet modestly. Only think !

         I went on at full speed for two hours and twenty minutes,
         during which I told them of many ups and downs in the old

         world ; of many generations past and gone, which had left
         no living progeny ; of rain, hail, storm and tempest ; of
         gravel, glaciers, and boulder-stones ; of the great Gulf Stream
         which puts the west side of England in a warm vapour-bath,

         etc., etc. And then they thanked me ; and I bowed, and
         looked modest. Next day (Tuesday) I parted with my

         friends at Leeds, packed my papers and pictures, and put

         them on the way towards their old resting-place in Cam
         bridge. I then looked at one or two manufactories and the
         beautiful church built by the Marshalls. Who would have

         ever thought that men could spin such beautiful churches out
         of flax ! With them -- by a modern transmutation little
         thought of by the old alchemists --threads of flax are turned

         into threads of gold, and these threads can draw big blocks of

         stone after them quite as readily, I suspect, as Amphion's

         whistle which you have read of.
              Then by train to Halifax, where I spent a very pleasant,

         but grave and quiet evening, with Archdeacon and Mrs
         Musgrave. They are very old and dear friends of mine.
         Yesterday morning the wind blew over the Yorkshire moors
         fiercely and coldly. The hill-tops were grisly with snow, but at
         Bradford and all along the banks of the Aire the temperature
         was warmer. I reached Dent about ten. All well. We sat
         by the kitchen fire, till half-past one, talking about you and
         Richard, and relieving the monotony of the subject by a few
         puffs of a cigar. And then we returned to the old subject,

         and talked you over and over again. Write soon. All send

         their warmest love to you and Richard. May God bless you

         both.

                Ever, my dear little round-faced niece,

                Your affectionate old uncle,
                                      A. Sedgwick.

                   LECTURES AT LEEDS.                                       245

     The first of these two lectures was on " The Comparative                             1853.
Anatomy of the Megatherium, the Mylodon, and other large
fossil Edentata;" the subjects he had selected for his lecture                          /Et- 68-
at Ipswich in 18481. The second was "On glacial phe
nomena in connection with the history of erratic blocks."

The Report of the Mechanics Institution for 1852 thus
commemorates the lecture :

     The Committee refer with feelings of the deepest pleasure and
gratitude to the last lecture on the list, that delivered gratuitously
by the Rev. Professor Sedgwick; in which one of the most interesting
questions in the physical history of the earth's surface was discussed
with an union of profound knowledge and familiarity of expression

that rendered the discourse as captivating as it was instructive.

To Miss Gerard.
                                               Cambridge, January 16th, 1853.

    "...I spent a delightful quiet Christmas [at Dent] which
did my heart good.... I went one day with Isabella to call on

an old dame (that  I is,at Dent, your name for any old woman

of low estate) whom had known when was child, who
                                                     a               aa
had often dandled me in her arms, and was a fine, tall,
                                                       II
rosy-faced, merry, young woman, when was very little

boy. My niece carried the 'auld dame' a little Christmas

present. Old as she was, she had still little of her original

freshness of colour, and evident traces of the finer features

of her early years. Though very poor, and living on small
                                                                         a

parish allowance, helped out by small dealings with sweets

and gingerbread, and                                 little benevolence from those who
I

         1
                                        p.

                                  is
                                  it

                                                  a
respected her cheerful, contented, christian, old age, she was

as clean in her person and her house, as she were a lady's
                                                     if
waiting-maid. When my niece told her who
                                                                is

                                                                I
                                                                             I
                                                                         was, she

started from her chair, grasped my hand firmly, and cried

out: 'Oh Adam,          ye? Many a lang year gone sen

tought ye to loup off Battersby's trough! But oh! its kind

See above,  150. The Minutes of the Cambridge Philosophical Society

"Anshew that six years previously (20 March, 1842) he had read to the Society

account of Professor Owen's Memoir on the Skeleton of the Mylodon, and on the
structure and habits of certain extinct genera of gigantic sloths."

          246 AN OLD DAME AT DENT.

  ' 853.  o' ye to come an see me!' Trough, in the Dent dialect,

Mt. 68.   means tombstone ; and, considerably more than 60 years
          since, she had held my hand while I learnt to leap from

          this curious old monument....1

               The old dame soon afterwards sang me a bit of an old
          carol she had, I dare say, sung to me before, about 64 years
          since. I told her of my nephew's marriage to his first love.
          'Its weel, its weel,' she cried, 'ther's nae luck i' stopping the
          stream of true love ! They stopped him five years sen ; but
          now the young anes ha hed ther way, God bless 'em ! An
          its o' God's ordering ! what is to be, will be, an o' the world
          cannot stop it ! ' What do you think of this specimen of
          primitive philosophy, spoken with a full clear voice by a

          woman above ninety?..."

               Sedgwick's own opinions did not differ greatly from those
          of his old nurse, though he did not venture to proclaim them

          with such decision. At this time, whatever might be his

          employment, his thoughts were constantly reverting to the
          young household at Norwich, and a brisk interchange of

          letters attests his practical interest in all that concerned his

          nephew and niece. Additions to the furniture or the plate --
          the replenishment of the cellar -- a delicacy for the table --
          social arrangements for his next Residence -- are each the
          subject of a long epistle. Nor does he forget to intersperse
          these matters with others of more serious import. He does

          not give formal lectures, but kindly suggestions, delicately
          and tenderly conveyed -- for religious exercises, or conduct, or
          reading, or household management --the sort of advice that a

          father might send to a daughter whom accident had deprived
          of her mother. Most of these letters are too private to be

          printed as they were written, nor would they be generally

          interesting; but occasionally an extract may be quoted.
          The following refers to some lessons in music, the cost of

          which he had arranged to defray.

               1 The omitted passage contains the story of Battersby, related above, Vol. 1.

          p. 11.

                 WELCOME!                         247

To Mrs Richard Sedgwick.                                                      1853.
                                          TRIN. Coll., January 13/n, 1853.
                                                                            M1.6S.
     "...You must make no objections on this score. I am a

despot, and never allow my nephews and nieces to object

to anything I say or do in my own house. And indeed I am

often unreasonable during the spring months. Suppressed

gout comes upon me in February, and for four or five months
quite changes my nature. It takes away my power of
sleeping, and makes me so cross and unreasonable that I am
ashamed of myself almost every hour of the day at some act
or other of querulous folly. So you will have much to endure
while you are my guest ! For suppressed gout is first cousin
to insanity, and mad people, you know, always behave ill to

those they loved best before their malady. So every angry
look and bitter word you must try to set down to the score of
my present love, now that I am in sound mind ; for I think I
am now in sound mind, and I am sure that I love you and

Isabella as if you were twin daughters, and my own flesh and

blood...."

     Two days later he learnt that his nephew and his bride
were coming to pay him a visit at Cambridge :

To tlie same.    Trin. COLL., January 16M, 1853.

...Nothing could have been better contrived. So on

Monday, the 24th of this month, you will, I hope, be happily
drinking tea, and telling love-stories, in my college rooms --

tales and talk of domestic love, and hope, and Christian joy,
Ifreflected in happy faces!
                             we have these delights we need

not care much for the weather.... It delights me to think

that you are happy at the thoughts of a Cambridge visit.

I am never so happy as when I am among young people

whom I love....

     With his usual hospitality Sedgwick got up a dinner
party and an evening-party for his guests; and when it was
time to return to Norwich he went with them as far as Ely,

          248 REFUSES DEANERY OF PETERBOROUGH.

   1853.  to shew them the Cathedral. Before long he spent a month
          in their society, for this year February was one of his months
/Et. 68.
          of Residence at Norwich. The weather was execrable --the
          streets blocked with snow--and the Close deserted. " How
          dull I should have been," he wrote, " but for my own happy

          fire-side!" There, however, he found domestic enjoyments
          which made up for the shortcomings of the outer world. In
          the way of serious work there was the composition of a
          course of Lent sermons ; in the evenings music, or reading
          aloud for his niece's gratification. His letters shew that he

          was thoroughly happy.

              During April and May he was again in Residence. In
          those months we hear less of quiet, and more of the usual round
          of hospitality. Visits from Dr and Mrs Vaughan, and from
          Bishop Monk, gave him much pleasure. Early in May
          he was offered the Deanery of Peterborough. " Whatever

          may be your decision," wrote Lord Aberdeen\j it will at all
          events be matter of satisfaction to myself that I"should have
          the means of marking the high sense I entertain of your
          services in the cause of religion and of science." In antici
          pation of the official letter Sedgwick's old friend Lord
          Fitzwilliam had written four days previously : " It will be an

          inexpressible pleasure to me to see you settled in a place
          which will afford us constant means of intercourse." Sedg

          wick, however, was deaf to the voices of these charmers.

          Without any hesitation, as it would appear, he refused, in a

          firm, but most full and courteous, letter to the Prime Minister.

          " I have lived too long to be ambitious," he writes, " so the

          increased ecclesiastical rank has no temptations for me ; and

          I believe that the remnant of my life would be more usefully
          and more happily employed in doing the duties of the offices
          I now fill than in undertaking others arising out of high
          position in the Church.... At Norwich (a place of most pesti
          lent party-spirit) I have tried to be a peace-maker, and I
          preach what I believe to be Christian truth to a large and
          attentive congregation. At Cambridge my lectures are still

FIFTH LETTER ON LAKE DISTRICT.  249

popular, and my class-room full ; and I think (perhaps it is                                 1853.
an old man's vanity) that I have the power of producing
a good moral influence by raising my voice against a kind                                  /Et- 68-
of dreamy pantheistical philosophy which tries to lift up
its head among academical men. Besides, I have works
on hand, which (if God spare my health) will take me two
more years to finish.... Pray forgive me for writing at this
length. I am very anxious your Lordship should understand

my motives, and I should grieve that you should think me

a moral coward, or a disloyal son of the Church of England,

in declining the dignity you offer me."
     Residence at Norwich ended, Sedgwick returned to

Cambridge. Trinity College offered a melancholy contrast
to his home in the Close. " The college," he tells Mrs
Sedgwick, " is almost empty ; and those who are here seem

to be dressing their feathers for a summer's flight, so your
old uncle will at least have elbow-room. But oh ! how I

shall want the dear society of those whom I love ! Isabella

and Fanny gone for nearly a year, and my daughter Mary no

longer at my elbow to cheer me with her smile, and gladden

my heart with her gentle laugh and happy gossip, in field or

at fire-side. Pray write soon. If there is anything you want

that I can get for you, do ask me, and I shall love you all the

better for asking1."

    A new edition of Hudson's Complete Guide to the Lakes

being required, Sedgwick was asked by the publisher to

make any changes he thought proper in his four Letters,
the last of which had been written, it will be remembered, in

1 846*. He was unable to attend to the matter when Mr
Hudson first communicated with him ; and by the time he

was at leisure, the original letters had been reprinted. He
therefore wrote a fifth Letter (dated 23 June, 1853), embody
ing the results of his two last visits to Lake Land in 1851
and 1852, and the changes which he now proposed to make

1 To Mrs Richard Sedgwick, 10 June, 1853.
2 For an account of these Letters see Vol. i. pp. 246 --249 : Vol. ii. pp. 39 --41 ; 102.

         250 FIFTH LETTER ON LAKE DISTRICT.

1853-    in "the comparative nomenclature and classification of the
Et. 68'  natural groups of Cumberland and Westmoreland, and their

         co-ordination with the natural groups of North and South
         Wales." These subjects occupy less than half the letter; the
         rest is devoted, in the main, to a vindication of his own
         position with regard to " the nomenclature of the older
         palaeozoic groups ; " in other words, to an exposition of his
         views regarding the true limits of Cambria and Siluria. It
         closes with an eloquent tribute to the memory of the three

         great men whose acquaintance he had made among the

         mountains in past years, Dalton, Southey, and Wordsworth1.
              The following letter, though it was written some months

         after the publication of the Guide, and therefore anticipates
         our narrative to a certain extent, still belongs, in the main, to
         this place. It contains a very candid and natural explana
         tion of his reasons for speaking and writing as he had done ;
         and it holds out a hope that no permanent rancour against
         his old associate could be possible. This hope, alas ! was

         delusive ; and he brooded over his wrongs (as he considered
         them) with a bitterness that increased as years went on,
         until at last he declined to meet Murchison, even on the

         common ground of a scientific gathering.

         My dear Murchison,  Cambridge, October i8lA, 1853.

                         ...I [have written] another Letter on the Lake

         Country (no longer, alas ! to old Poet Wordsworth, but to
         the editor of his essay), and I left a copy of these letters at

         the Geological Society addressed to you. I hope you won't
         think my last Letter ill-tempered. If so, set it down to the

         fiend gout.

             I am delighted with the tone of your letter*. It is frank

         and friendly, as it ought to be, and as your letters used to be.

              1 This passage has been already quoted, Vol. i. p. 248.
             2 A long letter describing the results of a tour in Germany, in the course of

         which he had visited some of the ground traversed in former years by himself
         and Sedgwick. The most important passages have been printed by Mr Geikie,
         Life of Murchison, ii. 154 -- 156.

25 1

Two or three things helped to set my back up. I know that                      1853.
I am a great procrastinator --partly from temperament, partly
                                                                                    6f
from multitudinous engagements that pull hard at me, and
chiefly from a condition of health which, for months and

months together, makes writing and sedentary work very
very irksome, and almost impossible. Still, though a man is

behind time with his rent, he rather grumbles when he finds,

on coming back to his premises, that a neighbour has turned

out his furniture, taken possession, and locked the door upon

him. This was exactly what you did ; and so completely,
unexpectedly, and without notice, that the first time I ever
heard of your having Silurianized the map of Wales was
from that parasitic geologist Knipe. He it was that told
me you had bought his map -- that you had talked about
the colours -- and that under your direction he had laid on

the colours, etc. He was urging me to buy his map, which

I did not do at that time. I do not remember the exact

year; but it was a considerable time -- several years --after
the Silurian System was out. I confess that this both

surprised and vexed me. But I had no real anxiety about
the result. Good cards were in my hands, if I could only
play them ; and neither then, nor ever afterwards, had I the

shadow of a doubt that I could make good my classification
and nomenclature. I was the only man in England who had
all the cards in hand, and knew how to sort them, so as to

tell on the whole case. I was content with the old nomen

clature, and anxious only about one or two points relating

to the demarcations.

     The next thing that nettled me was Warburton's strange,
and as I thought suspicious conduct, when he undertook to

look to the reduction of two or three of my papers1. He

worked away while I was at Norwich ; but refused to let me
see a single proof-sheet. I knew that he was, in truth, very

ignorant of the subject he took in hand ; for the knowledge
he had was one-sided --all from your book, and nothing from

                  1 Journal of Geological Society, 1845, Vol. i. pp. 5 -- 22.

          - 5 - SEDGWICK AND WARBURTON.

  1853.   survey. And, believing that he knew the whole case, while

/Et. 68.  he had only looked into a small part of he set to work in
                          I

                                                     it,
          ignorant confidence, and, verily believe, thought he was

          doing me favour while he was altering the names of theIa
          colours on my sketch-map, which he tried to copy.... By

                          mean that thought he treated me as                  he
          suspicions      I                               if
                                                                    if
                                       ;
                                                                        I
                                      I
          thought me a bit of a rogue and wrote to him, more than

          once, demanding the proof-sheets, and telling him that my

          reduction would pass under his eye, and that, unfair, he

          might suppress any part of as he thought right, etc., etc.it,

               You must remember that in my great big sketch-map

          gave one colour to the upper (or true) Silurians -- including
          therein the May Hill Sandstone, north of the Holyhead road,

          which coloured yellow and called Caradoc in the Govern
          I
          ment map (assuredly one of their great mistakes). The
               islower Silurians, Caradoc and Llandeilo, and all the Cam

          brians, down to the Menai, had one colour but stated
                          +

                                                                           ;

                                                   II
          that did this because no good demarcation had been made

          out between them. This great spread of one colour called

          Protozoic = Lower Silurian Cambrian. Warburton altered

          this, and published his reduction of my papers with the title

          of the colours, in which he made Protozoic = Lower Silurian.

          believe he did this in ignorance, and not at all in treachery,
          I

                 I
          and declare, upon my honour, that for several years after,

          and not till long after you and began to wrangle, did
                               I

                                                         I

          ever look at the Warburtonian explanation of the colours, or

          suspect that he had dared (in over confidence in himself) to
          make any unauthorized cliange. This you will find stated in

          my new Letter. Now this fact explains what allude to in
          I

                        it
                                           a

                                    I
                                                              I

                                                                                                                             !
                                                                                                                                '

                                                                        I' I
                                                                                            I

                                                                                      I
          the Letter. When called on De la Beche to get one or two

          of his South Welsh published sections in 1846 (before went
          to South Wales and Llandeilo which had never seen since

          saw with you in 1834) he said to me: Sedgwick, you

          have given up very good nomenclature            replied that

          had given up no nomenclature -- that the only difficulty was

          in the demarcations, which, before long, would be put right,

WELSH SECTIONS.

etc. I think it was in the autumn of the same year (but I        1853.
cannot be certain) that I learnt from De la Beche something
                                                                ljt' 68
about the unconformity and thinning off of the so-called

Caradoc, which in point of fact was not represented in the

Llandeilo sections. This delighted me, for the Llandeilo

sections (after my visit in 1846) still presented a very great
difficulty, which would be cleared away by the unconformable
overlap of the group over the Llandeilo saddle and on the

south side of it. On this point I wrote more than once to

Jukes, who told me they had given up the notion of uncon
formity--that the sequence was unbroken, etc. This news
bothered me, and I did not believe it ; and when the great
map of the Survey appeared, two years since, I felt as certain

as I could do of my existence that the yellow colour (called

middle Silurian) was the colour of a great unconformable
deposit between my Cambrians and your Silurians. It did,

however, appear certain that the yellow colour included two

groups of fossils--one undoubted Silurian (or Wenlock) -- the

other undoubted Cambrian (e.g. Caer Caradoc section). If

this were true there must be an overlap, and in the inter

vening yellow colour the fossils of two systems were in

extricably blended. I believed in this overlap, because you

and Phillips and the naturalists of the Survey asserted it.

I do not blame you, because you leant on the naturalists'

determination ; but it is impossible not to say that herein

Salter and Forbes very strangely blundered --the more to be
wondered at because Phillips had stated the leading facts

quite correctly, though he had not (as it seems to me) the
moral courage to draw the legitimate conclusion from his

own excellent premises.

     I am writing ding-dong, to save the early post, and I
have overshot my game, for I was very frankly telling you

what had set my back up, after there was a dispute between

us. After the Government map was out, I could no longer
stand idle. I stood to my guns, and brought my case fairly

out. I have read the paper over, and I think, in fact and

         254 COUNCIL OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

1853.    language it is reasonable and not disrespectful to any one,

Et. 68.  anj tnat tne council made an egregious blunder when they

         ordered it to be burked after it was printed. This was a

         grievous personal insult, by no means wiped off by with
         drawing the foolish order. I have a copy of the order; and

         if it be directed against me (and my name only appears), it

         contains an assertion that is false (I write the plain word

         advisedly), for it states that I had not complied with the
         rules and directions of the Council, or words to that effect.

         The assertion may, however, apply to someone else. I mean
         (now that I have been permitted to see the Minute) to demand
         of the Council, not as a favour but as a right, that the order
         be expunged, or, at least, that a note be entered on the same

         page to the effect that the person alluded to (as having acted
         against the previous order of the Council) was not myself,
         and that I had acted throughout in strict conformity to rule.

         If this demand be not complied with, I cannot, in honour,

         remain any longer a member of the Geological Society ; for
         their books will contain a statement which is greatly to my

         discredit, and at the same time not true. When the dis

         cussion took place at the reading of this paper those who

         spoke were all against me. But who were they ? Men who

         were already booked and committed to the other side --who
         had taken a position, and must fight for it --and who had

         taken their position under a positive mistake as to my

         own previous paper, in which (misled by Warburton's
         audacious blunder) they supposed that I had abandoned my
         old nomenclature. They also spoke, while still in ignorance

         of their own blunder about the so-called Caradoc ; wherein
         lay the whole pith of the question. But let this at present
         pass. What followed ? You, my dear Murchison, made a
         grievous mistake of judgment in sending (before my abstract
         was out) your own abstract of the evening's work along with
         Forbes' paltry squib1. No man (gout or no gout) likes to be

             1 Sedgwick is wrong in his dates here. An abstract of his paper, with a
         tabular view of his classification, appears in The Literary Gazette for 6 March,

COUNCIL OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.                                        255

treated as a fool and made an object of scoff to the groundlings.                   1853.
                                                                                          fi8
Lastly, in my paper of last year I ended with a good rub
at the logic of the Survey, but in perfectly courteous language.

I thought the Council would object to the passage, which
was at the end of the paper. They did object, and I struck

it out, and there was no reason (that I know of) why my

short paper should not have appeared in the first number of

the Quarterly Journal that came out after it was read

(3 November, 1852). But it was put off then, and again put
off, and at length it appeared this autumn, after two papers
by the Survey, in which the exact views of McCoy and

myself were at length adopted. When my paper was read,

it was nibbled at by Forbes, and directly attacked by Salter.
This delay was, I think, a needless insult upon me ; and a

stupid insult, because the dates, after all, tell the true tale to

anyone who reads them.

    I have been writing very plainly, as I always would do to

an old friend. Judging only by my own collection McCoy
has long fought against any notion of an overlap. ' I see
no proof of it,' he said, 'in your collection, and I don't
believe it. If,' said he, ' the fossils of May Hill be in the
same group with those of Horderly and Caer Caradoc I will
give up palaeontology as long as I live.' We went last year
to the localities, and you know the result. We were only

five days at work this summer in the field. I could not

stand the wet, and was out only two days ; and was then

1852 ; Murchison's first letter in the same Journal, 20 March, 1852.  It concludes
with the following verses by Professor E. Forbes.

Two famous geologists, earnest and true,
Through Wales ran a race to find something new.
The one came in first, and a world did discover,
The other came last, for he got a roll over.
Silurian beds we in myriads number,
Cambrian strata 'stat nominis umbra.'

S says M knows not his beds when he's got 'em,
That his system is base, and his base has no bottom ;
Whilst M makes appeal to the sense of mankind,
Whether he should be stifled, 'cause S lagged behind.

         256 TRUE BASE OF SILURIAN SYSTEM.

1853.    confined to my room by English cholera. But we did some
Et. 68.
         gGOd work. The Pentamerus Limestone is at the bottom

         of the May Hill group, and is the true base of the Silurian
         system. It is a part of the unconformable series. The
         Olenus shales of the Malverns (Phillips) are what I have

         called Caradoc shale, and are in the Caradoc sections, where

         they ought to be. But I now believe that seven or eight

         years since I mistook the upper bridge over the Onny for

         the lower bridge, and thereby carried the Caradoc shale so

         far down the river as to make it overlap the line where the

         Pentamerus beds probably pass the river. McCoy could see

         nothing, because of the floods of the Onny, which this year

         (as the last) covered the upper parts of the section. But
         Mr Duppa had (at my request) made excavations which
         set all right. McCoy and Salter both told me, years since,
         that I must have blundered about one of the localities of my

         Caradoc shale ; but I obstinately stuck to my note-book,

         though it made against myself, for it would have been a

         formidable example of an overlap between true Cambrians

         and true Silurians. I mean to give a short paper on what
         we did, and it will, perhaps, be the last paper with which I

         shall ever trouble the Geological Society, which of late years
         has, I think, treated me rather scurvily. I must conclude....
         I have written very frankly as I should have wished you to

         write to me...   Ever (whether in peace or war) your affection
         ate old friend,                                     A. Sedgwick.

             The Letter written, Sedgwick set to work with McCoy on
         the third Fasciculus of their joint catalogue. Two had been

         already published, and McCoy was sanguine enough to hope
         that another would be ready by the end of the summer.
         Their own progress, however, depended on that of their artist,
         and, unfortunately, a number of the lithographic stones were
         so seriously damaged on their way to London, that the
         figures had to be redrawn. This accident did not merely

              BYRON'S SARDANAPALUS.                 257

retard the publication of their work for a year ; it de-                              1853.
tained them so long in London that a proposed visit to
certain parts of North Wales was all but abandoned.                                 /Et- 68-
The last week in August came before they were ready to

start.

     It must not be supposed that Sedgwick passed the whole

summer in steady application to a single task. Occasionally,
indeed, he spent a quiet week in Cambridge ; but such brief
periods of repose were succeeded by some exciting expedition;
a visit to London, or Chobham, or Portsmouth, to which

latter place he was attracted by various experiments and
manoeuvres incidental to the coming Naval Review. He
visited the dockyard and the fleet, dined on board The
Arrogant, and generally saw all that was to be seen. The
following extracts from his correspondence illustrate his
proceedings during these summer months.

To Mrs Richard Sedgwick.

                          London, June \gth, 1853.

    "...We had a delightful quiet day [at Harrow] and I

returned in the cool of the evening. Yesterday I was able

to write a little for the press. In the evening I went to

the Princess's Theatre to see Sardanapalus1 . The scenery

glorious, and the costumes all borrowed from Layard's illus

trations. The tragedy, though containing many fine passages,

is rather heavy, and the acting was not excellent. But the

costumes, and music, and oriental dances, and the views of

Nineveh, and the final conflagration of the great palace, were

really wonderful. The Queen and a large Court party were

present ; and the theatre was filled almost to suffocation. I

had secured a front seat in one of the dress-boxes, and

saw all without any inconvenience. I wish you had been

with me...."

     1 Lord Byron's tragedy was produced at the Princess's Theatre, 13 June, 1853,
for the benefit of Mr and Mrs C. Kean. It was played for 61 nights to crowded
houses.

s. 11.                               17

          2S8 THE NAVAL REVIEW.

  1853.   To Miss F. Hicks.  Cambridge, July 27th, 1853.

/Et. 68.

          "...In the evenings, about seven, I turn out and take a long

          walk, so as to return to tea a little after nine. Indeed

          yesterday I was not back till half-past nine. I went almost
          to Milton --then struck across the country, and passed old

          Mother Woodcock's monument1, which I had not seen for

          many a long year. The big black-thorn hedge has been

          stubbed up, so at present no one can form a notion of the

          sheltered place into which she crept, and where she remained

          without food for eight entire days...."

          To the same, and Mrs Richard Sedgwick.

                                                        Portsmouth, August 13th, 1853.

               "...On Thursday [11 August] I had my morning coffee
          early, and a peep towards Spithead. A fine morning, but
          hazy seawards --every prospect of a glorious day. A little

          after nine we embarked on board a quick steamer, and ran to

          Spithead. I never beheld anything so exciting. The shore,

          ramparts, and indeed every piece of swelling ground, from
          Portsmouth Point to Southsea Castle, was covered with
          people in tens of thousands. It had become quite clear and
          sunny, and all the hills above Brading seemed to be dark

          with wood, but on looking through a glass it was at once
          manifest that it was a mighty wood of human bipeds that
          crowned all the higher elevations. And as for the bright sea

          (on the west to a point beyond Cowes, and on the east so far
          as eye could reach, and far beyond the limits of the Isle),
          it was covered with vessels of all sizes : beautiful white-sailed

          yachts in many hundreds, sporting on the water like butter
          flies in the air -- dark-coloured coasting- vessels pressed into
          the gay service of the day --pilot-boats of all sizes -- steam
          boats innumerable (literally innumerable for I tried in vain to
          count them) -- and down the middle of the mass, that looked
          like a gigantic floating city, rose majestically the long line

                             See above, p. 138.

THE NAVAL REVIEW.  259

  of the ships of war, rising into the air like the spires and
 pinnacles of churches and vast cathedrals, out of and far
 above the steam-chimneys and lesser elevations of the

  multitudinous masts that were around them. I never was

  more astonished and enchanted.
      About 10.30 the Admiral fired a gun. Then each of

 twenty vessels of war fired a Royal salute. They bellowed
 with the voice of continued thunder, and seemed to fill the
 concave of the sky. Soon afterwards the Royal Yacht came

 slowly up the line. Two Prussian frigates manned yards and

 saluted. The English men-of-war did not salute again ; the
 crews were supposed to be at work for the service of the day.

 We were admirably placed ; we saw the Queen and her party
 descend into a barge from the Royal Yacht, and then row
 away to the Wellington. We were close to her as she shewed
 herself in the stern-galleries, and we cheered to the top of
 our voices. In about a quarter of an hour she returned to

 her own yacht. Before long the signal to weigh was hoisted,
 and then commenced the business of the day.

      The ships of war in two lines-- each line commanded by
 an admiral -- the Queen's Yacht heading them a little --
 stretched out to sea. We all followed. It was most intensely
 exciting. I many times tried to count the vessels of all sizes

 that were struggling onwards in our immediate neighbour
hood, but all in vain. Nothing could be more charming than
the shifting scene of the white-sailed yachts of the various
clubs, grouped in picturesque masses, and tacking and turning
in all directions. Then there was a dense mass of steamers

floating nearer to the line of men-of-war. You might have
compared them to a manufacturing city with its canopy of
smoke. The beautiful Isle of Wight never looked more
beautiful, when we turned from the fleet to gaze upon it.

We had gone I know not how many miles, when the enemy

was signalled from the Queen's Yacht. The ships of war then
closed up, and formed a 'line abreast.' I knew it was all
mockery, but my heart beat as if it were to be a real fight.

                                                                             17 -- 2

         26o THE NAVAL REVIEW.

 1853.   We looked most earnestly ahead, and before long we plainly

Et. 68.  saw four saj[ Qf tne line and a frigate and some steamers,

         under full sail, and trying to get away from us. As we

         approached they changed tack ; the chase then shifted, while
         the fleet was arranged in beautiful line of battle. We steamed

         towards the enemy in our little boat, and passed close under

         the stern of a three-decker (Tlie Queen) under full sail.
         Before long, the enemy, finding escape impossible, bore down
         upon the Queen's fleet, and fired a grand broadside. The
         battle then became general. Broadside after broadside was

         poured out. We were (in our little steamer) between the
         enemy and a part of the line of battle, so we were for about
         a quarter of an hour in the midst of smoke and thunder. It

         was glorious to see the great three-deckers, pouring out their
         deluge of fire, and appearing to rouse the echoes of the sky.

         It was all the grandeur and glory of war, without the misery.
         At Chobham it was impossible not to see that the fight was

         all mockery ; but here it was hard to believe that it was not

         earnest fighting-- that death and destruction were not at

         work, while the furious cannonade was filling the air with
         dense clouds, through which the flash of the great bellowing
         guns shone but dimly, and the sun looked of a dull crimson

         colour. The enemy was in due order beaten. Their sails

         were hanging idly, and their colours down. Loud cheers

         followed the roaring of the guns. A signal flew from the
          Wellington to go back to Spithead ; first in the order of

         advance, and then in racing order ; each vessel being ordered
         to move to the anchorage as best it could. In this way they
         ascertained the speed of the several vessels, and I was glad to

         find that the gigantic Wellington screwed away gloriously,
         coming in second only to the Agamemnon. We had an excellent
         steamer, and kept in the thick of it. On reaching Spithead
         we found that the Queen's Yacht had still the Royal standard
         floating at the mast-head. 'Bravo!' cried some one, 'the fun
          is not over yet !' The ships of the line had dropped anchor,
          and two large frigates had also anchored a little out of the

GEOLOGY IN NORTH WALES.

line, and on our side of the Queen's Yacht. The gunboats           1853.
were ordered out to attack them. In about half an hour they
were ready. We were almost too near. My ears were nearly         /Et- 68
split by the sharp cracks of the twelve-pound brass guns from
the boats, continually replied to by the bellowing of the great
guns (56-pounders) from the two frigates. At length the
loud cheers of their crews shewed that they had won the day;
but the crews of the gunboats replied with loud cheers, and

the officers had some trouble in preventing the men from
dashing on and boarding, such was the excitement. 'This is

the best thing of all!' cried out a fine lad who was on our

steamer, and in such ecstacies that I almost thought he would
have leapt overboard. So ended the business of the day.

The Royal Yacht stood for Osborne, and we all went to our

respective homes. I was in such a fever that I could hardly

close my eyes...."

     Sedgwick had hoped to devote some weeks of the
summer and early autumn to a further study of the rocks of
North Wales, in connection with the facts and conclusions of
his last paper read to the Geological Society. " My first
intention," he writes, " was to re-examine the grits, con

glomerates, and shelly sandstones which range from Conway
to the neighbourhood of Corwen, and form the base of the
Denbigh flagstone.... After having effected this first purpose,

I hoped to follow the same grits and sandstones in their

range along the Berwyn chain; and, lastly, to follow them,

as they are laid down (I doubt not with great accuracy) in

the Government Map, until they finally thin out and
disappear.... The bad state of my health compelled me, very
reluctantly, to abandon the greater part of [this task].

      " There remained, however, a second and shorter task, in

which Professor McCoy had promised to join me. We pro
posed to examine in detail the section of Mathyrafal, near
Meifod, the sections of the Pentamerus limestone on the

flanks of the Longmynd, the sections of the Onny and of

262 BREACH WITH THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

Caer Caradoc, and lastly, the sections of Builth, Llandovery,
and Llandeilo. I thought that the facts exhibited in these

sections must have a direct bearing on the conclusions we had

drawn in the preceding year1."

Even this restricted programme, however, was left in

complete. Their time was limited to a single week, and

further curtailed by unusually bad weather. Sedgwick fell
ill, as already mentioned, and for several days was unable to

give any help to his fellow-labourer*. Notwithstanding these

drawbacks, a sufficient number of facts were collected to

fortify the conclusions previously arrived at, and a paper

was written On the May Hill Sandstone, and the Palceozoic

System of England, in which they were embodied, together
with a reiteration of the proper limits of Cambria and

Siluria. This paper led to a breach between the author and

the Geological Society which was never repaired. Sedgwick

had intended to read it at the first meeting of the Society
after the recess. This, however, he was unable to do, and

ultimately it was postponed until one of the concluding
meetings in the spring of 1854, when he was not present. It

was referred, and ordered by the Council to be printed,
" subject to the recommendation of the referee." Thereupon

the President (Mr W. T. Hamilton) ordered it to be returned
to Sedgwick "for the purpose of enabling him to see how far

the omissions recommended by the referee, and adopted by

the Council, would affect the meaning and argument of the

paper." Sedgwick was unwilling to accept the proposed
changes, which amounted to a resignation of his nomencla

ture and classification ; and, regarding the recommendation

as tantamount to a refusal to print the paper, published it

in The Philosophical Magazine, for which he was severely
censured in the next speech of the President. Explanations

were subsequently made, but Sedgwick was not satisfied, and

we believe that he did not again attend any meeting of the

Geological Society.

1 Philosophical Magazine, Vol. viii. 1854, pp. 303, 304.  2 See above, p. 256.

DEATH OF SIR CHARLES NAPIER.                            263

To Mrs Bunbury.            London, August 2,1st, 1853.
     My dear Mrs Bunbury,

I arrived in London last night on my way from

North Wales to Cambridge. Some expressions in your last

letter to me made me fear that the great and good Sir Charles

Napier had not long to live ; and I learn from the papers

that the event, for which every true-hearted Englishman will

mourn, has already taken place1. God's will be done !
England has lost a glorious and beloved son. His name is a

precious inheritance, and I trust that men of like heart and

mind may hereafter rise up in our hour of need, whenever that

hour may come. And it will come, I fear, before long ; and

my old and dim eyes can see no one like him in future

prospect. There is a wretched, twaddling, unpatriotic spirit

abroad amongst us --a want of capacity for comprehending

what is great and good. We have our high places filled by
men who can tamper with conscience for party --can look on

the roll of England's history as if it were a cotton-spinner's
ledger --and can talk of Christian peace and think they are

securing it while they are telling England to bend her neck

that any despot may put his foot upon it.

    I beg your pardon. This is not the way I should write ;
for I wish to tell you that I mourn with you, on what, to you,

may be called a domestic loss2. I do mourn with you in my

heart, and I think it a happiness (now alas ! a melancholy

happiness) that I had the honour of knowing the hero who is

gone. May God long preserve the lives of the noble brothers

who are still left for England ! Say a kind word from me to

Lady Bunbury, and any of the family who know me.
     I was only a week away. My health gave way in

consequence of the incessant rains of the past week. I was
driven back. I could not have remained long, as I had

      1 General Sir Charles James Napier, G.C.B., died 19 August, 1853.
      * Sir Henry Edward Bunbury, Bart., father-in-law to Sedgwick's correspon

dent, married Sir C. J. Napier's sister.

         264 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT HULL.

 1853.   promised to attend the Hull Meeting [of the British Associ-
Et. 68.  ation] on the 7th of next month.

                         Believe me, my dear Mrs Bunbury,

                                        Your affectionate old friend,

                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

         At the Hull meeting of the British Association Sedgwick

         was President of the Geological Section. He also read a

         paper On the Classification and Nomenclature of the older
         Palceozoic Rocks of Britain. The paper, as printed in the
         Report of the Association, is evidently very different from

         what it was when delivered. It is by no means long, and yet

         the author apologizes for " the very great and unusual length."

         He described it as "out of comparison, the most important
                                                                        "
         communication  he had ever  made to the British  Association
                                                                       ;

         and drew attention to its " conclusions derived from evidence

         the unfolding of which had taken many years of field-labour."

         It presents, in detailed tabular form, his latest views on clas
         sification ; and was probably intended as a justification of

         himself, and an appeal from the Geological Society to the

         wider public of the Association.

              After a hasty visit to his friends in Yorkshire, Sedgwick

         returned to Cambridge for the Fellowship Examination. It
         happened that among those elected were two sizars. " I was
         myself a sizar," he wrote, " and I rejoice that the sons of poor

         men get on by their merit." But, on these occasions, he

         always had a kindly thought for the unsuccessful, and he

         added : " If happy to elect good young men, we are sorrowful

         in rejecting two or three excellent persons1."   When

         Sedgwick's habitual pursuits are taken into account, his

         interest in these examinations must appear remarkable. His

         letters shew that the work was often very trying to him, but

         he did not go through it in a perfunctory fashion, as a

         disagreeable duty imposed upon him by his position as a

         1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 10 October, 1853.

VISIT TO BISHOP BLOMFIELD.                      265

Senior Fellow. He mastered the papers thoroughly, and                1853.
remembered with pleasure translations that had been dis-
tinguished by brilliancy of style, or accuracy of rendering.       *t- 68.

     Sedgwick had always found the work of the Michaelmas
term fatiguing, even in his best days; and now that he was
approaching his seventieth year he admitted that he looked
forward to it with apprehension. This year a brief holiday,
in the shape of a visit to Bishop Blomfield, refreshed him
somewhat after the labour of the Fellowship Examination.
" The visit to the Bishop has greatly cheered me," he wrote ;
" we entered Cambridge in the same year, and have many
common subjects of interest ; and in his own house, after he
has gone through the hard work of the morning, his conver
sation is not only very instructive but very amusing ; for
among his friends and family he can be as playful as a
child.... I am sure I have not often seen a more happy-looking

fireside1."

      When the lectures began Sedgwick found that they did
fatigue him a good deal. He described his class as " the

largest and most attentive I ever had since I began to lecture

in 1 8 19," and perhaps he exerted himself more than usual to

instruct them. Moreover, in November he was elected Pre
sident of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, an office
which he continued to hold for the next two years. The next
letter shews that he was trying to practise a little self-denial.

To Mrs Philpott.       Wednesday Evening,

My dear Mrs Philpott,  November 2nd, 1853.

                 I could only send a verbal reply yesterday, as

I was on my way to my lecture-room, and behind time, when

your servant gave me the note ; but I told him that I could

not dine with you on the 9th, and I hope he gave my message
in a proper coil of respectful words. In fact I had before

1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 27 October, 1853.

         266 MYSTERIES OF NUMBER NINE.

  1853.  refused two invitations for that day. Indeed I must not go

Mt. 68.  out to dinner during this Term while I am so very busy ; for
         my lectures fatigue me, and in the evenings I am unable to
         hold up my head in any party. In mercy to my kind friends

         I must keep away from their dinner-tables. This is a great
         self-denial ; but we are born to trouble you know. How

         comes it to pass that everybody is trying to give big dinners

         on the 9th ? Is the 9th a day of peculiar capacity ? I dare
         say it is. And there are numberless mysteries in numbers.
         So said old Pythagoras, and I believe him ; and of all

         numbers give me number 9 as the symbol of prolific mystery !

         It is beautifully symmetrical ; having a beginning, a middle,

         and an end of equal size, and each made up of the mysterious
         number 3. It is the number of the Muses ; and it is the
         square of the number of the Graces-- and that is more than
         can be said of any of the other numbers that ever were

         counted. It is indeed a singular number, though plural in

         its graceful properties. Again, it is the last and best of the
         Arabic symbols ; for that which comes after it goes, you
         know, for nothing. Bless this number 9 ! It would take a

         month to tell of all its points. If you kick it over it will

         stand upon a new pair of legs, and then become six, which
         Dr Philpott will tell you is a perfect number. It has proper

         ties in common with a spaniel, a woman, and a walnut-tree,

         if we are to trust the old proverb ; for the more you pound it
         the more you get out of it. At this moment I am half asleep,

         which, may be, helps me to see more than a waking man can

         think about. So requesting you to turn over what I am

         telling you, I remain, so far as I have any sense left,

                                                     Your affectionate friend,
                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

              Before long, however, he began to suffer from a deter
         mination of blood to the head, which only yielded to copious
         applications of leeches and other drastic remedies. He ought
         to have abstained from all mental and bodily exertion, but

VISIT OF THE DUKE OF BRABANT.                267

rest was out of the question, for even before he was out of the     1853.

doctor's hands, Prince Albert brought the Duke of Brabant to      Mt- 6f
see the University. It became Sedgwick's duty to arrange

the programme of the visit, and, as the illustrious visitors

wished to attend an academical lecture, to resume his own

course to suit their convenience. The Prince had intimated

that he wished to hear the lecture "as it would have been

delivered had he not been present1;" but Sedgwick ventured

to deviate somewhat from this suggestion. " I lectured them

for an hour," he says, " about dry bones, but all went off well,

and I ended with an address of congratulation to the Prince,

and a short address to the Duke, in which I alluded to his

father, and the sudden affliction which had filled all England

with sorrow, followed, however, by new prospects, a renewal

of domestic happiness, and a crown. And I added that if

at some future (and I trusted a remote) period, the crown

should circle his head, he might, like his royal father, have

the happiness of long wearing it during a time of peace and

glory, etc. etc. The young Duke thanked me again and
again for having spoken so kindly of his father.. ..At twelve

[on November 23rd] a lecture by Professor Willis, who
exhibited beautiful models of some complicated machinery.

At one the Anatomical Schools and Museum. At two lunch

at Trinity College. Everybody as happy as men can be in a

fog. After lunch Observatory.... Just as they were starting

[at the Railway Station] the young Duke came back, and
again on shaking hands said how much he was delighted

with what I had said of his father.2"

     This excitement did Sedgwick no harm, and he finished
his course of lectures, though in what he called " a short and

shabby way." In fact, he was on the high road to complete

recovery, when he caught cold in the Senate-House, during
the examination of his class. These winter afflictions were

no novelty ; but on this occasion a common cold was

1 From Lieut. Col. Grey, 18 November, 1853.
2 To Mrs R. Sedgwick, 23 November, 1853.

         268 DEATH OF DR MILL.

  1853.  succeeded by influenza, influenza by bronchitis, and the end
         0f February came before he could be called well. In the
Mt. 68.  middle of his first attack came the news of the death of

         Dr Mill. "This afternoon," he wrote, "brought me news
         which greatly afflicted me. My dear old friend Mill is dead,
         after a short illness. In his own way he was the most
         learned man I ever knew. He was sincere, upright, and
         honest ; a man of principle ; but too much of an ultra

         high-churchman for me to agree with on points of authority.
         We never had one angry word together, and 'tis hard to lose
         a friend of full forty years standing. He was just five years
         my junior in academic standing, and more than five years

         my junior in age1."

         To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                    Cambridge,  February 27th, 1854.

         My dear Herschel,

                         ...I know that you have tender lungs, and that

         when a cough settles in them you do not easily serve the fiend

         with an ejectment, so you will pity me (and I also ask a tear
         or two from Lady H. and her daughters), when I tell you that
         I am not yet quite recovered from a vile cold I caught early in

         December. For 29 days I never left my rooms ; and I spent
         my days in drinking slops and sudorifics enough to dissolve

         a block of granite. Mustard foot-baths and mustard chest

         cataplasms were all in vain. So the doctor dabbed my
         throat and chest with a liniment which gave me a kind of

         horrible red mange, and made me unfit for a civilized piggery.

         As soon as I was made up for a journey (on January 13),
         they packed me off to my Norwich Residence, and I had the

         doctor's orders to live on Sangrado physic, and never to read,

         or write, or think about anything heavier than the froth of a
         modern novel. I obeyed orders, because they exactly suited

         my tastes and my cerebral condition, and my niece (not the
         one you saw) nursed me, and sang Scottish songs to me, so

         1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 27 December, 1853.

WHEWELVS PLURALITY OF WORLDS.                                                                                          269

that by the end of January they had almost 'whipped the                                                                it,                             &
                                                                                                                         I
offending Adam out of me.' But, as ill luck would have
                                                                                                                                      1854.

had a fresh attack of bronchitis on the first of this month, and

was again 'in the straw,' and only came out on Saturday,
                                       I

                                              I
when found my way back to Cambridge, and now am as
I                                                                                                                  a;
   Iwell as can be expected.'
                                                                                                                       I
         is                                                                                                                I
                    is
                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                    !
have not seen the Master since came back but hear

that he well and vigorous. What wonderful health he has
And indeed he ought to be strong, to destroy plurality of

worlds, as he trying to do             Have you seen the big ^pestle

and mortar by which he has pounded 500,000 worlds into

comet-tail-dust, and the big snuffers by which he has put

out the lights of all livers above and below the earth                                                             ?   was

                                                                                                                    I

much amused by but not convinced. But how can a man
                        it,
                                a
be convinced who has bad cold He too full of phlegm
to be stirred by anything --too dull of sense to have reason.
                                       ?

                                          iIf

                                                    is
But mean to read the book again,                      live long enough to
I

        a

            I
                            a
secrete new brain, for my old one was all turned to mucus

long since. Tis shame to write so much about myself; but

what else can write about -- living as have done by myself
                                       I

                                           a
and for myself? My letters are only kind of moral ex

pectoration lung-thoughts and not brain-thoughts.                                                                  I  trust
;

your family are all flourishing, and that Lady Herschel and

your daughters will receive my kindest remembrances.

Though my head empty, and my lungs sadly out of tune,
I
           I

                                   is
believe am still sound at heart, and that my good wishes

will do no one any mischief.           have for some years been
                                       it I
                                                   aI

                                                                       a
Vice Master, in virtue of which office am Lord of the

Trinity spit.           wish you would bring down good family
               I
                      I
party, and see how will make do us good turn or two.

                                       Ever truly yours,
                                                  A. Sedgwick.

       The work alluded to, Of the Plurality Worlds: an Essay, was published
anonymously towards the end of 1853. Early in 1854 Dr Whewell published, also
anonymously, a Dialogue on the Plurality of Worlds, being a Supplement to the
1

                                                                  of

                                                                                                         p.
Essay on that subject. On this he evidently had some correspondence with

Sedgwick. WhewcWs Life, by Mrs Stair Douglas,                                                                434.

          270 ON A GIFT OF A BRONZE PLATE.

  1854.   To Miss Gerard.  Camhridoe, March 8M, 1854.
JBX, (fy

          "...And now for your present, which is before me. I

          did not stand in need of it 'to keep you in mind ;' for an old

          man delights to live over again in past years, and your name,

          and person, and cheerful voice, often rise up among my
          happy remembrances of days spent among my dear friends
          in Scotland. I wish I could see you, and them, more

          frequently ; but your bronze plate may help me to journey

          towards you more often in my thoughts. It is a sweet work

          of art, in which respects it is both like you and unlike you.

          It is ponderous, and you are not. It rings when you strike it;
          and I dare say you would do the same, were I to try. It is

          covered with brazen monsters, and I never thought you brazen
          or monstrous ; but the very antipodes of such things. It will

          not hold water, but it will hold cards, in both respects unlike

          you ; for I have seen you drink water, and I never saw you
          ' hold cards.' Its wonderful mazes puzzle my eye --surely,
          very like you in this ; for, ever since I was fifteen (for

          more than half a century) all young ladies have been to

          me a most amazing puzzle. I could go on ' using simili

          tudes,' like good old John Bunyan of thrice blessed memory;
          but time goes on, and I must stop. So, in plain words,
          and without a figure, I send you my heart's thanks and

          blessings...."

          To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.
                                            Trinity College, March v)th, 1854.

                      "...Since my return I have had two examinations--
          each of which (including the printed papers, the attendance

          at the Senate House, and reading over the answers) took me

          several days. I have also written a paper for the Annals of
          Natural History1. Two Chief-Justices are here on the circuit.
          I dined with them on Friday (the only time I had dined out

                                                                1 See below, p. 285.

           A LONG RETROSPECT.                       271

since October) and the operation did me no good. But I do         1854.
now dine in Hall, and today I shall meet the Judges there, if           65

all be well with me....

     No wonder that my framework should be a little out of

order, for if I live till Wednesday I shall have entered on my

70th year! the Scripture limit of man's ordinary life, beyond
which his years are but labour and sorrow. Therefore, if you

drink my health on the 22nd, do also, dearest Isabella, remem

ber me in your prayers, for I sadly stand in need of them.
Oh ! that I had the placid, patient, hopeful temper my dear
old father had during the last years of his long life ! During
the dismal spring months I am full of bitterness, which seems
quite unchristian, and for which I hope God will, for Christ's
sake, forgive me. I fight against this melancholy bitter
spirit as well as I can, and some of it may be set down to

bodily disease...."

To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Cambridge, March 23rd, 1854.

           "...Your beautiful superb slippers came yesterday --

my birthday. So one day is now gone out of my 70th year.
I once thought it impossible that I should ever be so old ;

not that I thought I was going to die, but because fifty or

sixty years in prospect, seemed a prospect of an eternity. And

the time does seem long, even in retrospect, when I trace it

back from stage to stage. But when I think of the warm

scenes of early life, the past time seems nothing. I seem to be
still present with those who are gone from this world -- to hear
their beloved voices --to see their loving smiles --and I can

fancy myself walking with them and talking with them

among the pleasant fields of my childhood, or boyhood, or

youthful manhood. Many of my beloved friends are gone

never to return ; but I am to follow them, and may that grace

of a redeeming God, who (as I hope and trust) received them

in heaven, at length, when it is His good will, receive me

also!..."

          272 QUIET LIFE AT NORWICH.

   1854.  To Miss Fanny Hicks. Trinity College, April  1854.

jEt.6g.

                     "...You are a lass of good courage, and you know

          how to make yourself useful in the hour of need ; and, dearest

          Fan, it may be needful that you should, sometime or other, be

          in the very chamber of death. Do, therefore, get over the

          horror of seeing a dead body, and, the first time any good

          Christian neighbour dies, do not avoid, but rather seek the

          occasion of seeing the dead face. Oh ! the sight is cold, and

          at first it does shock one ! But the sight is placid and peace

          ful, and there is the look of heaven in a calm dead face. I

          would not have you acquire a love or craving for such sights
          -- no such thing. But, as death may come any moment to

          our fire-side, or that of our nearest neighbour, it is well not to

          have a foolish, and, I would say, an unchristian terror of his

          face...."

              Sedgwick spent May and June at Norwich. His

          Residence over he returned to Cambridge for the meeting

          of the Archaeological Institute, and then spent a few weeks

          quietly at Lowestoft.

          To the same.           Norwich, June 19///, 1854.
              My dear Fankin,

                       ...You are gay people, we are quiet people; but

          Mary and her sister and baby find me some employment
          when I am not otherwise engaged. I make use of your room
          as my study, and there I write my letters and sermons. The

          sermons (of which I have one each week) are always written
          by snatches of time during the early morning hours. I am

          pretty well, but not in good working condition ; for the least

          unusual effort makes me stupid and gouty. So I do very

          little on principle. I sometimes regret the charming rides I

          had before the accident which spoilt my horse and my horse

          manship; but I take short turns with Mary, and longer walks

          with Maggie, and so contrive to jog on, though I think more
          exercise would serve my purpose better, and tend to drive

        DEATH OF COLONEL MOORE.                             273

the foul fiend away from my limbs. On the whole I think he                          1854.
has treated me rather better than during past years ; but indeed
I had a miserable winter. The weather has by no means                             &u 6o-

been good. I had flattered myself with sweet moonlight

walks in the cloisters; but it was all flattery, for the moon has

hardly shown her face since I came here, and by her light I

have not had one turn in the cloisters, though Maggie and I
sometimes try our paces there while I am fumigating the
spiders above our heads with a cigar.... A Residence without

you and Isabella, does seem strange and out of nature.

I must return early next month (probably next Monday

week), for the Archaeological Institute meets this year at

Cambridge, commencing on the 4th of July, and Prince
Albert is to be down, as the Vice Chancellor tells me. Soon
afterwards I shall be off (D. V.) for South Wales.

     My walks sometimes make me quite melancholy. Palace

shut. Deanery, shut. No Brother Canon here, etc, etc....
Does not this sound rather dismal? But, thank God, I have

a quiet, cheerful, loving fireside of my own. I may well say
fireside, for the weather here is still so cold that I cannot,

with my gouty limbs, do without a fire. Yet tomorrow is the

longest day.

     I was dreadfully shocked at the news which came, I think,

last Friday or Saturday. My old friend Colonel Moore of the

Enniskillens burnt to death in the unfortunate transport 1.

It was a miserable death. Do you remember him ? He was

clever and well-informed ; and he died doing a painful duty
nobly. The shock of the news made me quite ill for two

days, and brought back the gout.

     There ! the bells are tolling for evening service, and I

must conclude. Baby has a great affection for me ; and
generally stretches out her little hands and makes all the

1 The transport Europa, with troops for the Crimea, was burnt about 200

miles from Plymouth, 31 May, 1854. There was a difficulty in launching the

boats, and Colonel Moore refused to leave the ship so long as any of the crew or
soldiers remained on board. Annual Register, 1854, Chronicle, pp. 91 -- 93.

S. II.                                                  18

        274 MRS OPIETS LIFE.

854.    signs she can for me to take her and give her a good dance,
 . 69-
        which she does delight in. A bundle of love to every one,
        and I send a royal salute of twenty kisses to you.

                              Ever affectionately yours,

        To Mrs Vaughan.                                            A. Sedgwick.
                                                       Norwich, July 13M, 1854.

        My dear Mrs Vaughan,                                   6.30, a. m.

                           Here I am once more, 'to assist' at the wedding of

        the Bishop's niece, who, at 1 1 a. m. this morning, we trust,

        to be united to Mr Thurtell, formerly Fellow of Caius
                                                       I                               is,
        College, and now Norfolk rector.                       came, you know, on              a
                           a                               I
                                                                       a                      if
        like occasion last April, when tied the knot which no                                                      :
        Ia
                   aIfingers, but the bony fingers of death, can untie.... Whenever

        am seen in Norwich, all the lasses cry out with exstacy

        'There's Professor Sedgwick, and now we shall have wed

        ding!'             am looked on as Dan Cupid's whipper-in, and

        Hymen's torch-bearer. A fool may be wit's whetstone
                                                               a

        (better whetstone than nothing), and an old bachelor, he

        do nothing else, may warn by his example, and teach men not

        to do as he has done, but to listen to reason, and learn how

        to love wisely before the soul withered in withered body.

        -- Here Mrs Barnes came in to talk about packing up for
                                                       is
                                                                                    a

        Lowestoft, to which we are all going, so soon as we get away

        from the breakfast at the Palace, and have assisted at the

        shoe-shower when the two turtle-doves turn their backs upon

        us....

        1I     have read Amelia Opie's Life1. was astonished to findI
        that in early life she had been such radical but have
                                                           a                           ;

                                                                                          a

                                                                                              I
        heard some strange things since the book came out. On one

        occasion, at contested election, she mounted cart, and
                           of a
                                           of

                                                    a
        addressed the mob of Norwich in speech which her male
                                                       !
        friends would not, at the time, have dared to make, or would
                                                            a
        have made at the risk of halter What think you of this?

                Memorials  the Life Amelia Opie. By C. L. Brightwell. 8vo. Norwich,
        i854-

                   MRS OPIES LIFE.         275

I believe this story to be true. Still there lurked much          1854.
                                                                        69-
kindness in her woman's heart, or she would have been
utterly spoilt -- first by bad training, and afterwards by the

flattery of the London seasons, during which she went from

party to party, decked in bright colours, singing sentimental

songs, and snuffing up the incense offered to her for her last

published novel. I always thought that Opie had turned out

an unkind husband. On the contrary it now appears most

clearly in my mind that he loved her passionately, and that

she never loved him at all. He was a man of genius, and

wished for quiet domestic life. She wished for the adulation

of society. Hence they were ill-matched, and she stole away

from hirn whenever she could. And after he was dead, she

forgot him altogether ; for had her heart yearned towards his

memory, her feelings surely would sometimes have found

vent in words ; but I never found a sentence in the volume
such as a wife ought to write about a dead husband. All

this I thought very strange and very unlovely. Was I not

right in thinking so? Do say yes, in your next letter. Spite
of all these things there was a woman's heart in her bosom.

She loved her father tenderly ; and that filial love it was,

perhaps, that saved her from an old age of querulous vanity

and selfishness. Be this as it may, by God's grace she was
saved from such an old age -- and great was the debt she

owed to Joseph Gurney. I have often laughed at her Quaker
cap ; but I now think it was a providential mercy that she

turned Quaker, and so snapped the cords by which she had

been tied to a life which never could have satisfied the

longings of her heart as she became older. All her latter

years were calm, cheerful, sincere (I verily believe), and truly
Christian. What a long yarn I have been spinning about

dear old Amelia !

                   Lowestoft, July 14.

      Richard and Mary and Maggie and baby and nurse are
all enjoying themselves by the seaside. Baby, who did no
thing at Norwich in good temper, now sleeps like a top ; and,

                                    18--2

     276 GEOLOGY IN SOUTH WALES.

4. wonderful to tell, I last night slept soundly more than six
^9' hours, and rose refreshed! Positively I have not had such a

      sensation before, for years. My bed is seldom a place of rest

    for long continuance ; and I hardly remember the happy
    days when I used to awake in cheerfulness with a joyous

     feeling that I had slept enough, and that I was well -- when I
     expanded myself into a spread eagle -- gave one majestic
     yawn --jumped up at one spring -- and then began to hum
     some tune in mirthfulness. I had such enjoyments for many
     years while I was young; and because they were so common,
     I forgot -- I fear -- far too often to thank God for them. And
     now that I have been so long shut out from such animal
     happiness I have often grumbled and forgotten the bearing

    of a faithful Christian. But you are not my confessor, so I

      will change the subject....
          We had a good meeting of the Archaeological Institute

     last week. The Prince came down one day. The weather
     vile -- gave me the rheumatic gout, and an abominable tooth
    ache. Spite of these ills I rather enjoyed the meeting.... Kind
     regards to Dr Vaughan.

                                                Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                   A. Sedgwick.

          Invigorated to some extent by the sea-breezes, Sedgwick
    spent the rest of July and part of August at Cambridge,
     working with Professor McCoy. Towards the end of August
     they started for a short tour in South Wales. Their route
     and their object are stated as follows by Sedgwick in the
     letter prefixed to his paper read to the British Association

     at Liverpool in September.

          The task undertaken by Professor McCoy and myself in 1853 was
      left incomplete ; but we have this autumn taken it up where it had
     been abandoned, and completed our examination of various critical
     sections at the junction of the Cambrian and Silurian rocks which we
     had not been able to visit during the preceding year. Is there in
      South Wales any Middle Silurian group in which the characteristic
      Silurian and Cambrian types are so mixed and confounded as to be
     inseparable? In North Wales and Siluria we found no such group.

                    TRUE LIMITS OF SILURIA.                                             277

Wherever it had been erroneously laid down as one group we found                                       1854.
                    Stiwluoriadnistignrcotupstaogfesfo--sstihlse--uapnpder   of                      y^t. 69.
it  separable into                                                               which   contained
a   characteristic                                                          the  lower  an equally

characteristic Cambrian group. But I was informed that near Builth,
in some of the eastern hills of Radnorshire, the Government Sur

veyors had found the very mixture of older and newer types which we
had sought for in vain in our short excursions in 1852 and 1853. To
the places thus indicated, taking the Presteign sections on our way,
we first bent our steps, and the results of our examination will be
given in the early part of this communication. They are in perfect

agreement with what we had before seen in North Wales and Siluria.
There we believe, no Middle Silurian Group like that laid down
    is,
in the Government Survey there no confusion of organic typesa
the May Hill                    ;                                                       a;
                group, though in
does exist, in  the country here        a
                                               is

                                                                    a
                                     degenerate    and disconnected form,
                                  alluded to,
                                                 as distinct formation --

separable from the so-called Lower Silurian rocks, and constituting

physical and palaeontological base to the true Silurian System; and

lastly, that System, when reduced to its true base,                              is,    we believe,

either in actual position, or palaeontological succession, discordant
                                in
                                       it
Ifto the Cambrian rocks on which rests.
           these conclusions be true, there      an end of any legitimate
                                             is
                                                         a
dispute on nomenclature for we have no example in English geology
                        ;

of two great formations which are, as a general rule, unconformable

in their position, yet at the same time belong to common series, and

pass under common name.

     Having thus completed our observations on the groups connected
with the May Hill Sandstone, we next examined the sections through
the Llandeilo group in the valley of the Towy
                                                 '.

    A rapid tour such as this -- for they spent barely a

fortnight in Wales --needs no detailed description. For once

the weather was fine, and Sedgwick and his friend spent their

days " toiling and broiling in a hot sun." As heretofore, life

in the open air suited him, and we hear nothing of his
ailments. " do not stand hard work as could do twenty
years since," he wrote, " but am far better than expected
               I                                 I
                                                           aI
                          is
                                         I
to be. My skin the colour of an old pack-saddle of the

last century." In one of his letters we get                                             charming

glimpse of Bishop Thirlwall.

    "...After morning service at Carmarthen we found the

Bishop's carriage waiting for us, and in few minutes wea
                                                     a
were at the Palace door. The Bishop (Thirlwall) was an old
friend of mine and, for many years, brother Fellow of
                    1;
                        Philosophical Magazine, 1854, viii. 472.

          278 VISIT TO BISHOP THIRLWALL.

  1854.   Trinity College. He preached in the afternoon in the chapel
IBa. 69.  0f the Palace. We greatly enjoyed the quiet shady walks in

          his pleasure-grounds, and the beautiful prospects from the
          banks of the river Towy. He is passionately fond of

          animals; and every day visits his cows, horses, pigs, and
          poultry, which he delights to feed; and they all run after him
          the moment they see him. His beautiful pleasure-grounds

          used to be filled with peacocks, turkeys, and some rarer

          birds ; and a great bend in the river (which is banked off) is
          well stocked with swans and Muscovy ducks, and also some
          rare species of water-fowl. But last year he met with a
          grievous calamity. He covered his walks with some fine

          white gravel from a neighbouring mine. It contained some

          mineral poison which the birds swallowed, and the conse
          quence was that he lost nine out of his ten peacocks, and a

          nearly like proportion of his other birds. At an enormous

          cost he procured a thick covering of a different gravel ; but

          the poisonous particles occasionally tread out, and, though
          he is trying to rear a new stock of favourites, he has the
          frequent mortification of finding one of them dead. The

          water-fowl have suffered the least ; and it is amusing to see

          the swans, ducks, geese &c, &c. all making towards the

          Bishop the moment he appears in sight, for he always has

          his pockets well stuffed with prog in which they delight1...."

          McCoy returned with Sedgwick to Cambridge, and then

          took leave of him and the University before starting for

          Australia, where he had accepted the post of Professor of the

          Natural Sciences in the University of Melbourne. They
          parted with mutual regret. It has been already shewn that

          Sedgwick had formed a very high opinion of McCoy, both as

          a man and a geologist ; and McCoy, being a warm-hearted
          "IfIrishman, was enthusiastically attached to Sedgwick.
                                                                          I

          had stopped five minutes longer," he wrote after their last
          interview, " I should have blubbered outright; and as soon as

          I got out of your sight, I broke down altogether. The

          1 To Miss F. Hicks, 9 September, 1854.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT LIVERPOOL.  279

 greatness of my loss in losing the power of seeing and hearing                1854.
 you, and having you for a friend, is now upon me very sorely,                      69-
 and I feel that every day will only increase my grief."

      The meeting of the British Association at Liverpool was
 memorable for a spirited discussion in the geological section,
 which extended over the greater part of two days. Sedgwick's

 paper On the May Hill Sandstone drew remarks from several

 geologists, but, as Murchison could not then be present, the
 subject was adjourned. On the Monday following Murchison

 himself offered General observations on tlu Palceozoic Rocks of

 Germany. When he sat down the opposing forces ranged
 themselves in order of battle, and a war of words commenced

 which must have lasted for several hours. Personal grievances
 seem by common consent to have been excluded, and the
 speakers, including Sedgwick himself, confined themselves to
 the general question. Some of the ablest and most ex
 perienced geologists in England were present, and took part
 in the debate ; but, as is so commonly the case on such

 occasions, they left the question as far from settlement as
 they found it1. In fact the debate is chiefly interesting as
 shewing how widely divergent were the views of those who
 thought themselves best qualified to speak with authority on
 the true classification of the Palaeozoic rocks.

       Two important distinctions had yet to be drawn before
 the rocks of the upper part of Sedgwick's Cambrian, and the
 lower part of the Silurian in the Lake District and North
 Wales could be correlated with those of South Wales. In the

north the Coniston Flags had to be divided into a lower
series connected with the Coniston or Bala Limestone, and an
upper series connected with the Coniston Grit; while in
Wales the Caradoc had to be defined, and some of the sand
stones referred to it had to be included in the Bala Beds, and
some to be bracketed with the overlying Silurian. This task
Sedgwick had undertaken, and communicated the results

of his investigations to the Geological Society, 3 November,

              1 The debate is reported in The Athenaum, 1854, pp. 1243, 1244.

         2So CARADOC SANDSTONE OF MA Y HILL.

1854.    18521. In this paper he drew largely upon his old notes,
Et. 69.  which he endeavoured to work in with newer information.
         In his papers of this date we constantly find supplements to,
         and corrections of, former papers, introduced into new work:
         with which they have no obvious and necessary connection.
         In consequence we must always be careful to distinguisha is,
         Sedgwick's brilliant descriptions of what he saw from
         Sedgwick's attempts to reconcile such observations with                     ;
         what other people had stated. Sometimes, but not often,

         he had forgotten his localities ; and so in this paper we find
         a good deal of confusion in his description of the rocks
         which occur near Stretford Bridge*, though Salter and
         McCoy had both pointed out that there were grave palae-
         ontological objections to his interpretation of the section.
         This mistake he corrected in a later paper. But, after
         allowing for all this, the great point of his paper was fully
         established, viz. that the name Caradoc Sandstone, that
         source of so much difficulty and confusion, had not been
         applied to the same series of rocks in different parts of even
         the same district. He shewed that along the junction of the
         rocks which he called Cambrian and those which he recog
         nised as Silurian, that in the upper part of his Bala Beds,
         and at the base of, but connected with, the overlying Wenlock,
         there were great masses of sandstone and that all of these,
         whether belonging to the upper or lower series, had been
         confounded under the common name Caradoc Sandstone.
         But he now pointed out that these were made up of two dis
         tinct sandstones the lower " behaving with " the Bala Beds,

         and the upper forming basement series passing conformably
         up into the Wenlock. The fossils of the two were quite

         different, and in support of this he quoted determinations by
         Salter, and gave lists drawn up by McCoy. The lower series,
         to which he wished to confine the name Caradoc Sandstone,

         See above, p. 231.
         21
                       is
         This              expressly referred  to by  Sedgwick                          in his letter to Murchison,

         printed above, p. 256.

   IMPORTANCE OF SEDGWICK'S WORK.                                         281

was characterised by Trinucleus, Orthis flabellulum, and all                     1854.
the organisms usually associated with them. The upper, to
which he proposed to give the name May Hill Sandstone, was                     Xi- 69-
distinguished by the presence of large Pentameri; Pentamerus
oblongus, Pentamerus (Stricklandinia) lens, and others. There
remained much work yet to be done along the border lines

where these two formations might be expected to come

together, but the point was established that the sandy rocks
of May Hill, Horderley &c, which had been included in the
Caradoc, must be cut off from the sandstones of Bala or

Caradoc age, and placed at the base of what Sedgwick
called Silurian, and Murchison Upper Silurian. The details
of this he worked at, as narrated above, in the two succeed

ing years1, and published two more papers on the subject:a

in the Philosophical Magazine for October, November, andit,

December, 1854.it
     Sedgwick saw at once the important bearing of this work

upon the great question of the classification of the Cambrian
and Silurian rocks; and Murchison also fully recognised

for he had stated when describing the typical sections of
Llandovery Rocks " These hills (Mwmffre and Noethgrug
near Llandovery) constitute the most interesting tract in
Caermarthenshire, since they exhibit passage on the one
side into the Upper Silurian Rocks and on the other into
the Upper Cambrian." The coloured panorama (to face
p. 346) in the Silurian System indicates Noethgrug as
Cambrian, while the Plate of Fossils of the Caradoc Sand

stone (PI. XIX. XX. XXI.) gives the characteristic fossils of
what he then called Caradoc Sandstone, but will be seen

at a glance that most of these were fossils which never

occur in what Murchison or the Survey afterwards called

Caradoc.
     After these discussions the Geological Survey re-examined

some of the border land of Cambrian and Silurian near
Llandovery, and eventually saw the necessity of recognising

1  Sedgwick visited Wales with McCoy in 1853 (p. 261) and again in 1854.

          282 CARA DOC SANDSTONE OF MAY HILL.

  1854.   the May Hill Series as something distinct from the Caradoc

JEt. 69.  Sandstone, but, instead of accepting Sedgwick's name, they

          called the May Hill Sandstones Llandovery Rocks. At a

          subsequent period they divided these Llandovery Rocks

          into an upper and lower series, and bracketed the lower

          with their Lower Silurian, and the upper with their Upper
          Silurian, --a classification now known to be erroneous.

          The argument which Sedgwick then met was that the

          Upper and Lower Silurian of Murchison were so linked

          together by stratigraphical sequence and common fossils,
          that whatever might be the history of their discovery and

          publication they must be considered as forming part of one

          system. But now he shewed that this was not the case ; for
          the Caradoc, instead of being a transition series between the

          two, was, on the contrary, made up of two entirely distinct

          series differing in age and fossil contents, and the upper

          division formed a clear and natural base for the Silurian as he

          understood  namely for all that part which was above the
          if
          Bala Beds. The Bala Beds he defined to be all the rocks
                                 it,
                                                                      in
          "which are above the Arenig porphyries and under the May
          Hill Grits." In this separation of the May Hill Sandstone
          from the Caradoc Sedgwick found an explanation of the sup

          posed palsontological passage from Upper to Lower Silurian.

          The mixture of fossils existed                                  the Caradoc as defined by

          Murchison, but was due to the mistake of confounding

          together the sandstones which occur at the base of the

          Wenlock, and the lower sandstones which occur in the Bala

          Beds, and to not keeping distinct the fossils from the upper

          and lower divisions. It was obvious, in the next place, that

          the most important member of Murchison's Lower Silurian

          was wrongly defined, the position assigned to the other might

          perhaps be not wholly accurate. Sedgwick therefore re-ex

          amined the evidence on which Murchison had established his

          Llandeilo series, and found that the rocks of the typical

          section at Llandeilo were not placed by him in their true

          relation to the great undulating masses to the north of them

IMPORTANCE OF SEDGWICK'S WORK.  283

which were stated by Murchison to be of Cambrian age.            1854.
This correction appears in the sections of the Geological             69-

 Survey.

     It was clear to all who understood the scientific point at
issue that at length the real source of error had been dis

covered. Murchison's sections, on which he based the whole

of his Lower Silurian classification, were fundamentally wrong;
the so-called Caradoc was made up of different deposits of

distinct age and origin, and its fossils were a mixture from
various different horizons ; the other member of the Lower
Silurian, viz. the Llandeilo Flags, was only a local variety
of the lower Bala Beds, which Sedgwick had put in their
proper place in 1831 and 1832 in North Wales. Mur
chison, in the typical area of Llandeilo, had turned these

beds wrong way up, having entirely mistaken their position.
But now the first great step towards clearing up the difficulty
had been taken. The Caradoc Sandstone had ceased to

exist as a middle Silurian passage-bed ; part of it was
relegated to the subordinate position of local sandstones in
the Bala series, and part was raised to the dignity of a clear,

well-defined, easily traced, and palaeontologically distinct

base to the Silurian.

     Of course this important position was not given up by

Murchison and the Survey without some stout resistance.
But they were obliged to accept the correction, and only

covered their retreat by using the term, Llandovery Rocks,
instead of Sedgwick's name, May Hill Sandstone. These
facts explain some of the allusions in the following remarks
by McCoy, Salter, and Rogers. McCoy writes (May 3,
1854): "Salter and Aveline's paper is a most complete
admission of our (much contested) views on the Caradoc
Sandstone of Sir Roderick and the Survey;" and again

(June 9, 1854): "It is great fun to see the Survey marking

out the May Hill plane of separation, after all their stout

contradiction and opposition." Professor Rogers writes in

greater detail :

          284 OPINION OF PROFESSOR ROGERS.

  1854.        " Your Cambro-Silurian controversy has interested me deeply.

jEt. 69.  Do not imagine I mean only a compliment when I assure you
          how entirely convinced I have become, through your clear and
          temperate vindication of your labours, of the justness of your

          title to name and classify and call your own the great Cambrian

          Series you have so long and patiently studied, and so skilfully
          analysed. As long as the geologists of Europe employ a geographical
          nomenclature, you surely, by the right of real priority in thought and
          research, and by the claims of a sound philosophy in your inductions,

          are entitled to erect your Cambrian Rocks into an independent

          series equal in value to the Silurian, and to confer on them the
          appropriate distinctive name you have given them.... James Hall has
          confirmed by the conclusive evidence of Comparative Palaeontology
          this notion of the identity of these lower rocks with your Cambrians,
          in his Essay in Foster and Whitney's Report on Lake Superior.

          Hall has not yet, I believe, admitted your Cambrian Series in
          this country, for he entitles the Potsdam, Chazy, Trenton, and
          Hudson River rocks, Lower Silurian Groups, but he presents

          more distinctly than either he or others did before, the data
                                                                of the Lower
          whereon we may establish     the general equivalency
          American Palaeozoic Strata  to your Cambrian Series.  I am satisfied

          that the evidence from fossils entirely sustains your remark in your
          paper of February 25th, 1852, 'that the development of animal

          types from the early dawn of a liv ing world, appears to have been

          carried on in North America in strict analogy with the development

          now exhibited in the British Isles,' and your just inference that the
          scheme of development in your Tabular View will be ' more

          acceptable and intelligible to the American Geologists than any
                  scheme of                  of the British rocks which has yet
          other  published1.'  "arrangement
          been

          That brilliant geologist and palaeontologist Salter always

          treated Sedgwick with the greatest respect and gratitude,

          fully acknowledging what he had done in Wales. We see

          something of this in a letter written from Llangadoc in

          South Wales.

          Dear Professor,                    Llangadoc, April 15M, 1852.

                        I do not like to bore you with letters, else I should have
          written sooner to thank you for your letter. It is too desponding

          however. Slops and confinement do not well agree with a man
          who has wielded a hammer over the hills so many years. But
          the fine weather is coming, and the hawthorn buds are bursting,

          and the redcap is trying his spring notes; the banks are "all

          primrose," and before long you will jump into a barouche, and well
          wrapped up to defend that ticklish throat of yours, will be far on the

                 1 From Henry B. Rogers, dated Boston, 25 February, 1853.

                  OPINION OF MR SALTER.                                    285

way to Ely before dinner time ; and if you cannot at threescore and                                                                                          1854.
ten ride over the fens you have at least the pleasure of thinking how
                                                                                                                                                           &t. 69.
many would never have had that ride, or began a useful career in

geology and some other ologies, but for you.

yWoeulsThhweitrhbeoouuatnredatsrrouyme--e reeongftaruurdsst.eodweHewarietghreaatmthedeIwalhrtouolnenyionfugo,ssainal ldownngoervkethreotfhiSntohkuretohef
                                      And who took
kingdoms ! (for  a while at  least).  bull's foot, but  me into the        field,
and taught me    to know /8  from a                                        shall
                                                        yourself? I
spend a couple of months with Jukes directly and he could say the
same or a great deal more. And if you should postpone your quarto
work sine die -- a thing I devoutly hope you will not do -- you still
have put the old Geology of England on a firm basis, and taught

us to begin where you left off. Nay, even the last controversy,
which I was against at first, I begin to see was necessary. We

have your papers (Phil. Mag.) here, and are trying to read the rocks
along with them. It is rather odd that Aveline and I should
in two cases be following your steps along a difficult boundary.
This was an old plan for which we have only just got leave, and it
is a puzzler. You shall know the results when we know them

ourselves.

     What do you think put me specially in mind of you to-night?
The Welsh folks in the kitchen have been doing their worst to sing
anthems ! and I have been growling bass along with them. Do you

remember giving out the Psalms        for Peggy Jones to    sing?   (I hear
Peggy is where she was -- as bright   as ever, not married  yet).   And do

you remember the Sunday we mistook for Saturday at Can Office,

and how the old Welsh lady softened when she found we were not

heathen stone-breakers ?
My dear Professor -- the
Ifbe              I may      trust you express in your      letter  "cTahnonout,
disappointed.                quote what is familiar to
                                                            you --
O Lord, hast taught me from my youth : and hitherto have I declared
thy wondrous works. Now also when I am old " &c. I hope our

poor late friend my dear Master (Sowerby) may have lately leaned
on the same firm rock. I violated your confidence by reading your
letter to him, for I hoped it might do him good. He spoke very

kindly of you, and shook hands with me. I little thought I should

see him no more.  Ever, dear Professor, yours,

                                                      J. W. Salter.

     In the midst of all this work Sedgwick took up his pen
on behalf of his friend Professor McCoy against certain

persons whose unjust reflections had been published in the
Memoirs of the Paheontographical Society1 ; and also replied
to some remarks implying a want of liberality in the adminis-

     1 Annals and Magazine of Natural History, April and September, 1854.  See
above, p. 170.

         286 THE PLANET NEPTUNE.

   854.  tration of the Woodwardian Museum in respect of allowing
         facilities for examination of specimens. Into these minor con
Mt. 69.
         troversies we need not enter further, except to remark that

         Sedgwick's friends found in him no half-hearted champion.
         McCoy, whose cause he had taken up so warmly, himself gives
         a most interesting account of Sedgwick's telling, in the

         Combination Room of Trinity College, the story of the
         way in which Mr Adams had worked out by calculation

         the position occupied in the heavens by the planet Neptune,
         and his indignation that the credit of being the first to make

         so remarkable a discovery had been refused to the young

         Cambridge mathematician.

              " When I first arrived at Cambridge,"1 says McCoy, " I
         found Professor Sedgwick, then Vice-Master of Trinity, the

         most popular and beloved man in the University, and his

         reputation for eloquence, and for devotion both to the Uni
         versity and to his clerical duties, as fully recognised as his

         scientific standing and labours.
              " The first night was a memorable one. There was a large

         party in the Combination Room at Trinity to see the new

         year in ; and at it were not only the most distinguished men
         of Cambridge, but many strangers who had come down for

         the occasion. Adams was present, and the question of the
         independent discovery of the planet by him and Le Verrier,
         and which of them should have the merit of priority, was

         taken up in the most interesting manner by Professor

         Sedgwick, who told the tale to the whole listening table,
         with fuller knowledge of the facts than any one else had,

         from his intimacy with the Astronomer Royal, as well as

         with Adams.
              " He related how Adams, as soon as he had taken his

         B. A. degree, worked the matter fully out to his own
         perfect satisfaction, and brought to the Greenwich Observa
         tory a statement of the result obtained for the place of the
         planet, with a request that the observers would direct their

         1 In 1846. See above, p. 118.

CLAIMS OF MR ADAMS.  287

 instruments to the indicated spot, expressing his conviction                   1854.
 that the new body would be found there. With thrilling words                         69-
 Sedgwick touched off the neglect with which young men of

 genius might have their labours slighted, and deplored the
 loss to the University, to England, and to their friend, of the
 glory of this most brilliant achievement, because nobody at
 the Observatory knew or cared anything about Mr Adams,

 nobody looked where he asked to have a scrutiny made,
 and his paper was put in a pigeon-hole, neglected and
 forgotten, until Le Verrier made a similar request, with the
 result that immediate attention was paid to him1. [The
 planet itself was at length observed, first at Berlin and then

elsewhere, and by universal acclaim the discovery was set
down to Le Verrier.] Then Adams and his old communi
cation were remembered, and it was found that so long before
he had pointed more precisely (there were only a few minutes
 I think between their places) to the proper spot on the
heavens for the search, and had worked out the whole of

the calculations with perfect accuracy, completeness, and

elegance. To Adams' great discomfort Sedgwick told how

his modesty prevented his troubling the Astronomer Royal or
any of the officials further in the matter, and how Prince
Albert and the Queen felt so strongly on the subject that
Adams was asked to accept knighthood at the Public Com
mencement in 1847 in proof of their recognition of his
wonderful work --and with regret that he would accept no

such recognition the story ended. A dead silence fell upon

the company. No one felt inclined to break the spell by

uttering a word, and Sedgwick, closing his eyes and leaning

back in meditative silence, enlisted the sorrowful sympathy

      1 Several circumstances, accidental and other, combined to prevent the
discovery of Adams being brought before the public earlier. The required sheet

of the celestial map happened not to be in the Cambridge Observatory, and
though Professor Challis had detected the planet, he waited a fortnight to see
whether it moved, and in the meantime it was observed and recorded at Berlin.
Earnshaw wanted Adams to communicate his observations to the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, but unfortunately this good advice was not followed.

         288 HOLIDA Y IN PARIS.

  1854.  of all. Suddenly he started up with fiery energy, and raising
         h{s arm with a fierce gesture startled us all by exclaiming :
Mt. 69.  ' Curse their narcotic souls' What was to have come after

         this we never heard, as the burst of laughter with which this

         beginning was received seemed to awaken him as from a
         dream. He looked round to see what was the matter,

         and, as he did so, the boyish good-natured beaming expres

         sion came back, --with his favourite gesture of rubbing his

         hand over his face and eyes, and a hearty laugh at himself --

         and thus my first experience of his powers of speech ended."

              We will now return to the autumn of 1854. For some
         time Sedgwick had felt the need of a holiday, " to drive

         away the last remnant of gouty hypochondria','' and brace

         himself for his lectures and other duties. Various plans

         were discussed and rejected, and finally it was decided

         that he should take his two nieces to Paris. They had a

         pleasant journey by the way of Boulogne and Amiens, where
         they halted to see "the finest cathedral in the world;" and

         he was "astonished and dazzled'" at the sight of Paris,

         which he had not visited for twenty years. But the weather

         was hot, he over-heated himself with sight-seeing, caught a

         chill, and was confined to his room with bronchitis during

         the greater part of the visit.

         During the Michaelmas term Sedgwick resumed his

         lectures, but with difficulty.  " My lungs are tender," he
         wrote, " my nerves are shaken, and I am forced to take the

         greatest care of myself." His spirits, too, were much de

         pressed by the news from the Crimea, where he watched the

         course of events with the deepest interest. "The news is in
         one sense glorious, but alas ! dismal. 'Tis like a halo over

         a grave. Since the siege began I have had dismal anticipa
         tions, for I am old enough to remember Napoleon's glowing

         accounts, in his bulletins, of the Russian climate. And then

         1 To Hugh Miller, 9 December, 1854.
         2 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 7 December, 1856.

RECOLLECTIONS OF NAPOLEON IN RUSSIA. 289

came the 6th of November, 18121, after which followed the                           1854.
wreck and utter destruction of the finest army that ever took                            69-
the field. May God save our army ! What frightful havoc
among the light cavalry ! What carnage and audacity for
no purpose ! I could not sleep last night for thinking of these
horrors."

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                   Cambridge, December 15/A, 1854.

            "...The Astronomer-Royal and Mrs Airy are now at
the Lodge, and I drank tea with them this evening, after the
Commemoration feast. Fifty years are gone since I attended
the Commemoration when I was a freshman. At that time
England was armed to the teeth, and eight years afterwards
I had the good fortune, on the evening of the Commemoration
in 1812, to carry to the Combination Room the news of the
breaking-up of Bonaparte's army. I shall never forget the
excitement. Many of the persons present, for very joy, wept

and sobbed like children."

     Shortly afterwards Sedgwick gave before TIic Athenceuvi
of Bury St Edmunds the lecture on the structure of the
extinct Sloths which he had already delivered at Ipswich and
Leeds. In the course of the following year he was persuaded
to print it for the benefit of a charity ; and we are thus
enabled to form some idea of how he made such a subject
interesting to a popular audience. "The Professor began"
we read, "by a short allusion to the great change in the
political horizon since the autumn of 181 2, when he last set
his foot in the room where they were then assembled. It was

on a festive occasion very different from the one which

brought them together now; but English hearts were then
deeply anxious (even in the midst of their festivity) about the
fate of the Russian Empire--threatened as it was, and

     1 Sedgwick probably refers to the first fall of snow, which is stated in some
of the accounts of the Russian campaign to have taken place at this date.

S. II.  '9

          290 LECTURE ON EXTINCT SLOTHS.

  1854.   almost overwhelmed, by the great invading hosts of the first
^Et. 69.  Napoleon. Western Europe is now threatened by the Auto
          crat of Russia ; and England, in firm alliance with another
          Napoleon, is once more doing battle in the cause of national

          honour and European liberty. If he had anything to regret,"

          he said, " it was that he had not the great privilege of
          addressing them in a cause in which the hearts of all English
          men and English women beat in unison --of inviting the
          members of The Athenceum to combine their efforts for the
          relief of our heroic soldiers in the East. That luck had fallen
          to another, at the previous meeting of The Athenceum ; and he

          must proceed without further preface to discuss the less
          exciting subject of this evening's lecture."

               After this exordium he sketched the divisions of the
          Mammalia, according to Cuvier, and the characteristics of
          the special group, the Edentata, to which both recent and

          extinct Sloths belong. Then, after explaining the anatomy
          and the habits of the existing Sloth of South America, he
          showed how a study of the bones of the gigantic Mylodon

          and Megatherium leads us to infer that their habits were
          analogous to those of the small animals by which the family
          is now represented. This part of the lecture is extraordinarily

          graphic, even in its printed form ; and must have been far
          more so when orally delivered. Sedgwick never read his

          lectures, though he generally prepared copious notes, so as to
          have an outline of the whole drawn clearly in his mind before
          he began. Then he trusted to the inspiration of the moment

          for the language and the details.

              It has been frequently pointed out in the course of this
          narrative that next to the discovery of scientific truth the
          main object of Sedgwick's life was to point out to all who
          listened to him or read his works the value of such discoveries
          from a teleological point of view. The opportunity afforded

          in this direction by a popular address was not to be over
          looked. In consequence the concluding pages of the lecture

          deal with the evidence to be deduced from these fossils of a

           TELEOLOGICAL VIEWS.                                                                             291

unity of plan in creation, and a First Cause. These reflec-                                                       1854.

tions do not, as a general rule, differ materially from those we                                                Mt- 69-
have noticed on similar occasions ; but among them there is

one passage which deserves quotation, as illustrating Sedg
wick's tone of mind towards any speculations which raised
secondary causes into undue prominence. This is specially
interesting when we remember that those very remains were
discovered by Darwin, and that " the vivid impression

produced by excavating them with his own hands formed one

of the chief starting-points of his speculations on the origin
of species1."

     'Are the small living sloths to be regarded as the natural
descendants of the ancient giants ? To answer this question in the

affirmative, is not to build our conclusions upon experience and
                          on the contrary, to build upon rash
inductive evidence ; but  is,                               a is
                                   a                            a
and unwarranted hypothesis, by virtual repudiation of such evidence.
We have no example, in the living world, of the passage, or transmu
tation, of one perfect species into another. There are many progressive
changes in the early stages of animal life but all such changes are
                                        ;
                                                     ;

                                                     is
                                                         a
bound together by undeviating laws so as, in every case, to end in

a species identical with the parent species from which the animal
sprung. The constancy of organic laws                       truth of science as

certain as the constancy of the laws by which dead matter held in
its present order. The art of man, and the effects of domestication,
have produced many modifications of animal form, but not so much
as one change of species and has been found that when species
                          ;

                                    it

that has been modified by domestication returns to its wild state,

it  gradually returns also to its original wild type and character.

The animals entombed in the old catacombs of Egypt are not
specifically different from those which now live. Between the
extinct and living Sloths there           wide organic interval. They
                                  is is
                                       a
are of the same Order, but they are neither of the same Species,
nor the same Genus and there no known law of nature by which
           by

                      ;
we can bridge over this wide interval. Sound philosophy holds no
dealings with hypothetical laws, which are neither proved nor
           the facts of experience and hence we reject the
suggested                                 ;

fabulous genealogy which derives the parentage of the living forms
of nature from those extinct animal forms which are entombed in
the ancient strata of the earth.

     Sedgwick spent the year 1855 much as he had spent
the year 1854 --in trying to shake off succession of colds,
           1

                                                                a

                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                        2
           The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin,          p. 276.

                                                                    19 --

         292 PARLIAMENTARY REFORM OF UNIVERSITY.

1855.    accompanied at times by other and more distressing symptoms.
Et. 70.  The thoughts and occupations by which this tedious employ

         ment was diversified are related with sufficient detail in the

         following letters, with the exception of one important matter,
         which must be briefly noticed.

              In April 1855, the Government determined to introduce
         into Parliament a Bill for the reform of the University of
         Cambridge. It was proposed to appoint a Parliamentary

         Commission, to give effect to the recommendations contained
         in the Report of the Royal Commissioners, published, as has

         been already related, in August, 1852. Sedgwick was invited
         to be one of these new Commissioners, and, after consultation

         with Whewell, and possibly with others, accepted. The Bill
         passed the House of Lords, and might possibly have passed
         the House of Commons also, had not the promoters of it

         discovered that they had misunderstood the state of public

         opinion at Cambridge, where their proposals encountered

         determined opposition. It was pointed out to them, in a
         petition agreed to at a meeting of Members of the Senate
         convened in the Arts School by the Proctors (7 May), that their

         suggested constitution would "continue, with very slight modi

         fications, the government to which your petitioners are now

         subject ;" in other words, that it would reserve to the Heads
         of Colleges that despotic and irresponsible rule over the
         University which men of all parties had made up their minds

         to put an end to. Among the remonstrances which the
         measure called forth, none created so great a sensation, or
         produced such a lasting effect, as two letters to the Lord
         Chancellor, signed by four of the late Commissioners,

         Peacock, Herschel, Romilly, and Sedgwick, together with
         their secretary Mr Bateson. These letters indicated, in
         forcible language, the most obvious defects of the proposed

         legislation, and suggested the points to which, in the opinion
         of those responsible for the letters, special attention ought to
         be directed in any measure of University reform. The Bill,
         notwithstanding the introduction of amendments which re-

ACTION OF THE LATE COMMISSIONERS.                        293

moved several of its most glaring defects, was abandoned,            1855.
                                                                   yEt- 1-
and when a new measure was introduced in 1856 different
Commissioners were nominated.

     It is not easy to estimate Sedgwick's share in this matter.
It is certain that he did not write the letters, of which Peacock

was probably the author ; but at the same time we may be

sure that he would not have signed them unless he had

cordially approved the policy they advocated. In support
of this view we will quote a few sentences from one of his
letters to Whewell, who supported the Bill, and vehemently
disapproved of the action of the late Commissioners1.

To the Master of Trinity College.  May 27th, 1855.

"...As to our opinions respecting the University Bill,

they differ so widely that it is absolutely impossible to bring

them into any near accordance. The attempt virtually to

perpetuate, in the latter half of the nineteenth century, the

despotic constitution of Whitgift, was, in my mind, an absurdity
into which I should not have thought it possible that any

Cambridge graduate could have fallen. And to attempt this

in a Bill which had to pass a reformed parliament, and after

a more liberal constitution had been given to Oxford, did not,

in my mind, lessen the absurdity. Who prepared the

original draft of the Bill I have no means of knowing, but

assuredly he mistook the wishes of the Commissioners, while

he never condescended to consult them. And, if he looked

on the intended Bill as a pacific measure, which was to

remove enmities in the University, he must have been very

little acquainted with the temper of University men, and

with their reasonable hopes and expectations...."

     In the latest edition of the Bill that we have seen (12
June) Sedgwick's name is replaced by that of Mr Walpole.
His reasons for withdrawal may be readily accounted for.

The letters he wrote to Colonel Grey when asked to be a

1 Whewell's Life, by Mrs Stair Douglas, pp. 493 -- 444.

          294 SEDGWICK DECLINES TO BE A COMMISSIONER.

    855.  Royal Commissioner in 1850 shew his reluctance to take up
/Et. 70.  a position antagonistic to those whom he had known longest
          and respected most. The attitude of Whewell --though Sedg
          wick, in writing to Peacock, treats his violence with good-
          humoured indifference --had probably impressed him more
          deeply than he cared to admit ; and he thought it better to
          escape at once from a position which would inevitably lead

          to further annoyance.

          To Miss Fanny Hicks.  Cambridge, January 18M, 1855.

          Dearest Fan,          (Candlelight,  a.ni.)

          Your kind and ' pressing ' letter came to me

          yesterday. But indeed I want no pressing, and it is of no use.
          I delight to spend a few days at Scalby when I can do so.
          I cannot, however, always do so when I like, for I am like an

          old post-horse that has stiff joints, and not a leg to stand

          upon. I have more work here than I can get through ; and

          yet my friends are pulling at me on all sides. I did lecture

          at Bury. They have urged me very much to give them a
          lecture in London -- but I have refused ; and, only yesterday,

          I had a most pressing letter from Somerset House, urging me

          to attend their last night's meeting. Perhaps I should have

          obeyed this last call, had the weather been milder. But it is

          now, at length, very severe, and I dared not venture... I have,

          however, still on my hands an old unperformed promise to the

          Natural History Society of Kendal, of which I am the

          President. They have built a new Museum and Lecture

          Room, for which, by the way, they taxed my purse ; and I

          have been urged by a half-a-dozen people (the Mayor of

          Kendal among the rest) to go down to open the New Museum
          with a public lecture. I have promised to do so, if I can keep

          my weasand in open order; and I expect them to fix the time

          some day during the first fortnight of February... So no more

          at present from your long-winded, prosy, wheezy, old uncle,

                                                                   A. Sedgwick.

DEATH OF EDWARD FORBES.                          29s

To Miss Gerard.  Cambridge, January 20th, 1855.

             ...Poor dear Edward Forbes ! His death was indeed

a shock1! I sat, day by day, at his side in the meetings of the

Geological Section at Liverpool ; and it was my agreeable

task to propose a vote of thanks to him when the Sec

tion broke up at the end of the week's session. He was well

and joyous then. We shook hands when we left the room,

and I little thought that I was never to see his face again.

The evening after we broke up I met his charming young

wife, who was then full of happiness and domestic joy, and she

thanked me, more than once, for the kind words I had spoken

about her husband. Professor James Forbes3 has resumed his

lectures, you tell me. All good men of science will rejoice at

his restoration to vigorous health ; for he is a man of great

attainments, and of great inventive power in the application

of his knowledge. His retirement from the active duties of

his Professorship would be a national loss....

I have once or twice seen Mr Maurice, and I know some

of his dearest friends. I have read several of his books. His

volume on The Prophets and Kings, and his volume on
Sacrifice, were his latest works which I have read. All his
works have one great charm --they have the savour of an

honest, sincere, and truth-loving mind. They all contain

original thoughts, and original matter, which is another charm.

But I cannot always go along with them without halting and
stumbling. Sometimes I differ from him on points I think I

understand ; but, more frequently, I have a positive difficulty
in understanding what he means. His thoughts run in a

train so different from mine. I think also that he is often at

fault on matters of practical wisdom ; and (independently of

     1 Edward Forbes had been elected to the chair of Natural History in the
University of Edinburgh vacated by the death of Professor Jameson in April, 1854.
He died 18 November, 1854. At Liverpool he was President of the Geological
Section.

     3 James David Forbes, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of
Edinburgh, 1832 -- 1859. He died 31 December, 1868.

         296 OPINIONS OF REV. F. D. MAURICE.

  1855.  Bible interpretation where the words seem to be against him)

Mt. 70.  why did he disturb the congregation by his doubts and

         surmises on the very point which led to his removal from the

         Professorship at King's College ? There was a want of

         practical wisdom in this. And Sir James Stephen (our
         Professor of Modern History) committed the same blunder the

         year before1. If Mr Maurice could have proved that he was

         right, and that others were wrong --good and well ! Let truth

         be told. But I defy him to prove, out of the Bible, that the

         punishments of God in a future state are limited in time. I

         dislike the discussion altogether, and I owe no thanks to

         Mr Maurice for disturbing our faith by making Hell into an

         universal Purgatory. I am forced to write plainly. Away with

         mincing words, when we have things of moment in our minds....

         From Mrs Willoughby Moore I have not yet heard. I

         wrote to her a month or two after the horrible, but glorious,

         death of her husband. It was a case of martyrdom to a sense

         of duty. Some one told me that the Queen had given her a
         set of appartments in Hampton Court. There ! have I not

         put two p's in apartments to magnify the Queen's gift ? But
         I have outlived my memory -- my teeth are dropping out of
         my head--one of my eyes is too dim to help me to read --the
                                                       makes double images --my
         other eye, to make up for       it,

         memory             as bad as    Sebastopol ambulance,                  carries
                 it is               Ia                                  !

                      if                                                    it
         nothing in -- and now         have forgotten how to spell. Never

         mind all this, you can but spell out my meaning The last

         thing heard of Mrs Moore was that she had offered to go
         aI
         out as nurse to Scutari. Whether this offer was accepted,

         and where she now  iIs,       cannot tell you. The offer was worthy

         of the widow of Willoughby Moore; and know that she
                                                                      I

         was very deeply attached to her husband*....

         In The Epilogue, appended to the collection of his Essays in Ecelesiastu/1l
         21
                          1

                                                 a J.
         Biography, vols. 8vo. Lond. 1849, Sir Stephen had expressed his unwillingness

         to believe the doctrine of the eternity of future punishment.   He was appointed

         Professor of Modern History shortly after this publication.

         Mrs Moore did go to the East as nurse, and died at Scutari in the course

         of the year 1855.

HELP FOR SOLDIERS IN THE CRIMEA.  297

    You are right in calling Miss Nightingale a 'noble creature,'     1855.
and I utterly detest and abhor the stupid bigotry which has
                                                                   **. 7-
tried to get up a cry against her, and the ministering angels

who went out with her ; and only second to Miss Nightingale
is Miss Stanley -- the eldest daughter of the late Bishop of
Norwich -- a little, thin, feeble-looking woman, but of most

heroical courage and self-devotion, who went out (some time
after Miss Nightingale) with forty -seven additional nurses...

    Alas ! I have lost many friends since the war began. At
Norwich (ever since I was Canon of the Cathedral) there has

always been a regiment, or a part of a regiment, of cavalry,
and the regiments were changed almost every year, so that I
knew personally and intimately very many of the gallant

men who have fallen, by pestilence, or the sword. Isabella

learnt to ride in the barrack riding-school. She was an
excellent horse-woman ; and the officers of the light cavalry
constantly lent her one of their beautiful chargers, with which

she used to fly across the country in our morning rides and

then pull up till I joined her. Three fine, gallant young men

dined with me a day or two before their regiment left Norwich,
and all of them fell at the fatal charge-- two killed and the

third desperately wounded. But my nieces have not been

content with sentimental sorrow. They have worked hard
and to good purpose for our poor soldiers, and both of them

would have gone out with Miss Stanley had they been

permitted. They have spent all their pocket-money ; they
have begged lustily, and through the kind intervention of

merchants they bought large webs of coarse flannel at an

almost incredibly small cost. At Scalby Fanny procured the
gratuitous help of seventy-three poor women of the parish.
They refused all money wages, and worked for her almost
night and day till all their shirts and waistcoats were made
up and sent off. Isabella in like manner employed scores of

poor women to help her, and they have sent off hundreds of

large coarse and warm stockings, etc., besides flannel shirts.

Tempests purge the air; and war and pestilence (horrible evils

-9s THE EMPRESS EUGENIE.

15. in themselves) call forth healthy feelings, and nourish virtues

     which would die for want of exercise without them. To do
      our best to extract good out of evil is a part, and an
      important part, of Christian duty. I cannot think England

      can decline while God vouchsafes to put so much true,
      generous, self-denying good in the hearts of so many
      English men and women. Ever your affectionate old friend,

                                                               A. Sedgwick.

To Mrs Richard Sedgwick.      London, April 21st, 1855.

"...Oh! but you told me to describe the dress                  of
                                                               It
the Empress1. Her gown was white, and very full.

looked so puffy that a blast of wind might have blown

gown and Empress across the Park. Her figure is good

and elegant. Her manners very charming, and there is

an apparent want of vigorous health which does not spoil

her beauty (for she has a very fair face), and makes her

interesting. She had beautiful flowers on her petticoats ;

but not over many, for her dress, though splendid, looked

simple. In front of her bosom she wore a gorgeous ornament
of diamonds -- I mean down on the dress --and she had a

dazzling necklace of very large diamonds supporting a

diamond cross which rested on her snow-white bosom. Her

hair is light brown, and was very simply dressed, except that

she had a very splendid diamond star on the left side of

her head...."

To James Smith, Esq.

My dear Sir,          Euston  SQUARE,  September 21st,  1855.

                 I arrived at this place, by a northern train, very
late last night, yet I am, according to custom, up before the

waiters are ready to prepare my breakfast.
     Let me then employ a few spare minutes in paying one

     1 Sedgwick had met the Emperor and Empress of the French at a Concert
given at Buckingham l'alace on the previous evening.

        VOYAGE AND SHIPWRECK OF ST PAUL.                                       299

of my many debts --a debt of thanks I owe to yourself for the                             ^1855.
                                                                                                7*
valuable work on St Paul's voyage and shipwreck1, and for

the pleasure and profit I have had in reading it. I had heard

of but had never read before you gave me copy of it.
I                              I                        I
                                  I it
       it,                                   I             a

              I                                                         I
think you have made out your case, at every point and

turn, to perfect demonstration.                 have not yet read all the

dissertations; but so far as have read them quite agree
with them but they discuss points about some of which
             ;

am a very poor judge.              wish to live and die with the hopes
Ifof a Christian.
                             these hopes were away, what would the

remnant of my life be good for? A stammering remnant

of a babbler's dream.

        do not think atheism can ever do much general mischiefIis is              I ; is

-- though this the form that the infidelity of this daya
putting on. It rank atheism under the form of pantheism.

But philosophical scepticism, and a disbelief of the super

natural, and disposition to resolve biblical history and the
                 aaa
gospels into a succession of myths indicating successive

conditions of the human inventive mind,         is      very prevalent,
                                                   a

and think mischievous, form of infidelity.
I

Most young men who think for themselves have their

moments of doubt, and have known many who seemed to
                               II
be seeking resting-place in calm philosophical deism
                                       a
and on that shoal (or on something worse) they were almost
                                            I
Ifsure to strike they were men of licentious life.                             was
                 if                                                      it I

ever drifting in that direction (and hardly remember whatit
my early dreams were), was arrested in by Butler, who

proved to me that there was no refuge in deism --that was

encumbered with the same difficulties as revelation, and

never, save for moment, so far belied my nature, as to doubt
                 a
                          a
about the being of provident God and Creator.
     Still there were difficulties. Had we the Bible in its

purity           Had         not been tampered with     Was              it    not
        ?             it                             ?
          1                in
therefore mythical             part Paley's Horce Paulince was the
                                   ?
first work that on such questions set my heart at rest. He
                                          of
             The Voyage and Shipwreck       St Paul. 8vo. London, 1848.

          3oo VOYAGE AND SHIPWRECK OF ST PAUL.

  1855.   proved to demonstration that the Epistles of Paul, and the

/Et. 70.  Acts 0f Luke were real historical documents, and substantially
          true --that any mythical interpretation of them was quite

          out of question. This is Sunday morning, and I have been
          sending you a sermon ; and my coffee is now on the table -- .

          Let me, then (for I have now refreshed the inner man),

          come back to your book. I would put it side by side with the

          Hone Paulina as a demonstrative proof, so far as it goes,

          of the historical truth of the gospel narrative. St Luke and

          St Paul were true men, and published what they believed

          true. We cannot separate the historical part of their works

          from the theological, or the natural from the supernatural.

          They must stand or fall together ; and if there be difficulties

          in revelation (as no doubt there are) there are ten thousand
          times greater difficulties in the transcendental metaphysics

          and mythicism of Strauss, and all the lesser fry of that school.

          I detest them, because I think them false to history, and

          untrue to the wants of human nature. And on such grounds

          I would cast them to the dunghill, and leave them there to
          rot. I do not know that you will go along with me ; but I
          do know that I have been delighted with your Essay.

          Give my kindest remembrances to your family, and believe

          me very truly and gratefully yours,  A. Sedgwick.

               The long-promised lecture at Kendal was delivered in the

          new lecture-hall of the Literary and Scientific Society, on
          Monday, 8 October. The subject was the geology of the
          Lake District, with special reference to the influence of the
          Gulf Stream, and the scattering of the Wastdale granite
          boulders over northern England by glaciers. The subject

          proper ended, Sedgwick reverted to the Crimean war, and the
          dreams of " universal peace, so delightful to a philosopher,"
          but, he added, "however much we long for peace, let us by no
          means gain our wish by truckling, or by servile humiliation.
          Still let the day of peace be prayed for." On the next day

LECTURES AT KENDAL AND CAM BRIDGE. 301

he was entertained by the Society at a public breakfast in          1855.
                                                                          T-
the Assembly Rooms. An address was presented to him, in
reply to which he spoke feelingly of his long connection with
Kendal, and gave many delightful recollections of bygone

days.
     When the work of the Michaelmas term was just beginning,

Sedgwick was greatly distressed by the illness of his sister,
Margaret. She had been ill for some time, but, though she

was in her 74th year, it was thought that she might still recover.
On consulting the surgeon who was attending her, he learnt,
suddenly and unexpectedly, that the case was " utterly out of
the reach of help and out of hope." The shock was very
great, and brought on a return of some of his worst symptoms.

The next letter was written soon after he had received the

fatal news.

To Miss Kate Malcolm.  Cambridge, October 2$th, 1855.
     My dear Kate,

                 Your very welcome and kind letter found me

yesterday in my College rooms. I was not in spirits to reply

to it immediately ; nor am I now in spirits to reply at any

length, or to attempt a compliance with your request that I

would send you ' my impressions of your father's character.'
God willing I will try to do so soon--not elaborately, but

simply, and send you the result....

     To-day I am to begin my lectures. But my health is
shaken, and I begin my work in sorrow, and in dread that I
may this year break down with fatigue as I did last year.
The last academic year (which begins, you remember, in
October) was to me a year of solitude and gloom. I had an
attack of bronchitis which lasted more than six months, and
during the long, severe winter I was a close prisoner in my

College den. When I recovered the full use of my lungs
(not before the middle of May) I suddenly ' got up my

condition,' as they say of horses ; but I was liable to attacks

      302 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.

55. of congestion and giddiness, which were relieved by copious

. 70. bleedings from the nose. I was ordered to abstain from

       work of every kind --to think of nothing hard --to be idle on
       principle. So, while at Norwich in May and June, I preached

        old sermons, and spent much time in romping and playing
        ball, &c. &c., with my nephew's children -- especially my little

       merry god-daughter, who gave me her heart in return. In

     August and September I had a charming tour in the High

       lands of Scotland with two cheerful nieces. During this tour
       I almost shook off the attacks of giddiness ; but not perfectly,

       and I still feel them occasionally, but in a mitigated form.
      My joy was now and then clouded by sorrowful memorials of

      the effects of time. All my former Edinburgh friends were

       away, and most of them are dead.... We had glorious weather
      --we gathered happiness and health at every step. We
       halted at Glasgow during the meeting of the British Associa
       tion -- and we emerged from the ' land of cakes' by the valley
       of the Tweed. We dined at Abbotsford with Mrs Hope

      Scott (Sir Walter's grand-daughter). Just a quarter of a

       century before I dined in the same room with Sir Walter
       Scott and a most happy family party of eight, including his
      sons and daughters. Of that party I am now the only

      remnant. A very delicate and beautiful daughter is at present

       the only hope of the house of Scott of Abbotsford. Similar
      memorials of the effect of time I had among the Cumberland
       lakes, to which I conducted my nephew and his wife for a few
       days. The works of God were as durable and as lovely as
      ever, but most of my old and beloved friends were away. We

       did not see Southey, but we saw his grave and monument.

      We did not see Wordsworth, but we saw his grave, and the

     grave of his son and daughter. 'Tis time to stop, and I have

      been putting my paper in mourning by spilling the ink.

      Just room to say love, best love, to your mamma and sister.
      May God bless them and you.

                                 Ever your affectionate old friend,
                                                               A. Sedgwick.

SERMON BETWEEN STAFFA AND IONA.                              303

To Sir J. F. IV. Herschel.

My dear Herschel,           Cambridge, December i7lA, 1855.

I sometimes send long letters to ladies -- to my

dear friend (and niece) Isabella Herschel among them. But

I now send you a letter of business, and it shall be short. Did

you receive the second Fasciculus of the Cambridge Palaozoic

Fossils ? Have you received the third ? You were down in

my list ; but my publisher has either forgotten himself, or has
done my work very tardily and imperfectly. You must have

a perfect copy of the work as a goodwill offering from one

who honours you in the best way he is able. And mind !

When you have from me the perfect work, you must put it in
the hands of a binder --or rather, you must, if you please,

leave it for me in a parcel at the Geological Society or at my

publisher's. I will then get it bound in a dress after my own

fashion, and send it to you again with a new coat on its back.

For I do not wish to be dirty, and out at elbows, when you

do me the favour to admit me as a guest into your house. I
mean what I say ; and you must, Sir John, fall in with an old

man's whims....

     Tell my dear niece Isabella, that (along with her name
sake) I saw the top of Ben Nevis -- trod on the top of Ben
Lomond --visited Staffa and Iona, and during the voyage
preached a sermon from the top of a beer-barrel1 -- that we

saw the finest Highland lakes -- that we ate oatmeal porridge
at Fort William --that driven by a shower into a Highland hut

we had a long talk with a midwife, who explained many of

her difficult cases, to my great amusement, and to my lasses
great confusion -- that we saw Burns' house and monument --

      1 There is a report of this address in The Cambridge Chronicle for 15 September,
1855, extracted from The North British Daily Mail. Sedgwick addressed a party
of excursionists during the voyage from Staffa to Iona on the geology of the
island they had just left. From this subject he passed, more suo, to the con

nection between science and religion ; the present state of the Highlands as
contrasted with the strife and bloodshed of the Middle Ages; the influence for

good of the Duke of Argyll ; the Crimean War, etc.

           34 PUBLICATION OF WORK ON BRITISH

1855.      that we dined at Abbotsford -- saw Melrose, but not by "pale
      7-
           moonlight" (as I had done before) --and that we did many
           other things most worthy of notice, had I not promised to be

           short, and were not my paper at an end. So a merry and
           happy Christmas to you all, and my best love to all your ladies.

                      Ever, my dear Herschel, most truly yours,
                                                                         A. Sedgwick.

           An incident occurred at the meeting of the British

           Association at Glasgow, which is worth narrating. Mur-

           chison made a communication to the Geological Section on

           certain rocks in Sutherlandshire which he had recently

           examined. In the discussion that ensued, Sedgwick rose

           to speak, and began by taking off a heavy great-coat in

           which he had been sitting. The audience began to titter,

           whereupon Sedgwick exclaimed, in his happiest tone and
           manner : " Oh !                                        "
                            I  am    not  going  to  fight  him      At this there
                                                                 !

           was general applause and laughter and the discussion passed
           off without unpleasantness, Sedgwick supporting Murchison

           on the points at issue1.

           The work on the British Palaeozoic Rocks and Fossils,

           alluded to in the last letter, was now complete. It had

           occupied Sedgwick between five and six years, and had been
           published in instalments -- the first Fasciculus in 1851, the

           second in 1852. In its completed form it is a goodly quarto,
           containing 661 pages of descriptive letterpress, illustrated by

           25 plates of new or imperfectly known species, and preceded
           by an Introduction of 98 pages.

               As originally planned, it was obviously intended to form

           part of that work on the older rocks which Sedgwick had been

           intending to write during the whole of his geological life.
           When it was first begun he employed Mr Salter as his artist,

           who speaks of his wish to become to him what d'Archiac had

           been to Murchison. This scheme having been put an end to

           by his appointment to the Geological Survey, McCoy took his

                               1 Geikie's Life of Murchison, 206.ii.

            PALAEOZOIC ROCKS AND FOSSILS.       305

place, and to him the descriptive part of the work is due. The       1855.
plates were drawn, under his direction, by Mr G. West.             Mim 7-

These were executed at Sedgwick's sole charge, the cost of

printing being defrayed by the Syndics of the University

Press. The descriptions, it must be remembered, are limited

to fossils in the Geological Museum of the University of

Cambridge.

When McCoy's work was ended, Sedgwick promised him

that he would "draw up a Synopsis of the British Palaeozoic

System, so far as it appeared to have been made out on good

physical evidence ; and put his work in such co-ordination

with my own, that each specimen might (with some very
limited exceptions) be referred to its right place in the British

Palaeozoic series, to be laid down by myself on the positive

evidence of sections1." These words shew that Sedgwick then

intended to write an introduction which would have been an

outline of his long-promised work, and might have been filled

up subsequently when he had leisure to do so. But, unfor

tunately, when the third Fasciculus was ready he was unfit for
sustained labour, and, as he sorrowfully admits, "instead of a

Synopsis based on numerous sections, derived chiefly from

the Cambrian, Silurian, and Cumbrian mountains, I at length
hasten to the press (constrained to this step by a duty I owe to
Professor McCoy) with little more, by way of introduction,
than a corrected and enlarged Tabular View --resembling

that which was prefixed to the second Fasciculus of the

Cambridge Palceozoic Fossils."* Would that he had confined

himself to that limited field ; or had supplemented it with
nothing more than a history of the Woodwardian Museum,

and a tribute to the energy and skill with which McCoy

had described some of its most important specimens. But

his mind was full of the Cambro-Silurian controversy, and

the greater part of the Introduction is occupied with an

account of his own work in Wales, and a vehement denun

ciation of the part played by Murchison with reference to it.

            1 Introduction, p. v.  2 Ibid.

S. II.                                      20

          306 SOUTHERN CHAIN OF SCOTLAND.

  1855.   Moreover, as it was written in fragments, interrupted by long
          intervals of illness, or attention to other engagements, it is
/Et. 70.
          deficient, as he himself admits, " in a true unity of plan. I

          have to ask the reader's indulgence," he says, "for some

          clumsy verbal repetitions which ought to have been avoided ;

          and in some of the more lengthened arguments I have so far
          repeated myself, that I appear, while writing at Norwich, to

          have partly forgotten what had been, some months before,

          written at Cambridge1." It is much to be regretted that
          an unhappy combination of circumstances should have pre

          vented Sedgwick from expanding his large views on the
          whole subject here referred to in a treatise of permanent

          value,--views which have now to be painfully extracted from

          papers scattered through various journals.
               His work between 185 1 and 1855 is marked by more

          definite plans, and greater vigour, than that which preceded
          it. He had noticed the fact that the Cambrian, and still more
          the Silurian, rocks of North and South Wales belonged to
          different types, and that the rocks of the Lake District and
          the south of Scotland agreed in general character with the
          North Wales type. In the hope, therefore, that further light
          might be thrown upon some of the difficulties of classification
          he had met with on his old ground, he made several excursions
          along the hills of southern Scotland. That area is only

          now beginning to be understood, after much palaeontological
          work by Professor Lapworth, and detailed mapping by the

          Geological Survey. Sedgwick's letter about it to Hugh
          Miller, which has been already quoted*, might have been
          written a few years ago instead of in 1848.

               Sedgwick made an expedition into Devon and Cornwall
          in 185 1, this time with Professor McCoy, to see how far
          recent observations might induce him to modify the views he
          had formerly arrived at respecting the grouping of the Culm
          Measures, Devonian, and true Greywacke in that area3. His

          1 Introduction, p. Ixxxviii.  2 Sec above, p. 147.
          3 See above, p. 20S.

ROCKS OF DEVON AND CORNWALL.                                              307

attention had been called to some points, especially through                     1855.
the publication, by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge, of a geological map of England in which certain                     /El. 7-
tracts along the South Coast were coloured Silurian by
Murchison. He combats this view in respect of all save the
rocks of Gorran, and, reverting to the old difficulties, gives an
account of how, in 1836, they had "sent a good series of the
fossils of the Petherwin and Barnstaple groups to London,"
and how " every species was called Silurian." This mistake
had inflicted on him the labour of a considerable part of
two summers, for he returned by himself to hammer it out1.
" In the hopes," he says, " of clearing away this difficulty,

and never for a single moment suspecting any great mistake

in the determination of the fossils of these groups, I traversed

many parts of Devon and some parts of Cornwall again and

again, seeking for faults where they were not to be found,

and for anticlinal and synclinal lines where nature had never
formed them; and at the end of the summer of 1838 I
returned with the conviction that the first section of Devon

shire, made by Sir R. I. Murchison and myself conjointly, was
essentially right.... On re-examining the fossils in 1838 it
turned out that all the species of the Barnstaple group had
been wrongly named ; and that so far from being Silurian,

the only doubt respecting them was, whether they might not
be called Carboniferous rather than Devonian. Thus the

physical and fossil evidence were brought into harmony2."
     This experience called from Sedgwick a further state

ment of his views respecting the relation of palaeontology to
stratigraphy. " I may add," said he, " from this example,
that no good classification either of subdivisions or systems,
or of subordinate formations, ever can be attempted without
a previous determination of the physical groups. The study
of fossils, based on ascertained physical groups, may produce,

1 For Sedgwick's visit to Devon with Murchison in 1836 see Vol. I. p. 458.

He returned alone in  1837 (Ibid.  p. 489);  and in 1838 (Ibid. p. 513).
    - Journal of the  Geological   Society,  Vol. viii. 1852, p. 6.

                                             20-- 2

         308 ROCKS OF DEVON AND CORNWALL.

1855.    and often does produce, some modification of our lines of de-
Et- 7*
         marcation ; but the evidence of sections must ever remain as the

         primary basis of geology. When a system has been well made

         out, and its groups of fossils determined, we may then make use

         of comparative groups of fossils freely, and with very small

         risk of mistake. But to begin with fossils, before the physical

         groups are determined, and through them to establish the

         nomenclature of a system, would be to invert the whole logic

         of geology, and could produce nothing but confusion and

         incongruity of language1."

         He then describes the structure of other parts of the

         district, and records a number of new facts, palaeonto-

         logical and stratigraphical, and concludes that, with the

         exception of the beds south of Gorran Haven, which are

         of Bala age, all the rocks of the district are Devonian. The

         supposed Silurian fishes from the rocks between Fowey and

         Looe turned out to be sponges, and the graptolites found at

         Black Head south of St Austell were corals of the genus

         Cladochomis2. Many further observations on the strati

         graphy and physiography of the country, though valuable,

         are not of general interest.

              In 185 1 he  published one of his explanatory papers8,
         which contains
                           much valuable information on the south
         eastern margin    of the Lake District -- the difficult ground

         where fragments of Cambrian, Silurian, Old Red, Carboni

         ferous, and New Red are caught in the intersections of two

         great systems of disturbance which he refers to under the

         names Pennine and Craven Faults. He says that we want

         some new technical term for lines of disturbance such as those

         which have resulted in a downward movement on one side of

         large masses of rock, but not a displacement along one plane

             1 Journal of the Geological Society, ut supra, p. 6.
              2 See Sedgwick's letter to the Duke of Argyle, printed above, p. 21 1,
             3 On the lower Paleozoic Rocks at the base of the Carboniferons Chain between
         Ravenstoncdale and Ribblesdale (read 3 December, 1851) : Journ. Geol. Soc.
         (1852), viii. 35--54.

PENNINE AND CRAVEN FAULTS.  39

of fracture as miners would understand by the word " fault."          1855.
He explains, by reference to the above " faults," how, when
crossing such a band of broken bent rock, we must allow a          ^L 70,

Fig. 1 A  Fig. 2 B

great deal of the depression on one side to a fold in the

rocks, so that the beds a, b, c, may be dropped, not by a

simple fault, as in fig. 1 (A) but by a fold without faults
of any magnitude, as in fig. 2 (B).

     He again calls attention to an important observation which
he had recorded in a previous paper, that the movements
along the Pennine and Craven lines of disturbance were not
of one age, and refers to some belonging to the Craven

system which could be proved to be older than others which
were connected with the Pennine system. In this his
observation of the difference of age was of more importance

than his reference to different systems.
     He has some very suggestive remarks upon the manner of

occurrence of the protruded masses of older rock, such as the

Coniston Limestone series, seen in so many places along the
great lines of disturbance. He does not think that their
exposure where we see them is simply the result of great
faults, which have brought them up relatively to the newer
Carboniferous Rocks ; "for we have perfect proof, in number
less sections, that all the older rocks were elevated, contorted,

and solidified before the existence of the Carboniferous Lime
stone; and hence I should conclude, that there was an ancient
ridge of hills. ..striking nearly in the actual direction of the
Craven fault, and that the Carboniferous Limestone was after

wards deposited partly over, and partly abutting against, this
ancient ridge ; hence that during a subsequent period of

elevation, this ancient ridge may not only have mechanically

         310 PENNINE AND CRAVEN FAULTS.

  1855.  produced the fractures of the Craven fault, but also may have

Ml 70.   defined its direction1." After some further speculations on

         the palaeo-physiography of the district, he describes it in

         some detail, giving diagrammatic sections in illustration. He

         noticed the curious Moughton whetstones with their bright-

         coloured concentric rings of weathering. "We find on the
         west side of Moughton Fell," he says, " a kind of whet-slate

         or flagstone which is divided into rhombohedral solids by

         two sets of cross-joints. Many of these regular solids have

         undergone a partial decomposition shown on the planes of

         fracture by beautiful coloured rings (exactly like those

         occasionally seen in flint-pebbles) which, commencing irre

         gularly at the outer surfaces, gradually become more

         symmetrical as they diminish in size, and approach the

         centres of the several solids. The same kind of decomposi

         tion, marked by rings of colour, has affected some large

         masses of the Skiddaw Slate, and produced coloured lines

         which might easily be mistaken for the original marks of
         bedding. And similarly deceptive lines of colour (derived
         from a decomposition that has commenced from the joints

         sometimes traversing masses of considerable size) may be
         seen, though rarely, among the Ireleth Slates, and the

         Silurian flagstones of LeintwardineV In the next place

         he describes the curious blocks which are perched on the

         Mountain Limestone crags at Norber Brow near Settle, and

         scattered far and wide over the surrounding country. He
         admits " the intervention of a glacial hypothesis," but the

         enormous extension of land-ice he had not altogether
         "Aaccepted.
                      great current," says he, "might account for

         the blocks in the lower country, but a great current without

         the intervention of ice would, I think, very ill explain the

         position of the blocks on the above-mentioned calcareous

         ridge3." His postscript is an unfortunate attempt at cor

         relation.

                    1 Journ. Geol. Soc. viii. 40.  2 Ibid. p. 52.
                    a Ibid. p. 54.

CHAPTER V.

(1856-- 1862.)

Death of Margaret Sedgwick. Jenny Lind at Norwich.

Image and Hawkins Collections. Lucas Barrett.

British Association at Cheltenham. Recollections of

Sir J. Malcolm (1856). Dr Livingstone at Cambridge.
Last Lecture (1857). Eclipse of the Sun. New Col
legiate Statutes. Last Lecture (1858). Death of John
Sedgwick. British Association at Aberdeen. Darwin's

Origin of Species (1859).     Lecture on Geology of
Cambridgeshire. Honorary     Degree at Oxford (1860).
Visit from Mrs Livingstone.   The American Sedgwicks.

Death of Henslow. British Association at Manchester.

Last Lecture. Death of Prince Albert (1861). American
War. Visit to the Queen. British Association at

Cambridge. Resigns Vice-Mastership (1862).

SEDGWICK'S Introduction to the Catalogue of the British
Palaeozoic Fossils, noticed at the end of the last chapter, was
his last important contribution to geological literature. He
had reached the mature age of seventy-one ; and though his
capacity for the enjoyment of society, of music, and of nature,
was undiminished, and he could take as keen an interest as
ever in what was going forward in the world and the
University, his bodily ailments grew more acute, and allowed

him shorter periods in which he could apply himself to
serious work. Gradually, therefore, he withdrew from active
life. Occasionally, under the influence of strong excitement,

         312 DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.

1856.    the old brilliancy would flash out, and he would seem for a
Et. 71.  while to cast off the load of years, and to be as vigorous as
         he had been of old. But such intervals were rare, and were
         nearly always succeeded by a severe attack of illness.

              In the period on which we are now entering it will not
         be necessary to narrate his life as minutely as heretofore ;
         his own letters, with a few explanatory illustrations, will for
         the most part supply a sufficient record of his thoughts and

         occupations.

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.

         My very dear friend,   Cambridge, January 26th, 1856.

                      I have been so bewildered from sickness and
         sorrow that I do not know when I last heard from you.

         Had I known your address I should probably have written

         to you from Dent. I returned from thence yesterday

         afternoon ; so jaded and out of heart that I could do no

         more than open and skim the twenty-one letters which

         awaited my arrival. I will now begin with my reply to
         you ; though I am too late for the post. I can, however,

         finish it to-morrow, as I am going to write a grave letter

         which will be no unfit employment for a short portion of

         Sunday morning. May God in mercy restore your beloved

         mother to health. I have this winter lost some of my

         most cherished friends ; and to lose her would (I say it

         honestly) be a great addition to my present domestic sorrow.

         How could it be otherwise ? Her kindness to me was never

         stinted. The happy, joyous, loving days I spent in her house

         are amongst the most delightful of my remembrance. This
         is plain heart's truth ; and in my present temper I cannot

         mock my dearest friend with cold words of mere courtesy. I

         shall be very anxious to hear from you again.

             And now for myself and my own doings. I caught a

         severe cold on the 5th of December, and that was the last
         day I dined in the hall of Trinity College. Before that

         time my lectures had been rather too much for me, and no

DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.  313

wonder, for I now number three score years and ten. My           1856.
complaint took the type of bronchitis. I was ordered to                11

confine myself to my chambers, and never to enter a room

which had not a good fire in it. I was not very ill, but I
was in almost perfect solitude. I could have endured all

this without murmuring, had not post after post brought me

news of my sister's declining health. The consciousness of

my utter inability to move made me (perhaps not unnaturally)

the more earnestly long to go to her. I feared that she
would die before I could pay her the last Christian offices of
a brother's love. Towards the end of December I was much

better, and by way of trying my lungs I went on the 31st to
Norwich, hoping to spend New Year's Day with my nephew
and his wife and children, and if possible to go down to Dent

before the end of the week. But I caught a fresh cold ; and

could not start in safety before the 14th. I still hoped to see

 my beloved sister ; for her life had been ebbing away very

gently. ..I halted for the night at Skipton, for my lungs began
to be very angry. Next day I went by the train to Hornby on
the Lune, whence I intended to post over the mountains to

 my native valley.
      Sunday morning. I have risen late -- more than three

hours after my usual time, which is a little before six. But I

was fatigued by yesterday's work, and my cold is still cross

and requires humouring. But I must return to my tale of
sorrow. At Hornby I found my brother James on the

platform. We had come, unconsciously, in the same train.

From him I first learnt that my sister was dead. He had

heard from Dent the day before, and was on his way from

 Scarborough to the funeral. We went together up the

beautiful valley of the Lune, and over the high wild pass

 which leads to Dent, almost in silence. The country had no

charms for me, as my mind was filled with other images, and

shadows of former thoughts. I came up this pass in 1820 in
the hopes of seeing my dying mother, but I was too late to

look upon her living face. This was my first great domestic

        3M DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.

1856.   sorrow. Again, in 1823, I forced my way through this pass
        on foot, after trying it in vain on horseback. Before I had
   I\,
        made my way through the great snowdrifts that crossed the

        pass I met a countryman and a shepherd who told me that

        my beloved sister, the companion of my childhood, was dead.

        I hoped to have received her parting blessing, and to have
        comforted her; but this happiness was denied me. In 1828

        I crossed the same mountains to my father's funeral, but I

        knew of the old man's death before I started. He was in his
        93rd year--happy, cheerful, thankful to his very latest breath.

        My sister Margaret watched and supported for years the dear
        old man with the tender care that becomes a Christian

        daughter ; and her own character became exalted and

        purified by the long task of love which Providence had given

        her. After 28 years, during which the old parsonage has been

        spared any great domestic sorrow, old Margaret is now gone ;

        and I am never again to see her living face, and to embrace

        her, and to hear the calm cheerful Christian welcome from

        her lips! These were the thoughts that streamed through my

        mind as we went through the high mountain-pass to the dear
        valley of my childhood. Perhaps I am wrong in taxing you

        in this way. But I am writing to you, my dear Kate, as if

        you were one of my sisters ; and you will forgive me for doing
        so. My friends were well at the parsonage, though looking

        careworn, but they were all happy in thinking and talking
        about the passages of Margaret's life since she left her own
         cottage (about two months before), and came to live with
         them for the comfort of their constant care. She had

         tottered to the Sunday school so long as she had strength to

         go thither ; and with deep sorrow, and after much persuasion,
         she at length had abandoned this task. The school had been

         founded by herself and her sister in 18 14; and has flourished

         ever since as a blessing to the poor. But by no persuasion

         could she be at first induced not to go to church ; and, week

         by week, as she returned (leaning between her sister-in-law

        and niece) she said : ' I think this will be my last service in

      DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.                                                                                                      315

the church in which my father used to teach me, and in                                                                                      1856.

which I have so long been permitted to hold communion                                                                                            I1-

with my Maker.' She looked on death as certainly at hand,

and she did not fear nay rather she rejoiced in the thought;
if
                           (I it,

                                                            a
for her faith was as firm as rock, and the promises of the

Gospel were to her verily believe) as substantial realities as
    she had, in beatific vision, seen heaven and her Saviour's

face within it. Yet she was, meanwhile, the humblest of the

humble, and overflowing with affection.                        am ready to die,
                                                               I'

                                                                         a
when  God's will to call me away,' she said two days
      it
           is

                                   ;
                                   '

                                I
before her death but should like to live little longer

because you are so sorry to part with me.' She had not

much imagination, and she never used any rapturous forms of

address to God. All about her was calm and sincere,

faithful and true and her devotions were tempered with
          I;
the deepest humility. She was                                  woman of very great
                                                               a
                                                                                                a

                                                                                                 is
personal courage, almost doubt whether she ever knew what

bodily fear was, in the common sense in which womanly fear

is understood. Yet in woman, as in man, courage com

patible with tender-heartedness. Margaret, from her calm

address, might, by a stranger, have been thought cold-

hearted. But give her anything to do, and let case of
duty or of suffering be before her--then was no hand more

ready, and no heart more warm. She was loved by all her

servants as she had been their mother; yet her household
      if

was managed in the most rigid (some might even think

penurious) economy. She grudged everything to herself,

only that she might give away to others who were the objects
of her love and Christian bounty. In this way, out of little

more than 200 a year,                                         wonderful how much good she
I'

                                            it
                                                      is

                                                                                                                                    '
was able to do in the parish, and among those who had any

claim on her bounty. A few days after her coming to the

parsonage, she said she would take her last solitary walk in

the village. Isabella wanted to support her. No,' she said,

must this day go by myself.' And away she tottered from

house to house to take leave of her dear old humble friends.

         3'6 DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.

1856.    She had doubled her usual Christmas gifts, and she did not
Et. 71.  wish even Isabella to know it. Perhaps also she had parting
         words to say that were best said to the solitary ears into
         which they were gently poured. After several hours spent in
         this way, she came back greatly exhausted, yet almost
         elevated in spirits that she had been so well held up in this
         sacred and trying task.

              Christmas Day had always been a day of Christian
         joy in the old parsonage ; and of late years also in my
         sister's cottage, for after she became a widow she lived

         with my brother in a neighbouring cottage, which they

         had partly built. As she was on Christmas Day so much

         reduced in strength it was arranged that all the members of
         the two houses should assemble at the parsonage in the
         evening and partake of the feast of love together. But on the
         morning of Christmas Day, at her earnest wish, this plan was
         changed. The two houses were to go to church as they had
         always done, and a strong servant who had borne my old
         father in her arms from his sitting-room to his bed, for many
         months before his death, was still living in the parish and as
         strong as ever. She had come down from her own house (she
         is now the mother of a large family) to receive the sacrament,
         and she undertook to bear dear old Margaret, like a child, to

         the altar-rails when the sermon was about to end. All this

         was done, to my sister's great joy ; and she did receive the
         sacrament once again in the church of her baptism, and
         among the people whom she had so long loved. After her
         morning devotions, and reading in the Bible for about an hour,
         she would join the conversation of the family with cheerfulness,
         and even liveliness. Gradually, however, her strength so failed
         that she took no interest in anything but what had reference
         to the duties of a dying Christian. She became too weak to
         read, though she was able to sit on the sofa and converse. A
         few days before her death she asked them to read to her the
         17th chapter of St John's Gospel. She said it contained just
         what her soul desired. She never afterwards asked for any

DEATH OF MARGARET SEDGWICK.                              317

other passage of the Bible. That chapter was read to her, at      1856.
                                                                        1U
her own wish, again and again. The day before her death
'I(the 12th) she said, while on the sofa,
                                           now understand an

expression in the Bible that did seem strange to me ; it
tells me of a weakness so great that a grasshopper would be

a burden to the body. Such is my case now.' Not long

afterwards she asked for the ' commendatory prayer ' in The

Visitation of the Sick. It was read. She then was borne to
bed -- never to rise from it again by her own strength. Very

early on Sunday morning (2 a.m. on the 13th) Isabella per
ceived a change in her aunt's breathing, and called her mother

up. Margaret was, even then, calm, sensible, humble, and

most thankful. At length, as life was at its last breath, they

heard their dying sister distinctly articulate these words : 'O

Father, receive my soul for Jesus' sake.' And then she fell

asleep as quietly as does a little child on its mother's breast.

On the 1 8th her four brothers, her sister-in-law and niece,

her two nephews, and the servants of the two houses, followed

her remains to the grave. We were all of us true mourners.

    I came back on Friday afternoon to my old College rooms.

They do seem very solitary. My thoughts have been running
in one channel ; but I hope I am recovering my health. I did

intend to go to Hall to-day but I have not spirits for it ; and

my lungs are still irritable. This day week, my brother James

preached at Dent in the morning. I kept by the fireside to

save my voice for the afternoon, when I gave the congregation
a comment on the 17th chapter of St John's Gospel --of
course telling them (before I ended) that I had fixed on that

chapter because my sister's soul had rested in it. It is

delightful to preach to country people, but in this instance

the task was not an easy one for me. There ! I must end.

I have quite emptied my mind of its thoughts. My best love

to Lady Malcolm and your sister.

Ever your affectionate friend,

                                           A. Sedgwick.

       3i8 JENNY LIND IN THE MESSIAH.

1856.  To Dean Peacock.
Et
                                                    Cambridge, January 26th, 1856.

           "...I have no academic news. Canvassing is going on,
       but I am not in health and spirits to join in it. Of course
       I shall give my vote for Den man. I am happy that my

       vote will go with my affections, for I know Denman and like
       him. Walpole I never exchanged a word with...."1

       My dear Fan,  Norwich, February 7th, 1856.

       I am now off the sick list. I wished to see my

       house and its inmates, especially as I am making some

       necessary repairs, and Jenny Lind was coming. So, by way
       of killing two or three birds with one stone, I came over on

       Monday last, and on Tuesday I went to hear The Messiah. I
       have heard The Messiah ten times better performed before --

       with one grand exception : viz. the part sung by the sweetest of
       all singers. I never heard her before in sacred music. She

       was simple, and devotional in her manner of treating the

       sacred songs, and avoided all ornament. I never heard the

       songs sung more plainly, and never so touchingly ; and in

       those passages which called forth the powers of her voice, and

       the expression of her feelings, she became absolutely sublime.
       She leaves us on Friday --to-morrow morning... We dine at

       four, and at half-past seven, I hope to be on my way to St

       Andrew's Hall along with dear Mary. To-morrow, early,

       Jenny Lind Goldschmidt calls on me ; and I am to go with

       her to the late Bishop's grave, and to show her his monu

       mental window. To avoid the public I am to conduct her

       through the back door of my house, and through the cloisters,

       for she wishes to go as privately as possible...

       Friday Morning. We arrived just as the orchestra was in

       the agony of tuning. The Hall did look splendid, and was

           1 George Denman, M.A. of Trinity College, formerly Fellow, now Mr Justice
       Denman; and Spencer Horatio Walpole, M.A. of the same College, contested

       the seat for the University vacated by the death of Mr Goulbum. Mr Denman
       after a contest of three days (February 7-- 9), withdrew.

AT BISHOP STANLEY'S GRAVE.                  319

filled from the floor to the roof. The music admirable                                1856.

throughout; but, as usual, the concertos were too long for                          Mt-T-

uninstructed ears like mine. I always long to dock them a

bit. Sainton fiddled divinely, but he became too long ; and

I began to ask myself, what is the ear-tickling noise ? 'tis

nothing but a scrape, made by rubbing a horse's tail over the

twisted bowels of a sheep. Few of our pleasures will bear

analysing ; but they are pleasures still, and a man is an ass
who does not enjoy them so far as they are under the guid

ance of truth, and reason, and prudence, and all these other

very old-fashioned things which stuff paper. I did enjoy the

music ; only the wire-drawn concertos give a man time to think

impertinently. Jenny was above herself. She was like a lark,

and she was like an angel, and she was like nobody that ever
lived before her since the days of Tubal Cain. In my mind

and heart On mighty pens (Haydn's Creation) was the song of
the evening, but she was wonderful in Ah mie fidele of Bellini.
Then she sang John Anderson my Jo, plainly as possible ;

but oh ! how touchingly ! She ended with one of her wild,

Swedish, mountain-echo songs ; and just as the echo died
away we left our seat -- close to the passage out --and

walked home.

     At 9.30 Jenny Lind Goldschmidt came in a fly with her

husband. I just introduced them to Mary and the young fry ;

and then off to the cloister-door. They were quite affected

by the grandeur of the cloister. I then took them to the

Bishop's tomb. They read the beautiful inscription again and

again. Then the window1 was discussed. Then round the

Cathedral ; and, as we were coming into the cloister, Jenny
ran back and waited a minute to have a last look at the

tomb. Then again through my kitchen to the fly, and away.

Ever dearest Fan, your affectionate uncle,

A. Sedgwick.

     1 Bishop Stanley, says his Memoir (p. 106), "had expressed more than once

his wish that if any memorial were erected of him, it should be the restoration of
the great west window." This wish was carried out after his death.

         320 IMAGE AND HAWKINS COLLECTIONS.

'856.    To Mis$ p Hkks                Cambridge, February        1856.
Et. 7'-
              Dearest Fanny,

                     ...I sent you a Cambridge Paper on Saturday.

         Show my letter to any Cambridge man who is flush of

         money and loves geology. The smallest contributions will

         be thankfully received, and will put the donor among the

         recorded benefactors and dutiful sons of our Alma Mater.

         What an easy way of reaping lasting honour !... By beat of

         drum I have got more than 200, and now tell me, my
         darling, how I am to get the other 300 ! Do this and I will
         doff my respirator, and kiss your shoe. No! I will do no such
         dirty service. I will kiss your lips with a love-smack as loud

         as a pistol.

             A great big collection of stone reptiles came to my

         Museum the day before yesterday. They did not crawl like

         modern reptiles, but came on wheels, which by the way were

         well greased by the Master of Trinity, who paid 100 for the
         oiling and greasing. This was well done, was it not ? They
         are worth 500, and are jolly fellows to look at, and quiet in
         their habits. As for the Image collection of the printed letter,
         it is also safe in my keeping. I wish it were well paid for.

         Excepting the Master of Trinity (who has come down with

         \ 10 for reptiles and images) the Heads have done nothing.
         My letters do not move them -- they have no bowels ! This

         is delicate news for a young lady is it not ? But, you know, I

         have often laughed at you for being over abundant in the use

         of the word nice ; and Dean Swift told me, ' that a nice man

         was  a man  of  nasty  ideas    '  and  perhaps the saw  may    be
                                       ;

         said of woman. That is at any rate a nice point for you...

                                Ever your affectionate uncle,

                                                 A. Sedgwick.

              The additions to the Woodwardian Museum alluded to in
         the last letter were of great importance. The reptiles -- or,
         in the words of the Grace thanking the donor for them,

                IMAGE COLLECTION.                                   331

"the very valuable and unique collection of Saurian Fossil                             1856.
remains," were presented by Mr Thomas Hawkins1, and
Dr Whewell gave 100 to provide cases for their display.

The Image collection had cost 250, but there were contingent

expenses for carriage, cabinets, etc. which Sedgwick at first
estimated at 100 more. The Woodwardian Fund and the

University Chest were alike unable to provide this sum;

and Sedgwick therefore issued a lithographed letter (dated
10 January, 1856) in which he asks for the help of "the
members of the Senate and the graduates who are interested

in the scientific honour of Cambridge, in this (probably my
last) work undertaken in the service of the University."
When the collection came, however, he found that its proper
exhibition would entail a much more extensive rearrange
ment of the Museum than had at first been contemplated.

It would be necessary to provide cabinets for the collection

of recent shells, as well as for other recent forms, and to find

some place in which they could be displayed other than the

Woodwardian Museum, which even then was thought to be

overcrowded. These changes could not be carried into

effect for less than 500. A second appeal therefore to the

liberality of the Senate became necessary ; and Sedgwick
wrote a letter to the Editor of The Cambridge Chronicle

(20 February) in which the original circular is reprinted, some
further particulars respecting the Image collection are given,

and an appeal is made for the larger sum.

     Mr Image3 took his first degree in 1795 ; and during the long
period in which he has been rector of Whepstead near Bury St
Edmunds, he has been an indefatigable collector of fossils and
of some other objects of Natural Science. His Museum was not

      1 Mr Hawkins published (among other works) : Memoirs of Ichthyosauri and
Plesiosauri, extinct monsters of the ancient earth ; with twenty-eight plates, copied
from specimens in the author's collection of fossil organic remains. Fol. Lond.

1834: and, 7 he Book of the Great Sea Dragons [etc.] with thirty plates copied
from skeletons in the author's collection of fossil organic remains. Fol. Lond.

1840.           Image, of Corpus  Christi College,  B.A. 1795.
      - Thomas
                                                                21
       S. II.

         323 MR LUCAS BARRETT.

  1856.  stocked without very great personal cost. For many years he

Mt. 71.  employed numerous collectors in the various quarries near Cambridge,

         Newmarket, and Bury St Edmunds, and among nearly all the
         cretaceous deposits of his neighbourhood; and collectors were

         employed by him, in like manner, among the extensive tertiary
         deposits near the coasts of Suffolk and Norfolk.

              In this way the Museum at Whepstead gradually became almost
         unrivalled as an illustration of the geology of the whole country
         which stretches from Cambridge to the eastern coasts of the
         neighbouring counties. It also contained a well-selected and valu

         able series of fossils from the older Secondary and Palaeozoic
         formations of England.

              A mere list of species, however complete, would convey a
         very inadequate conception of the value of the series. For Mr

         Image had, by long habit, acquired consummate skill in separating

         delicate organic remains from the rude materials in which they
         are often imbedded. His collection not only represents, therefore,

         what was brought together at a cost very far above the sum for
         which it is now offered to    the University ; but     it also represents
         what is more precious -- the  results of a scientific  and happy labour
         bestowed upon this pursuit during the many leisure hours of a

         long life.

              Sedgwick was extraordinarily successful in his efforts

         to raise money. Before the end of April the subscriptions
         amounted to nearly 725, including 50 from the Prince

         Consort, and he could announce that the list was closed.
         By the help of this fund he was enabled not merely to pay
         for the specimens, but to fit up a room to the south of the
         old gateway of King's College, into which all the collections

         illustrative of recent zoology were gradually transferred.

             At this time Sedgwick's assistant in the Wood ward ian
         Museum was Mr Lucas Barrett, a young naturalist who had

         come to him, almost without credentials, soon after McCoy's

         departure for Australia. At that time, says Sedgwick, " he
         had the look of a sprightly, intelligent boy ; and I was so

         captivated by his knowledge, skill, and youthful zeal, that
         without hesitation and with much joy, I secured his services,

         not as an academic officer (for no office was vacant), but as my
         friend, assistant, and fellow-workman in the Museum. Right
         manfully, and with much skill, he went on with the arrange
         ment of our cabinets ; refusing no labour, but delighting in

                   MR LUCAS BARRETT.                                                                     313

        had an almost paternal regard for Mr Barrett, and he
gained the entire good-will and confidence of every man who
it.                                                                                                              1856.

  ;I                                                                                                          iEt- 7'-

                                 aa
                                                                        a

                                                                                                      1

                                                                                  it
knew him personally during the years he resided in Cam

bridge1." It was through Barrett's exertions that the re

arrangement of the Woodwardian Museum, consequent on
the arrival of such number of new specimens, was carried

out and we well remember his affection for Sedgwick, and

the heartiness with which he worked for him. But was not

to be expected that young man of such promise, dependent
upon his own exertions, would stay long in Cambridge. In

March i860 he was placed at the head of the Geological
Survey of the West Indies. He entered upon his new duties

with characteristic energy, and was making satisfactory pro
gress with his work, when, in December, 862, when he had just

completed his twenty-fifth year, he was drowned while trying
to examine a coral-reef by help of diving-apparatus --" to

the inexpressible grief of those who knew him best, and

to the deep sorrow of every one who had seen his bright
face, or had heard of the heart, and hope, and skill, with

which he was carrying on the survey of which he was the

head4."

By way of contrast with Sedgwick's serious work, or his

grave reflections on domestic sorrows, we cannot resist

quoting the following passage. His friendship with the
family of the bride has been often alluded to. " Yesterday,"

he writes to his niece (27 March), "I was at Miss Hopkins'

wedding, and all went off quite charmingly.  I; I  had, as usual,

to make speech at the breakfast. In the evening they had
21
a dinner and a dance.    dined with them but about 9.30,
             a         I
when they began to dance, came away.II           ought to have
                I
told you that threw the first shoe when the bride and

bridegroom started; and       hit the driver over the head,

         Letter to the Editor of The Cambridge Chronicle, dated 19 January, 1863.is

It was written soon after he had received the news of Barrett's death.

         Ibid. The value of Barrett's work specially recognized in the Report of
the Woodwardian Inspectors for 1857.

                                                                                    21--2

324 DISCUSSION WITH MURCHISON.

 1856. which was said to be good luck --at least a good sign of
X\. 71. it."

                Sedgwick spent May and June in Residence at Norwich,
          leading the life that pleased him best --a quiet routine of
           duties, enlivened by the society of relations whom he loved.
          Their children -- especially the eldest --had now taken posses
           sion of him. " Every morning," we are told, "the child comes

            with her merry round face, and asks me to wheel her to the

          Dean's garden that we may feed his chickens, and I do not
           easily find in my heart to refuse her. I love children, and I

            love young people. There is a charm about them which is
           cheering to a ricketty old fellow like myself1." The Resi
            dence ended, he went with the whole party to Lowestoft,

            where he presided, with much interest, over their gambols on
            the beach, for which he provided spades, wheelbarrows, and

            other implements.

               These diversions were interrupted by the meeting of the

            British Association at Cheltenham, where a paper by Professor

          Rogers (of Boston U. S.) On the correlation of the North
           American and British Palceozoic Strata led to a warm discus
           sion between Murchison and Sedgwick*. The latter tells Sir
           Charles Lyell : " Murchison's nomenclature was geographically

            absurd and wrong; and it was geologically wrong because

          based on false sections. It was not merely an incongruous,
          but it was a false, nomenclature. It was his policy never to
           acknowledge a mistake, and on the one matter of fact
           whether he had made a great mistake, or had adopted it
        from me, he never spoke out till I wrung an answer from
           him at the last Cheltenham meeting of the British Association.
           He then, at length, but far too late to save his credit as a

            fair-dealing man, did acknowledge that the blunder, the
           actual inversion of the order of super-position from Denbigh

            shire to Caermarthenshire, was his own, and not in any way

            borrowed from me'."

1 To Miss Grace Milne Holme, 23 June, 1856.
2 The Athaueum, 1856, p. 1060.  3 To Sir C. Lyell, 28 April, 1857.

DEATH OF JONATHAN OTLEY.      325

     In September Sedgwick spent a few weeks in Lake Land,                       ^1856.

but he came in for a spell of bad weather. " I had a

miserable bout of geology in the Lake Country," he writes,
" nothing but rain and disappointment, and alas! also solitude,
for nearly all my old Cumbrian friends are dead. Oh ! the

happy days I have spent in that lovely country ! Wordsworth,

Southey, Coleridge, Professor Wilson, and other kindred
spirits, now all gone. One old man (Jonathan Otley) with

whom I had often traversed the mountains in bygone years

was still living at Keswick. But what a ruin ! he was para
lytic, and inarticulate, and bed-ridden. And no wonder, for

he was more than ninety. But the old honest rough-faced
hills did look cheeringly, whenever (and that was very seldom)
they condescended to take off their ugly damp night-caps."

     Otley's biographer gives a touching account of this
interview1. The old geologist was helpless and speech

less from paralysis, but quite sensible, and knew Sedgwick,
who stood by his bedside, silent and deeply moved. For a
while he held the sick man's hand, and then, bursting into
tears, cried out, as he knelt down, "Jonathan, I'll pray
with you."

To Miss Fanny Hicks.

                                               Cambridge, November \9th, 1856.

     "...I began my lectures the last week in October, and I
hope to lecture four days a week till Friday the 12th of
December. I have generally an hour's preparation for each

lecture in mounting sections and wonderful pictures, etc. etc.,

an hour for the lecture, and nearly a third hour in talk and

explanation to the lads. The work fatigues me, but I like

and, so far, have stood well, considering that am now

giving my 38th course, and that am fast wearing out my
72nd year. But the University have put me on the new
1            it               I

          I           I                         it,

         Jonathan Otley, the Geologist and Guide. By Clifton Ward. Transactions

of the Cumberland Association for the Advancement of Literature and Science,
Part II. 1876 -- 77, p. 168. Otley died December, 1856.
             5

                          J.

          326 FIELD LECTURE.

1856.     Council, which meets three times a week, and employs three

     7'-  full hours in each incubation. I say incubation (though
          I generally hate long words), because we all sit as close as
          if we were hatching chickens, and I do hope we shall not

          hatch any mischief, but there is danger of it. This work is by
          no means after my liking. I have also, this term, to attend

          all the congregations in the Senate House --a duty I by no
          means like. I avoid all dinner-parties ; but I have generally

          a tea and coffee party at my own rooms after Sunday evening

          chapel.

               I made however one exception to my rule. Last Monday
          was the anniversary of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
          of which I was one of the founders, and I attended the dinner
          which is given to celebrate the anniversary. Let me try to

          describe that day's work, though it is not a fair sample
          of my daily life. Rose as usual. Assisted the College
          Librarian in putting my books in order in two new book
          cases &c. &c. Swallowed a cup of tea, and some brown

          bread, at 9.30. Off to my museum with sundry sections, and
          illustrations for a double lecture (for it was my field-day).
          Lectured to my usual class at 11.0. Broke off at 11.40, and

          then (having all ready) started in a fly to the clay-pits at
          Barnwell, where my young friends (some on foot and a
          few on horseback) soon joined me. A short lecture from
          the top of a big heap of (so-called) coprolites. Then a fly

          to Cherry Hinton, and another lecture in the chalk-pits. A

          drive to the top of the giant Gog-Magog, and some wonder
          ful discoveries. Lastly, a drive home after a red sunset.
          Dog-tired, but mended by a basin of broth and a foot-bath.

          Dressed, and then laid down for an hour, and slumbered,

          while dreaming of monsters, and hydras, and chimaeras dire.
          Rose at 6.30 p.m., and went to mine host of The Red Lion to
          join the dinner-party of philosophers. Took with me a young
          friend1 who spent last summer in Baffin's Bay, in a boat

          which was rowed (I cannot well say manned) by eight

          1 Sedgwick's assistant, Mr Lucas Barrett.

Recollections of sir john malcolm. 327

Esquimaux lasses. Their pictures excited a warm interest,                             1856.
and made us wonder how my friend could ever tear himself
away from such arctic Graces. After dinner many speeches.                           /Et-
I made the longest, I don't say the best, for that would be
boasting, and might be a fib you know. But I made them
laugh, and that is good for the liver, and therefore helps
digestion. Came back at 1 1 p.m. and to bed, after a very
long and very hard day's work. So you see your old uncle
has still some life left in him. While his heart beats he will

love you."

     The following recollections of Sir John Malcolm were
written, at his daughter's request, in the hope that they might

be of use to his biographer1:

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                                                    Cambridge, November 1st, 1856.

     "...I first saw your father, at least I first conversed with
him, at Julius Hare's rooms. He had come on a short visit
to Cambridge with William Schlegel, who that evening was
natural, and unaffected -- being carried out of himself by Sir

John's joyous and robust humour, his instructive oriental
anecdotes, his frank, open-hearted, outpourings of himself.

I look back on that evening (and we sat to a very late hour)
with a delight and admiration which will last so long as I
have heart and memory. That your father was a good
linguist, an excellent diplomatist, a man of great administra
tive skill among the oriental nations whom he was called upon

to govern or to influence, that he was not only a good soldier
but a humane soldier -- doing more than once by persuasion

and personal influence what he could perhaps more easily
have done by the sword -- these are facts of history
which must be well-known to his biographer. But in

domestic life and manners your dear father shone very
brightly. How fond of the land of his birth ; how patriotic
as an Englishman ; how loving in his own family, like a

                                                   1 See above, p. 301.

          328 KA YFPS LIFE OF SIR JOHN MALCOLM, i

1856.     happy child among his happy children; how kind and
     7'-  encouraging to persons younger than himself ; how true to a
          genial nature ; how wise and truth-loving in his deali lgs with
          those who had the honour and great privilege of his personal

          friendship ! Such remembrances come like a flood upon me

          when I think of past days at Hyde Hall. You were then a

          very charming and happy child, my dear Kate, and you once

          rode upon my back. How should you like that seat now ?..."

              Kaye's Life of Sir John Malcolm came into Sedgwick's

          hands soon afterwards. He read it with avidity, hardly
          giving himself rest until he had finished it. On the whole he
          was satisfied. "The style is not always lively," he wrote, "but
          the facts would bear up any style, and (very properly I think)
          Sir John often tells his own tale in his own words. This
          breaks the continuity of the narrative, and makes it a mosaic,
          rather than a fine painting--but the mosaic will last1." In
          the following April The Edinburgh Review published a

          criticism of the work in which Sir John's character and
          administration were handled in a way which gave his relatives

          much annoyance*. Sedgwick was almost as indignant as
          they were. " I do think the reviewer very unjust," he wrote,
          " abominably unfair. He allows the great moral and intel
          lectual qualities of your late father, he cannot deny his great

          and most honourable labours in consolidating the power of
          our Empire in India ; but it does appear strange to me that

          he has no [generous] word to say respecting his struggles for
          what he thought the interest and honour of the India Board.

          There is wisdom and self-devotion in that last dying effort
          which ought to have called forth a word of exalted praise.
          In one respect your father was very unfortunate. He entered
          the House of Commons far too late. You cannot, they say,

          transplant a full-grown oak tree ; and the squabbles and battles
          of parties were not a good intellectual and moral soil for one

          1 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 31 December, 1856.
          2 The Edinburgh Review, Vol. cv. pp. 391 -- 419.

KAYE'S LIFE OF SIR JOHN MALCOLM.  329

who had been the conqueror, the legislator, and the father, of   1856.
the best regions in Central India. Nor was this all. He                71-

entered Parliament at a time when he was compelled to fight
a losing game. No power on earth could then stop the
Reform Bill.... Your father was a Tory --so was the Iron

Duke--so was Sir Robert Peel then, at least in name -- but
this is the very cause why the reviewer nibbles at Sir John's

reputation, and contrasts his failure (in which he bore only
a share with all who were then called staunch Tories) with
Lord Metcalfe's success in Jamaica, Canada, &c. The cases
are not parallel. Had your father failed in Canada and Lord

Metcalfe succeeded, then the comparison would have been
fair; but to contrast success in Canada with failure in

stopping reform in the House of Commons is arrant non

sense....

     Never let your mind be troubled by party writings. Your
father will stand out in history as a great and good man.

Take him all in all, who is his match among the public
servants of India within this century ? The reviewer carps at
the redundancy of his language, and contrasts his voluminous
letters &c. with the finish of the Marquis Wellesley's des

patches. But is this fair? The Marquis' despatches and

official papers are the published and finished compositions of

one of the first scholars of his day --of one trained from his

youth upwards in all the refinements of classical education.
How different from your father's rough training -- turned out
in India almost as a child -- battling his way among oriental
customs and languages--a man of deeds to make his name
live so long as history is held in honour. The wonder is that
he had time to think of writing history...1."

     In November of this year Lord Lansdowne offered to

present to Trinity College a memorial statue, to be placed in
the antechapel, as a pendant to the statue of Bacon. He
suggested the names of several men of letters, which were

finally reduced to two, Bentley and Barrow. Macaulay

                          1 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 11 May, 1857.

         330 BARROW OR BENTLEY?

  1856.  supported the claims of the former ; Sedgwick, those of the
         latter, and, at Whewell's suggestion, sent his views in writing
Mt. 71.

         to Lord Lansdowne.

                             Trinity College, Cambridge,

                                                                        December '%th, 1856.

         "...Bentley was the prince of critics; but Barrow was

         greater than a critic. He was a great inventive mathe

         matician, and a forerunner in clearing the way for the vast

         discoveries of Newton. Were all the other works of Barrow

         destroyed and utterly forgotten, he would still, as an inventive

         mathematician, have an honourable niche among those who

         have adorned the intellectual history of their country. This

         is a point Macaulay had not touched upon. Barrow was

         great as a moralist and divine, and, at the same time, a man

         of gigantic learning. Under these points of view, Bentley
         was, in some respects, far greater than Barrow. Not greater
         as a moralist and divine ; not, I think, greater as a man of

         learning ; but certainly far greater as a critic ; and his works
         are, I am told, far better known among the classical writers

         of the continent, than are the works of Barrow. This fact

         should not be overlooked ; for those lights are the brightest

         which shine the farthest. On the other hand, what vast

         learning, what logical skill in the use of what grand old-
                                                   ! it,
         fashioned eloquence, what earnestness in the cause of moral
                                                      is It
         truth, do we find in the works of Barrow            may be said,

         indeed, that he sometimes so refines, as to make distinctions
         almost without differences -- that his matter over-loaded --
         that he has no mercy on his readers -- and that he sometimes

         wearies them by apparent repetitions. But, while we are

         taking measure of the man, we must bear in mind that

         he died young, and that nearly all his works are printed from

         manuscripts not specially prepared for the press, and found
         after his death. Had he lived to publish his own works, these

         peculiarities might have been less prominent than they are

         now. They mark, however, the mind of the man and they
                                                             ;

         also mark the old-fashioned training by which he became

BARROW OR BENTLEY?  331

what he was. We do not find these faults in the rasping          1856.
logic of Bentley, whether employed upon a question of verbal
criticism, or in giving verbal criticism its noblest office, in    " ''"

unmasking impostures or in vindicating truth. His works will
live so long as classical learning and almost supernatural
skill are held in honour ; and Barrow's works will live so long

as majestic eloquence, and learning, and moral truth, and
Christian hopes, are dear to the hearts of men.

     I have often thought that the good sense and simplicity
of the Newtonian Philosophy not only produced a great
revolution in physical science, but also helped to bring about
a change in the literary taste and critical judgment of those
who lived after its introduction and acceptance. Bentley

lived, at any rate, after Newton's works had begun to tell
upon the minds of Cambridge men, and his mind seems to

have had a training far different from that of Barrow. In

comparing the two men this fact, is not, I think, to be left
quite out of the estimate. But I have no right to dwell upon
this point of speculation, and I have perhaps made a mistake

in obtruding it upon you.
     There are other, and, some may think, insignificant points

of comparison, in which Barrow rises far above Bentley.
Barrow was a man of simplicity, piety, and sincerity, always

earnest and truth-loving; and he was a great benefactor to
the College. He is annually named with honour on our Com
memoration Day on account of the active and munificent part
he took in forwarding the erection of our beautiful Library.
There is no corresponding commemoration of Bentley ; and
he was our Master during a very long period of broil and
litigation, produced, in part at least, by his own acts of
tyranny and dishonesty. In such a state of things, not only
was the temper of the Society greatly damaged, but its
reputation in the world inevitably suffered, so that under
his administration the College gradually sank below its
former level. In estimating his grade on a merely intellec
tual scale, it might be well to shut out from sight such facts

         332 BARROW OR BENTLEY?

1856.    as these. In comparing him with Barrow, and in reference

Et- 7'-  to a monument of honour in our Chapel, they ought not, I

         think, to be forgotten altogether. Lastly, there is another
         point (of small importance indeed, and but as dust in the
         balance) in which Barrow has the advantage over Bentley.
         Barrow was a regularly bred Trinity College man. Bentley
         was bred at St. John's, and in mature life was placed over our

         Society by the Crown.
              Pray, my Lord, forgive me for having given an opinion at

         so much length, and about which I ought to be diffident, as
         it is opposed to that of Macaulay, who is as stout-hearted a
         Trinity man as I am, and is so incomparably my superior in
         his writings and his range of literary knowledge. Some of
         my friends have mentioned Dryden as third on the list of our

         great names ; and it did seem to me (though I have too little
         of the poetic element in my nature to be a good judge on

         such a question) that Macaulay rather underrated Dryden.

         But I agree with him in thinking that we should be wrong in

         placing him before Barrow or Bentley...."

              Sedgwick's view was supported by the Master and others ;

         and no doubt exercised considerable influence on Lord

         Lansdowne's decision. With this exception the Michaelmas
         Term passed away without any noteworthy incident. " By

         very great care I have kept my voice," Sedgwick wrote

         when it was over ; " and I finished my autumnal course

         yesterday without having once broken down, which was

         far more than I could say of any course I had given

         during the three preceding years1." Advancing years had
         taught him the necessity for taking care of himself. Here
         is a picture of his winter garb at Norwich.

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.
                                                         Cambridge, March lUk, 1857.

             "...Now, if you are a lady of good taste (as I am sure you

         are), you may even improve by the contemplation of my

         1 To Miss Gerard, 12 December, 1856.

WINTER GARB AT NORWICH.                    333

outer adornments. 1st. A pair of black shaggy snow-boots         1857.
                                                                        7*
over my stout shoes. Nothing like building on a good

foundation. 2nd. A great seal-skin coat over my back,

which made me feel as warm as a Persian cat on a hearth

rug. Its glossy black surface quite enchanted the ladies of
the Close --so that they could hardly keep their hands off me.

3rd. A respirator over my mouth ; and the dangling bands

under it were in beautiful relief, and looked of true antique

orthodoxy. 4th. A black velvet cap over my head --

looking, some thought, a little puritanical. Others thought
it very becoming to my pericranium, and that it set off the

roses and lilies which were fighting a doubtful battle on my

youthful cheek. ...5th. Over all was thrown a surplice, hood,
and scarf, which stood out above the seal-skin fur like one of

your wonderful crinoline petticoats, and gave me a look
of dignified and self-pleased dilatation as I walked behind my

silver poker to the Residentiary seat. Bating the respirator,

such was the costume in which I sat, and in which I

preached...."

     These unwonted precautions were only partially successful.
Early in March he paid a visit to some friends at Fakenham,

and was taken to see the ruins of Walsingham Priory. "I

drank at the wishing-well of famous memory," he tells us,
' and I wished my gout away ; but my prayers were not
heard ; and the night after they were uttered came a second
tormentor in the shape of an inflammatory cold1." Still he
stuck manfully to his duties ; attended the meetings of the
Council of the Senate ; superintended Barrett's work in the
Museum ; and on Easter Day preached in the College
Chapel. After this, however, the cold returned, he became
" as melancholy as Niobe's great-grandfather, and as thin as

an old thread-paper," and, almost for the first time, was
unable to attend the Woodwardian audit. He was again a
prisoner, and the middle of May came before he could

1 To Sir J. F. W. Herschel, 23 May, 1857.

         334 BLACKPOOL, MANCHESTER, LAKE DISTRICT.

  1857.  exclaim exultingly : " The weather-cock has turned tail ;
         the winfl is south. I have had such a sweet sleep as I have
Mt. 7.  not had for many years. I fell asleep about 11.30 p.m., and I
         awoke as the clock struck 7 a.m. And the zephyrs are
         blowing, and the grass is growing, and the birds are singing,
         and the flies are buzzing. All nature is alive, and your old

         uncle is come to life again1."

              This improvement, however, was but temporary. Some
         unusually tedious Chapter-work at Norwich brought on the

         old alarming attacks of giddiness, and June came before he
         was fit to travel to Blackpool, where his relations were then

         residing. Then he rapidly got well and strong ; and was

         even tempted to go so far afield as Manchester. But the im
         prudence was not justified by success. " My head was per

         plexed", he writes, "by the interminable multitude of pictures

         and other works of art ; and would not endure the posture of
         gazing, hour after hour. If I had leisure I should like to

         spend a month at Manchester, and devote four hours every

         day to a study of the noble works of art*." So he wisely

         betook himself to Dent for a fortnight, and thence to the
         Lakes, "to sweep up a little geological dust that had not

         been swept up before'."

         To the Duke of Argyll.  DENT, October 20th, 1857.
             My dear Lord Duke,

                        I left my duties at Norwich on the first day of

         this month, and after a halt of two days at Cambridge,
         came down to the old parsonage of Dent...

             You must not think, from some words I scattered, that

         our Cathedral congregations are always composed of a few
         tottering old women. I preached every Sunday during my
         three months Residence of the past year to a very large
         congregation. And it went on increasing, for every corner

         1 To MissF. Hicks, n May, 1857.

         2 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 1 July, 1857.
         * To the same, 7 September, 1857.

INDIAN POLICY.  335

of our large Cathedral choir was at length filled, and I had          1857.
each Sunday of the summer months a congregation of about                   7l-

1,200 persons sitting under me...

    I passed the fast-day at Dent, and was glad to find my

dear, honest, humble, countrymen in a state of strong feeling
at the dismal news from India. My brother addressed them
in the morning, and I in the afternoon ; and we found in the
dish for the Indian Relief Fund between six and seven
pounds, a considerable part of it in copper-money given by
very poor people. I was truly rejoiced to think that many
an honest prayer was that day sent up to God by warm and
faithful hearts in behalf of our poor suffering fellow-Christians
in India. I have no fear for the ultimate result. Good will,

I trust, come out of evil -- a better, wiser, and more Christian

rule over our millions of fellow-creatures and fellow-subjects
in India. And already, how well have the true, loyal, brave,
Christian hearts of many men and many women shone out in
this hour of terrible trial and suffering! Away, for ages to come,
with a pettifogging mercantile narrow policy which led rulers
(with no more feeling for Christian truth than was lodged in
the threads of their purses) to turn out an honest convert to
the religion of Christ from the ranks of the Sepoy regiments --
which made them pet and fondle the wretched idolaters, and
to discourage Christianity by their policy and by their
example. Let the Indian nations feel that we rule them, and
mean to rule them, with a high hand. Let them know that
we are Christians, and will, with all our moral might, main
tain the faith we have in our hearts accepted. Let them
know, by our acts, that we love them and seek their good --
spiritual and temporal --and then truth must triumph over
falsehood in the end, and in God's own time. But I beg your
Grace's pardon for running on at this rate...

                     I am, my dear Lord Duke,

                               Very truly and gratefully yours,

                                                        A. Sedgwick.

          336 LIVINGSTONE AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1857-   To Miss Isabella Herschel.

/Et. 71.                                      Trin1ty College, October 2gth, 1857.

               "...On returning at the end of last week I found the College
          in turmoil --the Fellows hammering at a new constitution --

          all the juniors mad for the repeal of the celibacy clause--all

          dreaming of loves, olive-branches, nursery-maids, toys, and
          trundling hoops etc. to decorate our old cloisters. Poor
          green-horns! they little think what troubles they are trying
          to bring upon themselves !...

               I am a little sorrowful at the thought that I am going to
          give my final course of lectures. 'Tis high time to strike
          after forty years of pretty hard work, is it not ?..."

               Early in December Dr Livingstone came to Cambridge,
          and lectured in the Senate House and Town Hall. Sedg

          wick had read his travels, and, besides, had made his personal

          acquaintance in the previous September at Kendal -- and
          from what he saw of him then, and from the interest aroused
          by what he had accomplished in Africa, was ready to wel

          come him heartily as a friend when he came to Cambridge.

          Those present in the Senate House on Friday, 4 December
          1857, will not readily forget the striking scene. The building
          was crowded in every part ; and Livingstone -- already well
          known as an explorer and a missionary in South Africa --

          received an enthusiastic welcome from both old and young.
          "He stood before us," said Sedgwick, "a plain, single-
          minded, cheerful man--somewhat attenuated by years of
          toil, and with a face tinged by the sun of Africa : and he
          addressed us in unadorned and simple words1." As the
          lecture proceeded --a plain practical statement of what he had
          done and what he hoped to do, set forth without self-glorifi
          cation, and relieved with many a sly touch of humour -- his
          hearers felt that they were in the presence of a leader among

              1 Dr Livingstone's Cambridge Lectures, together with a prefatory letter by the

          Rev. Professor Sedgwick. 8vo. Cambridge, 1858, Letter, p. iv.

        LIVINGSTONE AT CAMBRIDGE.      337

men ; and when he concluded with the fervent appeal :             1857.

" Africa is now open ! do not let it be shut again ! I go back        !i.
to try to make an open path for commerce and Christianity ;
do you carry out the work which I have begun ; I leave it
with you!" there was silence for a few seconds, and then

applause which those who had known Cambridge for more
than fifty years declared to be the heartiest they had ever
heard within those walls. Then Sedgwick rose. His frame
was slightly bowed, and he wore a black velvet skull-cap, with

many coats and wrappers ; but his eye was not dim, nor his
natural force abated. He seemed to be the impersonation of
an ancient University, welcoming an honoured guest. He
advanced towards the great map of Africa on which Living

stone had pointed out his route, and gazed at it wistfully. "I

dare not speak of its geology," he said, in a voice that

trembled a little, not from weakness but from emotion ; and

then, in his most earnest manner --with all the vigour and
heartiness of his younger days -- he entreated his hearers

not merely to welcome and thank Livingstone for what

he had said, but to carry forward the noble work which
he had so auspiciously begun. His words were few, but

well-chosen, and when he sat down the applause told
that they had gone straight to the hearts of his hearers.
The cheers were as hearty as those which had greeted

Livingstone.
     On the next evening Livingstone dined in the Hall of

Trinity College as Sedgwick's guest. It was Audit Day,
and a large party was present. In the Combination Room
Sedgwick proposed Livingstone's health. It was then his
intention to return to Africa without delay, so that the speech
partook of the character of a farewell. With Sedgwick's life
long hatred of slavery --his interest in all efforts to suppress
it and to improve the condition of the Africans -- and his

warm friendship for his guest, we can well believe that his
words were " so heartfelt, so truthful, so pathetic, that there

were more tearful eyes than dry ones at its conclusion."

S. II.                             22

       338 LETTER FROM LIVINGSTONE.

1858.  Shortly before he left England,                                              Livingstone               wrote to

Mt- 73- Sedgwick :

       From Dr David Livingstone.                                                   50 Albemarle St., London,
                                                                                                         6th February, 1858.
            My dear Friend,

                     This is the last week but one I have to spend in
       England, and as a parting salutation I shall refer to a loving

       CaI nhtdrhisaatnsiasknureyoleuytoteusrinthcyaeotruelIyfgafovoorfuotrrhetehd   me with more than six    weeks ago.
                                                                                    expressions of sympathy   it contains,
                                                                                    again cheered by feeling
                                                                                                              that I have

       Isuch as you looking on and beckoning me to proceed.                                                   may state

            That you may have a clear idea of my objects
                                                                                                   meets the eye. They
       that they have  something more                                               in them than   intention of benefiting
       are not merely  exploratory, for
                                                                                    I go with the
       both the African and my own countrymen. I take a practical
       mining geologist from the School of Mines to tell us of the mineral
       rmreesepodouirrctcinesaol fosfuthbthesteanvcceoegusentattrboylge. ethTephrreondwuitcahtniotnheseco--ndoytehm-esitcufffbisbor--toaunesiv,stergtyuotmhginmivgye,wahafinucdlhl
       may be useful in commerce. An artist to give the scenery. A naval
       officer to tell of the capacity of the river-communication, and a

       moral agent to lay a Christian foundation for anything that may
       Ifollow. All this

       ment of African
       tell to none but
                         machinery has for its ostensible object the develop                                                  I
                                                                                     of civilization, but,
                         trade,  aas ndyotuheinprwohmoomtioIn                       have confidence, is       what
                         such                                                                                 this :

       hope it may result in an English colony in the healthy highlands of

       Central Africa (I have told it only to the Duke of Argyle). I believe

       the highlands are healthy. The wild vine flourishes there. Europeans,

       with a speedy transit to the coast, would collect and transmit the
       produce to the sea, and in the course of time, say when my head is
                                                                                                   slave-labour, which
       low, free labour on  tlhaeboAufrr,icaqnuitseoiul nmprigofhittabrelen.derI                    take my wife with
       is notoriously dear

       me, and one child. We erect an iron house near the Kafue to serve

       as a depot that we may not appear as vagabonds in the country.
       And may God prosper our attempts to promote the welfare of

       our fellow-men !

       IWith this short statement you may perceive our ulterior objects.
       I want you to have an idea of them.                                          shall always remember you
       and Trinity with fond affection. Pray remember me kindly, and say
       farewell to Professor Whewell. Your Auditor has given me two
       dozen of audit-ale, and I hope to drink your health and prosperity

       to your college with it on the banks of the Zambesi.

                                 I am ever affectionately yours,

                                                                                    David Livingstone.

PREFACE TO LIVINGSTONES LECTURES.                              339

     To this letter Sedgwick replied at length, but, as his                                    1858.
letter has been already printed, we will content ourselves
                                                                                                   H-
with a single extract :

                                                                           10 February, 1858.

     "...What a glorious prospect is before you! the com
mencement of the civilisation of Africa, the extension of our

knowledge of all the kingdoms of nature, the production of

great material benefits to the old world, the gradual healing
of that foul and fetid ulcer the slave-trade, the one grand

disgrace and weakness of Christendom, that has defiled the
hands of all those who have had any dealings with it; and
last, but not least -- nay, the greatest of all, and the true end
of all -- the lifting up of the poor African from the earth, the
turning his face heavenwards, and the glory of at length (after
all his sufferings and our sins) calling him a Christian
brother. May our Lord and Saviour bless your labours,
and may His Holy Spirit be with you to the end of your

life upon this troubled world !

    I am an old man, and I shall (so far as I am permitted to

look into the future) never see your face again.. ..Once for all,
God bless you1 !"

      Soon afterwards it was decided to print Livingstone's two

Lectures, and Sedgwick undertook to supply a preface. It

was written, he tells us, in the intervals of a long and severe
illness, but it betrays no sign of weakness, or want of ability.

It is at once a careful digest of Livingstone's two memorable

journeys across Africa, an analysis of his character, and a
forcible appeal for a more humane treatment of the African

races at the hands of England. As one of his friends wrote :
" There is much more of information, and still more of moral

suggestion, in your introduction than in the Lectures'1!'

1 The Personal Life of David Livingstone. By W. G. Blaikie, D.D. 8vo.
London, 1880, p. 239.
     2 From David Milne Holme, Esq. 23 August, 1858.  The following extract

from one of Miss Catherine M. Sedgwick's letters, dated Lenox, 6 August, 1860,

is worth quotation. Sedgwick had sent her a copy of Livingstone's Lectures.

                                                      22 -- 2

           340 DEATH OF DEAN CONYBEARE.

1858.      Probably nothing contributed more directly to the establish-
      73-  ment of the Universities Mission to Central Africa than this

           short essay.
                The death of Dean Conybeare, which took place in

           August, 1857, had greatly distressed Sedgwick. As usual on
           such occasions he thought more of his friend's widow and
           children than of himself, and they were evidently much

           comforted by his sympathy. One of the Dean's sons thanks
           him for his " affectionate letters, with all the warm memories
           of olden days, days which I too remember as warmly, and the
           kind child's friend who lent his curious store of hammers, and

           joined in our games, and, best of all, told us such enchant

           ing stories of wandering in the bowels of the earth." Of

           the letters referred to one only has been preserved, in which
           Sedgwick speaks of the Dean as " one of my dearest friends,
           and one of my earliest teachers in geology 1 ".

           To Dean Peacock.        Trinity College, February 16th, 1858.

           "...I have not communicated with the Commissioners, and

           hardly have been in a state to think steadily of anything.

           I stick to the views we opened in our Blue Book. (1) To

           make the Professorships worth having, and to compel a bond

           fide residence and ample teaching. (2) To make the Colleges
           pay for new endowments, each out of its own funds, and in

           proportion to its net income. (3) To encourage goodwill

           study, by allowing men (after the /tii/cpo? 700? as poor Sidney

           Walker2 pleasantly called it) to take their line, viz. : theology,

           "For the giver's sake, and for that it condenses into a sort of essence your

           friend's large book, it is very precious to me. Still that large book, so full of

           information and instruction, and so vitalised with the heart of the writer, I had

           read faithfully. What divine patience, and hope that will not abate one jot that

           good man has, when, in the face of the growth of the slave-trade, he perseveres in

           his great, hard work ! His pains will not be lost. Holy efforts coinciding with

           God's laws never are."

           1 To Rev. C. R. Conybeare, 1 January, 1858.                          He
           2 William Sidney Walker, Trin. Coll. B. A. 1819, afterwards Fellow.

           died in 1846.

ECLIPSE OF THE SUN.                      34 1

  law, physic, and perhaps some other rope's end. Then let         1858.
 them go to drill with their own Professor and his staff, and so
 pass to their bachelorhood if they answer this drill. But

  these not to be counted as Honours. Honours, however, to

 be given (and rewarded) by new Triposes. Such e.g. as

 the Natural Sciences Tripos already established ; though I
 grieve to say it works very costively --and such (speculatively)
as a Tripos that would take in Law, Modern History,
Divinity -- or any other many-limbed monster-- to be hatched
hereafter in the womb of Time, or brought forth at once by

tapping the academic head as Jupiter once tapped his own.
The ordinary honours, classical and mathematical, by all
means keep. (4) To have new buildings erected forthwith
in the old Botanical Garden, including ample lecture-rooms,

experiment-rooms (absolutely necessary), one or two new

Museums, etc. etc. There was a plan, and a fair one, but not

a brick has been laid down or is likely to be. (5) Send an
order to the University for every man of M.A. degree or higher
to read old Baxter's shove. This, with a hint about Parliamen

tary purgatives, might stir us, etc. etc. These are, in kind, the
topics I should write about to your Commissioners. But do
you mean to send out a Blue Book and publish men's letters?

If so, we must look demure; for I think this letter, for

example, would look a little odd in the page of a blue-

backed Parliamentary folio. Don't you think so ?..."

To Professor Miller.  March idth, 1858.

    "My dear Miller,

              ...I went yesterday to Peakirk in Lincolnshire, and
there I saw a galaxy of astronomers ; and many telescopes

standing in a row, like ' the four and twenty fiddlers ' you

have, no doubt, heard of. But the wedding-ring of the Sun

and the Moon was not seen for a single moment, to our great

disgust. Strange that so many notorious sky-sweepers could
not contrive to sweep the clouds away for one minute. But

man is born to sorrow; and we had nothing better to do than

           342 FRENCH FEELING AGAINST ENGLAND.

1858.      to twist our thumbs and talk about patience. The barn-
      73-  door fowls and the ducks did not care one fig about the
           darkness, though for a quarter of a minute it was such as
           might be felt. So no more at present from yours in all

           weathers,                                    A. Sedgwick.

           To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                                                          Sunday morning, March 21st, 1858.

                          "...Early in our Christmas Vacation I went for a

           few days to Norwich, that my ears might be cheered with the

           merry voices of four happy young children to whom I stand

           in the august relationship of great-uncle ; and I may well be
           a great-uncle ; for if I live till to-morrow evening I shall have

           completed my 73rd year. By changing a single word I might
           apply two lines of Milton to myself:

                    ' How soon has Time, the subtle thief of youth,
                     Stol'n on his wing my three and seventieth year ! '

           or I may say with Shakespeare :

                                                'on our vain decrees
                        'The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time

                        ' Steals, ere we can effect them ! '

           Or, better still, may I say with another poet, whose lips were

           touched with coals of living fire from the altar: 'Now, also,

           that  I  am  old  and  grey-headed,  O  God  forsake me    not    '  In
                                                                           !

           what strange channels our thoughts run ! the words great-

           uncle suggested my birthday ; and the thoughts of my

           birthday brought out these quotations. 'Tis Sunday morning.

           Your letter has been just read. May all earthly blessings

           be with you in full measure ! I am sorry to hear of the bad
           temper of the French ; but I do not wonder at it. I think

           that our laws require some change. They ought to be more

           stringent in cases of conspiracy to commit murder. If the

           Ministers do nothing to mend them, I shall call them a pack
           of sneaks -- willing to bow their necks to our Radicals. What

           do you think of this from a man who has been called a Whig

           (or sometimes a radical) ever since the time he learnt to

                           MOSAIC RECORD OF CREATION.                                                                                  343

shave himself?                   I think the Emperor's manifesto good and                                                                    1858.
true....1"

To Mrs Cropper.                                                Lowestoft, June ith, 1858.
    " My dear Mrs Cropper,

                           ...It is impossible for me to say whether your

friend would do wisely in giving the course of popular
lectures you allude to. All I know that several clergymen
                                                               is,
                                                                                    is
have made similar attempts, and committed themselves to

assertions some of which think incorrect as to fact, and
                                 is
inconclusive as to argument. In all such cases lectures do
                                     ;
more harm than good because a hearer who afterwards
                                         II
told of any mis-statement as to fact may easily be led to

think that the fault in the Mosaic record, and not in the

ignorance of the lecturer.                                     once thought (with Buckland)

that we had good physical proof of general deluge that
                                                               a
                                                                                        afterwards
                                                                          I
must have happened a few thousand years since.

doubted the evidence                                   (I    mean the geological evidence),

                                                            a
though still believe that vast physical change has taken
a
place in the surface of the northern hemisphere within                                                                                 (4 a
          I

                        :
recent period. By recent, mean again, period of only
                                                       I       Ia

few thousand years. Another opinion                                formerly held

was this viz. that the modern period was more distinctly

separable from the anterior period than proves to be on
                                                               it

further investigation.... Do you think your friend has all
his facts well in hand If not, he certainly
                           I                                       is  ill-prepared
                                                    ?
for his task.                    have no fear about the ultimate result, but

we have ample work for another half-century before we can

be prepared to draw our lines of demarcation correctly, and

till that                  done  should think                  premature to talk of
1
               a

            is

                  I

                                                     a it

                                                                                                        (8
                                                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                   (1
III.After the attempt on the life of Napoleon                  by Felix Orsini (14 Jan. 1858),

there was strong feeling in France against England, where Orsini had resided

for some years. Lord Palmerston introduced Bill February) "to amend the

law with relation to the crime of conspiracy to murder." On this the Govern

ment were defeated and resigned. Lord Derby, on taking office March), said

nothing about altering the law of conspiracy, though in previous speech

February) he had intimated that he thought some alteration desirable.

         344 MOSAIC RECORD OF CREATION.

1858.    comparing the geological days (or periods) with the Mosaic
         days. That this will be done one day I have very confident
Et- 73-
         expectation, because we have already done much, though

         a few blots remain to be removed by the honest scrubbing-
         brushes of the rising generation of geologists1....

               I have sent you a drum-head judgment upon some

         difficult questions, about which I should be sorry to give
         a public lecture, lest I should be a false guide over points
         respecting which I do not profess to see my own way very
         clearly. Still I do think the knights of the hammer have

         done some good, perhaps more than the old Templars. ( 1 )

         It is something to prove against some sturdy infidels (who
         would scoff at the Bible if it were spoken of) that the world

         is not eternal. Therefore it was created by a power external

         to itself, acting with prescient wisdom, and ordaining all laws

         by which the order of nature is maintained. (2) The same
         creative power has not been quiescent, but has been employed

         again and again in replenishing and renovating the earth.
         (3) Land and sea have changed place. The tops of our
         highest hills have been under water. Therefore the fact of an

         historic deluge is not impossible or improbable. (4) Though
         the world is very old (we have no measure of the epochs
         of geology, only we are certain that they involve enormously
         long periods) man is but a creature of yesterday....

                               Ever your true-hearted old friend,
                                                                A. Sedgwick.

              Sedgwick's mind was evidently still full of the subject of

         the last letter while in Residence at Norwich in August.

         " Today," he writes, " I preached a long sermon on the

         first commandment to a very large congregation ; and, God

         willing, I hope to go on with the subject in another discourse ;

         as my sermon of today was in a good measure introductory

         1 The omitted passage contains a discussion on the meaning of the days of

         creation. Sedgwick's  views on this question have been already stated.  See
         above, pp. 76 -- 80.

TENURE OF FELLOWSHIPS.  345

and historical1." This intention was frustrated by a serious         1858.
attack of giddiness, which came on while preaching, perhaps                73-

the very sermon to which he here alludes ; and his doctor

ordered him to abstain from sermons, letter writing, and all

mental exertion. " I have obeyed him so well," he wrote

in October, "that my head, which was a few weeks since
like a humming-top, is now as quiet and steady as a great

spherical stone on a gatepost ; yes ! and almost as dull
and senseless*." These attacks, which now came on more

frequently than heretofore, determined him to resign his seat
on the Council of the Senate, and to announce once more his

approaching retirement from his Professorship.

    At the end of October a meeting of members of the

Governing Bodies of the Colleges was held in the Arts
School, to discuss the statutes proposed by the Commissioners.

It would be beside our present purpose to discuss this complex

question ; and we only notice it so far as Sedgwick was
concerned with it. The Commissioners had suggested, among
other changes, that " any Fellow should vacate his Fellowship
at the end of ten years after attaining the full standing of
Master of Arts, except in certain specified cases." This
was opposed by the Master of St John's College, Dr Bateson.
Sedgwick seconded his motion. It will be interesting, having

regard to the measures since adopted, to note the line he took.

" He looked," he said, "upon his Fellowship as a freehold. It
was a proud day for him when he was made a Fellow of
Trinity ; he felt that he possessed something which he had

gained honourably, and which he could look forward to as
bearing upon his success in life. Most men had that feeling,

and he could not conceive anything more degrading than
to make it a terminable annuity. He had been a Fellow for
a long time, for it was now fifty-four years since he was a
freshman ; but his conscience did not accuse him of being an
idle Fellow. With respect to the line which he had taken,

                        1 To Mrs John Sedgwick, 8 August, 1858.
                          2 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 16 October, 1858.

NEW STATUTES FOR TRINITY COLLEGE.

858. whether wise or unwise, good or bad, he could not have

. 73- taken it if his Fellowship had not been a freehold. This

         might be egotistical, but let every man speak from his own
        experience. He had his Fellowship to rest upon, for there
        was no great harvest from his Professorship. He still held
         his Fellowship ; in a few months he intended to resign his
        Professorship, and retire upon his freehold. This was an
        example, and he had a right to speak of it. He believed
        that, with a modification of circumstances, the same sentiments
        applied to many around him. He believed, with the Master
        of St John's, that the proposition of the Commissioners would
        tend to the moral degradation of the different societies ; it
         would encourage favouritism, and all those points which
        lowered the moral standard of academic bodies.

             The proposals of the Commissioners entailed a long series
        of meetings of the Governing Body of Trinity College. These
         discussions were exceedingly distasteful to Sedgwick, who in
         his old age had ceased to be a reformer, except on one or two
       vital questions --such as the abolition of tests. He speaks of
         being " worried by the College meetings, where we wrangle
         and discuss the new Statutes; " and when they were completed
         he has no good word to say for them :

To Miss Gerard.  Cambridge, April 13, 1859.

"...The post has... brought me our new Statutes under the

formidable seal of the Parliamentary Commission. They

came to me because the Master happens to be out of

Cambridge. So I have sent our Chapel Clerk (a kind of
College Mercury) to summon all the Fellows of the House

who are now in residence, to meet me, in two hours, at our

Combination Room, that we may look at our chains, and

think about fitting them on. I hate the sight of them ; for I

have had a peep, and I think their provisions may take away

all future glory from the noble society where have lived such

men as Newton, and Bacon, and Barrow, and Bentley, and

Ray, and Cowley, and Dryden, and thousands of good and

FORTIETH COURSE OF LECTURES.  347

true men. We are working well on the whole. We might                                 1858.
                                                                                           73-
have been improved on material points. These the Com-

missioners have not touched ; but they have done that which

will tend, I verily believe, to degrade the moral character and
independent loyalty of the College. Forgive this outbreak..."

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                                                     Cambridge, December Zth, 1858.

     "...During this Michaelmas term, so soon as I returned
from my poor suffering brother, I began my lectures. I
breakfast early --perhaps more early than your dear noble-
hearted father used to do at Hyde Hall. It is the true break
of fast --one cup of coffee and a biscuit. My lecture at 12.

About 1.30 I returned, and latterly have shut myself up all
the rest of the day, dining at 2, or 2.30, very very sparely,

and in the evening avoiding all reading requiring thought.

I was ordered to this course in consequence of a tendency to

giddiness after the excitement of the lecture. So I have not
been dining in Hall, and I have hardly ever been out. What
did I do in the evening? I twirled my thumbs; read reviews;

a few sermons ; a few volumes of Walter Scott (I am thankful

to say that I can enjoy them almost as much as ever) ;
naughty, nasty, surly Dean Swift (but a wonderful man with

all that); and Shakespeare. And I wrote many letters. They

form a part of my malady. ' Write as few letters as you can,

and write no long ones' has been rung in my ears by Dr

Paget almost day by day since I began to show signs of

giddiness. On Monday I finished with a terribly long

address, and to a crowded class. I was much cheered by
them ; but it was a sorrowful feeling to me when I had to

tell them that it was the last lecture of my last course...."

To Rev. P. B. Brodie.

                                                    Cambridge, December 3\st, 1858.

    "...I gave my 40th and last course of lectures during the

past Michaelmas term, and they were addressed to the largest
class that ever sat before me. From my elevated platform I

         348 INTENDED RESIGNATION.

1858.    declare that the lads looked as if they had been jammed down
         by a pavier's hammer! It was, however, a painful task to
Et- 73-  tell them in my concluding lecture that I should never again

         address them as Professor. I cannot now do the exploring

         field-work. 'Tis poor work to be retailing other men's

         adventures. Were I to consult my personal convenience I

         should resign my Chair immediately ; but there is much work

         still to be done in the Museum which cannot be well done

         without my superintendence. I do hope in the spring months

         to put the remaining chaos in order by help of my younger
         geological friends. And I have an excellent assistant in
         young Barrett. He works, however, exclusively at the
         palaeontological department. I wish you had time to visit
         our Museum. It would, I think, make you open your eyes a
         little. Our chalk collection was poor when you last saw the
         Museum. Now, it is excellent. Of course you have heard of
         the works going on in the thin bed of upper Green- sand.

         Many hundred men are employed in turning out this (so-
         called) coprolite bed, and many steam-engines are working
         machinery to wash out the phosphoritic nodules. During
         this process they find multitudes of strange fossils. About
         thirty species of Reptiles, three species of Pterodactyles,

         multitudinous specimens of Chimcera1, etc. etc. have been

         turned out, and found their way into our Museum...."

             A rough outline of this last lecture-- written very hastily,
         and in parts almost illegible --has been found among Sedg

         wick's papers. The preparation of such a document may be

         taken as evidence that in what he had said about immediate

         resignation he was then perfectly in earnest ; and that he

         proposed to take a formal farewell of his class. It is much

         to be regretted that he did not take the further precaution of

         having his words accurately reported.

         The lecture was divided into two parts : a history of the

         Museum, that                     of the Museum as developed during his
         1

                                     is,
         The group of Chimoerokl Fishes, including various genera, e.g. Hybmius, etc.

                            LAST LECTURE.                                             .349

own occupation of the Chair; and, a history of geological                                                                                                                                                   1858.
work and speculation.                                                                                                                                                                                             73

      The first part opened with a biographical sketch, which
we will transcribe, as it amplifies, and in some particulars
corrects, what has been already said respecting Sedgwick's
early years as Woodwardian Professor.

Elected 1818, Spring. First lectures, Easter term of 18191.
Therefore 40th course now finished.
       (1) What led me to be a candidate? Was               it that    I was           like an
                                                                                      anxious
overloaded dam ready to burst its barrier?                 That I       was

tkCEoeu.pvftoiDer.rmu'ssCalTaashrwtkeoaerokereyw,--oafsestkecnva. eo--rwab.lleendRegAfeaevnc,itdeoewr,tscI.--?ahEnad.dNoDhwt.ohwseCo.nl.arkaHeT'ehssecgLheadovcaoetmlubroaewysas--stmaer.atmd--epBtyhu.eat
collection of carboniferous fossils.
       I lost my health             hard reading -- by the festive habits
(2)  University -- and for  by      years was in a condition often of
theIof                      five                           Therefore in 18 18 I
                                                           Chair then vacant. I
wretchedness3.  Caution the young men.

became a candidate for the Woodwardian
                            foief ldgeionlowgyh--ichjusIt
knew very    little indeed                                  enough to   know          that it was
a glorious   and healthy                                   might find  ample          enjoyment
and better health. I gained the chair in open election. I had
given no promise except to lecture on geology -- and the University
(by a special Grace) took good care that some lectures should
be given3; but they provided no lecture-room. No lectures, no
                            afterwards Mr Serjeant Frere,                              Master of
pay. About two    years     with gratitude -- introduced a                            Grace (still
Downing-- let me  tell it

on condition of lectures) that another .100 should be added*.
Ever since ^218 a year.
      First  lectures in  1th8e19,neownesItslestroaftaWdigohwtnsptoecimoledness*t.--   Collections
year by      year --from                                                              from Land's
End in Cornwall to John o' Groat's house and the Head of Hoy.
Arrangements made year by year. But about 1822 fears of an
approaching state of suffocation-- geological congestion. Therefore
a syndicate (Wordsworth V. C.)8; and a proposal of Botanic Garden

     1 This draft had not been discovered when it was concluded (Vol. i. pp. 203,
204) that Sedgwick began to lecture in the Lent Term of 1819.

     - Sedgwick broke down in 1813 (Vol. i. p. 127). For the effects of this

illness, as admitted by himself, see Vol. i. pp. 130, 499.
     3 Vol. i. pp. 197, 198.
     4 Ibid. p. 224. The Grace in question passed in 1821.
    * Collected in company with Mr Henslow (Ibid. p. 204).

    8 A Syndicate, of which Sedgwick was a member, was appointed by Grace,
14 March, 1821, "for considering and reporting to the Senate on the means

proposed to be adopted for building a Museum for the Woodwardian collection,

and for obtaining estimates, and other requisites for the same." This Syndicate

          35 LAST LECTURE.

   1858.  rejected, and why1. Waited for the new Library buildings, and

/Et. 73.  before I had a Museum I waited about 24 years.

               This is succeeded by an enumeration of the various gifts
          made to the Museum year by year, most of which have been
          already chronicled in our narrative. The following notes,
          however, are valuable.

              Enormous labour of unpacking in 1841. More than a quarter of
          a year in unrolling specimens. Great cost to the University, and
          great to myself. Not on the Committee of fitting-up the Museum,
          and some waste of capital and accumulation of the Woodwardian
          Estate. Too architectural -- worse than nothing -- but still good.
               Three
          collection  objects   at starting: (1) a   newAlml uasreeumac;co(m2)pliasnhedad--eqaulal teI
                      ; (3) a   course of lectures.

          ever looked forward to. Geology a hard task-mistress, but paid me
          in health and happiness. Geologist like the fabled Antaeus. He
                                    mtchooenthqneueretrheeeadrrtdhbayrwknitthehessh--tiassBkthoaUbmebfmorirxeeOro--vhCdiomtosw.--nbugto
          may be    at first half                                                                                                        the
          moment    he touches                                                                                                            all
                    ill-bodings to
          fear and

          Woodward put the ban of domestic sterility on his Professor, but
          my Museum is in the place of wife and children ; and my family are
          mute as the inhabitants of the water, and never scold me, nor ever
          express a want-- and how few men of the Benedictine Order can say
          as much. It is well to laugh at our chains while they are fast locked

          upon us. But after 40 years 'tis time for me to put my house in order.

               The second part of the lecture is an outline of the
          geological history of the earth --probably a resume' of the

          course of lectures he had just been delivering. He touches
          on Lyell's views -- "not true, and based on a false analogy;"

          on Hugh Miller's interpretation of the days of creation --
          " much truth here, but not exact truth, and I am bound to

          tell you truth so far as I know it ; " on the " theory of

          development and transmutation," which is criticised on the

          lines laid down in his article in The Edinburgh Review ;

          reported (without date) that the Woodwardian surplus amounted to ^1700, which

          might, they thought,  "bethaptroptheerly    applied to the erection  of a suitable Museum                                       and
          Lecture-room ; and                        University should, from    its own funds, add                                        such

          sum as may be necessary for the speedy erection of sufficient and proper buildings,

          whereby the accommodation of other Professors also maybe materially consulted."

          This Report was never confirmed by the Senate, and the subject dropped.

          1 This must refer to some scheme, now forgotten, for erecting a Geological

          Museum in the old Botanic Garden, before the new Library buildings were

          planned.

           DEATH OF JOHN SEDGWICK.

" the actual advance of development," from a geological                                                                                   1859.
standpoint, is pointed out ; and, in conclusion, the " foetal
                                                                                                                                       ^u
theory " comes in for its share of criticism. " It cannot

explain advance of organic type, because all our forms would

be lower than the parent type. But ladies may in the end
(says the author of the Vestiges) produce a race of angels.

I fear they will be dark ones." Here the MS. ends.
     At the beginning of February, 1859, Sedgwick lost his

brother John. The event had been long expected, for he had
for some months been suffering from a painful illness which

could have but one termination, and when they parted
in January they felt that they should never meet again.

Soon afterwards his son was unanimously chosen by the
statesmen of Dent to be their Vicar. Sedgwick was delighted
with this arrangement. " I shall now have two homes in
Dent," he wrote, " for Jane and Isabella mean to go into a
cottage on the outskirts of the village." From another point

of view the change was not agreeable, for it put an end

to the domestic life at Norwich with which his nephew's
marriage had supplied him. For a time Sedgwick felt the

change acutely, but, as his nephews and nieces grew older, he
generally had one or two living with him, over whom he
watched with the tenderest care -- providing alike for their

instruction and their amusement.

To Mrs Peacock.            Cambridge, April   1859.
     My dear Mrs Peacock,

           I came back from Norwich on Thursday.... Your

very kind note was on my table containing the excellent

photograph of my dear friend the late dean1. I value it very

greatly, and thank you for it with my whole heart. When

I look at  brings back to my memory           beautiful
           it,
              1 it

                                                             9

                                                             it

                                                                                          :

                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                    ,

                                                                                                            is
sentence of Dr Johnson in one of his Papers in The Idler.
                                         " an art which
Speaking of portrait-painting, he calls

employed in diffusing friendship, in reviving tenderness, in

           Dean Peacock died November, 1858.

          352 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT ABERDEEN.

  1859.   quickening the affections of the absent, and continuing the
          presence of the dead1." Is not this well said? Johnson
/Et. 74.  never saw a photograph. The sunbeam portrait is indeed a
          living likeness, and almost realizes the concluding words of
          the quotation. Again I thank you for it. I shall put it in

          a frame, and hang it up in my bedroom on a wall where hang
          the likenesses of my father and mother, and some others

          whom I loved....

                                   Affectionately and gratefully yours,

                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

               In July Sedgwick took his widowed sister-in-law and her
          daughter to Wales for a short holiday; then had "a dash of
          two days into the Lake country " by himself ; and in September
          went to Aberdeen for the meeting of the British Association
          of which the Prince Consort was President. He had a cold

          when he started which the journey did not improve ; but he

          was well enough to read a paper in the Geological Section
          On Faults in Cumberland and Lancashire. No abstract of it
          appears in the Report of the Association ; but its title
          indicates that it was the result of his late expeditions into the
          Lake Country. The meeting ended with an excursion to
          Balmoral, which Sedgwick was persuaded to join.

          To Mrs Richard Sedgwick.

                                                                                          September 25th, 1859.

              "...We started at 6 a.m. precisely, and I did not reach my

          hotel till one o'clock on Friday morning, much fatigued, and

          half cramped to death by overdose packing. But I did enjoy

          the day, spite of the packing, and spite of the cold which

          would not leave me. We had a most kind and courteous

          reception. The Castle is new, but in excellent taste. It

          stands in a beautiful park surrounded by wild Highland
          mountains. The Prince wore the full Highland costume,
          bare knees and kilt ; so did the Prince of Wales and Prince

          Arthur. The Queen did look happy and well. She and her

               1 The Idler for Saturday,  24 February, 1759.  Johnson's Works, ed. 1787,
          viii. 179.

       VISIT TO BALMORAL.                        353

three daughters wore the Stuart tartan, and each had the           1859.

Highland scarf with the buckle on the left shoulder. The         Mi. 74-
Prince invited me, and urged me, to remain all night and

dine with the Queen. But alas ! I had no dress fit to appear

in. ' General Grey will help you with clothes,' was the

remark. But indeed I was unfit to remain, so I begged off.
We had a muster of the clans, each coming in full costume,

headed by its chieftain, and attended by its bag-piper. The

sight was beautiful and striking, but the skirling pipes were a
dire ear-torment, at least so I thought. When all was ready

the Queen took her place upon a terrace, and then a
succession of games began : foot-races ; tossing the sledge
hammer; tossing the bar &c. ; ending with Highland reels.

Then we had a lunch in the ball-room. Everything was

beautifully and amply prepared. For my share I secured a

very large basin of plain Scotch broth, which saved my life, I

think ; and I then had the wing of a chicken and a glass of

sherry. Others had every kind of luxury you can see at a

lunch. About 5.30 the Queen retired amidst the cheers of
the multitude, the two regimental bands playing God save

the Queen...."

     Sedgwick's friend Miss Malcolm was at this time residing
in Devonshire. " I give you joy of your present charming

residence," he wrote ; " Have I not threaded all the ravines
and ' bosky bowers ' on the flanks of Dartmoor ? Have I

not made my hammer ring in Holme Chase and in the
country round about it ? Have I not seen the granite
shooting its great veins through the slate rocks ? I wish

I could revisit those sweet and grand spots where Nature
has indulged in her revelry; and then I would teach you

to suck marrow from her bones, and not to confine your

admiration to the sprigs upon her green mantle!1" His

next letter to her describes his proceedings during the

Michaelmas Term :

       1 To Miss Malcolm, 15 October, 1859.

s. n.                                        23

354 UNIVERSITIES MISSION TO AFRICA.

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

               Trinity College, November 29tJ1, 1859.

My dear Kate,

...About a week after my return to College I began

my lectures, and have ever since been going on steadily

without much fatigue, and without a single interruption.

Thank God ! I am infinitely better than I was last year;
and I have given two field-lectures during the term, once

reaching as far as the Ely clay-pits, with a part of my class.

Bravo ! for an old toothless Professor who has been lecturing

every year since he began his first course in the spring of
1819! To keep my head up I avoid all dinner-parties;
though I sometimes go out in the evening. So sternly do I
keep my rule, that I refused two dinner invitations while the
Bishop of Oxford and Sir George Grey and Mr Gladstone

were here to attend the meeting in behalf of a Church Mission

to Central Africa. We had a glorious meeting. It was the
great event of this Michaelmas term. I was urged to take a
more prominent part on the occasion ; but I refused, on the
ground of health. I dared not trust myself to make any

leading motion, lest my head should give way under the

excitement. I am still (without great care) liable to attacks
of giddiness ; and when they come upon me I am unable to
gather my thoughts together. I have two more lectures to

give this week. Next week (at least during the first half of

     Science must bow its beggarly head to the great divinity

L. S. D. We have our annual Trinity College audit, and
it)

                 ;

                     it
                                  (a

                          I
                                         I

                                            I

                                                                               a

                                                                          I

                                                                                                I
shall have also to attend the Chapter at Norwich. Those

services to Mammon being over, shall give my concluding

lecture and may perhaps be as long as one of old Kittle-

drummers sermons described in the true history of Old

Mortality. My course ended, an examination. The exami

nation papers read good week's work, but not good for weak
Ifnerves and sore eyes), shall be again free man.
                                                       can

keep bronchitis from my throat do hope to go down to Dent

LAST LECTURE.  355

and to celebrate Christmas Day in the old parsonage. My                                    1859.

poor sister-in-law and Isabella are still in the old house; but pre-
paring to move into the cottage where my dear good old father
spent the latter years of his long life. Richard (my nephew)
and his wife and children expect to remove to the old parsonage

of Dent in the early part of next January. Is not this sad,
dull, home-spun stuff? But what better can you expect from
an old solitary Fellow of a College. I am now the oldest
Fellow in the University. Is it not a melancholy honour?
The Master seems happy ; and his wife is a sweet-tempered,

courteous, right-minded person, whom we all of us love and

admire....
                         Ever your true-hearted old friend,

                                                              A. Sedgwick.

    At the ever memorable meeting to which Sedgwick here
alludes, held in the Senate House on All Saints Day, he spoke

last. He did not attempt to deal with the broader aspects
of the question, which had been eloquently handled by the
speakers who had preceded him ; but, taking a large map of
Africa, he traced the routes of previous explorers, and lastly,
that of Livingstone. No speech could have been better
suited to the occasion ; for it brought the subject down from
the vague regions of rhetoric to the firm ground of common

sense, and pointed out, clearly and practically, what had been

already accomplished, and what might still be done if Living

stone were vigorously supported.
     When Sedgwick came to the end of his lectures in

December, he was still in earnest about resignation, and
delivered another farewell lecture, for which, as in the
previous year, he prepared a rough draft. " The state of the
Museum is the cause that keeps me here," he told his class ;

" I leave it as soon as the arrangements are more complete,
and next spring I hope to put the rocks in some order by
help of my young friends of the University." By this time

Barrett had left Cambridge, and a new scientific assistant,

                                                                                    23--2

           356 DARWIN'S ORIGIN OF SPECIES.

  1859.    Mr H. G. Seeley, had taken his place. With his help the
.-Et. 74.
           work in the Museum went merrily forward ; and Sedgwick
           soon found that he had met with a skilful and hardworking
           geologist, who could not only be trusted to arrange and
           increase the collection, but who could occasionally take his

           place in the lecture-room.
                In November of this year Darwin published his essay

           On the Origin of Species. One of the first copies was sent to

           Sedgwick with the following letter :

                                                               Down, Bromley, Kent,

           My dear Professor Sedgwick,                         November nth, 1859.

                       I have told Murray to send you a copy of my book On

           the Origin  atofwhSipcehcieIs,    which is as yet    only an abstract.   As the
           conclusion                      have arrived after  an amount of work   which is

           not apparent in this condensed sketch, is so diametrically opposed
           to that which you have often advocated with much force, you might

           think that I send my volume to you out of a spirit of bravado and
           with a want of respect, but I assure you that I am actuated by quite

           opposite feelings. Pray believe me, my honoured friend,

                                           Your sincerely obliged,

           To Charles Darwin, Esq.                          Charles Darwin.
               My dear Darwin,
                                           Cambridge, December 24th, 1859.

                       I write to thank you for your work On the Origin

           of Species...'

              If I did not think you a good-tempered, and truth-loving

           man, I should not tell you that (spite of the great knowledge,

           store of facts, capital views of the correlation of the various

           parts of organic nature, admirable hints about the diffusions,
           through wide regions, of nearly related organic beings,

           &c., &c.) I have read your book with more pain than
           pleasure. Parts of it I admired greatly, parts I laughed
           at till my sides were almost sore ; other parts I read with

           absolute sorrow, because I think them utterly false and

                1 The omitted passages contain Sedgwick's reasons for not having acknow
           ledged the gift sooner. The whole letter is printed in Darwin's Life, ii. 247.

              DARWIN'S ORIGIN OF SPECIES.                                         357

grievously mischievous. You have deserted --after a start in                                   1859.
                                                                                                      74-
that tram-road of all solid physical truth -- the true method of

induction, and started off in machinery as wild, I think,

as Bishop Wilkins's locomotive that was to sail with us to

the moon. Many of your wide conclusions are based upon

assumptions which can neither be proved nor disproved.

Why then express them in the language and arrangements
of philosophical induction ? As to your grand principle --
natural selection -- what is it but a secondary consequence of

supposed, or known, primary facts ? Development is a better

word, because more close to the cause of the fact. For you

do not deny causation. I call (in the abstract) causation the
will of God ; and I can prove that He acts for the good of
His creatures. He also acts by laws which we can study

and comprehend. Acting by law, and under what is called

final cause, comprehends, I think, your whole principle.

You write of 'natural selection' as if it were done consciously

by the selecting agent. 'Tis but a consequence of the pre

supposed development, and the subsequent battle for life.

This view of nature you have stated admirably, though
adm admitted by all naturalists and denied by no one of common
      sense.
sens We all admit development as fact of history but
                                        it                                     ;

                                                    a
                                                           a

                                                               is
                                                                      a
how came about Here, in language, and still more in
              is it
logic we are point-blank at issue. There                                 moral or meta-
      ,                           ;
                                     ?
phyj ical part of nature as well as physical. A man who

denii is this deep in the mire of folly. 'Tis the crown and

glor) of organic science that does, through final cause, link:t 

mate rial to moral and yet does not allow us to mingle                                   |\

then in our first conception of laws, and our classification

of si ich laws, whether we consider one side of nature or the

              You have ignored this link and,                            do not mistake
otha                                    it
                                                         ;
                                                        iIf
youij meaning, you have done your best in one or two pregnant                         is
nant cases to break it. Were possible (which, thank God,
                                                                                  it

not) to break humanity, in my mind, would suffer damage                                  that
that might brutalize and sink the human race into lower
              it,                                                        a
                          it,                                               a

                                                                                         |

gradfc of degradation than any into which has fallen since
                                               it

          358 DARWIN'S ORIGIN OF SPECIES.

  1859.   its written records tell us of its history. Take the case of the

/Et. 74.  bee-cells.  If your development produced the successive

          modification of the bee and its cells (which no mortal can
          prove), final cause would stand good as the directing cause

          under which the successive generations acted and gradually

          improved. Passages in your book, like that to which I have

          alluded (and there are others almost as bad), greatly shocked
          my moral taste. I think, in speculating on organic descent,

          you over-state the evidence of geology ; and that you under
          state it while you are talking of the broken links of your

          natural pedigree : but my paper is nearly done, and I must
          go to my lecture-room. Lastly, then, I greatly dislike the con

          cluding chapter --not as a summary, for in that light it appears
          good --but I dislike it from the tone of triumphant confide s

          in which you appeal to the rising generation (in a tone I c *
          demned in the author of the Vestiges) and prophesy of things

          not yet in the womb of time, nor (if we are to trust the
          accumulated experience of human sense and the inferences

          of its logic) ever likely to be found anywhere but in the fertile

          womb of man's imagination.

              And now to say a word about a son of a monkey an

          old friend of yours. I am better, far better, than I was

          year. I have been lecturing three days a week (former
          gave six a week) without much fatigue, but I find, by th

          of activity and memory, and of all productive powers, tha

          bodily frame is sinking slowly towards the earth. B

          have visions of the future. They are as much a pai

          myself as my stomach and my heart, and these visions a1            word God's
          have their antitype in solid fruition of what is best and greatest.    ,

          But on one condition only --that I humbly accept
          revelation of Himself both in His works and in His

          and do my best to act in conformity with that knowledge

          which He only can give me, and He only can sustain
          Ifme in doing.
                          you and do all this, we shall n1ce:
          I
                                          a

                                           I

                                                                       a
          heaven.                  hurry, and in                                                                              m-
                  have written in
                                                                          spirit of brotherly
                                                                             i

                    LETTER FROM DARWIN.                                              359

Therefore forgive any sentence you happen to dislike ; and                                1860,
believe me, spite of our disagreement on some points of the                                     75-
deepest moral interest, your true-hearted old friend,

                                                         A. Sedgwick.

                                                     Ilkly Wells House,

                                                          Otley, Yorkshire,

My dear Professor Sedgwick,                                26 November, 1859.

I did not at all expect that you would have written to me.
You could not possibly have paid me a more honourable compliment
                                                strong disapprobation of my book.      I
than in expressing  fIrecealny  your
                                only            say that I have worked like a slave  on
fully expected it

the subject for above twenty years, and              am not    conscious that bad
motives have influenced the conclusions              at which
                                                               I have arrived. I
grieve to have shocked a man whom I sincerely honour. But I do

not think you would wish anyone to conceal the results at which he

has arrived after he   has worked, according to the best ability which

may be in him. I       do not think my               book  will be  mischievous   ;  for
                       workers that, if                     wrong                    be
there are so many                                    I be           I shall soon

annihilated ; and surely you will agree that truth can be known only

by rising victorious from every attack.

    I daresay I may have written too confidently from feeling so
confident of the truth of my main doctrine. I have made already a
few converts of good and tried naturalists, and oddly enough two of
them compliment me on my cautious mode of expression ! this will

Imake you laugh . . .                                giving all the many    and grave

          have tried to be honest in                 or I met in published   works. I
difficulties which occurred to me,

cannot think a false theory would explain so many classes of facts,

as the theory seems to me to do. But magna est Veritas, and, thank
Gmoed,sapyrceavgaaleinbit.howFogrrgieivveedmIe
                                                for  scribbling at such length, and let
                                                am   to have encountered your severe

disapprobation and ridicule. Your kind and noble heart shews

itself throughout your letter. I thank you for writing, and remain,

with sincere respect,                                Your truly obliged,

                                                           Charles Darwin.

To Miss Gerard.                                      NORWICH, January 2nd, i860.

"...I have read Darwin's book. It is clever, and calmly

written ; and therefore, the more mischievous, if its principles
be false ; and I believe them utterly false. It is the system of
the author of the Vestiges stripped of his ignorant absurdities.

360 DARWIN'S ORIGIN OF SPECIES.

60. It repudiates all reasoning from final causes ; and seems to

. 75- shut the door upon any view (however feeble) of the God of
      Nature as manifested in His works. From first to last it is a
      dish of rank materialism cleverly cooked and served up. As
       a system of philosophy it is not like the Tower of Babel, so

        daring in its high aim as to seek a shelter against God's

      anger; but it is like a pyramid poised on its apex. It is a

       system embracing all living nature, vegetable and animal ;
      yet contradicting -- point blank --the vast treasury of facts

       that the Author of Nature has, during the past two or three

       thousand years, revealed to our senses. And why is this

      done ? For no other solid reason, I am sure, except to make

       us independent of a Creator..."

To Professor Owen.

                     Cambridge, Wednesday Morning [28 March, i860].

     My dear Owen,

            ...I want to pick your brains about 101 things.
About Darwin's theory, about Agassiz, about the Reptiles
in our (so-called) coprolite bed. By the way, I will send you
a copy of last week's Spectator. Near the end of it is a long
letter first sent to the Archbishop of Dublin1, assuredly without
any intention of its publication. But his Grace took on
himself the office of man-midwife, and delivered the said
brainchild to the office of The Spectator. The first publication
fell into the hands of the unknown Author ; who sent some
corrections etc., though the staple of the letter still remained,
word for word, as first written by him. For example ; in one
sentence the name of Owen appeared in the place of Oken,
and Pachyderms were called P^kydemics* ! I want to learn

   ^^^^^1 Richard Whately, D.D.

        Sedgwick's letter appears in The Spectator, 24 March, i860, p. 285, intro

duced by the following sentence: "The Archbishop of Dublin has received the

following remarks in answer to an inquiry he had made of a friend (eminent in

Ithteiswroeprlrdintoefd,sciweinthce)coonnsidthereabsluebjeacdtditoiofnDs,ar"wirne'vsisethdeoarnyd  of the origin  of species."
                                                                                                    corrected by  the author "

in the same Journal, 7 April, i860, p. 334. Darwin at once recognised that the                                                  1

    LETTER TO THE SPECTATOR.                              361

your views about creation's law. It is clear that there has                            1860.

been a law governing the succession of forms. But here, by                           /Et- 75-

/aif, I mean order of succession, and not a law like that of

gravitation, out of which the actual movements of our system

follow by mechanical succession. In that sense I do not

believe in any law of creation. The highest point we can, I

think, ever reach is a law of succession of forms, each implying

a harmonious reference to an archetype, and each having
indications of the action of a final cause --i.e. of intelligent

causation, or creation. My belief is : 1st, that Darwin has
deserted utterly the inductive track -- the narrow but sure
 track of physical truth, --and taken the broad way of hypo

 thesis, which has led him (spite of his great knowledge) into

 great delusion ; and made him the advocate, instead of the
 historian --the teacher of error instead of the apostle of truth :
 2nd, I think that (whether he intends it or not, or knows it or
 not) he is a teacher of that which savours of rankest material
 ism, and of an utter rejection of the highest moral evidence,

  and the highest moral truth. I must stop for want of room,

                                       Ever yours,
                                            A. Sedgw1ck.

    Sedgwick's letter in The Spectator was followed up at no

distant date by a direct public attack on The Origin of

Species. He made a communication to the Cambridge Philo

sophical Society (7 May) : On the succession of organic forms
during long geological periods ; and on certain theories which

profess to account for the origin of new species. A careful

synopsis of the paper, or lecture, supplied by himself to The

Cambridge Chronicle, shews^jaat the theory was attacked

wholly from the geological fl^^^M declared to be a mere

"Iarticle was by Sedgwick, and wrote:  now feel certain that Sedgwick is the

author of the article in The Spectator. No one else could use such abusive terms.

And what a misrepresentation of my notions ! Any ignoramus would suppose that

    I had first broached the doctrine that the breaks between successive formations

    marked long intervals of time. It is very unfair. But poor dear old Sedgwick
    seems rabid on the question." Life of Darwin, ii. 297.

'.

           362 SITS FOR RUST TO WOOLXER.

i860,      hypothesis, at variance with the true inductive methods of
      75-  attaining truth. There was a full meeting of the Society, and

           a lively discussion on the subject of the lecture ensued, in

           which several leading members took part. Henslow, though

           not a thorough-going partisan, defended Darwin ; and Pro
           fessor Clark, though disposed to agree in the main with

           Sedgwick, did his best to impart a philosophical tone to the

           discussion by suggesting that the theory ought to be classed

           among those imperfect inductions which point the way to
           truth. But the general sense of the meeting was unquestion

           ably, we have heard, on Sedgwick's side.

           In March Sedgwick sat to Mr Woolner for the bust now

           in the Library of Trinity College. He beguiled the hours of
           sitting with general literature. " I amused myself with (and
           sometimes swallowed like a glutton) pages of Chaucer, Milton,

           Shakespeare, Dryden, and Pope. I read also a good many
           pages of Cowley. And then I read Johnson's Life of Cowley,
           one of the best of the Doctor's works. I think I have, at
           different periods, read it a dozen times. And then I read

           (for the third or fourth time) Walter Scott's very amusing and
           very valuable Life of Dryden. I have amused myself also

           with comparing, in choice passages, old Chaucer in his own

           dress with the same passages done by Dryden into more

           modern English, and greatly do I prefer the original in its

           old-fashioned garb. When you come to me with your mother
           next autumn, while I am residing at Norwich, I will write

           out for you a series of comparative passages, with Chaucer's

           spelling a little changed, and his words accented as they were

           then sounded ; and I do think you will feel the exquisite

           beauty of his writing. But the work entire will not do for a

           lady to read, so full is it of gross impurity  I saw old

           Wordsworth not very long before he died. He was above

           eighty, I think, and in sorrow for the loss of his daughter,
           when I joined him in a long walk, the last day I ever saw his

           face. And one sentence I remember, not the very words, but

           the thoughts he gave utterance to : ' Whatever men may say

   LECTURE ON STRATA NEAR CAMBRIDGE.                                                 363

or think of my poems, there is not, I trust, one line in them I                           1860,

should now, in my old age, wish to blot out, because it was                                    '5-
likely to injure the moral purity of my fellow-creatures.
Some men, alas ! have been the teachers of evil in their own
days, and in generations after them V "

    A lecture, On the Strata near Cambridge, and the Fens of

the Bedford Level, delivered in the Town Hall (25 May) to
the members of the Working Men's College, and the Young
Men's Christian Association, was Sedgwick's next work. " It

was well received, and did not very much fatigue me," he

writes. Fortunately it was well reported, and he was there

fore enabled to publish with Supplement, and plate of

sections, prepared for him by Mr Barrett. In June we find
him taking short holiday in London, where the annual
exhibitions of pictures offered never-failing attractions.
   a
                         it,
                                           a
                                                                                  a

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                       London, June 2nd, i860.

   "...I turned in to see the Exhibition of the Royal Academy.

  did not like Landseer's picture of the Highland Flood anyI

better than did before. It clever in many of its details,
   I                    ;

          is                      is
but its colour  dismal and why not relieve                   by some
                                                             it
gleams of broken light, which would have been quite natural
                                                                       is
during a tempest Still     it          in many respects, a great
                ?
                                  is,

picture, and no one else could so well have painted the dead

and dying cattle, etc. Millais' Black Brunswicker                                    ad

mirably painted, but       as stiff as poker. He has very
                      it               ;
                          is
                               it              a
great power he would use well but all the pre-Raphaelites
   if

are a set of coxcombs.  I  wish he would set to work to paint

a Quaker wedding. How well he would bring out the stiff
dresses and rigid features of that honest sect, who, in spite of

forms, have become such buckram formalists....

   The pre-Raphaelite Hunt's famous picture of Christ dis

cussing with the Doctors in the Temple                       stiff, formal, but
   1

                                                         is
exquisitely painted. Some of the Jewish doctors are

                To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 16 April, 1860.

         304 HONORARY DEGREE AT OXFORD.

 1860.   strikingly conceived, but they do look very Jewish. The
         figure and countenance of the young Saviour displease me.
Et- 75-

         Mary, who has just found her lost son, is pleasing and calm,

         yet earnest. Joseph is without meaning -- a very insipid Jew.
         The architecture is fanciful, and the whole effect looks too like

         a Japanese enamel. In an upper room were two pictures by

         Rosa Bonheur. The group of Highland cattle is quite glorious.

         A group of Spanish muleteers crossing a pass of the Pyrenees

         is also very good....                      There were one o r

             I then visited the French exhibition.

         two good pictures relating to scenes at Paris during the Reign

         of Terror; but there was a picture of two Sisters of Charity,
         dressed in costume, and of the size of life --one with a sick
         child in her lap, and the other mixing a prescription --which

         had such deep and touching interest that I could look at
         nothing else while I was in the room. There was nothing of

         strain or trick about it. The calm tenderness of the nursing

         nun, and the beauty of the poor sick child, were quite

         heavenly. The colouring is very pleasing, but slight. I do

         not know what the artists say about it ; but I do know what
         I felt ; and I mean to see it again once more before I leave

         London...."

             The British Association met this year at Oxford, and

         Sedgwick not only went, but presided over the Geological

         Section. He was the guest of Professor Phillips --an old and
         tried friend -- who took such care of him that in spite of

         bad weather, gout, and other ailments, he went through the
         whole meeting, with its varied engagements, social as well as
         scientific, without much difficulty, and could speak of himself
         at the end as being still " fresh as a lark." The University
         selected him, among others, for the honorary degree of Doctor

         of Civil Law. " I was very well received," he writes, " The

         cheering was very general and very loud, when I was pre

         sented to the Vice-Chancellor1."

                      1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 1 July, 1860.

ENTERTAINS MRS LIVINGSTONE.         365

    In the Michaelmas Term he lectured as usual. "I had an                        1861.

enormous class," he writes, " including a good many ladies.                     ^A- 7
My lectures now fatigue me, and I have not yet quite re
covered from the lassitude of this morning's work in my

Museum1."

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                               Cambridge, February 1$th, 1861.

     "...Mrs Livingstone is now on a visit to a clergyman at

Barnwell. I could not go to Barnwell to call upon her, and I

cannot stand a dinner-party without the risk of a very severe

punishment. But I cooked up a lunch-party ; and yesterday

we mustered sixteen at my table in the inner room.
     Mrs Livingstone is just what you would expect in the wife

of a missionary who during many a long year had refused no
kind of labour while she was toiling with her husband in
works of love among the poor Africans, far away from any
one who knew the sounds of her native tongue. She is plain

and simple in manners, and (like her husband) does not seem to
think that she has done anything remarkable or deserving of
high praise. The Master of St John's College and his wife,
and Miss Burns, granddaughter of that glorious lover of rural
song --that heaven-born poet of Scotland --were of the party.

And I mustered two Divinity Professors and their ladies, and

several other members of the University who had known
Dr Livingstone, and were supporters of the African Mission
from Cambridge. We were all of one mind, and all of us
right glad to meet the heroic Christian lady. No ! I will not

say lady, but woman, which is a far dearer name. Every one
seemed quite happy, and we had much cheerful talk. Before

we adjourned to my first room I made a bit of a speech. I

thanked them for coming on so short a notice ; told them
how happy I was to have at my right hand such an heroic
Christian sister, in meeting whom they all felt a happiness

like mine ; that persons who had braved the greatest dangers,

1 To Mrs Martin, 7 November, 1800.

366 ENTERTAINS MRS LIVINGSTONE.

161. and done the best and greatest deeds, were often of very quiet
. 76- and simple manners -- as I had myself twice remarked when I

       was sitting by the side of the Duke of Wellington ; that

      I had another great pleasure in seeing at my table the

       granddaughter of that great poet of Scotland, whose strains
       reach the heart of every man and woman who had a soul

        to apprehend and a heart to feel ; that by a happy accident

       all these joys had come together on the poetic day of love --
      the day of Valentine ; that I trusted we were enjoying a full
       bumper of true Christian love, etc. etc. And I concluded by
       proposing the health of Dr Livingstone, and success to his

        Christian labours, and calling on them to pray with earnest

        hearts that the God who had shielded him in so many

        dangers would shield him still, and after his pious task

        was done, bring him back in safety to his native land, that he
       might spend the evening of his life in peace and honour

       among those whom he best loved in this world. This health
       was drunk honestly and heartily. We then adjourned to my
       working-room, and had a pleasant chat till nearly four, when

      they went away. A few minutes afterwards came the Porter

       round with the afternoon letters. What do you think ? In

      them were three valentines ! I wish they had come sooner,

       as they would have made a laugh at the close of my happy
       party...."

To the same.

              February 26th, 1861.

     "...Yesterday evening, under most formidable wrappers,
I was obliged to go to the meeting of the Philosophical

Society. For I had to make a motion, on the part of the

Society, to invite the British Association to Cambridge in
1862. There was no need of a long speech. The question

was a simple one, and we were of one mind ; and I was happy

to be the ostensible leader in the invitation, and to accept the
leadership of the deputation1..."

    1 The deputation consisted of Professor Sedgwick, Professor Adams, Mr
Babington, and Professor Liveing.

SEDGWICK'S AMERICAN COUSINS.      367

To tlie same.                                                                          186

               April 1st, 186 1.

     "...I am, thank God, far better than I was. My cold
is almost gone--perhaps I might say quite gone. But sleep

less nights, ill-temper, and a tendency to giddiness are the
attendants of my present life-- and ugly companions they are.

Yesterday I preached in Chapel, and I had a very attentive
congregation. When the service was over, I was very much
fatigued ; but I recovered after a long rest in my arm-chair,
and dined in Hall. I had not dined there for several weeks.

I also attended evening Chapel. Handel's famous Easter

anthem was sung, but the present state of my ears sadly

spoils my enjoyment of such noble music...."

     We must now say a few words respecting the American
Sedgwicks. In or about 1635 a certain Robert Sedgwick
emigrated to the United States. He had been in the

English army, and soon exhibited such military talents in

organizing the troops at Charleston, Massachusetts, and in

conducting an expedition against the French, that he was
promoted by Cromwell to be one of the commissioners
for the government of Jamaica, where he died in 16561.

His widow returned to England, but one at least of his

sons remained in America; and in 1748 we find his
great-grandson, Benjamin, settled in Connecticut. Through
his sons, Theodore and John, the family divided into two
branches. "Theodore was a man of great eminence in the
legal profession, and of high standing as a public man -- a
member of each House of Congress, and Speaker of the
House of Representatives. For the last ten years of his

life, which terminated in February, 181 3, he was a Judge
of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts2." Sedgwick's first

     1 A Genealogical Dictionary of the first settlers of New England, by James
Savage, 4 vols. 8vo. Boston, 1862 : article Sedgwick. See also History of Charleston,
Mass. By Rich. Frothingham, Jr. 8vo. Charleston and Boston, 1845, pp.

135--139-
     '* From C. F. Sedgwick, 24 September, 1845.

           368 SEDGWICK'S AMERICAN COUSINS.

   186 1.  acquaintance in the family was his son, also named Theodore,
           brother to Catharine Sedgwick, the well-known authoress.
Mt. 76.
           He came to England in 1837, and visited Sedgwick, but no
           record of the meeting has been preserved.

                The regular correspondence began in 1839, with a letter
           from a representative of the other branch, Charles F. Sedg
           wick, commonly called General Sedgwick, because he had
           held a commission as Major-General in the militia of Connec
           ticut, grandson to the above-mentioned John Sedgwick. He
           was fond of antiquarian pursuits, and asked some questions
           about the origin of the family. Sedgwick's reply was shewn
           to his correspondent's cousins, and they in turn desired to
           become better acquainted with the writer. "Our whole
           family here," the General wrote, " is exceedingly clannish.
           We are few in number, and we all entertain very strong
           feelings of attachment and affection for each other, and for
           all in your country who bear the name. I have shewn your
           letters to Miss Sedgwick, and she appeared to receive the
           commendatory notice which you took of her works as coming

           from a brother, whose good opinion she most highly prized1."

           The General's youngest son, born in 1845, was called Robert
           Adam, " the first name in honour of the common progenitor
           of our family, and the other in testimony of our high respect

           for Professor Sedgwick*."
                The correspondence, begun as above stated in 1839, was

           continued in annual letters, by which the writers were made
           acquainted with the details of each other's family history,

           daily life, and opinions on political and social questions.

           In fact, Sedgwick became as intimate with the General, and

           to a certain extent with Miss Sedgwick also, as people
           can become who never meet. He resisted all efforts to
           persuade him to cross the Atlantic, though nearly every
           letter contains a pressing invitation, and promise of a warm

           welcome. " Were I a man of fortune and leisure," he wrote

           1 From General Sedgwick, 3 May, 1845.  2 Ibid.

          SEDGWICK'S AMERICAN COUSINS.                  369

"Ito Miss Sedgwick in 1853,  should not long hesitate in         1861.

responding in person to such kind words-- nothing doubting

about my welcome in your hospitable land ; and I should like

to see, in its youth, that country which bids fair to become

the most powerful confederation of free men upon the whole

face of the earth. But for the great moral blot in your

Southern States, your giant strength would, in a very few

years, out-match any European combination that could be

brought against it. Your national sins are your national

weakness ; and 'tis well that it is so ordered. Were it not so,
how could we say that in the physical and moral laws of

nature, God had shewn Himself a moral governor of the world,

and a hater of sin ? But for this one dismal blot the United

States would very, very soon, be far too strong for the nations
of the old world."

In the spring of 1861 Miss Sedgwick wrote to say that

her grandniece, Miss Susan Ridley Sedgwick, granddaughter

of her brother Theodore, was about to visit England with her

aunt, Miss Ashburner. Theodore Sedgwick had married

a Miss Ridley, who claimed to be of the same stock as the

martyr-Bishop. There was therefore a double reason for the

visit to Cambridge, to see her cousin, and her ancestor's

college, portrait, etc. Sedgwick was out of health and in

bad spirits, but he promptly wrote and begged them to come ;

and when the visit took place he exerted himself to the

utmost to shew them Cambridge and Ely. A few days

afterwards he wrote : " I think it a very great gain that

whenever I may hereafter write to any of my American
friends whom I have never seen I may think of you whom I

have seen ; and that will give a better life to my letters. For

I think of you now, and I hope to do so as long as my old

age is lengthened out, as my dear friend and my sweet

American cousin. May God ever love and bless you1!"

Some months later Miss Sedgwick sent him the following

letter :

          1 To Miss S. R. Sedgwick, 1 April, 1861.

S. II.                                              24

                           LETTER FROM CATHERINE SEDGWICK.

  ,86,.                                                                 Stockbridge, November 19M, 1861.
Mt. 76.
                    My dear and honoured cousin and friend,

                       It is a long time since I have had any direct communica
         tion with you, and yet I rejoice in believing that during the past

         year our relations have been most pleasantly extended, and our
         sympathies multiplied. Your name has become more familiar in our

         households since my friend Anne Ashburner and my dear niece have
         entered into the circle of your family lovers. They cherish the
         most happy and grateful memories of their visit to you, and my
         sister, Susan's grandmother, begs me to repeat her sense of your
         kindness. ...You have made us all love you.

              We have been gratified by the warm interest you have expressed
         in the condition of our country. We could not doubt that you felt

         is it,     but we have been so much surprised and disappointed by the
               general tone of English sentiment relation to us that our faith in
                                    is                                     good deal disturbed. And
                                                       in

                                                             a
               our Anglo-Saxon kindred has been
                                       the ignorance of our government that
               what most amazes us

                    betrayed in the declaration, constantly repeated, that we are
               fighting for nothing. ...We had fondly thought -- some of us -- that no

               English head could fail to comprehend, no English heart be slow to
               feel, the necessity of supporting such government as ours, and
                                                                           a
                                                                                      is
               maintaining the glorious institutions bequeathed to us by our fathers.
         And that we did understand and value them
                                                                                          well proven by the
               uprising of the North, banded together as one man....
                   A relative of yours -- not your correspondent but                           his  nephew --

               commands brigade in McLellans army. He was trained soldier,
                           It A a                                                                   a
                                                                                                                   is
               was in the Mexican service, and said to be one of our very best
                                       a
                                             is
               generals'.          nephew of mine, son of my beloved brother Charles,

               his aids.         pleases me that in any emergency they will stand shoulder

               to shoulder, for both are true-hearted, and kindred-loving men....

                    Btouthearleaovfeyotuhriswaelllf-aarbes--orbthinagtI  subject  to tell you  dhizozwinedsessairtoubsayw--e
                                                                        you keep   gout and
               are

         and how grateful we are for every particular of your domestic life and
         enjoyment. My love to all my dear cousins, and tell them to believe

         the good northern stock will show blood God bless and preserve you.
                                                                        !

                                    Yours gratefully and affectionately,

               To Mrs Barnard (Miss Hens low).                                    C. M. Sedgwick.

                    My dearest Annie,                                   Cambridge, April \8th, 1861.

                                   am again forgetting that you are not now a
         2
               21

                         2I

                                                                           i.
                                                                               is

                                                                                                                       of
                       General John Sedgwick, killed at the battle of Spottsylvania, in May, 1864.
               His character and military distinctions are stated at length in Personal Memoirs
               U. S. Grant, vols. 8vo. New York, 1886, ii. 220, 540.

                       William Dwight Sedgwick, wounded at the battle of Antietam, 17 September,

               1862, died 29 September. A life of him given in Harvard Memorial Biographies,
                 vols. 8vo. Cambridge (Mass.), 1867, 167 -- 176.

LAST VISIT TO HENSLOW.  371

child, but a wife and a mamma. May God bless you and all                           1861.

whom you best love ! My old hand so shakes that I can                                   I6-

hardly hold my pen, and Dr Paget has commanded me again

and again to write no letters. So I must be short; and I shall

have the double pleasure of writing to my dear god-daughter,
and of breaking the doctor's orders.

     On Saturday last I went to see your dear father. He was

calm, resigned, and quite happy. Though under bodily

suffering he was full of peace and love. I never saw and
conversed with a human being (and I have watched some

pious Christian death-beds) whose soul was nearer heaven.
He sometimes prayed, he said, to be set at liberty, but not,

he hoped, impatiently; and he constantly prayed that his God

and Saviour would support him in his last moments. I often
repeat, he added, the words of our Burial Service: 'Suffer
me not, in my last hour, for any pain of death, to fall from

thee.' Though emaciated, and with a white beard (for they
do not tease him with shaving), he looks like himself. He has

his own sweet natural expression. His looks are the looks of
hope and peace and Christian love. When I first saw him I

was not shocked, because he looked so calm and happy ; but

I was moved and deeply affected, and I stooped down and

kissed his cheek, and he grasped my hand and thanked me.

He then said to Dr Hooker: ' Interpret for me ; my voice is

feeble, and Sedgwick is deaf.' So we began in that way for

a sentence or two. ' No,' I said, 'we can do better than that.'
So I knelt down, and put my face close to his, and he put his

right arm round my neck, and in that position we had our

loving talk together.

     The doctors say there is no hope of recovery whatever;

but he is still strong and has not at all the look of a man at

the point of death. If I were to trust my own judgment, I

should say that he might live some weeks yet, and but for the

doctors (who ought to know best) I should still have some
hopes of his restoration to better health

    I ate lunch with them below-stairs ; and then again I took

                                                                           24-- 2

         372 LAST VISIT TO HENSLOW.

  1861.  my place on my knees by my beloved friend's bedside1.

Mi. 76.  After I had done so he asked your sister to bring a pillow for

         me to kneel upon. Was not that just like your dear father ?

         I remained almost a quarter of an hour, and then the post-

         chaise that was to take me to Bury St Edmunds drove to the
         door. I then took a tender leave of the dear party ; and, if

         your papa's life be lengthened, I mean to go again to see him.
             I am suffering by gout, and by attacks of giddiness. This

         day week when my man came in the morning he found me
         lying on the floor and unable to rise. The fit came on by a
         strong dose of over-stimulating gout-medicine which got into

         my head. Since then Paget has set me almost right again ;

         and now see how I have broken his positive orders! Give my

         kind remembrances to the Major.

                                             Ever your loving godfather,

                                                                    A. Sedgwick.

              Sedgwick divided the summer between visits to the seaside,

         to Yorkshire, and to various friends. Among the latter was

         the lady whom he had known at Norwich in 1836 as Miss
         Caroline Clarke *, and who now had become the wife of Canon

         Guthrie of Bristol. "I count it as one of the blessings of my

         old age," he wrote, " that I have been again established as her

         dear friend and frequent correspondent, after an interruption

         of a quarter of a century, during full twenty years of which I

         had lost sight of her, and did not even know her name*." The

         next extract describes her in her new surroundings :

         To Mrs Cooper.    Dorset House, Clifton, July 26th, 1861.

               "...Mrs Guthrie (once the bright, pretty, and rather eccen

         tric Caroline Clarke of Norwich)
             3a 1                                       and long has been, one
                1
                   6

                                                                         is,

                                                                                                            :

                                                                        aI
                                                                                     iIf
               "IIn another account of this visit Sedgwick says  declare that while kneeling

         by his bedside with his arm clasped round my neck felt as                                             had been in the

         presence of an angel." Henslow lingered for nearly month after this visit. He

         died  May, 1861.

               Vol. I. pp. 453--457.
               To Miss Fanny Hicks, 22 December, 1862.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT MANCHESTER.  373

of the best and most benevolent of womankind. She is still        1861.
                                                                        76
(though no longer young) lively, winning in manner, and
of a very agreeable countenance. She is very clever ; has a
wonderful administrative skill ; and a benevolence that leads

her to devote a large fortune, and all the powers of her bodily
frame, to the good and relief of her suffering fellow-creatures.

I visited her institutions at Calne -- infant-schools, boys and

girls schools ; young women's schools of domestic economy

(such as cooking, washing, and doing work to fit them to be

wives or servants) ; hospitals, etc. And in a day or two I

hope to go over the great hospital at Bristol where she super
intends the nursing. For practical good I never knew her

match...."

     In September Sedgwick attended the meeting of the
British Association at Manchester. He was one of the Vice
Presidents of the Geological Section, of which Murchison
was President. The occasion seemed propitious for bringing
about some sort of reconciliation. "But what did he do?"
writes Murchison to Whewell ; " whilst I made every effort to
induce him to attend the Geological Section, to which I read
a discourse so prepared that I really thought it would greatly

tend to propitiate him, he never came but once, for a short
time, and made a point of attending the Geographical

regularly!" In the course of one of the discussions Mur

chison quoted the Geological Surveyors as on his side.

Sedgwick replied, very excitedly : " Of course they are.

They have been badly instructed and badly led, and it is no

wonder that they have adopted your erroneous views."
     In the Michaelmas term he began his lectures with

every intention to go through with them as usual, though at
times he despaired of his ability. But he had overestimated
his strength. " I gave my opening lecture," he writes, " but

it was too much for me. Then for more than a fortnight my
assistant in the Museum lectured for me." Under these

circumstances he returned to his former resolution to

resign.

          374 LAST LECTURE.

186 1.    To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.
     7-
                                                            Cambridge, November 10th, 1861.

              "...I finished my lectures yesterday; and gave the last I

          shall ever give as Woodwardian Professor. The thought was

          sorrowful ; but I have had warnings plenty, and it is time for
          me to strike after a service of nearly forty-four years. I
          had a large audience ; and when I sat down I was greeted by

          loud and long-continued hearty cheers1. So far so good.

               Romilly comes every morning before breakfast to help me
          with my letters. He is the oldest friend I have in Cambridge,
          and the kindest. He has a great deal of French blood in his

          veins, which makes him a merry, genial, man ; and to such
          natural gifts he has added a vast store of literature ; and,

          better still, he has a heart filled with Christian love, and

          cheered with Christian hope. He is in many respects more

          infirm than I am. Indeed, were it not for my head, I should
          be now a strong man for my years. Tis strange, but writing an

          off-hand letter like this tires my head far more than lecturing."

          To the same.

                        Sunday Evening, December i$th, 1861.

          "Before this reaches you, you will have heard the melan

          choly news which will fill the heart of every good English

          man with sorrow. The wise, the good Prince Albert is gone.

          So fleeting are all earthly joys! So fades all earthly glory!

          It did seem strange to-day to hear the well-known prayers

          repeated without the sound of Prince Albert's name. He
          was, I believe, wise and good in a position of great difficulty.

          God's will be done ! but I am very sorrowful, and have often

          had my eyes filled with tears...."

          To the same.

                        Cambridge, February 7th, 1862.

          "...The day before yesterday a railway porter tapped at

          my door with a parcel in the shape of a large roll neatly

          1 Mr Romilly records (9 December): "Went to Sedgwick's concluding

          lecture. He was in great force, but his feelings  rather overcame  him  in  taking
          leave. This lecture lasted nearly two hours. "

DEATH OF PRINCE ALBERT.  375

packed in glazed black leather. After taking off the ,86,.

cover I saw a sheet with a very broad black border, and Mt- 77.

inside of it were these words : ' By Command of Her Majesty

the Queen. In Memoriam. Osborne, January, 1862.' And

then followed two large lithographic drawings of the Queen
and Prince Albert --that of the Prince a most excellent

likeness. When I had gazed at those two portraits, side by

side, for a few seconds, I sat down and wept like a child. I

do not think, my darling, that you will be surprised at this.
We are bound to love and honour our Sovereign ; and were

she not our Queen we should naturally love and honour any
woman of such beautiful, loving, and consistent, domestic life.
And more than all this she is now weighed down by the most

grievous domestic affliction that could befall a tender-hearted

woman. And what a glorious example the Prince set to all
right-minded Englishmen ! He was a man of an astonishing
range of information. On the subjects he had handled (and

there were few subjects of literary, scientific, artistic, and

economical interest which he had not studied well) he was

never superficial. His knowledge was not merely extensive,
but profound. He had almost incredible industry ; and I have

often remarked that wherever he was he was sure to be

gaining information. And with all such powers he, by God's
grace and gift, united great benevolence, and wisdom, and
love of truth. And to all these gifts he added sweet

manners and a noble presence. He was called proud and

reserved. I never found him so. He always treated me as if

I were his equal ; and encouraged me to speak frankly to

him, just as if he had been my personal friend and equal...."

    A week later Sedgwick proposed one of the resolutions at

a meeting held in the hall of Queens' College (14 February)
for the purpose of considering the erection in Cambridge of
some appropriate memorial to the late Chancellor. He was
ill, and "in terror of a fit of giddiness;" but we remember

that he spoke with eloquence and deep feeling, and made a

           376 CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.

1862.      profound impression on his hearers by recounting, in his most
      77-  graphic and picturesque style, a number of details about the
           Prince which he had observed during his frequent interviews
           with him. The speech was, in fact, an amplification of the
           last letter.

           To General Sedgwick.

                                 February 21 st, 1862.

           "...You complain, it may be with reason, of our Press.

           But is your Press to escape without remark or censure ?
           I have, within the last five or six months, read frequent
           extracts from your journals, and many of them have been

           written in a temper which seemed to me perfectly demoni

           acal and frantic. I do admire the spirit which has led the

           Northern States to turn out their whole national strength

           in vindication of what they believe to be their country's

           rights. I know of nothing like it in modern history except

           the tremendous strength put forth in the early days of the
           French Republic. It was at first defensive, and so far as it

           was defensive, it was, I think glorious. It then became

           fiercely aggressive under the mask of liberty, and soon passed
           into a despotism. The course was natural, if we are to trust

           the teaching of history. God grant that our cousins in

           America may not founder on this rock ! I often thought,

           before the civil war began, that the fierce, intolerant, vain

           glorious, ravings of your ultra-democratic press, were a
           prelude to a decay of true rational and enduring liberty. In
           regard to the ultimate event of the war, I am not so vain as
           to enter on any speculation. I did expect when the contest

           between the Northern and Southern States began, that the

           Northern States would bear down the Southern without any

           difficulty -- that they would proclaim, if not immediate, at least
           prospective freedom to the slave population -- and that they

           would begin by abrogating all laws which recognize slaves as

           permanent property --to be maintained, now and prospec

           tively, as a national institution. But you have cast away

CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.  377

this vast advantage (moral as well as physical) to the dogs.                              1862.
Your statesmen recalled Fremont (regarded by us as a man                                ^x- 77-

of wisdom, courage, and high principle); you have been

committed to the maintenance of the degrading cruel insti
tution of domestic slavery, and thereby thrown a dark shade
over the brightness of your great country. With such facts

before them, good Englishmen find it hard to believe that the

Northern States are God's noble champions in the cause of
rational liberty and Christian freedom ; and I know many
sober-minded men who contend (and I think, believe) that the
mitigation of the evils of slavery, and its ultimate abolition,

would be more speedily secured by the victory of the South
ern States rather than by the triumph of the Northern. You
may call this paradoxical ; and I am not now stating my own

opinions, but it is upheld by very plausible arguments I can

hardly so much as allude to. If you trample down the

Confederate States, and keep a promise to which your govern

ment is formally pledged, we shall then see a mighty Republic,
with a vast military strength, with slavery as one of its accepted
institutions, and with a spirit of aggressiveness which may
and will lead it to trample over its neighbours' rights, and to
spread domestic slavery over the lands of Christian freedom..."

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                          Cambridge, March 12th, 1862.

     "...This morning came Edleston1 and told me that Fisher*
breathed his last yesterday. The news did not surprise
me; but it is a solemn thing to hear that one with whom

we have lived familiarly, and spent many pleasant and social
hours, has been called away. Few, very few, of my old
friends are now left. But God has been very merciful to me,

and I still have a heart to feel brotherly love, and to rejoice
in the society of generations below my antiquated date...."

     1 Rev. Joseph Edleston, one of the Senior Fellows of Trinity College, now
Vicar of Gainford.

     5 Rev. John Hutton Fisher, B.A. 1818, Fellow of Trinity College and Vicar of
Kirkby Lonsdale.

           378 ROSSALL SCHOOL.

i861.           The next letter is of value as showing Sedgwick's kind
      77-  interest in young people. The writer, then senior boy at
           Rossall School1, having heard a rumour that Sedgwick was
           staying at the neighbouring town of Blackpool, had asked
           him to pay a visit to the school, with a broad hint that
           he might perhaps get a half-holiday granted to the boys in
           honour of the occasion. Sedgwick not only answered the

           boy's letter; but wrote to the head-master and obtained

           the desired half-holiday.

           To John Amphlett Evans, Esq.

           Dear Sir,  Cambridge, February 26th, 1862.

                            I could not reply to your kind note before this

           evening, as I only received it by this morning's post. I have

           not been at Blackpool this winter, or any nearer to it than I

           am at this moment. But I am glad the mistake was made,

           as it has procured me the pleasure and amusement of reading

           your letter of last Saturday. I most heartily sympathise
           with you all, and right glad I should be if I could procure

           you a joyful and happy holiday. And why should not this

           wish, recorded in writing, and sent by the post, be as effectual

           as a similar wish rising from the heart, and expressed by the

           lips ? But alas ! it is far easier, in many cases, to ask questions
           than to answer them. This question is so difficult that it

           requires a Master's mind to settle it satisfactorily.
                You have obtained an honourable position in the excellent

           school of Rossall ; and I trust that your whole course of life

           will be in conformity with such a good beginning. Labour is
           the condition of humanity ; whatever you do (so long as it is
           right and virtuous) do it with all your heart. Be active in
           play, and be strenuous in study. Half the mischiefs in life
           arise out of lounging and listlessness. In such a temper the

           bad and insubordinate passions are sure to germinate.

                1 Sedgwick had visited Rossall School on a public occasion, and had spoken
           of it in very enthusiastic language.

REMAINS OF MRS TRENCH.                              379

     My servant is waiting to carry this note to the post. So I               1862.
                                                                                    11-
must conclude, with good wishes to you, and all your brother-
students. By asking a favour of me you have treated me as

a friend ; and I have answered you in like spirit.

                      Very faithfully yours,

To Dean Trench.                      A. Sedgwick.
    My dear Mr Dean,  Cambridge, April 21st, 1862.

                I should do wrong if I asked you to answer

this letter, for at this time letters must be falling around

you like autumnal leaves. Letter-writing fatigues me, and
often disturbs my head, which is liable to very distressing

attacks of giddiness ; but I cannot help writing to you now

to express my heart's thanks for the happiness you have given
me by publishing the Remains and Letters1 of your dear

mother. I never had the honour and blessing of knowing
her. Till the little publication from her journals, which you

so kindly sent me last year, I had never heard of her. But

from this time forward, and so long as old England has a
good name among the nations of the earth, she will take her
place as one of the most honoured daughters of our island,
and be cherished in the heart and remembrance of tens of
thousands. Yours must be a goodly triumph, or rather a
holy joy, thus to bring the memory of your beloved mother

before the world ; through her works to bring her again

before us ; to teach us lessons of taste, and love, and daily

wisdom ; to make her our sweetest and best instructor. I
only speak the truth when I say, that, since the old bright

days when I was driven almost wild by the early works

of Walter Scott, I have not received such joy as I found
while I was reading through your volume. It gave me a

kind of new life ; and (spite of old age, and the long weary

drag of spring gout, and sleepless nights, and a torpid brain)

     1 The Remains of the late Mrs Richard Trench, being Selections from her
Journals, Letters, and other Papers, 8vo. London, 1862.

            38 REMAINS OF MRS TRENCH.

            I went on with with senses as wide awake as my youthful
1862.       ;;                                                      ; in
       77-
                       it,                                                                  ;
                                                                                                         ;
                                              ;days; and with new springing delights, which never tired, but
            became the stronger in each succeeding page. The exquisite,

            elastic, woman's step the careless colloquial charms the

            nice taste the speaking pictures the kindness the wisdom
                                                 ;
            the exquisite sauce piquante, kept down by good taste, and not;
            offending against the law of love the visions of fireside

            happiness the blessings of domestic love, all radiant in

            sunshine; the clouds of sorrow; little Fred and Bessie

            glowing like Raphael's angels on the canvass, and then shut

            out from the mother's sight by dark cloud with which God
            enshrouded them -- such, need not tell you, were the visions
            I                                    a
                                    ;
                                 I                               ;
            conjured up by your late mother's magical pen. Many

            passages read with earnest attention many made me laugh
            with a right happy heart's movement. And there were some,

            written in the simplicity of maternal sorrow, which affected

            me with deep emotion yes, and made me glad to find that
            it

                                a;
            the fountain-head of kind feeling not yet dried up within
                                                          is

            me. Again, was to me a great charm to have described

            from sight, and by such delicate, and most graphic, woman's

            pen, some of the persons whose frown made nations tremble,

            and whose deeds rang in my schoolboy ears as the actors
                                                                    is

                                                                        if
            had been creatures of another world. There another charm

            which must make the volume double treasure to the hearts
                                                 a
            of those who are most near and dear to you. Your mother
                                                       ;
            never was tainted by infidelity but while, in her days of

            youthful beauty, she was carried round in whirl of gay
                                                                    a

            engagements, she probably thought little of religion beyond

            the decency of its external forms. But sorrow was her teacher.

            There are, think, several passages where she alludes to the
            I

                        is
                             a
            great good to be drawn from such lessons. Whatever may

            have been the lessons, she, by God's grace, learnt to profit by

            them, and there     mellowness and sanctity of character in

            the productions of her later years, which (in addition to their

            extraordinary nicety of judgment and brightness of taste)
            must make them very precious to you. Perhaps am wrong
                                                                       I

             REMAINS OF MRS TRENCH.                                                38l

in troubling you at such length ; but I think you will forgive                                            1862.
me if you do me the bare justice of believing that I am

writing honestly; and you will pardon the garrulity when you
remember that I am now working my way through my
seventy-eighth year... I must now needs stop for want of

room. With heartfelt good wishes and honest congratulations

I remain, my dear Dean, truly and gratefully yours,

                                                            A. Sedgwick.

From the Dean of Westminster.    Westminster, April 14th, 1862.

    My dear Professor Sedgwick,

              I cannot say to you, how much delight your delight
in my dear mother's book gave me. Of all the letters which I have

received about and they have been many, there has not been one
I
             II

                               it,
                                                       it,

                                                I
which has given me at all so much pleasure, except perhaps an
enthusiastic one from kind old Lord Lansdowne, and, as his dwelt
more on the literary charms of the book than on those higher [qualities]

which you have found in        even that must give place to yours.
    indeed heartily thank you for your words of sympathy and

approval.
     The preparation of the work cost me                    omr alanyyinmg abnayreantxoiooums uhcohu--rs
--  whether was keeping back too much,

but such words as yours give me assurance that in the latter respect,

at any rate, have not exceeded, and receive them with deep and

heart-felt pleasure.

           Believe me ever, dear Professor Sedgwick,

                         Your very faithful and obliged,
                                                     R. C. Trench.

To the Master of Trinity College.                           Dent, May 16th, 1862.
     My dear Master,

             ...I am unhappy about the office now fill.
                                   ;                                      is

                                          I                                    I
                                                     I
ought not to fill any office of which do not perform the

duties.      have frequently mentioned this before. Martin1
    1
never grudged to do my duties but, now that he                                     no
          I
longer Bursar, he would, the College authorities appointedI if
him, fill the office of Vice-Master admirably -- no longer as an

act of good-will, but of personal right.                    I  mentioned this to

him, and he said that had, at any rate, better continue

    Rev. Francis Martin, B. A. 1824, one of the Senior Fellows of Trinity College.

         382 INTERVIEW WITH THE QUEEN.

  1861.  to hold the office till the meeting of the British Association

Mt- 77*  was over. On the whole, considering the lingering infirmities

         of my head, I shall be much better (should I attend the

         meeting) without the responsibility of any official duties ;

         and I shall consider it as personally kind to me, if you will

         declare my office vacant....  Ever truly yours,

                                       A. Sedgwick.

              In May Sedgwick was summoned to Yorkshire by the
         serious illness of his niece. When she was well enough to be

         moved he went with her and her mother to Blackpool on
         the Lancashire coast --a watering-place which he always

         thoroughly enjoyed. There she slowly recovered, and he also
         submitted to medical treatment, though he protested that his

         "old, hypochondriacal, half-gouty, half-crazy system," was

         almost beyond the reach of medicine. Under these circum
         stances he felt compelled to forego the pleasure of seeing the
         Duke of Devonshire --whose election as Chancellor he had
         done all in his power to promote -- preside at the Public Com
         mencement in June. " With much reluctance," he wrote to

         Dr Whewell, " with much sorrow, I am compelled to consider

         myself unfit for the meeting." He remained at Blackpool until
         he received the Queen's commands to visit her at Windsor.

         To the Master of Trinity College.
                                                         Blackpool, June lytA, 1862.

             "...I went to Windsor Castle last Thursday, and had a long
         and most touching interview with the Queen. I came away
         most deeply impressed by the solemnity, I ought to say

         sanctity, of her sorrow ; by her beautiful self-possession ; by
         her large views of her duties ; by the great expansion of her

         love and good-will to her fellow-creatures and subjects ; and
         by the firmness of her faith. She said that she wished to see
         me again on Friday, before I left the Castle: but she was,
         that morning, ill and out of spirits --so General Grey told me.

         She told the Princess Alice to meet me, and she wished me

RESIGNS VICE-MASTERSHIP.                             383

to see her two youngest boys. You will believe me when I           1862.
                                                                          77-
say that I was very deeply touched and moved by the inter-
view...."

     On Sedgwick's first appearance in Cambridge after this
interview a lady said to him : " You have been to Court,

Professor, since I saw you last." " No Madam," he replied,
" I have not been to Court ; I have been to see a Christian

woman in her affliction."

To the same.         Norwich, September 23rd, 1862.
    My dear Master,

                 Your letter requires an early reply. I thank you

heartily for its kind expressions, but the opinion I have so
deliberately formed is not shaken. I wish to resign the office
of Vice-Master because I know that I am unfit for the place.

My frequent infirmity of health very often prevents me,
absolutely, from doing its duties. When I attend in Hall and
the Combination Room I am often so deaf that I cannot join

in the conversation, without inflicting misery on my next

neighbour ; and the attendance in the Combination Room

very often worries my nerves and makes me ill. I have no

right -- this is a conviction of my conscience -- to receive the

emoluments, and to have the honour of an office of which

I know that I cannot do the duties as they ought to be
done. Now that I am working my way through the eighth

year of my eighth decade, there is no shadow of hope that

during the remnant of life, whatever it may be, I shall be
better able to do my duties to the College than I have done

them during the past years, while many infirmities of mind

and body have been gathering round me. With all good will

to the College, and the blessing of a grateful heart on the
Master and all my brother-Fellows, I must beg leave to

resign the office of Vice-Master. I remain, my dear Master,

                     Ever truly yours,
                                   A. Sedgwick.

            384 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT CAMBRIDGE.

1862.            The British Association met at Cambridge in the first
       77-  week of October. Sedgwick's letters shew that his interest in

            its proceedings was as keen as ever, though his bodily in

            firmities would not allow him to play more than a subordinate

            part in them. " On Thursday," he writes, '' I was very gouty;
            but I attended the sections. I did not attend the evening

            meeting. On Friday I was better. Joined in the discussions

            A great dinner in our Hall, at which I was called on twice to
            speak. Yesterday (partly to avoid my friends) I went to Ely

            with Sir Charles and Lady Bunbury, and a large party of

            Professor Kingsley's friends. On my return remained quietly
            in my own room much fatigued1." After this he did not again

            appear in public, though he received his friends at home with

            his usual genial hospitality.
                 Early in October he formally resigned the office of Vice-

            Master of Trinity College.

            1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 5 October, 1862.

         CHAPTER VI.

         (1863-- 1869.)

Receives Copley Medal of Royal Society (1863).   Royal
     Visit to Cambridge. Death of Mr Romilly
      Foundation of Sedgwick Prize. Symptoms of  (1864).

                                                 heart-

disease. Visit from Dr Livingstone (1865). American
Lectureship. Death of Whewell. Honorary Degree
at Cambridge (1866). Tour in West of England (1867).
Memorial by the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel. Fiftieth

course of Lectures (1868). Death of Lady Murchison

(1869).

The last years of a life protracted to so great a length

as Sedgwick's are naturally devoid of stirring incident.

At the same time no one who wishes to understand his

character should pass them over hastily ; for they exhibit,
more clearly than any other part of his life, the tenderness of
his affections, his unselfish generosity, and the firmness of his
faith. In a certain sense the load of years sat lightly upon

him, for though he had frequent attacks of severe illness, his

mind remained clear and vigorous to the last, and, as he often
admitted, he was a strong man for his years, at least till
after the severe illness in the spring of 1870. Still, he was
always more or less of an invalid, and rarely out of the hands
of doctors. " While they try to cure one part of my old,

nearly worn-out machinery," he said in 1866, "they damage

another. 'Tis something like putting new wine into old
bottles ; or like the work of a tinker who in patching an old

s. 11.                                           25

         386 INFIRMITIES OF OLD AGE.

  1863.  kettle produces two rents in the place of the old one." The
         least imprudence was sure to bring on one of the numerous
XX. 78.
         ailments which had been his constant companions throughout
         life; and when, in addition to these, disease of the heart
         supervened, the greatest caution became imperative. " While

         I am quiet I am well," he wrote in 1865, in answer to a

         request to attend a diocesan congress, " but I can bear no

         excitement. People may think me shabby to keep away.
         Those who know me best will allow for my age and infirmities,

         and think me right. When I appear in public they expect
         me to take a public part, which I formerly delighted to
         do, but which now I cannot do to any useful purpose, and
         certainly to my personal risk, if done at all." This necessity

         for the utmost caution, as well as increasing deafness, shut

         him out from general society; and, while at Cambridge, he
         lived during the last four or five years of his life almost
         alone. The intimate friends of his earlier days had pre

         ceded him to the grave, and to the younger generation of

         Fellows he had become little more than a venerated name.

              His resignation of the office of Vice-Master had relieved
         him of his most onerous College duty ; but he continued to
         attend the meetings of the Master and Seniors, and occasion
         ally, especially in summer, dined in Hall. He drank no wine

         himself, but he took pleasure in coming to the combination-
         room, where he sipped his coffee and told stories of bygone

         days. " I do like to see people drink good wine ; " he has been
         heard to say, " though I have no share in it ; and I will sit

         here while you drink a hogshead !"
              His academic duties, on the other hand, he performed as

         efficiently as his strength would permit, almost to the last.

         He often talked of resignation, and as often deferred it. It

         would have broken his heart to feel himself a stranger in a

         place which he had himself enriched with its most valued

         treasures; so he continued (till 1871) to lecture regularly,
         and to superintend assistants, whom he employed, at his
         own cost, to do certain definite pieces of work. " I mention

DOMESTIC LIFE AT NORWICH.                            387

this," he says in one of his Reports, "not by way of boasting;     1862.
but rather as my apology for retaining a Professorship at a      /Et- 77-
time of life when the infirmities of age make me incapable
of performing some of its laborious duties."

    At Norwich he found a life which was far more congenial
to him than the enforced solitude of Trinity College. During

his terms of Residence he could always ensure the presence of

some members of his family; and he took the most affectionate
interest in his nephew's children. Their father, soon after

his removal to Dent, had become an invalid, and Sedgwick
took upon himself the care of his entire family. He once
described himself as " an old monk, with a petrified heart, and

an empty head," but when the instincts of paternity had been

developed by his self-imposed duties, no father could have

shewn more practical wisdom in the bringing up of children,
or taken greater pleasure in it. " I expect a sudden flush of
health and happiness will come to me," he wrote in 1871, " like

blossoms in winter, when my niece Isabella and two grand-

nieces come to see me1." Norwich too was always hallowed

in Sedgwick's eyes by recollections of his earliest friends
there. When Mrs Stanley -- widow of the Bishop -- died in

"Ithe spring of 1862, he wrote to Archdeacon Musgrave :

loved her and all her family ; and during the twelve years
that Bishop Stanley was at Norwich I lived (while in
canonical Residence) almost as much in the Palace as in my
own house." In the following letter this feeling is nearly as

prominent as that of interest in his children.

To Mrs Vaughan.  Norwich, December 31st, 1862.

" I am sitting in the study-chair of your father. If you

remember, Mrs Stanley gave it me, as a keepsake, before you

all left the Palace. When I sit in it I sometimes think of
those dear friends who are gone ; whom I loved so much, and

lived with so much, while they were here....

1 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 31 July, 1872.

                                              25--2                        S

         388 CARE OF HIS NEPHEWS CHILDREN.

  1863.      A little after seven I take a hot cup of coffee to Maribell1,
         and if she have not risen before, I sit by her bed-side while
Mt. 78.
         she drinks it -- having first put some warm things over her

         neck and shoulders. About twenty minutes before eight she
         comes to my room -- we talk together, and say our prayers

         together, and these twenty minutes are, I declare, the happiest
         of the whole day. At eight o'clock a music-lesson from one

         of Dr Buck's assistants. This is sure to be well done ; because

         the child has made good progress, and loves the work well.
         At nine, breakfast, after family prayers. We dine a little

         before two. As to all the other hours of the day, they are

         too irregular to admit of count or description. Calling on

         friends ; shoppings ; drives ; walks ; the wild beasts on Castle
         Hill ; nondescript Christmas shows ; picture-galleries ; etc.
         etc. help to fill up each day --to the infinite joy of the

         two children, and sometimes to my bodily fatigue. We give

         and take lunch-parties, and occasional tea-parties. And, if I
         can keep bronchitis off my chest, I shall give my party a run
         to Lowestoft and Yarmouth. And perhaps I may some day

         show Addie how to fire a squib, and fly a rocket....

             All that Arthur writes I read with intense interest ; and

         before long I hope to devour his volumes on the Jewish
         Church.... How does he stand towards the authors of Essays

         and Reviews ?. .."

              In the first days of 1863 Sedgwick received, through
         Mrs Bruce, a copy of The Speeches and Addresses of H.R.H.
         the Prince Consort. The book was, in fact, a present from the

         Queen, who had written in it his name and a touching

         inscription.

         To the Honourable Mrs Bruce.

         My dear Mrs Bruce,            Norwich,  January gth,  1863.

                        . .It is not in the language of formal courtesy, but
         in the honest words of a loyal and a grateful heart, that I

         1 Eldest daughter of Rev. Richard Sedgwick.

       PRESENT FROM THE QUEEN.                                                             389

wish to thank Her Majesty. From my childhood I was                                                1863.

taught by my father to ' fear God and honour the King.'                                         Mt- 78-

This sentiment never left me ; and with all true-hearted

Englishmen the sentiment became doubly strong when God

was pleased to place a young Queen upon the throne, whom
we were constrained to love and honour by every bond of

duty and affection.

    Many proofs of condescending kindness I have experienced
from our beloved Queen ; and last summer I had the honour --
or rather I would call it the high and holy privilege --of

conversing freely with her on the subject of those grievous

sorrows that God had brought upon her by removing from

her side the great and good Prince Consort. The remembrance

of that audience, and the thoughts that spring out of are
                  I

                       a
                                                                                      it,
often present with me in the House of God, and still more are

they with me when bend my knees in private, and ask Him

to bless our Sovereign. Do therefore, dear Mrs Bruce, express
                    few earnest and simple words --the
to Her Majesty, in
simpler the better--my heart's true thanks, and my prayer

that God may give her comfort, and shed His best and holiest

blessings upon her, and all whom she loves....

       Ever faithfully and gratefully yours,
                                           A. Sedgwick.

To Mrs Norton.                          Cambridge,  March 20th, 1863.
                      Trinity College,

    My dear Mrs Norton,

                 The sight of your letter has greatly cheered me.I
                                                                    I
believed that your address was changed since last wrote to
I
    Iyou as my dear young cousin (Miss Susan Ridley Sedgwick);
but did not even know by what name to write to you,
nor did know that you were still at the Cambridge of the
New World. May God bless you, and make you happy
as married woman1; and long may He preserve you, so that
1a
        Miss Sedgwick had married, in 1862, Charles Eliot Norton, Professor of
Fine Art at Harvard.

          390 REMINISCENCES.

   1863.  you may see the bright happy faces of your children's children.
          J also send my kind Christian greetings to Mr Norton, and
Mt. 78.
          to the dear old lady, your grandmamma, who did me the
          honour to write to me, and to Miss Ashburner -- in one word,

          to all whom you love, and that includes, I trust, a very large

          number. There is one sentence in your kind letter which
          makes me very happy ; for it gives me the hope of seeing you
          again at the older Cambridge, and of having an opportunity
          of giving a welcome to Mr Norton.

              On the 22nd of this month, I shall have completed my

          seventy-eighth year ; and seventy-eight such eventful years !

          I well remember the breaking up of the old Monarchy of
          France ; the death of Louis XVI. ; the Reign of Terror ; the

          excitement which reached every nook and corner of this

          island ; the early struggles for the abolition of the slave-trade.
          These things stand out among the remembrances of my early
          boyhood. Then followed the rise of Napoleon ; the falling
          down of kingdoms ; the threats of invasion ; the phantasm of
          old England's doom, and of a despotic empire which was to
          be built over the graves of national liberty, and Christian free
          dom. Then came the great providential change, -- a victory
          gained over a gigantic military despotism --not by the arms
          of man, but by the powers of nature, which are the might of
          God's own strength in the workings of His Providence.
          And the same years tell us, in their history, of the rise of

          England's most anomalous and portentous display of power
          in the eastern continent. And during the same years we
          have seen the rise of England's children in the new world of

          the far west ; first breaking off from the parent stock, and

          vindicating their national freedom ; then with all the energy of
          their race (and with all the benefits of the political freedom
          and Christian civilization of Western Europe) starting on a

          new road towards political strength and national greatness,

          and advancing on it at a speed unmatched in the past history
          of man. And the triumphs of science have gone hand in

          hand with these great world-wide movements ; or perhaps it

                                                 REMINISCENCES.                 39*

would be nearer the truth to say, that science has been their                            1863.
                                                                                               78-
main-spring, and living strength. Gas-light, railroads, steam-

boats, electric telegraphs, are in my memory but things of

yesterday. Years, well remembered, were past in my early life

before such things were so much as heard of ; and yet how
vastly they seem to have changed the whole outer world of

civilized Christendom !

     It was during the period of our summer residence at the
sea-side, that I received a letter which summoned me to

Windsor Castle, where I had a long private audience of the

Queen. It does seem strange to me, when I think of but                  it it,
   believe was the first person, out of her own family, to
'' I
whom she fully opened her heart, and told of her sorrows.
                a
After the first greeting, when bent one knee and kissed her
              I                                  I

                                              '      Iif I
hand, there was an end of all form, and the dear sorrowing

Royal lady talked with me as                                had been her elder brother.

After  long interview                            left her with the deepest con

viction of her good sense, her Christian humility, her faith,

and her patriotism. Her great aim                                is   to carry out the
                                                                     a
intentions of the great and good Prince whom God has

removed from her side. He had the greatest regard for
                                                 is '

                                                            I
you,' she said, and that why had strong desire to

 talk with you without reserve.' Don't accuse me of vanity,
above an old man's measure, for writing this. It was assuredly

the most remarkable event of my summer's life. Since then

she has sent me beautiful copy of Prince Albert's Speeches,
'

           I
                 I ? It a

                                                              a

                                                     I
                                                           I;
with an autograph on the blank leaf, in which she calls her

self his broken-hearted widow Victoria.'

In Republican America our cousins may have thought us

mad for our joy and revelry on the occasion of the Prince of

Wales' marriage.                                 was in truth burst of loyalty and love

for our good, true-hearted, sorrowing Queen and was not
quite natural to feel joy when the sweet rose of Denmark

came amongst us During all this joy was in sorrow, and

low in health, but set some merry youthful hearts in move

ment, and could fill many sheets, had time, with an

          392 AMERICAN WAR.

   1863.  account of the humours, and quaint sports, and rural revelry

Mi. 78-   among the mountains of the north of England. The present
          reign has, so far, been peaceful and prosperous. We have a

          virtuous court ; a Royal household which is a model of

          Christian love; an executive powerful without any need for

          stretching the implements of its strength beyond the mildest

          interpretation of the law. Yet half a million of our people

          are in deepest suffering from the terrific miseries brought on

          us by the fratricidal war in North America ; but bowing

          to God's visitation and bearing up against privations with

          unexampled patience, and without loss of patriotism and

          loyalty; and we have freedom of speech and action, un

          rivalled, I believe, in any other nation of the world. Such are

          the phenomena presented by the old, monarchical, mixed,

          Christian, government of England ; and may God preserve
                                                                   !

                                                                             it,
          both in form and spirit, for ages and ages yet unborn May

          the same God of truth and love put an end to the desolating

          war of our transatlantic cousins! How and by what secondary

          means that to be brought about He only can tell and in
                          is                                       ;

          His own time we shall know. The war began by acts of

          treachery and treason. Had you caught the first movers,

          by the acknowledged laws of civilized Christian men, you

          might, without blame, have made them end by a dance in

          mid-air. At first all good hearts were with you, and the

          general expectation was that the treason of the South would

          soon be trampled out by the loyal men of the North. But

          opinions, as to the event, have greatly changed since the war

          it              was not the raid of few self-interested traitors

                      It
          began.              a                                             ;
                                     a
              was, in fact, the rising of nation. The struggle became

          national, and in the death-struggles victory has often inclined

          to what all men at first called the weaker side. If the South

          is  to be conquered by "servile war," who can count or
                              a
                                        a

                                                    it ?

                                                             I if
          measure the horrors of the process And                   the South

          be conquered and held in bondage,  can only be by an

          armed peace which will be fatal to the liberties under which

          you have so soon grown up to giant strength.             dislike the

              AMERICAN WAR.                                 393

temper of your Northern democrats ; it is fierce, ambitious,                       1863.
and I believe incompatible with true civil liberty. But I will                          ?8,
write no more out of what you may (perhaps justly) call my
budget of ignorant old-fashioned prejudices.

I remain, my dear Mrs Norton,

              Your true-hearted friend and cousin,

                             A. Sedgwick.

To the same.

                             September 7th, 1863.

"...You tell me that we do not understand the motives

which animate you in the conduct of the horrible ' fratricidal '
Ifwar. It may be so.
                      it had been a war for the abolition of

slavery, and the vindication of those natural rights of mankind

which were proclaimed among the first principles of your

Constitution, all good Englishmen would, I think, have been

with you ; but it appears to us that the sovereign power,
or executive, of the United States has abandoned this great

principle ever since the war assumed its deadly character.

      But your President has proclaimed freedom to the slave.

True ! he has done so, as a war-measure ; but he leaves the

canker of slavery where it was, or makes it worse than it was,

by making it a bonus to such slave-states as will fight under
his colours. I see no prospect of an end to your ' fratricidal '
war except as a war of extermination, aggravated by the
horrors of servile atrocity....1

     I say nothing about the conduct of the war, except that it
is more savage and more cruel than any great war of modern

times. Should you gain your object, it can only be by an
extinction of civil liberty (the glory of your Union), and by
the virtual establishment of a strong military despotism.

     Such are the thoughts of many honest Englishmen, as true
lovers of civil freedom, and as sincere haters of slavery, as any

man or woman in New England. I can speak for one. I

     1 In the omitted passage Sedgwick states the reasons for a change of feeling
in England towards America in nearly the same language he had used in his

former letter.

         394 AMERICAN WAR.

  1863.  sucked in a hatred of slavery from my mother's breast, and

M'. 78.  iearnt it at my father's knee ; and the lessons of childhood

         were confirmed and fixed in after-life by the honoured personal

         friendship of Wilberforce and Clarkson, and many other bright

         though less glorious spirits. Old England has suffered, and is

         suffering, greatly. No wonder she should grumble. You talk

         of war, and you threaten war, and war with England at any

         cost might gratify the rabid democratic mobs of America. It

         is quite certain that we are not now aggressive. On every
         ground of interest and principle we should hate a war ; and on
         the score of humanity we should fear and dread its miseries.

         I wish with all my heart England could hinder smuggling of
         the contraband of war, both to the northern and southern

         states ; but no English minister would dare to propose any

         change of our law to meet the new occasion. I believe our

         ministers are heartily sick and afraid of our great smugglers,

         and it is strange that the best vindication of our smuggling

         acts is drawn from the published decisions of the great
         American jurists.... I verily believe that our public men have

         acted calmly, and wisely, and with strict practical neutrality,

         during the frightful contest of the last two years, and the

         severe sufferings of the manufacturers of this country. But

         they have no power, like your leading men, to transcend the

         law.... If it be your fate to be held in union as a military

         despotism, mankind will suffer by and you yourselves will
         if
           Ibe of all sufferers the greatest.

                     aIt was

                                   I is

                                    I

                                                                   '

                                          I

                                                                 it,

                                                      I'
                                                             I

                                                                           I

                                                                                                        is
                 dream of my early life that  might some

         day settle in North America.         am too old to dream now,

         and were a dreamer should not feel any longing to

         be naturalized in a country desolated by civil war. was in

         our House of Lords when the old Iron Duke brought in

         the Bill for Catholic Emancipation.  have known much of

         the miseries of war,' he said, and of all war, civil war the

         most horrible. This our alternative: the present Bill, or

         civil war in Ireland.'  remain, my dear cousin,

         Gratefully and affectionately yours, A. Sedgw1ck."

COPLEY MEDAL.                                  395

     In November Sedgwick learnt that the Council of the                         1863.
                                                                                       78,
Royal Society had awarded to him the Copley medal, the
highest honour in their power to confer, " for his observations
and discoveries in the Geology of the Palaeozoic Series of
Rocks, and more especially for his determination of the
characters of the Devonian System, by observations of the
order and superposition of the Killas Rocks and their fossils,
in Devonshire1." This "very agreeable and unexpected news"
gave him much pleasure --a pleasure that was enhanced when

he learnt that the award had been suggested in the first
instance by his old friend Sir Philip Egerton, actively promoted

by Professor Owen, and carried against so distinguished a

competitor as Mr Darwin. "That this well-earned recognition
has been long deferred," wrote Dr Falconer, " I freely admit ;

but the race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to

the strong, and I trust that the Copley Medal will gratify you,
at least to a fraction of the extent to which it has gratified all
your scientific friends -- the geologists and palaeontologists
more especially. You must admit that the voice of the
geologists has had an important share in the decision ; and if
they have sinned before, is the door of reconciliation to be
always closed against them ? Within the last ten or twelve

years much young blood has been imported into the Geological

Society, and that young blood cannot understand why there
should be perennial estrangement between it and one of the

leading minds which shaped geology into an inductive

science." Sedgwick's own feelings will be best understood

by a few extracts from his answers to his correspondents :

To Dr Hugh Falconer.

                                                 Cambridge, November qth, 1863.

    "...Pleasures would be withered things if we could not
impart them ; and our joys would be but lamp-light in
a dungeon if there were no friends to rejoice with us. I

do from my heart thank you for your genial and much-

1 Proceedings of the Royal Society, xiii. 31.

         396 COPLEY MEDAL.

  1863.  prized congratulations. I cannot describe my mixed feelings
         0f j0y and surprise when I received General Sabine's letter
Mt. 78.  on Friday evening. For years I have considered myself

         on the retired list. The pressure of advancing years and the
         alarming attacks of giddiness which many times during three

         successive years brought me to the ground, drove me from all

         exciting field-labours, and still more made me incapable

         of any labour of the closet requiring continued thought. But
         by a life of systematic idleness ; by very early hours ; by

         great temperance, and the avoiding of all external excitements,

         I am again a strong man -- considering that I am passing into
         the 4th quarter of my 78th year. God willing I shall be up

         at the anniversary of the Royal Society...."

         To Professor Clark.  Trin. Coll., November 1oth, 1863.
             My dear Clark,

                         I have had many warm congratulations from my
         friends in Cambridge on the occasion of the award of the
         Copley Medal ; but your kind note, above all of these

         greetings, came home to my heart and bosom, and produced

         the deepest emotion of grateful joy. With my whole soul I

         thank you for your true-hearted congratulations. The past
         year has to me been one of much anxiety and domestic
         sorrow. But a bright gleam of light seems to have pierced
         the gloom that was about me. We have now entered on our

         60th year of academic life. In this long long period I never
         exchanged a bitter word with you ; but I have experienced

         numberless acts, and words, and looks, of kindness, while we
         have been striving onward side by side. It is charming now
         in this evening of my life to be cheered by the kind words of
         so old and loved a friend. Our sand is nearly run out; I
         trust that God will forgive and bless us both ; and allow us to
         slide gently out of the world, whenever He may in His secret
         counsels resolve to call us away. I remain, my dear Clark,

         affectionately and gratefully yours,  A. Sedgwick.

ANNIVERSARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY.                                           397

To Sir Philip Egerton.    Cambridge, November \i,th, 1863.                               1863.
    " I have had several  very delightful letters since the
                                                                                       Mt. 78.

award of the Copley medal was announced to me. Yours

must be put before the rest in my grateful remembrance, for

you took the initiative. The knowledge of this fact will make

the honour all the more precious to me. It was a very

unexpected honour ; for I considered myself as quite out of
count.... For a good many years I was the hardest working-

member of the Geological Society, and I never had a geolo

gical secret in my life. I have published little, but it is a joy
to me in my old age to find that what I have done is thought

worthy of such a mark of public honour...."

     But of all the letters received on this occasion probably
none gave Sedgwick so much pleasure as that of his geolo
gical friend and ally, Professor Phillips. " I hope," he wrote,
" by a change of my lecture-day to be your henchman on the
30th, and to protect you from assault while you drink of the
' loving-cup,' as we of Yorkshire do."

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                       Cambridge, December 1st, 1863.

    ...There was a large meeting [of the Royal Society] -- I

should think almost two hundred. After the details of audit

and other routine matters the President (General Sabine)
announced the medals of the year, and then stated the

grounds on which the awards had been made. The award of
the Copley Medal -- the highest honour they had to give--

was to Professor Sedgwick. Loud cheers followed from all

sides of the room ; and then my long services were enume
rated with ample praise -- far more ample, my dear Isabella,

than your old uncle deserves ; and may God preserve his old

head from vanity, and his heart from self-love !'...

    At six we dined --a party of fifty-five or fifty-six, if
I counted right. Some honoured friends of mine were

     1 General Sabine's address -- an admirable resumi of Sedgwick's    geological
work -- is printed in the Royal Society's Proceedings, xiii. 31 -- 35.

         398 ANNIVERSARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY.

  1863.  there. I sat between Professor Owen and Dr Falconer....

Ex. 78.  The President stated, in a short address, that the Copley
         Medalist must have the first flowers of their greeting, and
         the first proof of their sympathy, etc. I of course replied, and

         at considerable length, and with some excitement ; for after

         drinking my health they all rose and gave me three times
         three cheers. We had no reporters, and I could no more

         report what I said than the man in the moon. I should have

         been a cold-hearted dolt, unworthy of such a reception, had I

         not been greatly moved by it. But there was a solemnity in

         my happiness from this remark that forced itself upon me :

         I was not greeted by my dear old friends and fellow-labourers.

         Hardly one was there. They had been called to their account
         before me. Many of my loud warm congratulations came
         from the sons of my dear old friends, who said they came to

         wish me double joy because their fathers in bygone years had
         loved me.... I was back at my lodgings about ten. John
         Conybeare --a son of the late Dean of Llandaff -- accompanied
         me to my door...."

              One faint echo of his speech has been preserved. He said
         that " after half a century of labour, the award brought back

         something of the feelings of youth, and made him feel ready
         for work again." He was followed by Phillips, who proposed
         the health of the President, and told how, some forty years

         before, when he was a beginner in geology, he had come
         across Sedgwick, riding on a miner's pony -- and how they

         had worked together ever since1.

         To Rev. A. P. Stanley.               Norwich, December 27 th, 1863.
             My dear Arthur,

         I only heard yesterday evening that your mar

         riage took place on Wednesday last. The Times comes to

         me every day, yet I seldom look at the domestic news ; but

         this joyful news was discussed, with many heartfelt good

              1 The Reader, Vol. ii. p. 666.  The story is told at length by Phillips himself
         in Nature, 6 February, 1873.

MARRIAGE OF REV. A. P. STANLEY.                     399

wishes, at the Deanery, where I dined yesterday with a family    1864.
                                                                       79-
party. One lady remarked that there had been a fear the

marriage ought to be postponed, from the domestic sorrow

that had come to the family of the bride. I replied that

delay would have been quite wrong, that marriage was the

most solemn contract which could be made between God's

children, that it had His most holy sanction, and that husband

and wife were to be sharers in the sorrows of life, as well as

in its joys. Both you and the dear lady whom God hath

given to you have tasted sorrow. But the sounds of sorrow

may become sweet music to the ear and heart when they are

reflected back in softer tones from heaven. I only speak the
truth when I say that some of the most lasting and pleasur

able emotions of my life arise from the thoughts of those who

are gone. But I am an old man, too old to have many

dreams about the gilded pageants of this life. You and the

dear lady who is now a part of yourself, have, I trust, many,

many years of happy useful life before you. Sorrows came

early to you both. May the latter half of your lives be very

bright and lovely, and as free from all clouds as is compatible

with the atmosphere in which we breathe....

    I asked God to bless you both after I rose ; and when
I thought of your marriage, I thought at the same time of

your father and mother, and brothers and sisters, and of the

familiar Christian names by which you were always described

by the lips of those who loved you. So I naturally fell into

the old address. You are still a Canon, and therefore I do
not fear you ; but the moment you become a Dean, I shall

become more respectful. But Canon or Dean, or whatever

you may become, I shall always remain gratefully and affec

tionately yours,      A. SEDGWICK.

To the same.          Norwich, January \2th, 1864.

    My dear Mr Dean,

...On my table last night I found a copy of

The Times; and in one of the columns of the said Times

         400 CONGRATULATES DEAN STANLEY.

 1864. I found that Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, Doctor of Divinity,
Mi. 79. &c &c hacj been installed Dean of Westminster. So now,

          Mr Dean, you have gone leap-frog over my old withered
         head. I bow to you with all humility, and I trust that in
           the Deanery you and your lady will live the perfect models
           of domestic love and happiness. The situation is only one

           step below the episcopal throne ; nay, in your case, you are
          on the crowning level of your cathedral. I was afraid that

           your working powers might be absorbed in the worrying

         details of a diocese ; and I was right glad when I heard that
          you were to be Dean of Westminster. I remember well

           meeting Bishop Kaye at the Deanery of Bristol in 1820,
           when he was coming to enter on the dignity of the Episcopate.
           He had mounted a full-bottomed wig (Bishops in those days

            had brains to take care of, and did not scud under bare poles

           as they foolishly do now), and when we shook hands he for

          a moment lost his dignity in a laugh, which shook the said
         wig, and made its several hairs uncurl themselves --at least
         so it seemed to my eyes. I congratulated him on his eleva
          tion, which might give an enlarged sphere of honour and

         usefulness to his literary labours. 'No! no!' he replied,
         earnestly, ' there is an end of my literary labours. I am now

           an operative.' I think I am quoting his words correctly.
          In a certain sense, all good men (yes ! and all good women
           still more) are operatives ; and may your sickle long show
           good service in reaping many a rich literary harvest ! grain
          of that kind, if sound, will last as long as the live corn found
           in the mummy-cases of Egypt. There is a time for all
           things ; and my working days are over ; alas ! with little

         to show, though I am now close upon my 80th year. I have

           for the last fortnight been reading nursery tales, and poking
           nursery rhymes out of the old and long undisturbed lurking-
           places of my memory, and teaching my young people to

         skate ; but I deputed my servant to be posture-master on

           the ice. 'Tis a shame to pester a Very Reverend Doctor

         with such nursery gossip. I trust you will accept from me a

               DEATH OF MR HORNER.                       401

happy New Year: --and you (now that you are married) has          1864.
a genuine plural meaning. You must come and see Norwich.                79-
I should indeed be proud to show some improvements to you

and Lady Augusta. The dear old friends alas ! are all
gone --excepting one weather-beaten old Professor ; but the

city, as it now smites the senses, is much improved. But

come and see.

        Ever, Mr Dean, your firm-hearted old friend,

To Sir Charles Lyell.                 A. Sedgwick.

                                      March 13th, 1864.

"...I received the news of Mr Horner's death with much

surprise and sorrow, for I had not heard of his illness. He

was the last remaining friend of my early geological life. I

experienced from him many acts of good-will and kindness,

and I associate him in memory with Buckland, Conybeare,

Greenough, Fitton, John Taylor, and some others. All are
gone, and I am remaining like a dried log, that shews the

high-water mark of bygone days...."

To Mrs Barnard.

                          Cambridge,  March 20th, 1864.

My dearest god-daughter,

               Indeed I am grateful to you for writing to me....
    As for myself, I am in better health than I have been, for

several years, during this season of early spring. The infirmi

ties of old age are gradually creeping over me. I am much
more deaf than I was when you last saw me, and I have lost

nearly all my teeth. But what can you expect from such a

weather-beaten old fellow as your god-father ?

     Of my oldest stock of friends --men nearly of my own
standing -- only two are left in Cambridge, and I am often

compelled to live in solitude. Professor Pryme was several

years my senior, but I can no longer count him, as he has

ceased to reside in the University. Dr. Clark is still here.
He and I were of the same year; but he has become feeble,

and is very seldom seen. Last year he had a stroke of para-

s. II.                                26

            402 CHANGES IN CAMBRIDGE.

1864.       lysis, from which, however, he is wonderfully recovered, and
       79-  his mind is quite entire and bright. Romilly is still here, but
            he lives in a house on the outskirts of Cambridge, and never

            dines in Hall. I now and then go and drink tea with him,

            when the weather is mild ; and then we talk of old days and
            old friends, and have plenty of old-fashioned gossip. He is

            as kind and genial as he ever was, but he is very infirm, and

            is compelled by a disease of the heart to avoid excitement,
            and to live by strict rules. But if some of your old friends

            are a little the worse for wear, we have a rising generation

            full of youthful joys and hopes. And the town is improving.
            The interior of St Mary's church is now become beautiful,

            and Golgotha and its wigs are no longer to be seen1. All

            Saints' ugly church will soon be away, replaced by a hand

            some church which is fast rising in the garden opposite the

            gates of Jesus College. New Museums and Lecture Rooms
            are rising up in the old Botanic Garden. The Fellows of St

            John's will cut us all out. They have swept away one side
            of a street; and are building a chapel which, when finished,

            will be the most perfect Gothic structure of our times.

                Before I conclude I send you an old man's blessing. May

            God bless and long preserve you, my dear god-daughter !
            How different my life is from what it was in by-gone years,

            when I used to run up to Parker's Piece and drink tea with

            your dear father and mother, and laugh and play with their

            children ! But still, for one so old, I have many blessings, for
            which I ought to be thankful. Kiss your children, and tell
            them I sent the kisses; and give my kind remembrances to

            Mr Barnard. Ever your true-hearted and loving god-father,

            To Mrs Hotson.                    A. Sedgwick.

                            Sunday Morning, June $th, 1864.

                 ...We have had a glorious festivity, as the papers will tell
            you far better than I can do. My capacity of enjoyment is

                 1 Sedgwick said he would gladly offer himself as a day-labourer to help this
            good work.

        VISIT OF PRINCE AND PRINCESS OF WALES. 403

not such as it was fifty years since. But I attended all the                                            1864.
                                                                                                               79-
public meetings except the ball on Thursday evening. I did

attend the ball in Trinity Collegea        was point of duty),
                                              a
                                      (it
and was truly happy in feeling glow of pleasure reflected
I

from those who were 50 or 60 years younger than myself,
and giving themselves up to whirl of delight and innocent
                              a

joy...

To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                     Cambridge, June 6th, 1864.
     " Our festivities went off well, without one single accident
or misadventure. Arthur Stanley, ought to call him Dean,

and his pleasant, bright, cheerful wife, Lady Augusta, occupied
the rooms next mine, under King Edward's tower. They
more than half lived with me, and multitudes of old friends
a

                             I
                                           I

                                                                                                 [2
called on me, so that had no moments to call my own
during the days of the Royal Visit. On Thursday June],

   little before one, the Prince and Princess arrived. Shoals
of ladies came to my rooms to stand at my windows, which

looked down upon the pavilion before the Lodge where the

Royal party were to assemble to give away the prizes [to the
University Volunteers]. ...Then off and away to the Senate-

House.  had a good seat on the platform, so underwent
I                                             a

        I                                           I

             I it                                                        I
no fatigue. The reception was everything heart could wish.
                       I
                           IThe Princess's eyes sparkled with delight when the under

graduates made the room shake with their loud cheers for

Denmark.             my duty that day to dine in Hall, that
         thought

might meet many old College friends who had come up

to our festivities.  did not go to the ball in the Fitzwilliam

Museum, but saw the rooms before the hour of reception.

They were truly magnificent, and the combination of the

decorations with the architecture of the hall, and the picture

of the ball-room, were of very great beauty.

Friday, as usual,             rose very early. A second quiet

breakfast with some friends.  Then off to the Senate-House

                                                          26 --
                                                                                                     2

         404 BALL IN TRINITY COLLEGE.

  1864.  to the Degrees. The Times gives you no notion of Stanley's
         hearty reception. He was opposed by a few, perhaps half-a-
Mt. 79.  dozen, voices, but they were instantly overwhelmed by a flood
         of acclamations, loud and long-continued, such as I have
         seldom heard before. Lord Palmerston was very loudly                *
         cheered. I had a chat with him afterwards, and we agreed
         that we were the two oldest men in the Senate-House. The

         lunch, or breakfast, at King's was excellent, and the boat-

         procession afterwards was beautiful in its way. I then

         returned through the walks with Dean Stanley and his lady.

         And what next? I deliberately locked my door, undressed,
         and went to bed ! About a quarter before nine I rose, dressed,

         and drank a cup of coffee ; and at a quarter before ten I went
         to the Trinity College ball-room, as fresh as a lark. The

         dancing-platform was a circle about 45 yards in diameter,
         constructed in the middle of our second, or cloister, court.

         Over it was a grand tent held up aloft by two poles like masts
         of a ship. From the great dancing-tent emerged four awnings,
         or covered passages: one to the carriage-entrance through the

         four arches between our second and third courts ; a second to

         the space under the Library, where long tables with tea,

         coffee, ices, etc. were spread ; a third into the north cloister ;
         and a fourth, very beautifully decorated, led to the Hall,
         where supper was prepared. The Hall was splendidly lighted
         and decorated, and its effect was very striking. The Royal
         party arrived early, and danced joyfully. Hundreds were

         dancing at a time on the enormous floor. Room for every

         one, hoops and all !
              During one of the pauses (while the fiddlers were taking

         breath) Lady Hardwicke beckoned to me, and told me
         the Princess wished me to be presented to her. So I went

         and made my bow to the dear lady. She has a sweet natural

         manner, and a sweet voice ; and a look and expression that
         go directly to the hearts of those who are near her.

              The Royal party of course went first to supper, on the
         dais at the top of the Hall. Then followed the others in long

DEATH OF MR ROMILLY.                                     405

succession.... I went home at two --the last ball I shall ever                   1864.
attend. I danced merrily 53 years since at the Installation
of the Duke of Gloucester in 181 1.                                            &.. 79-

     On Saturday morning I rose at seven, refreshed by several

hours' sleep. I breakfasted with the Vice-Chancellor, and
met the Chancellor and his party. Then I made some
calls, and then my rooms were beset by callers, so that
the retiring wave of our festival was as overwhelming as
its advancing flood...."

      In July Sedgwick took a short tour in the Isle of Wight, a
district well known to him by hard work in former years -- in
company with his assistant and friend Mr. Seeley. This was

succeeded by a short visit to Weymouth, another ancient

hunting-ground, after which he went into Residence at

Norwich. Soon after his arrival he had to endure great
sorrow in the sudden death of Mr Romilly1.

To Lady Bunbury.  Norwich, August 1gth, 1864.

"...Dear Romilly was the oldest friend I had in Cambridge.

Indeed he was the only one left of those with whom I was on

close terms of brotherly love during the early years of my

academic life. A cross look or a cross word never, I believe,

passed between us ; and our intimacy became closer and

closer as we advanced in life. He was a Christian indeed,

without selfishness, without guile, abounding in deeds of active
benevolence, and of most angelic temper. And with such

loveable qualities he had good sense, and an ample store of

knowledge, that made his society at once instructive and

delightful. To him I could ever unburden my heart, more

than to any other Cambridge friend, in my hours of doubt, or

anxiety, or sorrow ; and no power under heaven can compen
sate mc for his loss. ' Not my will, O God, but Thine be done,'

is all I have a right to say. Yes ! I have a right to say more.

     1 He died at Yarmouth, on Sunday, 7 August, 1864.   He lay down on the
sofa after dinner, and passed away peacefully while his  servant was fetching

something he had asked for.

         406 FUNERAL OF MR ROMILLY.

  1865.  With a full heart I ought to bless His holy name for having
         so long given me the treasure of such a friend...."
Mt. 80.
               Sedgwick went over to Cambridge to follow his friend's

         body to the grave. " A very simple funeral," he writes ;

         "everything quite plain. All in the carriages were mourners

         in deed, and not in word only. I can speak for one. He was

         buried in a vault [at Christ Church, Barnwell], where his two

         sisters lay. A place had been reserved for him. The Master

         of Trinity, the Dean of Ely, Canon Selwyn, and all the
         resident Fellows of Trinity (in the vacation few in number)
         were in attendance at the Church door. The service was read

         with solemnity, and seemed exactly to suit our beloved
         friend whom God had taken from us -- a man of faith and love,

         mature in Christian grace1."

         To Miss Maribell Sedgwick.

                                        HASTINGS, Monday, January 8M, 1865.
         Dearest Maribell (Isabella erased),

                          Though my eyes are much better, yet writing soon

         tires them. And surely my sight must be very bad when I
         begin by mistaking you for your aunt Isabella. But when I

         '/had wiped my spectacles, I fancied that I saw your young
         round face smiling upon me, and saying to me:  am not

         Isabella, my dear uncle, and you wrote to her yesterday at

         your brother's tea-table !' So out went Isabella, and you took
         her place at the head of this letter.

             I wrote last week, first to the whole parsonage, afterwards
         to mamma, and then to Addie. Was it not so ? I only
         remained one night at Cambridge ; and on Friday last I

         started early for London, where I halted, and ate a little lunch

         at Suffolk Street, and then took my place for Hastings, where

         I arrived as it was beginning to be dark....

             I am, I hope, to leave on Wednesday for Dorset House,
         Clifton, on a visit to my friend Mrs Guthrie, and I shall
         remain there, I trust, three or four days, and then return to

         1 To Mrs Richard Sedgwick, 12 August, 1864.

SPECIMENS OF DENT DIALECT.                                             407

Cambridge. So, my darling, write to me at Dorset House,                       1865.

(and may I hope for a bit of St Paul's life at the same time ?)             Mt- 80
I declare I have done one sheet before I have reached my

brother's lodgings ! So take my hand, and let us walk thither

in time for James' dinner. ' Dinner, dear uncle ! Why you
told me you had lunched at London ; and have you not told

me, again and again, that lunch in the tongue you learnt at

Dent always meant dinner?' True, my love; but the Dent
dialect is sadly spoilt by all sorts of 'pupil teachers ;' and I

may sometimes forget my sweet native tongue, for indeed my

poor old memory very often mocks me. So come along, my
dear, and bother me with no more questions. Tell your

mamma that uncle James was quite well, and looking well ;
and aunt Kate was not looking ill, and was infinitely better

than we expected to find her. She is thinner than she was.

In the beautiful dialect of Dent they would (in my early

years) have said : ' that she was paired, and terribly slyped,

but was luking up and sune wad be in brave fettle again.'

Ask uncle Thomas to tell you what it is to be ' in brave

fettle,' and what the words ' paired ' and ' slyped ' may mean.

Your mamma had the misfortune of not knowing the Dent

dialect when she was your age, and therefore I send you to

uncle Thomas. And now my eyes are tired ; and I have

been writing a vile hand. So put old uncle to shame by
sending him a letter in your best hand. And always try to

write your best. Your last letter to me was not in your best

hand. Don't get into the modern boarding-school hand. Let

your B's be B's, and not ugly things like this ^3. No! I can

not write anything so horrible as a real boarding-school B....

Don't bother your B's, but turn them with a good double round.

Tell your mamma that her big B's always sting me. Let me

try to draw a picture of one of her insects  No ! it is

not half as bad as one of her B's. Let me try again (^-l__-, ).

That is better ; but not up to your mamma's insects....

Ever, my darling god-child, Your loving uncle,
                                                         A. Sedgwick.

4o8 FOUNDATION OF SEDGWICK PRIZE.

    At the beginning of 1865 the value of the Woodwardian

estates had so greatly increased that the Council of the
Senate recommended that the Professor's salary should be

raised to 500 per annum.1 On the same day the Senate
accepted a gift specially designed to perpetuate the memory

of Sedgwick. Mr Augustus Arthur VanSittart, formerly
Fellow of Trinity College, one of his intimate friends, and
most devoted admirers, gave ^500, "for the purpose of
encouraging the study of geology among the resident
members of the University, and in honour of the Reverend
Adam Sedgwick." The conditions to be attached to the

gift were discussed by himself and Sedgwick, and a prize
was founded, called the Sedgwick prize, to be given every
third year for the best Essay on some subject in geology or

the kindred sciences.

To Mrs Philpott.

                                                         Cambridge, March 6th, 1865.

    "...No man likes to be quite forgotten; and in the
solitude of old age there is a great charm in knowing that we
have a kind place among the thoughts of our absent friends.
I have only to live sixteen more days to complete my 80th
year. When I was young, such a period looked like an

eternity: for my mind supplied me with no feeling or
experience that helped me to grasp it. Considering my

years I am a strong man : and till lately I was capable of

taking and of enjoying robust exercise. Part of the Christmas
Vacation I spent with my friends at Fakenham ; and they

afterwards visited me at Norwich, when I naturally exerted
myself as much as I could. The days passed there very
pleasantly ; but when the excitement was over I felt sensations

of exhaustion, along with palpitations of the heart in a more

aggravated form than I had ever felt before. So, after my
return, I sent for Dr Paget ; and a stethoscopic examination
proved, what I before suspected, that I had an organic disease

                             1 Grace of the Senate, 23 February, 1865.

               SYMPTOMS OF HEART DISEASE.           409

of the heart. This knowledge imposes on me (not merely as                          1865.
a matter of prudence but as a most solemn duty) the necessity
of living very quietly, and of doing my best, God being my                       M1, ^

helper, to set my house in order. Thank God I am much
better now in my general health. Indeed I am becoming

sleek and fat in my old age; but the organic complaint

is there still. If I ever exert myself in any way (e.g. if
I walk up my staircase at the pace I used to do) I soon

have a warning throb in the left side of my chest, and am
compelled to slacken my pace. I dare say if you saw me

in the streets you would say that I was walking with a

solemn dignity which did not mark my paces in by-gone

years...."

To Rev. C. B. Brodie.

                       Cambridge, March gth, 1865.

"...I was called to a Seniority Meeting; and from our

Combination Room I went to see the degree of LL.D.

conferred on Dr Tischendorf, the great biblical critic, and

the discoverer and publisher of the oldest Greek MS. of

the New Testament in the world, according to some; and

allowed I think by all to be nearly of the same date with the

famous Vatican MS.

We then had a vote whether our examiners should

admit lady candidates, and it was carried1. I was in the

minority. I think the plan will be a mere stepping-way to

the puffing of second-rate forward chits and 'bloomers.' I

hope, however, now that the Grace is carried, that I was

mistaken...."

     In Hall that day the following conversation took place
between Mr Martin and Sedgwick :

   IM. never could have believed that the University would have

sunk so low as this.

    IS. No indeed ! nasty forward minxes, call 'em !

     1 A scheme for extending the Non-Gremial Examinations of the University to
girls, under the supervision of the Local Examinations Syndicate. The numbers
were: Placet, 56, Non Placet, 51.

        EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

'865-   To Mrs Philpott.

Et-8-                                                         Cambridge, March 2$th, 1865.

            "...I thank you for your kind birthday letter. My friends
        have not forgotten me in my old age. On the morning of the
        22nd (my 80th birthday) I received eighteen post-letters, and

        several books and parcels, and a beautiful arm-chair, and

        a little box full of sweet roses and violets. So, if you will
        come and see me, you will find me living in an atmosphere of
        sweetest odours. But outside of my rooms there are no
        zephyrs, but terrible rasping north-easters. I have not gone
        out of my rooms since last Saturday, and that day the

        wild wind blew into my ears and made me so deaf that, for a

        day or two, I feared I was about to lose the sense of
        hearing.... I have now answered nearly all my letters--a

        heavy task at this season ; but on the whole a pleasant
        task. They have a saying in Dent which I first heard in my
        childhood (about 75 years since) from an old butcher: 'love

        makes o' things easy.' I began with the children, who had

        written, in laborious round hands, to greet their old uncle.

        And bravo ! I have nearly done. But I have broken Paget 's

        orders to pieces, for he tells me to write few letters and short

        ones. I am quite well if I can keep quiet, but after any
        imprudent movement or fatigue, I am sure to be reminded of

        my heart-disease by a sensation of tightness in my chest,

        and by an interrupted palpitating pulse...."

        To Dr Livingstone.         Cambridge, March 16M, 1865.
          My dear Dr Livingstone,

        I have seen in one of our Papers, that you are now

        in London, but soon about to leave  on a new Christian
                                            it,

                                                        I
        mission to Africa. Whenever, and whithersoever, you may go,

        may God bless your labours of love, and give you long life,

        and help you to perfect your benevolent plans.... do long to

        have an hour's talk with you about our beloved and lamented

        Christian friend Bishop Mackenzie, and about some other

DISLIKE OF HIGH CHURCHMEN.

points connected with the, apparently, abandoned Mission --       1865.
not, however, I trust, permanently abandoned.                           84

     I greatly dislike the tendency to formal superstitious
observances in the present day. Of course I am alluding to
the High Church party in England. The idolatrous element
is rife amongst us. We want to lean upon our own works
and merits, and count them up as if they gave us the right to
draw upon our Redeemer's treasures. We are the slaves of

our senses, and too willing to follow their lead, rather than to

lay the foundations of holy truth in the simple teaching of the
Gospel, and the acceptance of an enlightened conscience.
Nor is this all. Many of our ministers and people are in an

unhealthy craving for the office and power of a sacrificing
Priest, and the dicta of an infallible authority, that may save
them (in these days of multitudinous difficulties) from all
further trouble. This might flatter the pride of the shepherd,
and save both shepherd and flock from the toil of thinking,
and the fatigue of further wandering. But it is false to the
cause of truth, and a flinching from one of the many forms of

probation that our God and Redeemer has given us. These

subjects also I should perhaps have talked over with you.

     Speaking too of my own craft (but age and infirmities
have almost taken me out of the fields of geology) I admire

the zeal with which its work is carried on ; and especially the

great palaeontological treasures which are spread before our

admiring senses. But the Geological Society is partly in

fetters. It is not the honest independent body it once was ;

and some of its leading men are led by the nose in the train

of an hypothesis --I mean the development of all organic life

from a simple material element by natural specific transmuta

tion, ending in the flora and fauna of the actual world with
man at its head. Darwin has made this theory popular, but
he has not added one single fact that helps it forward ; and I

think that it appeared (about sixty-five years since) far better
in the poetry of the grandfather, than now in the prose of the

grandson. Lyell has swallowed the whole theory, at which I

         412 CRITICISM OF MODERN GEOLOGISTS.

         am not surprised -- for without               the elements of geology, as
1865.                                                  I

Et. 80.                                                          it,
                                                                          a

                                                                                     is
         he expounded them, were illogical. He an excellent and

         thoughtful writer, but not, think, great field-observer, and

         during his long geological labours he has never been able to

         look steadily in the face of nature except through the

         spectacles of an hypothesis. His mind essentially deduc
                                                       it
                                                                is

                                                                                      ;a
         tive, and not inductive. Now geologists have not yet

         sufficiently unrolled the records of the earth to reach starting

         point of knowledge from which to reason deductively with

         perfect safety. They may varnish as they will but the

         transmutation theory ends (with nine out of ten) in rank

         materialism which                             as pestilent in the investigations of
         I
                                                       Popery in the discussions of religious
                 I
                                           ;
                                           a
                                                is is
         material science, as

         truths, and the duties of a religious life. There                                   world of
                                                       ;

                                                                                  is
                                                                                          a
         mind, as well as world of matter and all the materialists on

         the earth will never bridge over the interval between the two.

         fear must have fatigued you, my dear and honoured

         friend. Often from laziness, and sometimes on principle,
                                                       I
                                                                   I

                                                                                 I
         abstain from letter-writing; but when begin never know

         how to stop. May God bless you, preserve you, and comfort

         you. So prays your aged and affectionate friend,

                                                       Adam Sedgwick.

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                       Cambridge, April yd, 1865.

         "...On Thursday [30 March] learnt that Lady Affleck
                                                       ;

                                                            II
                                                                         II

                                                                                                  it
         was now without any hope of recovery.                                           thought my

         duty to write to the Master, and to say all could, as his

         oldest friend, to comfort him and prayed that God would

         bless him and sanctify his sorrow. Next morning John

         brought me letter from the Lodge.             shed many tears
               I                                       I

                               a                                            a
                               it,  written in heart-anguish, yet in tone of
         when  read

         Christian submission. On Saturday the news from the Lodge

         became more and more gloomy. The hour of death was

         apparently at hand.... She breathed her last on Saturdayis
         evening about half-past eleven o'clock. It a terrible, and

              DEATH OF LADY AFFLECK.                413

in many ways an irreparable loss to Whewell, and it is a                1865.
                                                                      &** &>
great sorrow to us all. She was the Christian grace and sun-
beam of the Lodge. I wrote a second letter of sympathy to
the Master, such as I thought became the occasion ; and I am

to pay him a melancholy visit at eleven this morning. He

has taken my letters very kindly, as I thought he would, and
I believe that he has found some comfort from them...."

To the same.

              April 10th, 1865.

    "...The funeral on Friday [7 April] was just what it ought
to have been --touching and simple. The body was conveyed
by college servants to the Chapel --of course under a pall,

but without the formality of pall-bearers. Then the psalms

and the sublime lesson were solemnly read, without music.

The Master immediately followed the coffin, giving his arm to

Mrs Sumner Gibson. ...There were few undergraduates, as the

vacation had tempted them away from Cambridge. All the

resident Heads of Colleges, and other leading members of the
University, were assembled in the chapel. ...The Master bore

up as well as he could ; but several times, in our chapel and

by the grave-side, his grief overcame him, and found its

natural vent in tears and passionate sobbings...."

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                              Langcliffe near Settle, 23 June, 1865.

     ...I am looking over the green fields and sweet woodlands
of the valley of the Ribble. They are flanked by lofty
precipices of limestone which beautifully reflect the sunlight :
and, since I came hither, on the 14th inst, we have had glorious
sunshine, each day, from sunrise to sunset. By the mountain-
road (over the Yorkshire moorlands) which runs between

Penygent and Ingleborough, we can reach the extreme point
of the valley of Dent, after passing over 12 or 13 miles of very
rugged road. The structure of the country does not change ;
and the rock upon which stands the old parsonage of Dent

         414 GEOLOGICAL TOUR IN KENT.

1865.    is only the unbroken prolongation, towards the N.E., of the
Et. 80.  grand limestone rocks of Giggleswick-scar and Ingleborough.

              I left Cambridge on the 30th of May, and spent a week
         among the cliffs that form the N.E. coast of Kent. The
         weather was too hot for hard work, and my two friends, who

         toiled hard and made great collections, were half broiled by
         the blazing sunbeams. On level ground I can walk well yet
         (well for a man of 80), but the state of my heart makes it

         imprudent for me to climb precipices. So I drove, where I

         could, along the sands, or by the country roads above the cliffs ;

         and when such could not be found, I went on foot ; or halted

         at some village inn and sat upon a tombstone till my friends
         came back from 'the diggings.'..."

         To Mrs Cooper.                J unt, 1865.

         "...The letter you directed to me at The Pier Hotel,

         Sheerness, reached me on Friday morning, just before we left.

         In a little more than an hour we were established at The

         Bull, Rochester. We did some good geological work in its

         immediate neighbourhood. I left my companions (Mr Seeley

         my assistant, and Keeping, a capital cliff-workman), and

         spent an hour or two in looking at the magnificent remains of
         a Norman castle. It stands on less ground than the castle

         at Norwich ; but it is much more lofty, and the great square

         keep is flanked by four great towers that give the ruin a very
         picturesque outline --and the outworks, which at Norwich

         have quite disappeared, are seen at Rochester in grand

         picturesque masses. I also visited the cathedral, which has

         been sadly damaged, in its external look, by vile, tasteless,

         improvements and restorations, done in the worst style. In

         the interior the nave has some good Norman arches ; and the

         choir has some good Early English arches and clustered

         pillars, but spoilt, here and there, by vile attempts at restora

         tion...."

         Besides studying the antiquities of Rochester, Sedgwick

GUESTS AT NORWICH.  415

found time, while his friends were at work, to run up to                  1865.

Greenwich. "It was the Anniversary visitation," he writes,              &*- 8o-

" under the direction of the Admiralty ; and the First Lord
was there, looking as wise as he could, though I suspect that
he knew precious little about the scientific details. Like
many others, he took them all for granted. It used to be a

grand business when the persons invited assembled near the
Tower, and went down the river in Admiralty barges, and in

grand procession-order. But railroads are sad levellers, clip

the wings of time, and spoil old civic pageants. I met many
friends --some of them sadly changed by the wrinkles old

Time had chiselled on their cheeks since I had seen them.
Admiral Smyth, a right merry man, used always to be there;
he is now too infirm. Dr Robinson of Armagh and Sir David

Brewster (both of whom you remember) attended the meeting.

I dared not attend the great dinner at the Ship Hotel, which

is the crowning work of the day. When a younger man I
used to delight in the jolly dinner before we entered the

barges, and went back to the Tower stairs '." The next day

Sedgwick took his friends to see the Great Eastern steam

ship, then taking on board the Atlantic cable, and spent

several hours in examining her. For a while at least, the
weight of eighty years sat lightly on his shoulders !

      Soon after this expedition Sedgwick began his Residence

at Norwich. In the first days of August he had the pleasure
of carrying out a long-cherished project : that the Dean of
Westminster and his wife should meet Dr and Mrs Vaughan

under his roof. "Among the happy remembrances of my

long life", he wrote to Lady Augusta Stanley, "I often turn

to the days I spent at Norwich while the Stanleys ruled the

Palace. Those dear days are gone into the fathomless abyss
of past time. But I do think they would come back again --
spite of my old age and dim senses -- if you and the Dean
would join Dr and Mrs Vaughan during their promised visit

to my queer old Residence in the Close. I will give you a

                            1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 8 June, 1865.

          4i6 DR STANLEY AND DR VAUGHAN.

  1865.   warm, true-hearted welcome. My days were nearly numbered,
lEt. 80.  as I thought, last winter ; but God has given me back such
          health and spirits that I can look forward with joy to such a
          visit as my imagination is now painting. Do not dash it out ;

          but come, in your own dear personal presence, and gladden
          me, and our common friends who may cross our threshold."
          The visit lasted for nearly a week, and was in every way

          successful --"the weather glorious, and the faces of our friends

          bright with welcome;" nor did Sedgwick's health suffer from
              though he owned to great fatigue when was over. He

          had, moreover, the satisfaction of knowing that he had given
          infinite pleasure to his guests. " We can never tell you how

          intensely we enjoyed our visit," wrote Mrs Vaughan; "I

          assure you has been to us more than words can at all

          express. The lessons we learnt --the memories we stored up
          --and the delightful impressions made upon us, will never, so

          long as we live, fade away."
          it,
                             it

                                                                                 it

               These days of excitement had been prefaced by an
          unexpected visit from Ur Livingstone, who had been spend

          ing a few months in England, and was now about to return
          to Africa.

          To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.
                                                             Norwich, August i6rt, 1865.

              "...Dr Livingstone came on the second of this month by

          an early train, and left me on Wednesday the third by an
          evening train which left Norwich before the arrival of the

          Stanleys and the Vaughans. His time was too limited to
          remain day longer. He was grave in manner, but cheerful
          at heart, and full of hope. He came expressly to see me, and

          to talk with me. Much most interesting talk we had together.
          He now on his way to Bombay thence man-of-war will
          convey him to the coast of Africa, and he means, God willing,
          to open way from some spot north of any point claimed by
          the Portuguese Government. They are slave-dealers and

          Papists, and therefore, on both accounts, adverse to any
          is
                 aa

                                                                                             ;

                                                                                  a

            DR LIVINGSTONE.                                  417

scheme bearing upon the diffusion of Christian light, and                       1865.
                                                                              .(Et- 8-
Christian protestant freedom. When we parted on the plat-

form I came away more deeply affected than I thought

possible. I came back to the Close weeping and sobbing
like a child. I was sorrowing most of all, like the elders of
the Church of Ephesus, because I thought that 'I should see

his face no more. "

To Sir J. F. W. HerscM.       Lowestoff, October 6th, 1865.

    My dear Sir John,

            Your dear daughter Maria has been very happy in

her childhood and her youth ; and God grant that she may

be happier still as a married woman ! a thrice happy wife,

cheered by the brightest fruits of domestic love ! I like the

name of Hardcastle1 ! "Tis the name of the hero of She Stoops
to Conquer -- a right merry play I saw acted in a barn at Dent

about seventy years since. May she wear the name with joy

and honour, in radiant health and cheerfulness, through the

years of a long life ! and may every serious thoughtful move

she may make, be a move towards heaven ! True love is an

immortal thing. It begins here ; but if it be of the right
kind it will bear its robust fruits everlastingly in heaven. I

send an old man's blessing to Lady Herschel, to you all.

    During August and September I was 'keeping Residence,'

as we call  at Norwich. My turn of service ended on the
            it,

                                                  I
30th of the last month. On Monday came hither with my

niece and two of her daughters (one counting twelve years and
the other only four) to avoid the great theological Babel -- the
Clerical Congress --which
            a                 this week holding its turbulent
                          is
meetings at Norwich. A man who deaf as post, has
                              is                                           a
                                       is

                                           Ia
gouty temper, and heart organically diseased, and who bears

upon his back the load of eighty years,              ill-fitted for the

squabbles of High Church and Low Church.             expect no

good from the meeting and believe its fruits will not tend
            ;

                   I

to the diffusion of Christian love. May prove mistaken !...
                              I

1  Miss Herschel married Henry Hardcastle, of Trinity College, B.A. 1863.

   s. 11.                                            27

         418 FORTY-SEVENTH COURSE OF LECTURES.

  1865.      Next week I purpose to return to Cambridge, and during

Mt. 80.  the October term I hope to give my course of lectures. If so,

         it will be my 47th course ! My young people have been
         steeping themselves in the sea, and here they are coming with
         right merry faces. So no more time for writing. Ever, my
         dear Herschel, truly and gratefully yours,

                                                                        A. Sedgwick.

              " I got well through my course of lectures in the Michael
         mas term, far better than I expected," Sedgwick tells us ;

         but while delivering them he was suffering from what he

         calls "a decay of sight," and the exertion brought on an
         inflammation of his eyes, which affected them to the end of
         his life. At the end of November his sister-in-law, widow of
         his brother John, died at Langcliffe near Settle. He paid a
         hasty visit to Yorkshire in order to attend the funeral, which
         took place at Dent. The long weary journey over the hills

         occupied an entire day.

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.  Cambridge, Tuesday evening,

              Dearest Isabella,      December   1865.

                            Once more in my old College home, and now in

         solitude. Sometimes I think of you as my darling child,

         sometimes as my beloved companion and Christian friend,
         the comfort and solace of my old age. I thank God that
         I have been permitted to mourn with you in your late
         sorrow, and to be with you in your solemn duties of respect
         to the mortal remains and the memory of your beloved
         mother. This evening, like myself, you will perhaps be in
         solitude. May the Holy Spirit of God be your strong and
         abiding Comforter, so that your sorrows and your tears may
         be sanctified and turned to the health of soul and body !...

         Ever your true-hearted uncle,
                                    A. Sedgwick.

PROPOSED AMERICAN LECTURESHIP.                      419

To Mrs Norton.  Langcliffe near Settle, Yorkshire,                                     1866.
                                                                                     yEt. 81.

                            February 28th, 1866.

" ...I give you joy on the successful end of the terrible war

which desolated the Southern States of your Union. The
price you have paid has been great-- but not too great for

the purchase of freedom for your negro fellow-creatures....

It is delightful to think that whoever walks within the limits

of the United States, whatever may be his complexion, may

now hold up his head as a free man. Whatever may happen

in the ordinary course of nature, a great and glorious future

is before you ; and I trust that Providence, who has given

you so much civil freedom, and a country abundant in the

physical materials of strength far beyond that of any other

nation, may also give you a moderation in the use of your

gigantic strength, so as to make it tell greatly upon the

virtue and the happiness of mankind....

Some news came to me last night which greatly displeased

me. The establishment in Cambridge of a lectureship to be

filled from time to time by a gentleman from one of the

Universities of the United States was proposed, but the

Grace (as we call it) was thrown out by a vote of our
Senate. It was a novel proposition, of which I heard before

I left Cambridge, and all the leading members of the Uni

versity to whom I spoke on the subject were in favour of it.

But a letter was published soon afterwards by a clergyman of

the University, who wrote under the terror of republicanism

and heresy. When I read the letter I thought it sounded

like a death-knell to the Grace. The knell brought crowds of

country clergymen to Cambridge, and thus the best working-

members of the University have been deprived of an institution

which would, I believe, have contributed to their intellectual

happiness and honour1...."

     1 The proposal to which Sedgwick alludes was made by Henry Yates
Thompson, B.A. formerly a scholar of Trinity College. After a visit to America
in 1864 he offered " to endow a lectureship, or, as we call it at Lincoln's Inn, a

                                                                            27 -- 2

          420 INFLAMMATION OF THE EYES.

  1866.   To sir 7. F.  W. Herschel.
                                      Dent Parsonage, March i6th, 1866.
iEt. 81.

          My dear Herschel,

                           The condition of my eyes makes me almost a
          prisoner, and compels me to make use of my niece's pen,--

          not the niece whom you saw at Norwich, but my nephew's
          wife, who, with a large family of small children, is living here
          in the house which was the home of my childhood, and ever

          since has been the home of my heart. It was the infirmity of

          my sight which drove me from Cambridge about five weeks
          since. After spending about three weeks with my niece

          Isabella, who lives near Settle, I was sufficiently well to bear
          a journey to this place ; and I am now so much better that I
          trust I shall be able to return to my duties at Cambridge by
          the end of next week.

              At the time I left Cambridge our dear friend Whewell
          was in good health, and in a happy and genial temper. I

          never saw the house look more cheerful than it did then ; for

          some bright, clever, warm-hearted persons were his guests.

          Greatly was I shocked when I heard, soon after my arrival at

          my niece's house, that he had fallen from his horse, and been

          readership, at Harvard University, its object being the delivery of a biennial

          course of twelve lectures during a residence of one term at Cambridge in England,

          on the History and Political Institutions of the United States of America, such
          reader to be appointed biennially by the President and Fellows of Harvard

          University (subject to the veto in each case of the Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge),

          and his sole qualifications to be American citizenship, and the opinion of his

          appointers that he is a fit person to deliver such a course of lectures." Some

          preliminary correspondence with the authorities at Harvard having taken place,
          Mr Thompson informed the Vice-Chancellor, 27 October, 1865, of what had been

          done. He subsequently suggested that before the scheme was adopted one

          preliminary appointment should be made. The Council of the Senate stated these

          suggestions in a Report, and introduced a Grace to place a room at the lecturer's

          disposal. The proposal  created extraordinary interest. There was an animated
          discussion in the Arts  School (10 February 1866), where Mr W. G. Clark,
          Dr Bateson, Professors
                                  Kingsley, Lightfoot, and Thompson, warmly supported

          the scheme. The clergyman referred to by Sedgwick is probably the Rev. Edw.

          Dodd of Magdalene College. When the voting took place (22 February) the
          numbers were: Placet 81 ; Non Placet 107.

DEATH OF WHE WELL.  421

picked up in a state of insensibility, and that after a partial   81 .
recovery of consciousness it was found that his side was

paralyzed. Such was the form in which the news reached

me, and considering his age, and habit of body, I could not

but entertain very gloomy anticipations. After the hour that

I heard the fatal news I had frequent daily communications,

by post, by telegrams, and sometimes by both, with his nieces
and my friends at Cambridge, up to the time of his death.

Had the funeral been a few days later I should probably have

defied the medical veto, and gone up to Cambridge, that I
might mourn over the remains of dear Whewell along with
friends whom I love and honour, and who had a common
grief with me. As it was, I was compelled to keep away, to
my grievous sorrow. He was not only my dear and honoured
friend of full fifty years' standing, but he was the only friend

at Cambridge who was associated in memory with the joyful
days of my early and hard-working academic life. Terrible
will be my feeling of desolation if I again be permitted to

enter within the Great Gate of Trinity College. Professor
Thompson, as I learned yesterday from The Times, is to be
dear Whewell's successor. He has a reputation worthy of
the place, for he is, I believe, universally regarded as the

profoundest Greek scholar in the University, and his scholar
ship is not confined to mere elegance of interpretation, and
critical skill, but with such acquisitions he combines a
profound knowledge of the philosophic literature of Greece,
and its powerful bearing upon the literature, habits of thought,
and civilization, of modern Europe. But his occasional
feebleness of health, and his perhaps over-fastidiousness

of taste, have so far prevented him from being a very

productive labourer. All things considered, I rejoice in

his appointment, but in the vastness of acquisition and the
depth of his scientific attainments, and in his working power,

 he is not to be named with our late friend, whose giant

 strength, my dear Herschel, you were able to appreciate far

better than I could pretend to do. One thing I can say :

          422 DEATH OF OLD FRIENDS.

   1866.  that you will rejoice to know that during the latter years of

Mt. 81.        life tne infirmities which played upon the surface of his

          character seemed gradually to disappear. He became more

          genial, more gentle, and I will venture to say more heavenly-

          minded. He was a great, generous, large-hearted, and good

          man, and during the short remnant of my life I shall not

          see again his like among the members of Trinity College.
          In expressions of this kind I have in letters to my friends

          done my best to discharge my conscience, and I have never

          been able to do so without tears and heart-sorrow ; but it is

          sorrow tempered by Christian hope, and it is my honest and
          comforting belief that, in the fulness of that hope, dear
          Whewell died....

          Affectionately and gratefully yours,

                                              A. Sedgwick.

          From Professor Thompson.   21 March, 1866.
               My dear Professor,

                       I know not how to answer or acknowledge your kind and
          most eloquent congratulations. Of all the letters I have received on

          the occasion, and they have been far kinder and far more numerous

          than I could have expected, only that of our old friend the Bishop of
          ISt David's has given me so much pleasure as yours. The office

          would be an insupportable burden to me, if thought that my
          appointment was disapproved of by the College, especially by those
          great and good members of it who have made it what it now is : and
          any assurance to the contrary from one of them gives me a pleasure

          which I should vainly attempt to describe.

               That God may long spare your life to be a glory to Trinity, and
          a delight to all its members, is the hearty prayer of

          Yours most truly and affectionately,

                                        W. H. Thompson.

              A man in stronger health than Sedgwick might well have

          been broken down by the succession of sorrows with which he

          was afflicted at this time. One woe did tread upon another's
          heels with painful rapidity. Soon after the news of Whewell 's

          death, came that of Archdeacon Evans --a friend of nearly his
          own standing at Cambridge, and, for a short time, one of his
          competitors for the Woodwardian Chair; then his brother

HONORARY DEGREE AT CAMBRIDGE.                      423

Mr James Sedgwick passed away ; next, after a very short                 ,866.
                                                                       ^Et. 81.
illness, Mrs Guthrie, and Mr Harford, her friend and neighbour,

and Sedgwick's friend as well ; and, lastly, one of the daughters

of Dean Conybeare, whom he had known from a child. Under
these successive shocks --some of which affected others near

and dear to him as much as himself, we are not surprised to
hear that " my nervous system gave way, and for five weeks

I again took shelter with Isabella. I was liable to continual

attacks of vertigo, which often made me incapable of walking

without help. Isabella again wrote for me ; but my head

would not bear to hear her voice in long-continued reading.

I was kept in almost perfect quietness for several weeks1."

This affectionate care had the desired effect, and after a visit

to the seaside, he was well enough to return to Cambridge,

where (31 May) the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was
conferred upon him. We believe that he was the first resident

member of the University selected for this distinction.

To his great-nieces.  Cambridge, April 6th, 1866.

My dearest little great-nieces,

                 . . .Yesterday's post brought me a letter from Linda
Barnes. I think it will amuse you all. Mr Barnes, Linda's

father, died last year, which explains the black edge of her
paper. He was a merchant ; and he called one of his ships
The Adam Sedgiuick, and over the prow of the ship is a great

bust of your old uncle. She calls it beautiful and white. If

it be like an old face which I saw in the looking-glass this
morning, while I was shaving, it cannot be very white and
beautiful. For I am about the colour of an old saddle, and the

blasts of 8 1 winters have made my face wrinkled and rugged.

No matter, my darlings, I still have a heart to love you, and I

send you all my best blessings.

                                        Your loving old uncle,
                                                    Adam Sedgwick.

1 To Canon Wodehouse, 8 July, 1866.

         424 DEATH OF MRS GUTHRIE.

  1866.  To Mrs Hotson.              Sunday Morning, April 22, 1866.
             My dear Mrs Hotson,
jgt gi.

         I am very grateful to you for your kind note.

         Words of sympathy are very precious to man or woman

         when under sorrow. And the sorrow I have felt at the death

         of my old and beloved friend Mrs Guthrie has pressed very

         hard upon me, and almost bent me to the ground. It was a
         great comfort to me that I was able, on Friday last, to appear

         at the grave-side of one whom I dearly loved and honoured,

         and to mourn over her remains while the sublime words of

         our funeral service went to our hearts, and told us that Christ

         had by his death taken away the sting of death, and that we

         were not to mourn like men without hope. Thanks be to

         God we have indeed the full assurance of hope in the instance

         of our dear departed sister. For her faith was firm and made

         perfect by love. And for many a long year had she shown

         how well the hands can work when the heart is in communion

         with the Spirit of a Redeeming God. A more devoted, un

         selfish, and kind lady did not live under heaven. Her ways,

         too, were ways of pleasantness, and wherever she went joy

         and gladness seemed to be her attendants. She was a woman

         of bright wit ; of great natural tact ; of a judgment that led

         her, with God's help, to do day by day what was best to

         be done among young and old ; among fellow-creatures in

         great trials of pain and poverty, in sickness and sorrow. It

         is a blessed privilege to have seen and known such a true-

         hearted Christian sister, and I shall never see her like

         again.... Again accept my thanks for your very kind note,

         and believe me truly and gratefully yours,
                                                                  A. Sedgwick.

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                     Cambridge, October 22nd, 1866.

             "...On Wednesday next (the 24th), I hope to give my
         opening lecture --the first of my 48th course1 ! I trust that I

         1 This lecture is reported in The Cambridge Chronicle, 27 October, 1866.

       FORTY-EIGHTH COURSE OF LECTURES.

may begin in good spirits and good hope, though my memory is                                                 1866

more shaken, my ears more deaf, and my eyes more dim than                                                  Mt 8

they were last year at this season. The ' Early Fathers,' with

their youthful sons, and with wives to help them, have been

here in droves, and have left me but little leisure. I have

now actually written, in the rough, a part of our Memorial to

tlie Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and in a few days (D.V.)

you shall have the copy to read....

Last Thursday evening some young blockheads at St

John's were firing pistols at a mark ; and the light of my

bedroom window (just while I was undressing for the night)

was too great a temptation to be resisted. So the boobies

fired two shots at and sent two bullets through                                                    one of
is
                                 it,

                           I it

                                                             a

                                          I

                                                                                              it,
which passed within two feet of my head...."

What happened when this matter came to be investigated

    worth relating, for shews how kind Sedgwick could be,
even when he had good reason to be angry. " One morning,"
writes Professor Bonney, " when was keeping in the Second

Court of St John's, heard loud knocking in my outer

room, and on emerging from my study found Professor
Sedgwick in a considerable state of indignation. He had

come to me, as one of the Deans, to complain that the night

before couple of shots, fired from a pistol, had struck one of
       a

                                                                   I
his windows, and entered the room. There could be no

doubt, he said, that they had been fired from our College.

thought the best plan was to offer to come and see the place,

and went back with the Professor. He had good cause for

indignation. Both bullets had pierced the glass, one in

denting the wooden frame, on which had glanced, the other
making very marked bruise on the opposite wall of the
       Ia
                                                       it

                                                         I
room.  soon saw that the shot must have come from a

particular window, and having done all could to appease

the Professor, went back to College, and sent for the occupant

of the rooms in question. He at once admitted having fired

the pistol. He had been standing at his window with one

          426 A RANDOM SHOT.

   1867.  or two friends the night before, looking at the pistol, and had

Mt. St.   fired a couple of shots from it at the lighted window, but

          not dreaming it would carry so far. I said : ' This is a serious
          Ifaffair, and I can only see one way out of it.
                                                                  Professor

          Sedgwick presses the matter you may be rusticated. But,

          though he is very angry, he is very kind-hearted. Go at once

          to him, tell him you are the culprit, and ask him to forgive

          you. He will probably tell you his opinion in very plain

          words at first, and then relent.' Off he went, and in no long

          time came back to say that the Professor had been very kind,

          and did not wish anything more said. Presently Sedgwick

          came himself to say that he had seen the culprit, and did

          not wish me to take any further notice of the offence." As
          Sedgwick put it : " The offender promises hereafter not to

          mistake an old Professor for a Butt."

               Sedgwick gave the course of lectures alluded to in the
          last letter, " without much fatigue, and kept a small class well

          together1." He also attended the annual dinner of the

          Cambridge Philosophical Society, and made a speech, as

          heretofore.

          To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                                    LONDON, February 8M, 1867.

              "...On Tuesday last died Crabb Robinson, aged 92. He
          was an old friend of mine with whom I first became acquainted
          (in 181 1) at the house of Thomas Clarkson, who had laboured
          so honourably in bringing about the abolition of the slave-
          trade. That year I took my M.A. degree, and spent the
          summer, with seven pupils, at Bury St Edmund's. In the
          previous year I had become acquainted with Mr and Mrs
          Clarkson, and they persuaded me to choose Bury St Edmund's

          as the place where I should fix myself for the summer. It
          was a very happy summer. I was in glorious, youthful,

          health ; in joyful exuberance of spirits ; and I had excellent
          society. Mrs Clarkson was a very agreeable and well-informed

                       1 To Rev. P. B. Brodie, 6 February, 1867.

DEATH OF CRABB ROBINSON.                          427

woman -- a great personal friend of all the Lake poets. She                     1867.
told me much about the private life, manners, and opinions of
                                                                                    Sj-
Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge, Charles Lamb, etc. etc.,

and she was enchanted with poor Hartley Coleridge, whom
she only knew as a wonderful child. Crabb Robinson had
been called to the Bar, and was attending the Norfolk Circuit,
so he remained several days during the Bury Assizes. He
had spent the early years of his manhood in Germany, and
was upwards of thirty when he was called to the Bar.
Wordsworth was his greatest friend ; I might almost say the
object of his idolatry ; and he made a promise, that, if blessed
in his new profession of the Law, he would retire from it

so soon as he had saved a humble competence which would
enable him to lead a life of literary leisure. Wordsworth at

the same time made another promise, that, when Crabb
Robinson's plan of retirement was effected, they were to spend

one summer together in a tour through Germany, to visit its
poets, historians, and philosophers. I afterwards became

acquainted with the Lake poets, and I honoured them much,
though never an idolater of them. Many times I have heard

Wordsworth allude to this bargain with Robinson, as a dream
that would not be realized. ' Robinson,' he said, ' is working
on in his profession, and will never think of leaving the Bar,
and turning an idle man.' But, strange to tell, he did leave it

so soon as he had gained such a fortune as would enable him to
lead the simple life of a man of letters. And the tour in Ger

many, after twenty years, was carried happily into effect....1"

To Miss Bayne.  Cambridge, February 12th, 1867.

" You seem to be very happy in the selection of your

climate*. I was in Norfolk through the worst part of the
savage season. In the early part of it--the first ten days of

1 Mr Robinson left the Bar in 1828. The tour with Wordsworth in France,

Italy, and Germany took place in 1837.  Diary of Henry Crabb Robinson, 3 vols.
8vo. Lond. 1869, iii. 113 -- 138.

2 Miss Bayne was spending the winter at Torquay.

         428 SNOWED UP AT NORWICH.

1867.    January -- I bore up bravely in the Rector's house at Faken-
         ham. Kind friends ; a warm old-fashioned Rectory ; blazing
Et. 82.
         fires ; merry children ; ice as smooth as a glass at the bottom

         of the Rectory garden, with whirling skates seen from the
         fireside where I sat --such were the elements of my happy visit.

             The visit ended, I went (as I thought for one day) to
         Norwich. But I caught a dire cold on the way. The
         weather became more formidable than ever; I felt as if my

         blood were frozen. The snow fell in enormous accumulations.

         For a full fortnight I was a prisoner to my room, and, day
         after day, I saw no faces but those of my tall servant John
         and my old housekeeper and her helper. My friends, how

         ever, gradually heard that the oldest gun in the Cathedral

         battery was sticking in a snowdrift, and ran to help him out,

         driving over the mountains of snow in sledges. Wheeled

         carriages were quite out of question for several days. At
         length, however, a thaw came, and so soon as I was declared
         fit for travelling, I came back to Cambridge....

             At Trinity I had an examination of my Geological Class,

         which employed me, along with my Christmas bills, etc. for
         nearly a week. These tasks done I went up to Town to

         disentangle some legal business. ...Would you believe it? I

         longed excessively to go to one of the Pantomimes ! But the

         angry state of my eyes, and the fear of a relapse of the
         complaint which so sorely bothered my legs at Norwich,

         prevented me from indulging the fancies of my second child

         hood. I did, however, see them by deputy. For my servant
         went in my stead, to his great edification. I wish you, my

         dear Bella, to remark, that by living to the age of 82 (I shall
         count that number complete if I live till the 22nd of March),
          I have contrived to pick up a stock of prudence !..."

         To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                          Norwich, February 14/A, 1867.

            "...What has brought me to this place? A letter telling

         me that there is to be to-day a great meeting at the Town

SOLITUDE OF OLD AGE.  429

Hall to consider the steps to be taken for the reception of the              1867.
British Association in the summer of 1868. This is running                ^t. 82.

in advance of Time, I think ; but better too soon than too

late. As Canon Sedgwick was once the President of the

Association (33 years since!) it was thought expedient that
he should show his youthful face at the meeting !..."

     Not only did Sedgwick show his face, but he made his

voice heard in a vigorous speech, which probably did much to
stimulate the scientific enthusiasm of Norwich, then, as he
hints in some of his letters, somewhat lukewarm.

     The next letter was called forth by a note of congratula

tion on his eighty-second birthday. It gives a somewhat

painful picture of the lonely life which he was now compelled

to lead.

To Mrs Thompson.
                                           Trin. Coll. March 22nd, 1867.

     My dear Mrs Thompson,

              I am grateful, and send you my heart's true
thanks for your kind note. For several days I have been

living in absolute solitude, with the exception of the occasional

presence of my bedmaker and my servant. A man who

lives in college till he can count his eighty-second birthday

is sure to have outlived all the friends and companions of his

early life. But I have learnt to bear solitude, if I can have

access to books. But, alas ! my old eyes are in an angry
state, and hardly permit me to read by candlelight. This is a
great trial. Let me not murmur. Rather let me bless God
for his long-suffering. Old and solitary as I am the post has

proved that I am not quite forgotten, for I have had love-

letters falling about me like flakes of snow. And I thank
God that my heart is not yet so hardened that I cannot feel
very kindly emotions when I read the congratulations sent
me by youthful fingers, at the dictation of youthful and
joyful hearts. I must write no more now, my eyes tell me

to stop.

         43o TOUR TO THE WEST OF ENGLAND.

1867.    May God make the Lodge the habitation of domestic
Et. 82.
         love, and all earthly honour, for many many years to come

         --for many after I have been called away from human

         sight.               Truly and gratefully yours,

         To Mrs Norton.                             A. Sedgwick.
             My dear Cousin,  Parsonage, Dent, July 17 th, 1867.

                       I am more feeble in muscular strength than I was
         last year, though in far better general health ; I am more

         deaf, more dim-sighted, more incapable of any severe and
         continued mental effort. But I try to thank God for the gift

         of long life. For He has taught me to love my friends, and

         kept alive that love until now, with, I think, an undiminished

         warmth. But nearly all the objects of my early love are

         gone from my sight, and now I am reaping my best social

         joys among my nephews and nieces, and their merry children.

         Eight young, happy, merry children are here ; and the old
         parsonage is as noisy and full of glee as it was 70 years
         since....

              Such was my nervous infirmity in the autumn of last

         year that I could not even bear to dictate letters. I at one

         time thought, and my medical advisers thought, as they now

         tell me, that my tale of life was nearly counted ; but I rallied

         wonderfully at the seaside, on the northern coast of Norfolk,
         and with a little help from my assistant-naturalist I was able

         to give my 49th1 course of lectures. Should my health

                 hope to give my 50th course during the next
         Ipermit
                   it,

                  I
                                                it
         Michaelmas Term, and then will be time for me to strike

         work as a public servant....

                 have come to this dear old Parsonage, after charming
                                                       a

         and instructive tour with my niece Isabella, through some of

         the sweetest counties in this island. We visited the delicious
         scenery of the Wye and the Severn --the grand mediaeval

                 1            Really his 48th course.

                               REFORM BILL.                     43'

ruins of the castles of Raglan, Chepstow, and Ludlow --                                                             1867.
famous for deeds of heroism, and alas, infamous for deeds of                                                               82-

blood done within them. And the history of such spotsI
belongs to you, as well as to us. We visited too, some fieldsI
of ancient battles during the Wars of the Roses ; and we
                                                                                                               is,
examined with deep interest the tombs and architectural
monuments of six of our cathedrals, and the ruins of two'IIa
                                     I
or three of our famous abbeys--Tintern Abbey much thea;         ;
most charming, though we have two in the north of Englandis ' '
which I think match it in beauty, grandeur, and antiquarian        I
interest. I am sure you must have read Wordsworth's poema
on Revisiting Tintern Abbey. Of all his shorter poems it
                                                    a
   think, the most popular in Old England.
;       was interrupted by an incursion of youthful barbariansis
             ;
who cared nothing for Tintern Abbey, or any scenery on theI
                   ;face of the earth, but were intensely happy, and in the full
tide of youthful health, and in the sounds of their own merry
voices, and they certainly did not make me melancholy. Yet
our weather here, after some weeks of brightest sunshine, has

become so cold, damp, and dismal, as to give any ordinary
man fit of doleful dumps,' and was fain to catch gleam

of joy from the bright young faces. Yesterday the new
 Reform Bill passed our House of Commons, and think

the very sky putting on mourning at the result certain

am that we are taking most dangerous leap in the dark.
We have a glorious civilization -- the issue of many hard-

fought battle in practical life we have ample freedom in

speculative freedom we can let our thoughts run in perfect
free will we have an enormous capital -- and all now put

to risk. All my long life, till now, have been strongly on

the liberal side but, with good old whigs, wished the old
elements of King, Lords, and Commons to keep their well-
balanced places in the adjustment and conservation of our
nation's liberties. am now an old croaker, and fear that all the
great elements of policy which have made old England what
she are in the utmost peril. And there are other public signs
is

                   I

         432 CHANGE OF POLITICS.

  1867.  of coming sorrow and decay : the rank infidelity and vile
         materialism of many clever but shallow writers ; the latitu-
Sx. 82.  dinarianism of one set who would roll out the fundamental
         doctrines of our faith into gold-leaf which is only fit to gild
         gingerbread ; the bigotry of another large set ; the coxcombry
         and popish apery of numerous clergymen of the Church of

         England. All these things often sink my spirits into the mire,

         and compel me to think that (agreeably to a heathen saying)
         God is turning us into a nation of fools and madmen, because
         He means to crush us utterly in the end.

              I declare, my sheet is done. Neither my old eyes nor my

         blighted head would bear a march over another page ; so

         adieu, my dear cousin.

         Your very aged, but true hearted,

                                                            and affectionate friend,

                                                                     Adam Sedgwick.

         To the same.
                                                                                    August 271A, 1867.

             " ...As Mr Norton is a part of yourself, I send my love

         and my blessings to him, though I have not had the happi
         ness of ever seeing him. I beg his pardon. I have seen him
         in his writings -- a thousand times better view of that which
         gives him the likeness of God's image, than a mere peep at
         his face, which is but his soul's mask --a part of that which
         Shakespeare calls our 'muddy vesture of decay.'

             All my long life I have been called a liberal ; all my votes

         since I came to manhood have been called liberal till now.
         But now I am a stiff- backed tory, and I think that our

         liberals are turned raving mad, and that a good-hearted old

         man should not sail in the same boat with them. So I mean

         to set up for myself under some new name...."

              In the course of our narrative we have more than once
         noticed Sedgwick's high respect for the character and attain
         ments of the Prince Consort. When he received, in March

      EARLY YEARS OF THE PRINCE CONSORT.                                             433

1866, the then privately printed volume called The Early                                                  1867.
Years of the Prince Consort, he regretted that it would be
read by only a privileged few. " In regard to the effect of the                                         Mi- sp
volume upon the people of England," he wrote to General
Grey, "should Her Majesty hereafter resolve to publish
there cannot, think, be the shadow of doubt that would
      ;                        a                                                  it
                                     a                                                       it,
        it
exalt the loyalty and love of all true-hearted Englishmen....a
             I
We now see, from first to last, the beautiful consistency of the
                        is a
Prince's character. He was     lovely boy with                                    a  gentle

temper yet even then he had    mental strength above

his years, which gave him the mastery over his elder brother.

And so  was in after-life. Those gentler qualities which

made him the purest pattern of domestic love, never, for
                                                                                     it
moment, degenerated into feebleness or effeminacy, but were                                 a

carried out into noble purpose, by their unbroken union

with the firm will of his great and unselfish heart.. ..If be

good for man, as taught by the poet Goethe, daily to see

and to feast upon objects of great beauty in art and nature,
surely the contemplation of character at once so great and
                               a
                                                                           a
so beautiful as that of the Prince Consort, should be sublime

and touching lesson to our countrymen1."         I

     In June, 1867, the volume was published, and portions of

Sedgwick's letter were printed in the Preface. " thought,"
wrote General Grey, " and, what you will think more to the

purpose, the Queen thought, your appreciation of the Prince's
character so beautifully expressed, that she wished your own
words to go forth for the advantage of the Public and then
the impression which you described the perusal of the book
                               ;

                                           it
                                                                               ;
as producing upon yourself, was so encouraging, that the

desire to introduce the volume as                were under your

patronage, was not to be resisted and who shall say how far
you may not have contributed to its present success?...

The success has certainly been beyond my most sanguine

expectations, and you ought to rejoice more especially at

     Early Years               H. R. H. the Prince Consort. 8vo. London, 1867, pp.
-- xii.                                                                                             28

     S. II.
x
      1

                           of

          434 CONCLUDING LECTURE OF FORTY-NINTH COURSE.

 1867. this, for your opinion was the one which had the chief
Mt. 81. influence in deciding the publication1...."

           To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                                   Cambridge, December 8/A, 1867.

             "...On Friday I gave my usual lecture. As I could not

           finish all I had to say, I appointed my class to meet me again

         at 12 o'clock yesterday, and I had a lecture of an hour and a

           half, which went off well. The act of lecturing does me
          good, if I can only have a hot bath immediately after it....

             Monday, December gth, 5.15 a.m.... I must now eat my

           second breakfast, and think about my parting lecture. May
            God be with me, and give me strength and memory and
          a right mind, so that, while I review the labours of the
          past term, I may prove that all parts of nature are under
           the rule of a Law ' whose seat is the bosom of God, and

         whose voice is the harmony of the world ; ' and that I may
          make my young men see by the light of reason and of

           conscience that the solid earth itself and all within its dark
           mysterious caverns ' is a rich storehouse for the glory of
           the Creator and the relief of man's estate!'

               6.30 p.m. My lecture went off well, and it lasted more
          than an hour and a half. I did all, or nearly all, that I
           wished to do. My lungs are sound and good, and my
          young men gave me a very animated greeting. I recapitu
           lated--pointed out the proofs of wisdom and design through
           all nature, and its subordination to Law --enlarged on the
            folly of the Darwinian theory, and its inevitable tendency
           to rank materialism --and, partly by quotations from Newton,

             Bacon, Hooker, and the Bible, showed the manner in which
             natural science might be wedded to moral conclusions..."

                 The following letter, written to Miss Sedgwick by
            Dr G. H. Ainger, son to her uncle's old friend, gives a
            pleasant glimpse of Sedgwick at the end of 1867.

                                                  1 From General Grey, 9 August, 1867.

TRINITY COLLEGE COMMEMORATION.                                                        435

From Rev. G. H. Ainger.                        St Bees, January md, 1868.                         1868.

                                                                                                Mt. 83.

"...During the intervals [of my daughter's examination] we
contrived to see a good deal ; and especially, your good uncle,
I Iwhom we found, am most happy to say 'in great force.'
                                                                                      left

Caroline at Ely     on          the  Saturday (14 December)            and went over
to dine in Hall     at          the  Commemoration Feast.
                                                                      In the absence
of the Master your uncle presided, and made a number of speeches,
              himself --and was well
quite like     as well as the juniors          --aip.ep. retchieateCdollebgye  all the seniors
like myself,                                                                    Prizemen, who
were guests, and who will long remember, I doubt not, and talk of

their privilege to hear the kind genial hearty old gentleman, as he
poured himself forth, on all sorts of topics, lighting up the simple
invitation 'to                                                                 Coffee,' with
the brilliancy  go  hiins toelotqhue enCcoem--bainsatwioenll   Room    for     heart-stirring
                                                              as the  more
                of
toast of the prosperity of the College.

    Caroline and I found him in his Museum on Monday morning.
We saw him at various times till Thursday, when my boy the sailor

William, his godson, joined us on his way from Dartmouth. We
dined with him in his rooms, along with a cousin of mine, Arthur,
and young Airy-- and again had an early dinner, nominally lunch,
on Friday, before we started for Whittlesea. You know his charming

wmaasnntoermwiniteh--yaonudngI  people;   and  nothing could be kinder than           he
                                am sure  they  will always remember it..."

    At the Commemoration here referred to Sedgwick, who,
as Mr Ainger's letter indicates -- was in the best health and
spirits, said to the undergraduates : " I'm glad they've given

you champagne ! it will warm the cockles of your young

hearts! I hope you'll indulge in a wise hilarity!" It is

almost superfluous to add that they followed his advice.
     In the year 1868 Sedgwick printed, for private circulation,

the Memorial by the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, from the

preface and appendices to which we have quoted his delightful
reminiscences of Dent in former days. When the chapel was

consecrated (31 October, 1838), the requisite documents were
in readiness, and approved by the Bishop of Ripon ; viz. the
deeds of trust and endowment ; the title-deeds of the freehold

on which the chapel stood ; and a map on which the district
of the chapel was defined. These documents were taken
away by the Bishop's secretary for registration ; but, early
in 1864, the trustees, of whom Sedgwick was the senior,

learnt, to their great dismay, that no registration had taken

                                                                               28--2

       436 CASE OF COWGILL CHAPEL.

1868.  place, and that their right of patronage, together with the
       nght of the chapel to a district, had both been lost. Under
Et 83
       these circumstances, they transferred the patronage to the
       Bishop; and took steps "to procure, on the award of the Eccle
       siastical Commissioners, the reappointment of a district1."

       After some negotiation --and a protest from Sedgwick against
       the district first suggested* --the boundaries were satisfactorily

       settled, and the award, confirmed by the Queen in Council,
       was published in The London Gazette, 12 September, 1865*.
       So confident were the trustees that the matter was now

       unalterably settled, that they did not take steps to procure a
       copy of the award, as printed ; and it was not until June,
       1866, that they learnt that the document directed a change

       in the name of the chapelry, which was henceforth to be

       called, "The District Chapelry of Kirkthwaite." Sedgwick
       was extremely indignant, and with good reason. By a stroke
       of the pen the whole history of the chapel was to be erased.
       " It had been consecrated ; it had a name which had become

       endeared, as a household word, by daily use ; and its congre
       gation had attended its sacred services for a quarter of a cen
       tury. In such a case assuredly no change ought to have been
       made in the names of the chapel and the chapelry without

       very cogent reasons4." These reasons appeared to him and
       his co-trustees to be wholly wanting ; and, worst of all, the
       name Kirkthwaite was erroneous. " There is no district within

       the boundaries of Dent called Kirkthwaite," says the Memo
       rial. "There is a Hamlet called Kirthwaite; but that Hamlet

       is not the District laid down by the Award6." They therefore
       addressed a Memorial to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners

       (29 December, 1866), in which the history of the chapel and
       the orthography of Kirthwaite are ably and conclusively
       discussed. It closes with a "loyal and earnest prayer: (1)
       that the Award... may be so modified that its verbal contra -

       1 Memorial, p. 10.  2 Ibid. pp. 27 -- 29.

       3 It is printed as Appendix II. to the Memorial.

       * Memorial, p. 13.  5 Ibid. p. 3.

PUBLICATION OF THE MEMORIAL.                                           437

dictions may disappear, and the error in the orthography                           1868.
                                                                                 -Et- 83-
of the word Kirkthwaite may be corrected ; (2) that the name
of Cowgill Chapel be fully retained ; (3) that its District

be named (as it was named in the three first successive

Presentations) the Chapelry of Cowgill1."

      The Commissioners replied (7 March, 1867), in courteous
language, that the Cure was completely formed, and that they

had no "power of altering the title under which a District may

have been legally created*." Sedgwick at once determined to

print the Memorial for private circulation among "the States

men and Inhabitants of the Valley of Dent, and the present

Representatives of those kind and generous friends who

subscribed to the Building and Endowment Funds of Cowgill

Chapel." Before doing so, however, he fortunately determined

to add to it some essays on the climate, history, and dialects

of Dent. These grew as he worked at them, sitting, as he

tells us, in his armchair, and dictating to his servant ; so that

nearly a year elapsed before the little volume bound in green
cloth --" the child of my old age, dressed in an old-fashioned
dress of a child of the Dales' " -- could set out on its travels.

    It had a remarkable experience. A copy found its way

to the Deanery of Westminster, and presently Lady Augusta

Stanley wrote to say that the Queen would like to see one.
Before long Her Majesty, through General Grey, sent " her

very sincere thanks," with an intimation that the prayer of

the Memorial appeared to her just and reasonable, and that she

would communicate with the Archbishop of York, in order

that a new Council might be held for the purpose of restoring

the original name to the chapelry of Cowgill. Sedgwick, as

was only natural, was greatly delighted at this unexpected

turn of events in his favour. " I declare that while I was
dictating my pamphlet," he wrote, " I should as soon have

thought of directing     by the Book Post, to the Planet
*1

                       it,

                                             !

                               I

                                                                   it
Neptune, as to Balmoral  Had known that                                would be

Memorial, p. 74.                " Ibid. p. 33.
To Mrs Philpott, 29 May, 1868.

          438 MR LONGFELLOW AT CAMBRIDGE.

  1868.   read by my Sovereign I should not have dared to write about

fix- 83.  the old tailor or wig-maker, and about the ' night-sittings '
          and the ' cryings-out ' in Dent. And it would not have been

          half so spicey as it is ! 'All's well that ends well1'."
               The Archbishop made no difficulty, but some delay

          ensued, for it turned out that the authority of Parliament
          had to be invoked. Mr Gladstone, then Prime Minister,
          took the matter up ; the Bill, introduced by the Archbishop

          in the House of Lords, had Ministerial support in the House

          of Commons; and in July, 1869, the "District Chapelry of
          Kirkthwaite" was changed for ever into the "District Chapelry

          of Cowgilla."

                Sedgwick promptly printed an Appendix to the Memorial,
          for circulation among his Dalesmen. The previous work was
          a tale of sorrow, but this is a tale of triumph -- sobered a little

          by the thought of his increasing age --but still a joyful
          statement of what his Dalesmen owed " to the love of right

          and the condescending goodwill of our gracious Sovereign3."

               During the spring of 1868 Sedgwick had been made
          miserable by an unusually severe attack of bronchitis, but
          he got well again when summer came round, and was able
          to follow his usual pursuits, and to take interest in what was
          going forward in the University.

          To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.                                                      *

                                                             Cambridge, June i6th, 1868.  ^

               "...This morning I was going to start with Keeping for
          Potton, that we might pick up the teeth of sharks --the
          back-plates of turtles --the claws of gigantic crocodiles -- etc.
          when I received notice that the poet Longfellow would this

          day appear in person to receive an honorary degree. So
          I bustled off old Keeping, and called at Caius College Lodge,

          where Professor Longfellow is staying. A good-looking,

          1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 27 October,    1868.
          '2 Supplement to the Memorial, pp. 2 -- 5.
          3 Appendix to the Memorial, p. 6.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT NORWICH.                                    439

well-bred man --with a long, whitish, beard. I told him                               1868.

that as an American he was our cousin ; and that through                            Mt. SA-
his works of genius he had a place in the heart of every
well-educated Englishman. So we greeted him, not as a

stranger, but as a personal friend whom we loved to honour.

At 1 p.m. I am to lunch at Caius Lodge that I may quietly

meet the poet...."

    In July, Sedgwick met with an accident, which kept him

a prisoner for many months. "Since last July," he wrote to

Sir John Herschel nearly a year afterwards, " when I over

taxed my powers of walking and climbing among my native

hills, I have lost my power of taking healthy exercise. I

gave my left knee an ugly twist while clambering up a
precipice, along with a set of my grand-nephews and nieces,

after we had descended to look at a great hole in the rocky

watercourse called ' Hell's Cauldron.' I found it true now as

it was in classic times. Easy enough to go down to Avernus ;

but to come back again -- there is the trial and the tug, as my

poor old left knee found to its long sorrow ! I had a very

sensible warning at the time ; but I neglected            I a it,till the

wearing uneasiness became aggravated into terrible pain,

and only saved the knee-joint by very active and painful
I
                 Itreatment1."

                                                       a
In consequence of this mishap Sedgwick was obliged

to stay at home while the British Association was meeting
at Norwich. " sat in state," he records, " like an emperor,

with my left leg resting on                               superb cushion." But his
scientific friends did not forget him. " But for
                                                                   severe

accident," said Dr Hooker in his Presidential Address, " there

would have been present here to-night the oldest surviving,

and indeed the first but two of the Presidents of the Associa

tion. My geological friends will understand to whom allude
-- the Rock of Science, in whom age, and the heat and shocks of

scientific controversy, have wrought no metamorphosis and

              To Sir F. W. Herschel, 12 June, 1869.
              1

                         J.

       44" FIFTIETH COURSE OF LECTURES.

868. developed no cleavage-planes --a man of whom both Norwich
  83- and the Association are proud -- your Canon, our Father,

         Sedgwick1."
             In October Sedgwick delivered his fiftieth annual course

        of lectures. The occasion might well have been celebrated
         as a jubilee ; for his lectures had never once been interrupted
       since his election to the Woodwardian Chair. As he advanced
         in years, they seemed to animate him, and during the term in
         which he lectured he was frequently in better health than at
        any other season. " My lectures keep me alive," was his not
        unfrequent remark ; and after one of the first of this very

       course he writes : " I addressed my class for a full hour with

        as much spirit and pleasure to myself as I did forty years
        since." In the opening lecture he showed that notwithstanding
        his great age, his mind had not lost its elasticity. He began,

       we are told, somewhat as follows : " Gentlemen, I have

        hitherto, in the successive courses of lectures delivered from
        this chair in the discharge of my duty as Woodwardian
         Professor, always maintained, in opposition to my distinguished
        friend, Sir Charles Lyell, that man, geologically speaking, is
        of very recent appearance on the earth. But, during the last
        Long Vacation, I have gone again over the whole evidence,
        including much new matter of great importance, and am now
       bound to admit that I can no longer maintain the position

      which I have hitherto held. I must freely admit that man is

       of a far higher antiquity than that which I have hitherto
       assigned to him. But, Gentlemen, I shall always protest
        against that degrading hypothesis which attributes to man an
       origin derived from the lower animals" -- and then came
       a vehement denunciation of the Darwinian theory in its
        application to the human race*.

             In November he was saddened by the news of the death

               1 Report of the British Association, 1868, p. MX. The Dean of Norwich had
          been particularly anxious that Sedgwick should preach before the Association.

             2 Communicated by Sedley Taylor, M.A. of Trinity College, who heard the

            lecture.

           DEATH OF LADY MURCHISON.                            441

of John Ruthven. " I have had a letter," he writes on                 1869.

November 7th, " to tell me that my old companion in many            Mu 8-
a hardworking journey over the hills (good old honest John

Ruthven) died yesterday in London. Little did I expect to
outlive him ! so strong was he last time I saw him ; and he

was six or seven years younger than myself. The news

made me very sorrowful1."
     Not long after Sedgwick wrote these words, Lady Murchi-

son passed away. For some years he had been completely
estranged from her husband. Since the meeting of the British

Association at Manchester in 1861 they had probably not

seen each other ; and the few letters that had passed between
them were not of a nature to make reconciliation probable.

Common friends had done their best, without success. " It
is not a simple question of forgiving an injury," wrote Sedg
wick. " I owe Sir R. Murchison no ill-will personally2."

Murchison, on the other hand, had more than once expressed

his own anxiety for reconciliation : " It would give me the
sincerest satisfaction, if any explanation which I can possibly

give would be acceptable to you, and put an end to an

estrangement which for more than twenty years I have
never ceased to lament*." To this particular letter -- one of
many expressed in nearly similar terms--Sedgwick probably

sent no reply. But, when he heard that Lady Murchison was
no more, the thoughts of former days came back to his mind,

and, separating the man from the geologist, he wrote to her

husband :

To Sir R. I. Murchison.       Cambridge,

                         Sunday Morning, February 21st, 1869.

Dear Sir Roderick Murchison,

too soon.  I did not wish to intrude myself on your sorrows
           Indeed such has been my life of solitude for the

           1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 7 November, 1868.
           * To Lady Affleck, 25 September, 1862.
           3 From Sir R. I. Murchison, 7 January, i860.

         442 DEATH OF LADY MURCHISON.

1869.    last two months, that incidents of the greatest interest to my

Et. 84.  heart have more than once passed away for a full week or ten

         days before their report reached me. You will, I know, believe
         me, when I say that the first news of your beloved wife's
         death filled me with very deep sorrow. For many many
         years Lady Murchison was one of the dearest of those friends
         whose society formed the best charms of my life. How often
         was I her guest ! How often have I experienced her kind
         welcome, and been cheered and strengthened by it ! In joy

         or in sorrow she was my kind and honoured lady friend.

             And have I forgot those bright, and to me, thrice happy
         days, when she and you were my guests at Cambridge ? The
         present has comparatively little for me now. Hope I have
         for the future, and I trust that God will give it to me in the
         last hours of this world's life whenever they may come. But

         an old man necessarily has his thoughts carried to the past.
         But oh ! how many of the dearest and sweetest remembrances

         of my life are now blended with clouds of sorrow ! It must
         be so. It is nature's own law. May God teach you to bear
         your sorrow like a man. Of this I have no fear; but more

         than this, may His grace be given you to bear it like a Chris
         tian. This sustaining power is His precious gift, and it must

         be humbly sought for, by prostration of heart, while under
         God's afflicting hand. May He give you the comfort of

         Christian hope ; compared with it all other comfort vanishes

         into mid-air. And if it indeed be given you, sorrow will lose
         its bitterness, and even be tempered with joy....

               I generally dictate my long letters to my servant, but in
         writing this letter of sympathy, addressed to you in your
         hours of sorrow, I could not find in my heart to use the pen
         of an amanuensis. My eyes are now very angry. I remain,

         in all Christian sympathy and goodwill, faithfully yours,

                                                                 A. Sedgwick1.

          In the spring of 1869 Sedgwick's niece Isabella took a

         1 The whole letter is printed in Geikie's Life of Murchison, ii. 337 -- 339.

            MISS SEDGWICK'S ITALIAN TOUR.           443

tour in Italy with some intimate friends. The plan had her
uncle's warm approval ; in fact he was the first to suggest

and to combat her unwillingness to leave him and others to
whom her help was needful. During her absence he kept her
informed, by almost daily letters, of all that was passing in
the home-circle. He seemed anxious to prove that he was as
capable, as he was willing, to take her place. The minutest
details are gone into. Comforts for the sick, schemes of

education and amusement for the healthy, comments on

passing events and current literature, suggestions as to what
she should pay attention to on the continent, and comments
on her descriptions, fill a series of delightful letters. The
labour of writing them must have been severe, for during the
spring months, as we know from another source, he could
" hardly bear to read or write by daylight, and not at all by
candlelight1." And yet, as though he wished to spare her all
anxiety on his account, he says but little of himself in the

correspondence. It will be readily understood that most of

these letters are unsuitable for a biography, and we can

therefore only cite one or two short passages from them.
          a                                                                                        84-

To Miss           itIsabella Sedgwick.Cambridge,April 14th, 1869.
     " The  post of yesterday   brought me     two letters which
                              1
                                                                                                ?

                                                                             a
                                                                                a

                                                                     I
                                                                                          I it,
gave me joy, and gladness of heart. One from Mary, telling
me that she was better.... The other was from Turin, and

darted on like a hungry hawk upon skylark.          had some

little anxiety about your passage over Mt. Cenis. Thank
God you have all made the traverse in safety. And how

could you find time to write me such long and charming

letter, after such fatigue and excitement, and in the midst of

such succession of sublime objects Don't you, and every

one of you, feel better and nearer God for having been per

mitted to gaze upon all the sublimest features of His creation
in our lower world ?... Touching your uncle Adam, he's 'as

            To Archdeacon Musgrave, 19 June, 1869.

        444 MISS SEDGWICK'S ITALIAN TOUR.

869.    well as can be expected.' His eyes are much better, and he
   84,  sometimes writes his own letters. His left knee is a down
        right cheat, for it looks well and healthy, yet it works ill ; and
        if taxed beyond a few hundred yards, turns as restive as an
        old Irish post-horse...."

        To the same.                 Cambridge, April 20th, 1869.

        "...For many a long year I have been dreaming of the

        Maritime Alps, of the Gulf of Genoa, of Rome, of Naples, etc. ;

        and while dreaming of such glorious sights the evening of my
        days has been closing in upon me, and I am now, alas ! quite

        incapable of joining my friends in such a tour as that from

        which you are reaping hourly joy, and feeding your senses
        and your imagination with sights and thoughts which, with

        God's blessing, will make you happier, and holier, and more

        loving to those around you to the end of your life....

            Were you not struck with the cathedral at Sienna ? It is

        said to be one of the finest specimens existing of the old

        Italian Gothic. And now you are all at Rome. Did not

        your heart beat higher when you saw the dome of St Peter's,

        and entered the streets of Rome? But you will tell me.

        And tell me your first impressions. They may be right, or
        they may be wrong, but it is charming to hear of the first

        impressions on the mind of those we love and can trust....

            I am very happy in the belief that you are laying in a

        goodly stock of rational happiness. God does not permit me

        to cross the Alps in my old age. But He does permit me

        to gaze on the glorious scenery and historical monuments

        of Italy through the eyes of one whom I regard as my

        daughter...."

        To Mrs Somerville.           Cambridge, April 2\st, 1869.
            My dear Mrs Somerville,

                      I heard, when I was last in London, that you

        were still in good bodily health, and in the full fruition of

LETTER TO MRS SOMERVILLE.  445

your great intellectual strength, while breathing the sweet air  1869.
                                                                       84-
of Naples. I had been a close prisoner to my college rooms
through the past winter and early spring ; but I broke from
my prison-house at the beginning of this month, that I might

consult my oculist, and meet my niece on her way to Italy.

     I do not wish to obtrude her (or any of her friends) upon
you, that they should take up your precious time, but I know
you will forgive me for my anxiety to hear from a living
witness that you are well, and happy in the closing days of

your honoured life ; and for my longing desire that my

beloved daughter (for such I ever regard her) should speak to

you face to face, and see (for however short an interview),
the Mrs Somerville, of whom I have so often talked with her
in terms of honest admiration and deep regard.. ..Since you
and Dr Somerville were here, my dear and honoured guests,

Cambridge is greatly changed. I am left here, like a vessel

on its beam-ends, to mark the distance to which the current

has been drifting during a good many bygone years. I have

outlived nearly all my early friends ; Whewell, Master of
Trinity, was the last of the old stock who was living here.

Herschel has not been here for several years. Babbage was
here for a day or two during the year before last. The Astro
nomer-Royal belongs to a more recent generation. He is in

vigorous health, and is now giving us a voluntary short course
of lectures upon Magnetism. For many years long attacks
of suppressed gout have made my life very unproductive.

Any sedentary labour on my part is almost sure to bring

alarming attacks of vertigo. I yesterday dined in Hall. It

was the first time I was able to meet my Brother Fellows

since last Christmas Day. A long attack of bronchitis,

followed by a distressing inflammation of my eyes, had made

me a close prisoner for nearly four months. But, thank God,
I am again beginning to be cheery, and with many infirmities

(the inevitable results of old age, for I have entered on my

85th year) I am still strong in general health, and capable

of enjoying as much, I think, as ever, the society of those

         446 VISIT FROM MR AND MRS NORTON.

  1869.  whom I love, be they young or old. May God preserve and
         bless yOU l And whensoever it may be His will to call you
Mt. 84.  away to Himself, may your mind be without a cloud, and
         your heart full of joyful Christian hope!

                               I remain, my dear Friend,

                                           Faithfully and gratefully yours,

                                                                    Adam Sedgwick1.
         To Miss Maribcll Sedgwick.

                                               Trinity College,

                                                              Wednesday, May 1gth, 1869.

             "...On Monday and yesterday I was engaged with a
         party of three American friends ; Mr Norton, a well-known

         man of letters, Mrs Norton ne'e Sedgwick, and her sister Miss
         Sedgwick, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. They are very
         agreeable, well-informed, persons and I think they were
         happy while here. Mr Norton was delighted to meet two or
         three of our clever men, with whose works he was well

         acquainted... In the evening the Ray Club will assemble in
         my rooms. It is a melancholy thought that this will be my
         last Club meeting. For the infirmities of old age compel
         me to resign my place in the club. The chief object of

         the meetings is to discuss subjects connected with Natural

         History...."

             A friend who was present at one of the parties Sedgwick

         gave on this occasion, remembers that he entertained his
         American cousins with the hilarity and vigour of twenty

         years before. And he himself wrote : " I think we were all
         very happy. I can answer for one. We mustered ten -- a

         pleasant, noisy, merry party, with some good talk about

         books, old and new."

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.  Cambridge, May 25th, 1869.

         "...My lameness continues. I am incapable of taking

         the wonted exercise by which I used to fight against my old

         1 Printed in Personal Recollections of Mary Somerville, 8vo. Lond. 1873.

COMMENCEMENT IN FORMER DAYS.  447

and inveterate enemy in the months of spring and early                           1869.
summer-- suppressed gout. From the crown of my head to the                             84-
soles of my feet I am penetrated, at this season, by gout. It

prevents all kindly emotions ; makes me sour and selfish ;
incapable of labour, yet never at rest ; dull as ditch-water,
yet abominably irritable and waspish ; incapable of continued

thought bent to any good purpose ; my memory refusing

to do its hourly duty, yet stored with gloomy, worthless

images ; my moral sense perverted. Such has been my state
lately for several hours of each successive day. By a strange

physical perversity I am restless while in bed, and stupid

while I am up. Several times, while writing this sheet, I

have been nodding through much sleepiness. If the weather

were genial, I could drive about in a carriage, and I should
hope, like a snake, to come out of my miserable envelope and
become myself again. So enough-- more than enough -- about
the old Adam...."

 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

                                                    Cambridge, June 17th, 1869.
     "...The College is now nearly empty; but this was, in
former times, a gay season, because the young Masters of

Arts were compelled to appear personally to be what was
called Created ; a form by which they were entered in the

University books as Gremials, and gained their votes in our
Senate. Without such appearance, they were called Non-
Greinial Masters of A rts, and had no votes. All this needless
cost was done away after the last revision of our statutes,

when I sat, as you know, upon the Royal Commission. At

this season, in bygone days, all was bright and gay, as the
young M.A.'s often brought their wives and sisters, and we
had a week of festivities, and dances, and concerts ; and,
every third year, there was a Grand Commencement, when we
 had, during the week, three Oratorios and one or two concerts.

At these festivals I heard Billington, Catalani, Bartleman,
Braham, etc. -- persons in their way unmatched. I declare
they seemed to lift the audience off the earth. But I had

448 DISESTABLISHMENT OF IRISH CHURCH.

  869. more levity then than now, and was, on that account, more
^t. 84. easily lifted...."

To Mrs Norton.    Cambridge, June 21st, 1869.

"...During the whole of the past week we were busy with

the great debate in our House of Lords. My eyes were not

equal to the task of reading but listened to my servant,
it
     is
        a

                 Ia

                                                  it,

                                             I
                                                                                II
who has learnt to read well for me, and he read to me nearly

all the leading speeches. They prove that the might of

eloquence has not left our Upper House; and they have

come to a right conclusion. The Established Church of

Ireland was portentous anomaly in English history. But

easier to pull down than to build up, and with the

bold democratic spirit of Bright and his party, who have

not grain of patriotic respect for the old institutions of

our country, look forward to coming events with much

anxiety...."

To Mrs Norton and Miss Sedgwick.

                  Lowestoff, July 8M, 1869.

"...I was just going to end by signing my name when

glanced at the two letters before me. One of them (if my

eyes cheat me not) ends with the words Sara Sedgwick.

have another young unmarried cousin who lives at Caithness

at the very northern extremity of Scotland. She signs her

name Sara Russel. Old men like myself love old customs
Ifand old names.
                  Abraham was the father of the faithful,

his lawful wife was the mother of them. His name was a

name of honour, and her name, Sarah, was given her by

divine appointment as name also of honour.                                     means
          I

                 a
                      a

                                         ?

                                        a

                                      I

                                                                          a

                                                    I

                                                                            a

                                                                    It
Queen, or some rank of high chieftainship. Why then be

ashamed of name that dates very nearly 2000 years B.C.; a

truly aristocratic date that puts to shame all the aristocratic

blazonry of Europe Besides, have great affection for

the letter    It introduces us to health, happiness, and

heaven.       am deaf old man, but, had  hundred ears

as good as those of my dear New England cousins, without

        WEDDING GOOD-WISHES.                                                  449

the letter h (at which they saucily turn up their noses) I could                   ^186y.
get no hearing out of them. Forgive this trifling --' take it                               84-
not in snuff,' as Shakespeare says...."

To Charles de la Pryme, Esq.                                                  I

                                    Trinity College, Cambridge,
                                                          November yd, 1869.

            "...Your late father was one of my old friends.

remember him as a kind friend in my schoolboy days, when

he was reading mathematics with Mr Dawson of Sedbergh.

He was at Cambridge five years my senior, but in after-life

we always pulled well together, and for him and your dear

mother I had a very kind regard. And it seemed as natural

as the rising of the sun that I should have a true-hearted

feeling of brotherly love for their children. I do sincerely and

heartily rejoice at the news you have sent me. May the

happiest fruits of Christian love be showered upon you both

to the end of life ! You have made up your minds, you have

exchanged hearts, why therefore should you and the dear

Sophia wait a single day? I don't write Miss; one cannot
sound the word without hissing in a lady's face. Why, I say,

wait another day? In God's name, and in God's love, marry,

and be thrice happy ! I send you both an old man's blessing

-- the blessing of your late father's oldest living friend...."

     To this letter Mr Pryme appends the following anecdote.

" I remember Professor Sedgwick coming to dine at my
father's house at Cambridge to meet a gentleman who
belonged to a celebrated Unitarian family. In the evening
he ventured on a controversial excursion, little knowing who

was listening. Sedgwick listened for a while, and then broke

out with great vehemence: 'Sir! rather than attack and
mutilate the Scriptures as your Unitarian friends do, I would
prefer to disbelieve the whole Book of Revelation as an
Inspired Work, and to put myself at once on my moral

conscience as a guide for life and conduct!'"
     The two next extracts have reference to Sedgwick's

lectures for this year.

S. II.                        29

         45o JUBILEE OF PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

  1869.  To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.

Ml. 84.                                                       Cambr1dge, November 6th, 1869.

                     "...Yesterday I gave my eighth lecture, with great
         pleasure to myself, and I believe with pleasure to my class of
         both sexes, for I have at least a dozen steady pupils of the

         softer sex. Yesterday the petticoats mustered full twenty,
         and the pantaloon-wearing bipeds about thirty. When I had
         done my regular lecture of an hour and a quarter, I went
         down to our basement floor to shew the big skeletons, and
         bones that are too big to be brought up to my lecture-room,

         and then I gave a kind of second lecture. So that I did not

         get back to my rooms before 2 p.m. I was a little tired, but
         not too much to enjoy my simple good dinner at 2.30 p. m. ;

         and through the evening I was quite canty...."

         To the same.
                                                                                           November 26th.

                    "...I begin to think I see land. Three more lectures

         about strata and fossils, and a general concluding lecture
         to-morrow week will fairly land me ; and I have stood the
         course right well. It has, in very truth, done me much good.

         When I am lecturing I am in a state of nature -- a second
         nature which is the child of custom --and I think after fifty
         annual courses I may talk of custom..."

         To the same.

                                                             Cambridge, November Sth, 1869.

                      " ...On Saturday last we celebrated the Anniversary
         Dinner of our Philosophical Society. Last year I did not

         venture to attend the dinner, but this year I had better heart,

         for it was our Jubilee.... I am now the only one left of the
         original members of the Society.... As a matter of course they
         drank my health. I spoke at some length, and my speech
         was received with hearty acclamations. I went in a carriage,

         well muffled up, and caught no cold ; indeed the Combination
         Room of Clare College (which was given to us upon the
         occasion) was beautifully warm...."

SPEECH AGAINST UNIVERSITY TESTS.                       451

In the course of this year the question of the abolition of                     1869.

University Tests had once more come to the front ; and a                            ^
meeting of those in favour of such a measure was held at
St John's College Lodge (29 November) with the view of
discussing the most appropriate method of bringing their
views under the notice of the Government. Sedgwick, as one

of the few survivors of those who had made an unsuccessful
movement in the same direction in 18341, was of course
invited to be present. It was a question respecting which his

opinions had undergone no change, and he eagerly accepted
the invitation. The first resolution was proposed by the
Master of Trinity :

     That in the opinion of this meeting the time has come for
settling the question of University Tests ; that the mode in which
this question is dealt with in the Permissive Bill introduced by Sir J.
Coleridge is open to grave objections ; and that any measure de
signed to effect such a settlement should include an enactment that
no declaration of religious belief or profession shall be required of
any layman on obtaining a Fellowship, or as a condition of its tenure.

     This was seconded by Sedgwick, who gave a brief history
of University tests -- with a graphic account of the movement
of 1834-- and ended with some such words as these: "Though
I have outlived my friends, and now belong to no party, I
have not outlived my love of liberty. I believe that the

removal of tests would tend to perpetuate our great institu

tions. Fears have been expressed of the possible predomi

nance of Dissenters. That is a white-livered opinion. If

Dissenters should command a predominance of the intellect

of the nation, let them take the place to which they are
entitled. I am a Churchman because I believe the Church
of England to be right; but I deprecate the University
hiding itself in any little nook of prejudice out of the general
spirit of the community*."

     This was Sedgwick's last appearance on a public occasion

in Cambridge.

     1 See above, Vol.  i. pp. 417 -- 425.  Cambridge  Independent Press, 4 De
      2 The Cambridge    Chronicle and The
                                                                   29-- 2
cember, 1869.

CHAPTER VII.

                      (1870-1873.)

Severe attack of bronchitis. Last visit to Dent. Speech
      at Norwich. Fifty-second course of Lectures (1870).
      Employments of his old age. Last dinner-party.

      Purchase of Leckenby collection (1871). Interest in
      the Museum. Preface to Salter's Catalogue (1872).
      Last weeks. Death and Funeral. Dean Stanley's

      sermon. Memorial at Cambridge. Memorial at Dent

       (1873)-        Portraits.  Lectures. Reminiscences

Personal appearance.
     of daily life.

Sedgwick began the year 1870 with unusual cheerfulness.
He felt well ; and was employed in writing the Appendix to

the Memorial, a task which he found neither disagreeable nor

fatiguing. " You see I have returned to work again," he
wrote, "and to-day I have dined in Hall -- quite a new thing;
and I do hope that I shall be able to continue to do so, for

indeed I am heartily tired of dining by myself, as I have
done almost ever since we broke up from Norwich. Our big

Hall was magnificently lighted, and only five persons to sit

down at the Fellows' table, and very few undergraduates !

In my time comparatively few went away during the Christ

mas and Easter vacations, but the railroads have made such

a change ! While I was an undergraduate I never went up
to London -- nay, I never saw London till I was Fellow
of Trinity College, after six years of University residence !

SERIOUS ATTACK OF BRONCHITIS.               453

What do you think of that?... I lead a very solitary life                1870.
                                                                               85-
during this dead part of the vacation, and my door is seldom
opened except by John or my bed-maker. But the frost has
never found its way into my rooms. My feet are kept warm
by a good fire ; my heart keeps warm of itself1."

     These bright days were soon clouded by a long and

serious illness--an attack of bronchitis which nearly brought
him to the grave, and from which, in fact, he never wholly
recovered. It was evidently something quite different, both

in severity and in duration, from those milder seizures to
which he had long been accustomed. " I never knew what
bronchitis was before," he told his niece. She hastened to
Cambridge to nurse him, and by the end of March he

considered himself convalescent.

To Lady Augusta Stanley.  April 2nd, 1870.

"...Yesterday was a great day for me. I went out into

our Great Court (after a close confinement of more than
six weeks to my College rooms, during which I never once
crossed my threshold); and I felt such joy that I went on

to my Museum, and rested there awhile, and saw the remains

of some ancient monsters. But my knees failed me a little as

I came back, and I had hard work to climb to my own door.

Thank God ! I am now gaining strength hourly, and so soon
as I am fit for travelling I hope to station myself at some
warm place on our south coast, that I may be fanned by

the zephyrs, and have my ricketty framework warmed into

a new life...."

     Soon afterwards, taking his great-nephew with him,
Sedgwick went for a few days to Bath, where his progress,

if his own report may be trusted, was wonderful. His spirits

rose to their usual high level, and he describes a visit to
Salisbury, " the queen of British cathedrals," as though he
did not know what illness was. But the improvement was

              1 To Miss Maribell Sedgwick, 6 January, 12 January, 1870.

          454 VISIT FROM DR LUSHINGTON.

  1870.   transient. He was ordered to Bournemouth, but the visit
/Et- 85-  was a failure. Instead of helping him forward it thrust him

          back ; and he returned to Cambridge little better than he had
          left it. " One great change I find this year," he wrote soon
          after his return ; " I do not recover my former strength after
          I have ceased to be ill. I come to a resting-place, but that

          resting-place is at a lower level than the one on which I had
          been lately standing. This shews me that my vital powers
          are now on the wane. Every day reminds me of this truth,
          sometimes very oppressively ; but I endeavour to look up,

          cheerfully and hopefully, and to be thankful1."

          To Miss Duncan.

                           W1ndermere, June yk, 1870.

          "...I could not recover my health and natural spirits till

          the wind chopped round to the west. But that change acted

          on me like magic. My spirits and senses were alive again,

          and I longed to be in Dent, which I had not visited for two

          years. I really felt a home sickness (what the doctors, I

          think, call a nostalgia) with painful intensity. But I was

          detained one week by a promised visit from Dr Lushington ;
          and a visit from a retired judge-- a Right Honourable, and
          in his 89th year --was no ordinary event. When quite a

          young man he had rambled over our hills and dales, and
          had shot grouse from his head-quarters at Gearstones -- a

          wild little inn on the road from Dent's Head to Settle. It

          happened that he had seen a copy of my pamphlets about

          Dent, and felt a great desire to pay me a visit, that we might

          talk about the Dales, and that he might once more have the

          pleasure of dining in the Hall of Trinity College. This was
          told me by his son. So I joyfully sent an invitation to them

          both; and they came on the 31st of last month. The old

          man passed a very genial day amongst us, taking a leading

          part in a varied conversation in the Hall and Combination

          Room, and continuing it in my rooms afterwards till I was

                           1 To Miss Duncan, 21 May, 1870.

                            \

                   LAST VISIT TO DENT.             455

almost exhausted --to my shame, for the Doctor is almost 1870.

four years older than myself...."                                   ^Et. 85.

    The visit to Dent -- the last he was ever able to effect --was

a very short one. He was lame, and unable to walk about

among his old friends as heretofore. It happened that the

annual school-feast took place while he was there, and before
the children left he mounted on a stone bench in the yard of

the vicarage, and gave a very impressive address.

To Miss Herschel.

                   Norwich, August 26th, 1870.

"...After my visit to the Dale of Dent came to a natural

end, I was tempted to go with Isabella and one of my

young great-nieces to a sweet village on the north shore of

Morecambe Bay. Though the north winds still were domi

nant, yet the weather was dry ; and 'tis a damp wind that

tortures the hygrometrical skin I owe to an old hag of a

midwife. I will let you into a secret! In the year 1785 I was

introduced into this wicked, freezing, and fighting world by

an aged midwife, who wrapped my youthful person in a

hygrometrical envelope, which stuck so tightly to me that

(with all my rubbing, scraping, kicking, and plunging, for 85
long years) I have never been able to shake it off. Here it is
-- creased and fretted a little --but as close a fit as ever !

So we all enjoyed ourselves at the sweet hotel of Grange.

O 'tis a lovely country ! The grey solemn-looking Carbo

niferous Limestone is the prevailing feature, soft-toned and

exquisitely varied by sweetest natural woodland fringing the

shores of the famous Bay. Though I had hammered my way

through all corners of the neighbourhood in by-gone years

(especially 1822 and 1824), and had many times taken peeps

at it during my short northern visits of love and duty ; yet it

was now to me a new country, threaded by railways and

covered by towns and villages, where in your old uncle's early

days all was in silence and solitude. But this was not all, for

in multitudinous nooks and corners, instead of sweet scenery

         456 COAST OF LANCASHIRE.

1870.    and a bright atmosphere, we saw gigantic furnaces sending
Et. 85.
         into the sky a vapour so dark, that it seemed to have come
         from the nostrils of Satan. In many places the ground was
         blood-red ; and all around us smelt of fire and brimstone. In

         fact our sweet village, the Grange --a name telling one of corn
         and rural comfort --borders on Low Furness -- a country long

         famous for its iron ore ; and truly now, on actual proof, many
         parts of its surface-deposits are almost a mass of red iron ore
         (haematite). This ore they are digging away at a rate which
         would pass belief without the evidence of living sense. Some
         of the red ore goes, of course, to feed the throats of the gigantic

         furnaces in the neighbourhood. Other portions are transported

         by the railway which skirts Morecambe Bay and Duddon

         Sands. Day by day, forty-four gigantic trains (each com
         posed of carriages varying in number from 50 to 70) were
         seen dragging their almost endless length and gigantic loads

         majestically along the undulating line close to the beautiful

         shore. But we had, each day also, four regular passenger

         trains, and charming it was to be playing in such trains a
         game at bo-peep with old father Ocean -- a minute or two
         sweeping along his gently rippling shore-- then a grand head
         land in view against which he wages an eternal war of foam

         and fury. But we took a shorter and quieter line, and shot

         our way right through the headland. A few minutes of dark

         ness, and then again the bright air and the sparkling sea.

         We could go to Furness Abbey in about half an hour, passing
         the fine scenery of the coast of Ulverston -- then on through
         multitudinous iron-works and ore-pits --then by the ancient
         town of Dalton, in my early years a neat village, now a
         wonderful congeries of houses. Again on to the westward --

         for a while once more in pitchy darkness, and then daylight
         breaking out in the very heart of the sweet grounds that skirt
         the magnificent ruins of the old Abbey. We several times
         visited this ground of enchantment, and twice we went on to

         Barrow -- in my working-days a very small fishing village --

         now a town of about 18,000 inhabitants, and hourly increasing.

                SPEECH AT NORWICH.  457

And instead of the sweet clear sky of olden times it has an       1870.
atmosphere like that which overhangs the steam furnaces of              85-
Leeds or Manchester...."

During Sedgwick's residence at Norwich in August and

September, despite a third attack of bronchitis, he took a

prominent part in a meeting convened by the Mayor to press

upon the Government the urgent necessity and importance of

taking effective steps to prevent the exportation of arms and

all articles contraband of war to either France or Germany.

He moved the second resolution, embodying that policy,

in a long and most effective speech. He reminded his hearers of

our difficulties with the United States on a similar question,

and urged that the report of English manufacturers having

contracted to supply arms to France should be sifted to the
bottom. " This question of neutrality," he said, " was not one

for the judge or the lawyer. It belonged to the principle of

honour. To go to a man who was ruled by precedents and

written law, was to go to one who, from those very cir

cumstances, was partly incapable of judging on a question

which concerned honourable, true-hearted, Christian conduct

between nations. Burke, he remembered, said in one of his

eloquent speeches : ' When you come to a great constitutional

question, you will not go to a lawyer ; the law, when applied
to a question of that kind, is the Chinese shoe of the human

intellect    '  And so it was.  For his part he would prefer the
           !

opinions of any honest-hearted, patriotic yeoman, whose mind

was enlightened by reading-- he need not be great or learned

-- and who deserved the name of a Christian gentleman --the

word ' gentleman ' he used in a broad sense, for many a poor

man had the heart of a gentleman -- to that of one who con
sulted a pack of rustling parchments -- for he was more likely

to be the better judge." In conclusion he pointed out the

great changes that had taken place within his memory in

Europe and in the world, and shewed that the old laws of
neutrality needed revision -- that attention ought to be paid

          458 FIFTY-SECOND COURSE OF LECTURES.

   1870.  to great principles, and that the law of conscience should be
          reverted to -- "a law," he said, "more operative in arriving at
Mt. 85.
          the truth than all the blotted written documents belonging to

          mediaeval history."

              On his return to Cambridge at the beginning of October
          he felt well enough to attempt his usual course of lectures.
          " My sweet voice," he wrote, " has lost all its notes of melody.
          For three bad attacks of bronchitis, which tormented me since

          this year came in, have so becracked my voice that it sounds

          like a watchman's rattle, and I fear it will never mend. But,

          spite of these drawbacks, my modest assurance is still kept,
          and this very day I have sent a notice to the Press of my

          intended course of lectures ; which (D.V.) I mean to open on

          the 24th of this month. If I give the course it will be my

          fifty-second, and undoubtedly my last. This does sound
          strange ; but it is no matter for boasting -- nay rather it is a
          thought that should fill my heart with thankfulness ; and

          there is sorrow too in the thought that it must be my last

          course1."

               When he wrote these words he probably hoped that he
          might be wrong. But he had estimated the failure of his
          powers only too correctly. He did deliver the course, and,

          so far as we can make out, with spirit, and no great pain
          to himself. But the closing lecture, in which he " attacked

          the materialists," was really the last he ever gave. In the
          following year he was compelled to seek the assistance of a
          deputy, Professor John Morris.

          To Lady Lyell.           Cambridge,  December 25th, 1870.
              My dear Lady Lyell,

                           Christmas Day ! and I am beginning the day by

          doing what I can seldom do with impunity. My eyes do not
          commonly allow me to write my own letters. Let me then
          be as short as I can.

          1 To Lady Augusta Stanley, 13 October, 1870.

                   CHRISTMAS GREETING TO MURCHISON.                                                             459

First, I send my Christian love and best greetings to all in                                                         1871.

your house. May this be a thrice happy and a blessed season
to you all ! Next, I request Sir Charles (your maester as we

always call the husband in Dent) to communicate a similar
message to Murchison, if he be well enough to receive
                                                                                                           it;  and

have heard from time to time that he better. Lyell need
II                       is
                a             a
not say thrice happy, but he surely may say blessed Christmas

--and Christian can feel joy even in the midst of sorrow....
   am here living almost in solitude --yet my spirits are,

on the whole, cheerful, and try to thank God for His
                      I

long-continued mercies to me. Again,  a    thrice happy

Christmas          !

                      Ever your affectionate old friend,

                         A. Sedgwick.

     The concluding lines of this letter give graphic epitomea
of the last two years of Sedgwick's life. They were passed

in his rooms in Trinity College, in the monotonous routine to

which an invalid must inevitably submit, but which, in his
case, was submitted to with resignation, and daily " thanks

to God for the many temporal comforts " by which he was
surrounded. Casual observers -- friends who paid short visits

-- spoke of his cheerfulness, and probably noticed but little

alteration since they had seen him last. Like                                                              massive
                   a
                                                                        a

                                                                                                        a
medieval stronghold, which preserves its contour unshattered,

and from distance betrays no sign of the ravages of time --

he could still conceal, except from those who saw him

from day to day, that he was really ruin of his former self.

His eyes were now so weak that he could neither read

nor write for long together. Occasionally, in the bright light

of morning, he got through a few pages of some book, or

a leading article in The Times, but he was soon obliged to

desist. " My eyes are very impatient when      attempt to
                      a;

                                                       ;I

                                                                          it
write," he says in 1871 "the mere act of leaning over the
paper seems to produce congestion of the vessels within my
eyelids, and thereby provokes their irritability and makes

         460 INFIRMITIES OF OLD AGE.

  1871.  me nervous to look upon the tracings of my pen, while I do

Mt. 86.  not see distinctly the words they are meant to form." It was

         not to be expected that one who had been throughout his life
         so prolific a writer of letters, would not do his best to continue
         his favourite occupation. He was obliged, however, to dictate
         all except the most private. Here is his portrait, drawn by
         his own hand, while thus engaged, just a year before the

         end came.

         To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                                February 10th, 1872.

         "...Fancy me at this moment sitting in an easy arm-chair,

         with my left leg resting upon a gout-stool, and my right
         hand holding a gilded ear-trumpet to my right ear, while
         I am dictating this letter to John, and you will have the first

         outline of my picture. But, to fill it out, you must put a silk

         shade over my eyes, and a bright blue silk night-cap upon
         my head ; and, to finish the lower part of my face, you must

         fancy my nose and chin doing their best to kiss one another.

         For my natural teeth, excepting two stumps, are all gone ; and

         from a nervous affection of my gums I am now incapable of
         using my false grinders -- which sadly spoils my beauty. My

         cheeks are red, not from the flush of health, but from a

         malady which gives me much uneasiness, and, at one time, I
         thought I was going to have a regular bottle-nose --but that
         rubicund honour will, I think, be denied me.

         My mental condition is worse than that of my senses, for

         my memory is little better than a lumber-room, and the
         active powers of my mind have become half-torpid from lack

         of vital use...."

             To some member of his own family --usually his niece
         Isabella --he wrote nearly every day with his own hand,

         generally very early in the morning, assisted by spectacles
         and a strong lens, and his first letter was generally his last
         for the day. These letters, dealing as they do with the
         most private circumstances of his life -- his symptoms, his

CHRISTIAN RESIGNA TION.  461

medicine, his food, the employment of his time through               187
every hour of the day --give a vivid, and on the whole a
                                                                  /Et-
cheerful, picture of his old age. " I keep up my spirits

pretty well," he writes, " by thinking of the past and by
cherishing hopes for the future, and by reading the letters of
my nieces and grand-nieces, who write good round hands to
suit me. I am not unhappy -- I have learnt to feel a pleasure
in sitting still in my armchair. But I am in the decade of
labour and sorrow, and I must regard this trial as for my
good, if I use it as an aged Christian ought to do." These
were no empty words, introduced to round a period. He
wished to prolong his life, because he felt that he was still of
use to those whom he loved, and every letter he wrote bears

witness by an enquiry, a present, or a suggestion, to his
considerate thoughtfulness for them. He never grumbled ;

he submitted to his trials as a cross laid upon him by the
Almighty.

     His infirmities would not allow him, to his great sorrow,

to attend the services in the College Chapel ; and it became
his daily custom to have the morning and evening lessons

read to him ; the Psalms and some prayers he read to himself.

" I long for acts of social worship," he wrote to his niece, " I
try to do what is right, but how powerless I am in governing
my thoughts as I would wish ! and how soon I flag in my

attention !" The new Lectionary, then just coming into use,

gave him much satisfaction ; and he often devotes a long
letter to recording the thoughts suggested by the chapters he
had listened to, or by some recent edition of the New Testa
ment or one of the Epistles which had come in his way.
Difficulties in interpretation, or in the chronology of the
Life of Christ, are not seldom discussed at length, with much

acute criticism.
     His deafness was to a great extent compensated for by the

skill of his servant, who had learnt the pitch of voice that
suited his master's ears, and read to him for several hours in

each day. By this means he kept himself informed of what

         462 INFIRMITIES OF OLD AGE.

  1871.  was passing in the outer world ; and he followed with keen

Ml. 86.  interest the Franco-German war, the Tichborne case, and the

         debates in Convocation. His comments on this latter subject
         are worth quotation : " The debates carried on in the Houses
         of Convocation often fill me with amazement: sometimes
         they are dull enough --a kind of pious wind-bag which ought

         to stuff a hassock. Then they expose to view seared mediaeval
         knick-knacks of antiquated pattern. Then come tricks of art,

         and new terms of a new logic. Then comes a fermentation

         and a fire, such as transforms men's nature, and makes meek

         men into sons of thunder. Does it not seem to you that
         common-sense has of late seldom found a chair to sit down on

         within the limits of Jerusalem Chamber?"
              Still there were long weary hours in which he sat alone in

         his easy chair. At such times his thoughts would often

         revert to Dent. Little by little he became convinced that he

         should never see it again. " I now despair of realizing my

         day-dream of a happy visit to the dear dales of your
         neighbourhood. More than once, while writing this letter, my
         eyes have been filled with tears while the dark shade of
         thought was passing over my mind --that I might never
         again be cheered by the sight of my dear native dale, and the
         home of my childhood." It had always been his custom to

         send a generous contribution to the poor of Dent at Christmas;

         but now, as though to compensate himself for his enforced

         absence, he sent a larger sum ; and when any special event

         occurred --as the funeral of one whom he had formerly known
         -- his purse was at all seasons open.

              The loss of society -- not that formal society which comes
         by invitation --but that of friends who drop in for half an
         hour's conversation, was a sore trial to him. " No one thinks
         of calling on such a crabbed, half-blind, half-deaf old dotard
         as myself" --he said; and he valued very highly the kindness
         of "a benevolent lady-friend," who did call occasionally.

         " Such visits are like sunbeams shining through a fog." A
         visit from Sir Richard Griffith --his companion in old days in

LAST DINNER-PARTY.                          463

many happy expeditions, gave him much gratification. " He
came to see me," he tells his niece, "as an old geological

friend. I think you do not know this happy genial old
Irishman, who is six months older than I am, yet is up to

anything in bodily activity --has good sight, perfect hearing,
and the complexion and manner of a young man1." Once,
when the Dean of Westminster and Lady Augusta Stanley

were visiting the Master (Dr Thompson) he ventured on a
dinner party -- the last, as it proved, that he ever gave.

                             Trinity College, November 25Ih, 1871.
     " Well ! now for my party last Thursday. Four from our
Lodge; four from St John's Lodge; two from Catharine
College Lodge. So we have ten. Add Dr Lightfoot, Profes
sor Munro, and Clark our Vice Master, and we muster
fourteen. Mr Luard and two ladies (friends of the Dean)
came afterwards. I gave them a good dinner, and the party
was a very merry and happy one --plenty of good talk.
When the ladies retired from the table I went down to rest

in Munro's room for three quarters of an hour, after which
John came to bring me a cup of coffee, and to tell me that
the gentlemen had joined the ladies. So again I put on my

wonderful mufflers and went up to the party. Nothing
could go off better. Plenty of talk and good of its kind.

Lady Augusta was in excellent spirits, and so was the Dean.

They had all left me before 10.45.
     Saturday evening. John has just left me after our short

evening service. My poor old eyes will not let me read.
But I can write a little longer what I hardly look at. To-day
I have spent two and a half very pleasant hours talking with

Lady Augusta about their continental tour...."

     Now and then, in summer weather, he found his way to
the college walks ; but even there the infirmities of old age
stood in the way of his full enjoyment.

1 To Miss Isabella Sedgwick, 20 June 1872.

          464 INTEREST IN WOODWARDIAN MUSEUM.

   1872.  To Miss Isabella Sedgwick.
                                                                                  May 2nd, 1872.
Xt- 87-
              "...The weather here is most beautiful, and I have profited

          by it. I yesterday evening walked to the private walks of the

          Fellows, and walked all round them. And I returned without
          fatigue. This was my longest walk in 1872. But alas! I

          cannot hear the birds singing round me. The death-like
          silence of our walks was painful to me ; but I hoped to help

          my dull ears by using my ear-trumpet. It was of no use to
          me. Not a bird could I hear, though scores were singing. I

          was, however, thankful to hear, on my way back, the cawing

          of the rooks which build in some of our college walks.
               I was grieved not to hear the sounds of the little piping

          voices of the children who were playing by scores behind the

          college. But, on the application of my trumpet, the merry

          sounds revived in my dull ears, to my great comfort -- "

               In these years, as in the prime of life, his chief employment
          and pleasure was derived from his Museum. The loss of
          Mr Lucas Barrett was a severe blow to him, both personally,
          and from a scientific point of view ; but in his successor
          Mr Seeley he had found an able coadjutor. Nor did he

          content himself with merely engaging others, at an expense
          he could ill afford, to work for him ; whenever it was possible,

          and often when it would have been more prudent to have

          stayed at home, he might be seen wending his way, by the
          help of his crutch-stick, from his rooms to his Museum, to

          inspect personally the arrangements that were going forward.
          He could still give very valuable help to those who knew how

          to profit by it. One who worked there for a while remembers
          that when asked about the locality of some specimen, the
          label of which was half-obliterated or illegible, he would sit

          down and say : "Ah ! I am no good now ; I could have told

          you all about that once, but now my head is all confusion."
          Then, he would turn the specimen over, and say : "Stop! let

          me see, I think I remember. As you are going down such

        LECKENBY COLLECTION.                                    465

and such a pass etc.," pouring out a mass of geological and                  1872.
topographical information which shewed that the whole scene                        87-
and its teachings were clearly impressed on his mind. " In
his best days," says our informant, " his memory must have

been marvellously accurate."
     In 1 87 1 a very valuable collection was offered to the

University. As on former occasions there were no funds

available for the purchase, and Sedgwick made an appeal
to private generosity. In a few weeks he learnt, "with an

emotion," he says, " of grateful joy, such as I have not felt
since the brightest and happiest days of my youthful life " --

that the sum required, with a surplus sufficient to defray the
cost of a cabinet, had been subscribed1, and in his next

Report (March, 1872) he was able to announce the safe
arrival of the specimens. His appeal, as being almost his

last utterance on behalf of the Museum to which he had
devoted the best energies of his life, is printed without

abridgement.

To the Noblemen and Gentlemen of the University of Cambridge,
       and especially to the Heads of Colleges, the Members of the
       Council, and the Members of the Senate, the following

        Statement is addressed by their very aged and infirm, but very
       affectionate and grateful Servant,

                                                           ADAM SEDGWICK.

The old nucleus of the present Geological Museum is of con
siderable antiquity. It came to the University of Cambridge, partly
by the bequest of Dr Woodward and partly by purchase from his
executors, about the year 1727 ; but it was in a good measure formed
during the latter part of the preceding century. This collection is
still entire (with the exception of a few specimens that have under
gone spontaneous decomposition), and is preserved with its copious
Catalogues in one of the closets of the present Museum, as an object
both of scientific and historical interest.
The present Geological Collection was begun by the writer of
this Statement in the year 1818; and by his personal labour con
tinued for many succeeding years, by the kind and generous assistance
and munificence of academic friends, and         various
by the University, it has become what        by  is -- one  purchases made
                                             it
                                                             of the noblest

        1 The total subscribed was .1,013. p. od.

s. 11.                                                      30

          466 LECKENBY COLLECTION.

  1871.   collections, so far as regards British Geology, that exists in England.
/Et. 87.
          I do not compare it with the gigantic and unrivalled collections in
                                                           a collection for study  and   for practical
          the   BIritthisihnkMiutseinufmerio; rbutto,  as  collection existing in  this  island ; and
          use,                                         no

          of late years it has become more and more frequented by persons
          devoted to the study of the Natural Sciences. But Geology is a very

          progressive science, and there are gaps and defects in our collection

          which must be supplied, if it is to hold its present high rank among
          the Museums of England.

              A grand occasion, such as may never again be met with, now
          presents itself. Mr Leckenby, of Scarborough, offers to transfer his

          entire and beautifully arranged collection to the Woodwardian
                                       of ,800. Many scientific persons (and among
          Museum   for the sum         to name Professor Morris) have declared this
                   am happy
          them I
          collection to be of its kind unrivalled. It has been formed during a
          good many past years by Mr Leckenby, at a cost many times greater
          than the sum above mentioned ; and our assistant Curator, Mr
          Henry Keeping, an excellent judge on such a question, regards it of

          inestimable value as an addition to the Cambridge Museum, and
                                                                                         wIetakis--mthosatt
          thinks that it is offered on terms much below its value.
          strong where the present Cambridge collection is most
          in the Mesozoic or Oolitic series of this Island.
          is,   All the specimens, amounting to more than 4000, are of the

                              ;
          choicest character. For many Mr Leckenby paid 20*. each, for some

                 each and indeed on his favourite object he appears to have
          spared no cost.

               After having given my annual Lectures for 53 years, without
          single break in the series, have been compelled to entreat the
                                             is a
          University to appoint
                                                   I
                                                              I

                                                                                          ;

                                                                     I

                                                                                     it

                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                              a
                                                       deputy to give my annual course; and
          Professor Morris, a name well known and honoured by all the
          geologists of Europe,                        now, under University appointment, filling

          my place in the Lecture-Room.

                With thankfulness to God for the past, know well that must
          soon be called away from all earthly duties but would cast a gleam
          of light on my declining days, and fill my heart with good hope
          for the future of Cambridge, could see the noble, and in many
          respects the incomparable, collection of Mr Leckenby placed in our
          Museum.

          II    write this statement with the strongest feelings of love and
          reverence for the whole academic body, and for that College which
          has been my home, now for the long period of sixty-seven years                 I
          and cannot but earnestly and confidently hope, that what have                                  ;
          now recommended to the University may become an accomplished
          fact, honourable to the present history of the University, and a
          pledge of permanent security to its good foundations that are laid in
          the interests of knowledge and of God's truth.

                Trinity College,

                          Nov. 23, 87
                                 1
                                         1.

                CATALOGUES OF MUSEUM.                              467

The Collection, of which the history is sketched in the                       1872
                                                                                   8?
above document, had accumulated with great rapidity, and,

while this accumulation was proceeding, it was obviously

impossible to prepare a detailed catalogue of it. Of one
portion -- that containing the fossils of the palaeozoic rocks --

a catalogue had been published, as already narrated1; and

Sedgwick had for some years ardently desired that similar

catalogues for the rest of the Collection should be proceeded

with as rapidly as possible. " A collection," he said, " is of

comparatively little use, and is never safe from spoliation,

without a catalogue." Such a task however, very laborious,
                                    it
and, of necessity, slow, as
                                                is,
                                    must be preceded by the

determination of the specimens to be recorded. To this

cause must be ascribed the delay in the work on which

Mr Seeley was engaged Sedgwick, on the other hand, was

impatient for the appearance of the printed catalogues, and
                       II
inquiries after them are of frequent occurrence in his corre;

spondence with his assistant. " My day               is is  nearly done," he

writes in 1867 "and am more than ever anxious about theI;
catalogues;" and again in 1868, " How the Reptile cata?

logue going on With me catalogues are the things most

needful. Long have longed for them with long-suffering             ;
but fear that have longer to long! " In 1869, however, the
I

Index to the Fossil Remains of Aves, Ornithosauria, and

Reptilia, from the Secondary Strata, was ready; and Sedgwick

contributed to  it     short Prefatory Notice, giving a history of
                    a

that part of the Collection. While this work was proceeding,

Mr Salter, whose name has frequently occurred in our narra

tive, was attacking the Cambrian and Silurian Fossils, but his

work was irregular.and frequently interrupted by long absences.

Other friends were giving assistance with other groups, and with

the collection of rock-specimens. Their labours, with the

specimens added, are noticed in Sedgwick's valuable Reports,

presented annually to, and published by, the Museums and

Lecture Rooms Syndicate, body first appointed in 1866.
                       1

                                a
                       See above, p. 305.

                                                            30--2

         468 PREFACE TO SALTER'S CATALOGUE.

  1871.       When Sedgwick went into Residence at Norwich in 1872,
         he took with him the proof-sheets of Salter's catalogue,
iEt 87.  prepared and corrected for the press with great labour by
         Professor Morris, and composed a Preface to it. This work,
         completed just four months before his death, is full of interest.
         As the specimens catalogued were Cambrian and Silurian
         fossils, he is naturally led to give an account of his own

         labours in those fields ; and, in fact, the Preface supplies us
         with the most detailed information we possess about what he
         did in each year of the most active portion of his geological
         life. Its value, from a biographical point of view, has been

         shewn already by the numerous quotations made from it. It

         has, however, a scientific value as well ; for after the con

         clusion of the historical portion, Sedgwick passes into a dis
         cussion of the controversy that had arisen respecting the true
         boundaries of Cambria and Siluria, and defends his own
         position in dignified and temperate language. The Conclusion
         may be fitly described as his farewell to the University and
         the world. He dwells with gratitude and thankfulness on
         the realization of his hopes as to the progress of geology

         in Cambridge ; and on the lessons which it had taught him,

         and which he had laid before his class in his annual lectures.

         " It was my delightful task," he says, " to point out the

         wonderful manner in which the materials of the Universe
         were knit together, by laws which proved to the understand
         ing and heart of man that a great, living, intellectual, and
         active Power must be the creative Head of the sublime

         and beautiful adjustments and harmonies of the Universe."
          Thence, by a natural transition, he considers Man, and his

         position in reference to the Universe, and concludes with the
         following passage, a summary of the teaching of his life.

         That Man in his animal nature is to be counted but as one in
         the great kingdom of things endowed with life, we at once admit ;
         but that in the functions and powers of his intellect (here just
         touched on by my feeble hand) he is absolutely removed from any
         co-ordination with the lower beings of Nature,  iIs,  firmly believe,

         one of the most certain of well apprehended truths. We all admit

              PREFACE TO SALTER'S CATALOGUE.                                      469

that Nature is governed by law: but can we believe that a being                           is-
like man is nothing but the final evolution of organic types worked                      ^t
out by the mere action of material causes ? How are such organic
evolutions to account for our sense of right and wrong, of justice,
of law, of cause and effect, and of a thousand other abstractions

which separate man from all the other parts of the animal world ;
and make him, within the limits of his duty, prescient and respon
sible.

The facts and sentiments connected with that which marks
              -- the works
Humanity,      of his heart  --of amppane'asr  hands,  the visions of his  eyes,  the
aspirations                                    to me   utterly abhorrent   from   the
dogmas of materialistic Pantheism. I never could be content, while
thinking of such things, to feel myself dangling in mid-air without a
resting-point for the sole of my foot. The true resting-point is a
                                                of           First Cause -- the
reception     both in   heart and head              a great                       one
God -- the     Creator   of all worlds,        and           things possessing    life.
                                                     of all

Here we have found a true resting-place and heart's content ; and
so we are led to feel the sanctity and nobility of Truth, under all

the forms in which it shews itself, to rejoice in its possession, and
to honour it as the gift of God.
What does the Pantheist give us? A day of uncertain light, of
uncertain joy, and a night of eternal darkness. But a better teaching
tells us that there is a God who is the Father of the universe,
and careth for all His creatures : and if we have listened to a still

higher teaching, we can believe that as all the world of Nature
has been progressive, so the life of man, and the labours of man,

are not to end here, but are to lead him to a brighter and more
glorious existence. And there is a higher teaching still, very near
                                                                           of
to us,  even  in our own heart and conscience          : an emanation             holy
light   from  the Fountain-head of all light           -- toward which       I      am

permitted but to take one glance while winding up this concluding
address. And may our Maker grant that His holy light may guide

the steps and warm the hearts of all who read this Preface !

     Soon after the Conclusion to the Preface was written -- it is
dated 17 September, 1872 -- Sedgwick returned to Cambridge.
For a time he was unusually well, and full of kindly interest
in the proceedings of his children at Norwich, where Mrs

Sedgwick was spending the winter in his Residentiary house.
" I make out that they were all to go to the dancing-school
yesterday," he writes on October 14th ; "the sooner they get

into regular school-training the better. I ought to be thank

ful to my God and Saviour for the precious sleep of last night,

and for the improved strength of this day. Yesterday I was
a poor creature, and the day was very very dismal. ' Oh let

       470 LAST WEEKS.

872. my mouth be filled with Thy praise, O Lord ! that 1 may sing
. 87- of Thy glory and honour all the day long ! Cast me not away

        in the time of age ; forsake me not when my strength faileth
        me.' The quotation fits me, and may God give me help to

       profit by its lesson ! On the whole I think I am stronger
       than I was when I last left Norwich, certainly not weaker."

        During November and December these good reports continue.
        He was busy with the final revision of his Preface; and much
         gratified by the warm welcome it received from his friends
        when it was published. Some of the old pleasantry appears
        in his correspondence ; and, as usual, it is full of quiet kindli
         ness, and thoughts for others.

        To Miss Mary Luard.

                                                            Cambridge, November 28th, 1872.

            "...Let me scold you well. Have more respect for the

         letter and never more torture it (poor thing!) as you have
        done in your letter. Consider what good it does you in your
        kerchiefs ! How it enables you to write kindly to your
        friends ! How it is your leading friend when you give a kiss
        or a keepsake ! Show the two clippings1 to your sister, and

       ask her if you have not shamefully maltreated the king of
        letters ! Is it not the head of all kindness ? And your very
        dog reproaches you when it thinks of its kennel !..."

         To his great-nieces.
                                                         Advent Sunday, December 1st, 1872.

              " Thanks, dearest children, for your kind letters and mes

         sages....

             I am going to begin our Sacred Service Year (Advent
        Sunday) by celebrating, with God's permission, the Holy
        Communion in my own rooms today, with two, or perhaps

      three, friends who will I hope come to support me in the

        Holy Service. The literal meaning of sacrament is an oath
       taken by a soldier to be true to his colours or standard. And

                1 He had cut out a sentence from each of the letters in support of his view.

                        LAST WEEKS.                    471

is not Christian life a fight against sin, and all the tempta-   1873.
                                                                       88-
tions of the world ? We are to ' cast away the works of
darkness and put upon us the armour of light ' (as told in this

day's Collect)... May you all fight the good fight of true-

hearted Christian life  must now prepare for my Sacrament
-- my oath of loyalty to the banner of the Cross -- my com

memoration of the death of Christ upon the Cross as a full

redemptive offering for the sins of the whole world. May

God give us grace to accept His offers of love and help in

every hour of need ! Such be your loving prayers for your

old uncle.

    P.S. 1.30 p.m. The Service of the Holy Communion was
reverently performed in my rooms by Mr Kirkby, one of our

chaplains, to my great comfort."

     The New Year began less brightly. He was gratified by
presents of game and flowers, and the arrival of cards from
his young folks, but he did not feel at his best. " This day,"
he writes on the first of January 1873, "has been most
beautiful. But it has not made me much better. My
digestive powers give way a little, and my skin-complaint
still teases me much more than I like. The spasmodic action
is unchanged. But I will not complain. I am at my average

I think. May God's bright light shine on your heart this

year1."

     The symptoms alluded to did not pass away, though he
combated them with strong medicines. His cheerfulness,
however, was maintained, and to a certain extent his power of

locomotion, for, on January 10th, he writes in good spirits,

inquires after a lady who had broken her arm, and mentions

that " this morning I had a short drive, and made one or two
calls." A friend who saw him on the afternoon of Sunday,

January the 19th, found him cheerful, and full of conversation.
But, unfortunately, it was necessary that a meeting of the
Chapter of Norwich Cathedral should take place, and, as he

            1 To Miss Kate Malcolm, 10 January, 1873.

       472 LAST WEEKS AND DEATH.

873. could not travel to Norwich, the Dean and some of the
        Canons assembled in his rooms. The excitement proved too
       much for him. One of those present, Mr Heaviside, thought
        him " fearfully changed since he left Norwich. We did not
       let him take part in our discussions," he says, " and I sat with
        him after the rest departed. He brightened up considerably
       in the afternoon, and was much pleased with a message of
        inquiry the Prince of Wales had sent him from Sandringham
        by Professor Kingsley. No doubt he varies considerably...
         and the depression and weakness may be only temporary
        He talked to me as usual ; but evidently is conscious of his
         weakness, and indeed said to me seriously that he did not
        think he should live through the spring. He was very
        anxious about them all at Norwich."
             These forebodings were only too well founded. He never
        rallied, and very early on the morning of Monday, 27 January,
        the end came. For the details of the last sad days we will
        avail ourselves of a letter written to Mrs Vaughan, by Miss

         Sedgwick.

            My dearest Kate,

                         Do you remember almost our last conversation
        before we parted in the early spring of this year ? We had
        been talking of the last few months of my dear uncle's life;
        and you asked me to tell you something of those days when

      his life was drawing to a close --days which, when I look back,

        seem so full of peace, and so bright with the golden rays of
        life's sunset !

            My uncle began his last Residence as Canon of Norwich
      on the 1st of August, 1872 ; and I joined him at his house in
       the Close on the same day. He was very cheerful and seemed
       well ; but I remember that, when we arrived, he did not come

        to the door to meet his young nieces and myself with his
        usual loving words of greeting ; he waited for us in the
        drawing-room, saying, with a smile, as we entered, that going
         up and down stairs was harder work to him now, than it had

LAST WEEKS AND DEATH.  473

been eighty years before. He was not strong enough to go to      1873.
the early service in the Cathedral during the two months of            88-
his Residence ; his kind friend and brother Canon, Mr

Heaviside, took his place ; but he was able usually to attend
the afternoon service. He drove out almost daily, and went to
see most of his old friends. His love and thought for every

one about him were greater than they had ever been, and he
was specially anxious for the happiness and pleasure of the

young people ; but he frequently said to me, that he felt the
close of his life approaching, and that he knew he should

never come to Norwich again. One thing especially struck

me, how constantly his thoughts seemed to be dwelling upon

the life beyond the grave ; That was the real life to him,
though he took a lively interest in the questions of the day,
generally asking to have The Times read to him, and some

times The Quarterly Review, and The Edinburgh Review.
Yet, whenever he was alone, earthly things seemed to lose

their interest, and his first words, when we again joined him,
were of some passage of the Bible which was difficult to
interpret, or some incident in the Life of our Lord or His

Apostles that he had been reading, or thinking of. St Paul's
life, and teaching, were very real to him ; he would speak of

the Apostle almost as if he had personally known him, and
he described his journeys, and especially the shipwreck of the
' ship of Alexandria ' off the Island of Melita, as graphically
as if he had been there himself. When passing the door of
his room at night, I have frequently heard him praying

audibly in the most earnest words for all near and dear to
him ; and at other times for himself, in tones of the deepest
humility. After he had gone to bed, he generally repeated

aloud Bishop Ken's evening hymn, Glory to Thee my God

this night.

     A great part of the Preface to the Catalogue of the
Cambrian and Silurian Fossils in the Woodwardian Museum
at Cambridge was written from his dictation by his servant
John Sheldrick, during these two months of his Residence at

        474 LAST WEEKS AND DEATH.

 1873.  Norwich. I often asked him, if I could not write for him, but

Et 88.  he declined, saying, John was more accustomed to the work

        of writing from his dictation than I was. But one morning in

        September, when he was particularly cheerful and well, he
        asked me, after breakfast, to come with him to the room where

        he generally wrote, saying, he had now come to his last day's

        work, and as he had some grave and solemn words to say--

        words, which he felt would be the last he should ever address
        to the public -- he wished me to write them down for him. The

        part I refer to is the Conclusion of the Preface. I wrote as
        rapidly as I could, but it was difficult to keep up with the

        rapid flow of words ; sentence after sentence was spoken with

        scarcely a pause for thought. When the concluding para
        graph was written, he said : 'There, Isabella ! that is the last
        sentence I shall ever write for the public ! Now read it over to

        me, in case I wish to make any correction;' but none was
        needed, and beyond one or two verbal alterations, where I

        had not clearly understood him, no change had to be made

        in those eloquent words.
             His Norwich Residence ended with the last days of

        September, and he was anxious to return to Cambridge and
        his beloved College. We parted with sorrowful hearts. The

        night before I returned to my Yorkshire home, he said that
        we should never be at Norwich together again, but, if God
        spared him, he hoped that I would come and see him early in

        the coming year at Cambridge, according to my usual custom

        for two or three years, as he felt almost certain he should be
        gone before the spring. These were sorrowful words to me,
        but they were spoken almost joyfully by him.

            During the next three months I heard from him two or

        three times a week ; sometimes the letters were written by
        himself, but usually he dictated them from his easy chair.

        Generally they were written very cheerfully, though sometimes
        he spoke of increasing weakness, and said that even the short
        walk to his Museum tired him. When Christmas came, he
        did not forget any of his accustomed charities, but sent a

LAST WEEKS AND DEATH.

larger sum than usual to distribute amongst the poor and          1873.
sick of his native valley of Dent.                                      86

    Soon after the beginning of the year 1873 I asked him if

he would like me to come and see him at Cambridge ; but as
he knew I was very anxious about the dangerous, and what
proved to be the mortal, illness of an old servant, he replied :

' No ! I would rather you came a little later ; ' at the same

time mentioning that he had just been to the Woodwardian
Museum. I believe that was the last time he was out of his

rooms. At last one morning, Wednesday the 22nd January,
two very sad letters came to me at Langcliffe --one dictated

by my uncle, with a postscript from his servant, saying that
he thought him more feeble ; the other from Canon Heaviside,

who had come from Norwich to see him, and thought his

strength was going. These letters were followed, in a few
hours, by a telegram from his physician, Dr Paget, saying,

that my uncle had fainted when getting up, and that he

thought that I had better come at once to Cambridge. I left
by the next train, travelled all night, and arrived next
morning at his rooms in Trinity. He welcomed me with his

usual bright smile, and loving words, told me something of

his increasing weakness, and then said : ' I shall not be long
here now, you must stay and be with me to the last.' He

remained in bed all that day ; he had no pain, he said, only
felt weak. He spoke of old times, and of his father and

mother, brothers, and sisters, who had all, he said, gone home
before him. Then he spoke of the younger generations of his
family, and of other friends whom he hoped soon to meet
again, and of his Cambridge life and work, and the deep

affection which he had always felt for his College and Univer

sity, and he asked me to read to him some passages from the

Psalms, and the Lessons for the day, according to his usual

custom. When night came, I told him that Mrs Thompson

had asked me to go to the Lodge, and had given me the
key of the door opening on to the turret-staircase, so that

I could come to him at any moment he wanted me. He

          476 THE LAST SUNDAY.

  1873.   replied : ' I hope you will have a good sleep ; John will
/Ex. 88.  l00k after me.'

               The next day (Friday) although he had not slept much,

          he seemed stronger, and was up and dressed, and dictated one
          or two short letters. He was especially anxious to send some
          words of sympathy to a friend, whose wife had just died ; this
          letter was the last he ever dictated. Again he had a quiet
          night, and was free from pain, though in the morning Dr Paget
          thought him weaker. He slept a good deal, but towards

          evening roused up, and asked me if I had heard from his

          nephews and nieces at Norwich, and sent messages of love to
          them. He then asked me to read the 130th and 51st Psalms,
          saying that the 130th was the last earthly sound that fell
          upon the ears of his dear friend Dr Ainger of St Bees college,

          to whom he read it when dying; and that the 51st was the
          favourite Psalm of his father in his extreme old age. A little
          time after he said : ' Read to me the chapter that you read to

          Margaret [his eldest sister] the evening before her death, the

          17th of St John;' and when I had finished, after a little
          pause he went on to speak of his own hopes of salvation,
          alluding to himself in words of the deepest humility, saying

          that his whole trust was in the atonement which his Saviour

          had made for him, and in the mercy and love of his Father in

          Heaven.
               Sunday was the last day of his earthly life, a day of deep

          sorrow, but yet of great peace. He had again a quiet night,

          and slept quietly most of the morning. In the afternoon I

          heard him praying earnestly, not, I think, knowing that any
          one was in the room. I knew he had a dislike to being

          watched, and therefore sat partly behind the curtain at the

          foot of his bed, and I was too far off to hear at first more than

          broken sentences, mingled sometimes with the names of those

          he loved ; but, as he prayed more and more earnestly, his
          voice grew stronger, and the following sentences I clearly
          heard, not spoken together, but with a pause between : ' Wash

          me clean in the blood of the Lamb-- Enable me to submit to Thy

DEATH.  477

Holy Will -- Sanctify me with Thy Holy Spirit! These were         1873.
the last words he spoke. For a little time his breathing was            88

hurried, but, as the winter Sunday advanced, it became more
gentle, and he fell asleep ; and so the afternoon passed away,

and the evening closed in, and the stars came out and shone

brightly into the darkened quiet room, where I sat near the

window in the deep stillness, listening to his soft breathing.
Then the evening service began in the Chapel, and the rich
tones of the organ, and the chanting of the choir, now swelling,
and then dying away, could be distinctly heard, and so un

earthly in its beauty was the melody, that it almost seemed

as if the golden gates of Heaven were opening, and music not
of this world was floating down to that quiet room. In a
little time the stillness was broken by the chimes of St

Mary's Church, and again deep silence fell upon the room.

It was quite impossible, in that deep stillness and quiet,

to realize that a soul was passing away to God.
     There was no change till about midnight, and then we

saw the shadow of death come softly over his face, and we

knew that he had passed into the dark valley, and that the
end was near ; but there was no pain, only quiet sleep. His
breathing again grew more faint, and soft ; and without a
sigh, just as the clock in the great Court of Trinity chimed a
quarter past one, his spirit returned to God. ' So He giveth

His Beloved sleep.'

                     Believe me,

                          Ever yours most affectionately,

                              Margaret Isabella Sedgwick.

     The news of Sedgwick's death was received with very

general sympathy. The Queen telegraphed : " I am deeply

grieved to hear of the death of our kind old friend, Professor
Sedgwick. He was a most valued friend of the dear Prince.
Pray let me have some details ; " and General Knollys wrote
from Sandringham : " The Prince has to lament the loss of a
valued friend." From all parts of the country came express

478 FUNERAL.

ions of condolence and regret. One spoke of "the noble-
hearted veteran who has for so many years been one of the
chief glories of Trinity College"; another remembered that
in his undergraduate days " forty-three years ago ! he was
always called ' Old Sedgwick.' Few people have had so long
a career of usefulness, and few have been so generally loved
and respected." But all the affectionate recollections of
kindness received, and of happy hours passed in the sunshine
of his presence, must give place to the words of a lady who
had known him from her childish days : " As each of the
great old men go home under whose influence one has picked
up what one could of crumbs of wisdom and culture, one feels
that we shall never see their like again, and of no one is that
so true as of Professor Sedgwick. Whatever our age may
produce of great and good --and I never believe that because
we grow old, and see the world through a veil of tears and

regrets, God forgets to be gracious, and that the former days

were better than these --still, whatever it produces of able,
ingenious, ardent, souls, it never will produce anything like
him -- the great mind united to an equally great heart, rich in

culture, matured by intellectual discipline, as earnest in the
love of God as of man, and yet simple, genuine, natural,
spontaneous as the veriest peasant, or as one of the little
children whom he loved so well."

     The funeral took place on the Saturday after his death.
It was a cold, sunshiny day ; and flakes of snow fell at
intervals, contrasting sharply by their whiteness with the
dark robes of the mourners, -- as the coffin was carried round

the Great Court, followed, in long procession, by the Fellows,
scholars, and undergraduates of the College ; the official
dignitaries of the University ; a large number of the resident
members of the Senate ; and many friends who had travelled
from a distance in order to be present. On the east side of the
court the procession was met by the Master, the Vice-Master,
the chaplains, and the choir. As they moved slowly towards
the chapel, the choir sang the opening sentences of the Burial

   DEAN STANLEY'S SERMON.                                               479

/Service, am the Resurrection and the Life, which sounded

with even more than usual solemnity through the clear and
frosty air. The grave had been prepared in the centre of the
ante-chapel, close to that of Dr Whewell. The prayer of
committal, and the prayers that conclude the Service, were

pronounced by the Master, in a voice more than once
broken by emotion.

      On the Sunday which succeeded Sedgwick's death, as onis
                  it,
that which had preceded the Dean of Westminster was the
select preacher before the University. No man was better          is a

qualified, by long friendship, by sympathetic temperament, by
pictorial eloquence in the treatment of a great subject, to

deal worthily with such an unexpected coincidence. It
happened also that Dr Lushington -- Sedgwick's friend --the

oldest member of the University of Oxford, as Sedgwick was
of the University of Cambridge, had passed away few days
before him. In the first of his two sermons the preacher had
dealt with The Moral and Spiritual Aspect of the Essential
Truths of the Christian Religion, and in his conclusion had
referred to Dr Lushington's career as " fired from first to last

by generous sympathy with suffering, by noble indignation
against wrong, by the firm persuasion of the indissoluble bond

between all that highest in religion and all that greatest
in morality." Then, reminding his hearers that Sedgwick's
existence was " trembling between life and death," he spoke
of him as " filled by the same burning enthusiasm for what
was noblest and best in human kind, the same humble and

firm belief in what was holy, and just, and good." On the
following Sunday, which fell on the Feast of the Purification,
the subject of the sermon was Purity and Light. After
describing the origin of the festival, and the meaning of the
two doctrines he desired to enforce, he passed to the theme

which, as he said, must have been throughout his discourse
present to the thoughts of those who listened to him. More
than one preacher on that day spoke of Sedgwick in his

sermon and many writers since have done their best, in
;

480 DEAN STANLEY'S SERMON.

essays, in obituary notices, in speeches, to set forth the
characteristics of one whom they loved and respected ; but
no words that others may have used will bear comparison
with those, at once so eloquent and so true, in which Stanley

commemorated his friend.

     Many and various are the recollections, grave and gay, solemn

and sweet, that come back at such a moment ; yet I know not

whether there are any which strike more forcibly on the memory than
the witness which he bore to the two high spiritual doctrines of which

I have thus ventured to speak. Who that ever saw the scorn of that

fierce indignation against baseness, or meanness, or wrong, has not
felt himself nerved to loftier aims ? Who that ever read or heard his

burning  words of detestation and    d--ishgiusstadamgairiantsitontheofmwisheartaebvleer  folly
and sin  of sensual self-indulgence                                                        was
unworldly, generous, and just -- did not perceive how, amidst the
exuberance of his never-dying youth, amidst all the energy of

political or theological or scientific strife, there was in that granite
rock a crystal spring of affection, simple, tender, and true as ever
burst from the depths of human heart?

         'His strength was as the strength of ten,
          Because his heart was pure.'

He was, as far as in him lay, ' the salt,' the Attic salt, the purifying
salt, the invigorating salt, which kept us all from corruption,
debasement, and decay. And not less was he 'the light' of
this our earthly scene. In his own peculiar field he fought the
good fight of faith in this great doctrine, though many forsook it
and fled. In those early struggles of science, when a timorous
theology held aloof, he sprang forward fearlessly into the foremost
rank of inquiry. Freely and boldly did this University trust him for
his arduous task, and freely and boldly did he reward her for her
generous confidence. He left no stone unturned, he left no depth
unexplored, out of which he could extract the secrets of nature or
dispel the darkness of ages. No fanatic partisan ever clung to
ecclesiastical or political dogmas with more perfect submission or
more ardent enthusiasm, than he to the sublime Christian doctrine
that God is Light, and that in Him is no darkness at all -- that God
is Truth, and that truth will in the end prevail. In this holy confi
dence, in this magnanimous hope, doubts and difficulties melted away.
Under the magic touch of his reverential ardour the very stones
seemed to cry out, the flinty rocks seemed to have found a voice,
deep called to deep ; and ' the sons of God ' seemed again ' to
shout for joy,' as he described the ' fastening of the foundations of
the world and the laying the corner-stone thereof And never,
through all these labours, did he lose the conviction that in this
bold research he was fulfilling his Creator's will. Never did he cease
to see in those marvels the signs of the Creator's goodness. For

              DEAN STANLEY'S SERMON.                                             481

himself, as for others, he breathed throughout his long laborious life

that lofty aspiration which is concentred in his latest prayer for this
his beloved University, that 'his Maker, the fountain-head of all
light, would, by His heavenly light, guide the steps and warm the
hearts' of all his hearers.

      But when we speak of him as an explorer of the earth, as a

luminary of the scientific horizon, how small a part does this convey
to us of the manifold senses in which to so many amongst us he was
indeed the salt of our life, the light of our world. The light which

irradiated, illuminated, cheered, whatever world he entered ; college
or cathedral, court or cottage, public audience or private home ; by
the fire of affection, by the blaze of genius, by the far-reaching

ray of good deeds, and encouraging, elevating thoughts. It was the

whole man, the whole being, in which this bright example burned

and shone, that made the heart leap with joy as he drew near, and

inspired the humblest and dullest for the time with the inspiration
of his own enthusiasm. Think of that eager, impetuous flow, that
'Homeric' energy of eloquence, that caught up in its current the
incidents, great and small, of his vast and varied recollections; think
of the flash of that eagle eye that was awakened to fire by whatever
was great and good ; the power of that faltering voice that was
melted into tears by whatever was touching and tender. Think of
            union of gracious courtesy
that  rare  affections of all whom he   aanpdpronaocbhleedin--defrpoemndethnece    which
won   the                                                                        Queen,

who delighted to honour him, down to the humblest dalesman,
whom he cherished as flesh of his flesh and bone of his bone.

Think of the pride, as of one belonging to a high-born ancestry, with

which he dilated, in thoughts  that  breathed and   words that burned,
on the glories of his Church   and                  the splendour, past
                                     country, --on
and present, of this his own beloved University.    Think  porifvahciym--yaest
again -- if I may for a moment intrude into that    inner

the joyous centre, the unshaken strength, the ever ready guide and
counsellor of kinsfolk and friends. Think of that child-like, simple,

yet manly and understanding faith with which he dwelt at once with
adoring reverence and fearless freedom on the central truths of the

Christian faith ; the ever fresh admiration, as though he had lighted

upon them for the first time, with which he would read in public or
in private the stirring passages of Holy Scripture. Think of the firm
but faltering tones of overflowing thankfulness with which he would

recount the many blessings which had followed him through his
course of fourscore years. Think, let me add, of his calm and

peaceful close, with the last words that trembled on his lips, in the
watches of the last night of his mortal life: 'Sanctify me by Thy Holy
Spirit.' In that grand and gifted soul Purity and Light had indeed
met together, Faith and Knowledge were indeed reconciled.

      No long time elapsed before a few friends of Sedgwick

met at Trinity College Lodge to consider how he could be

best commemorated in the University. We believe that there

      S. II.                                               31

482 MEMORIAL AT CAMBRIDGE.

was but one opinion, namely, that the Memorial which he
would have himself selected, and which would best perpetuate
his special work, would be a new Geological Museum, which
should bear his name, and worthily contain the collection

which he had got together. Soon afterwards (25 March) a

public meeting was held in the Senate House. It was a

meeting remarkable not only for its numbers but for the
quality of those who addressed it. The University was
represented by the Chancellor, who presided, the Vice-

Chancellor, the High Steward, and the two Representatives ;
the two principal Colleges by their Masters, Dr Thompson
and Dr Bateson ; science by the Astronomer-Royal and Pro

fessor Humphry ; literature by Professor Kennedy ; theology

by Professor Selwyn and Professor Lightfoot ; the presence
of Professor Shaler of Harvard testified to the sympathy of
America ; that of Mr Conybeare to the good feeling of the
University of Oxford. Of these speakers some had known
Sedgwick intimately ; others only slightly, if at all ; they
dealt with the question before them from different stand
points, and handled it with different degrees of ability. But
it may be noticed that their speeches, whether eloquent or
not, had always the true ring of sincerity ; they used no set
phrases, they spoke from conviction. And the outcome of
what they said was always the same, whatever their point
of view --that Sedgwick was one on whom it behoved the
 University to bestow exceptional honour; and that the
proposal before them, to build a new Geological Museum,

was the best that could be suggested for that purpose. We

have no space to analyse these speeches at length -- but from
the more personal reminiscences of Professor Selwyn a few

sentences may be quoted.

     It is difficult  to   speak one's   own thoughts of    hpirmimiwtihvoemmawne--aroef
met to honour;        but   let me say  that he was a most

the solid ancient rock of humanity. He appears like a great boulder-
stone of granite, such as he describes, transported from Shap Fell
over the hills of Yorkshire, dropped here in our lowland country,

and here fixed for life ; primitive in his name, Adam ; primitive

                  MEMORIAL AT CAMBRIDGE.                                              483

in his nature ; in his noble rugged simplicity ; a dalesman of the
north ; primitive in his love of all ancient good things and ways ;
primitive in his love of nature, and of his native rock from which
he was hewn ; primitive in his loyalty to truth, and hatred of
everything false and mean ; a heart, if ever there was one, that
' turned upon the poles of truth.' And it must be said, for it is
what I have heard from his own lips -- he was primitive in his love
for his dear country, and of our British Constitution, combining
the two great elements of stability and progress ; ' a whig of the
                             IschwoooulldofstSilol msepresa, k
old school,' that was the                                       and   Halifax, and the
seven Bishops. On this                                           of  him geologically;
he was a block of that primitive granite of English right and

liberty upheaved at Runnymede by Stephen Langton and William
Earl of Pembroke, with the bishops and barons ; which, overlaid
in after-times by sedimentary strata of royal prerogative and
arbitrary rule, at last, after long conflict with the tension of the
overlying beds, by the central fire and native force of right and
justice in British hearts, burst through again, and stands to this
                                           the bulwark of
day like     the  strong     mountains,  not say here what               our rights,   and
liberties,  and   religion.                                              he said of   later
                               I must

times, but, putting it geologically, the alluvial drift and diluvial

current passed by him, carrying a church here, there abrading
the surface of an old endowment, and making pious founders a
race of extinct fossil animals ; but the old granite boulderstone

stood fast.  ruYgegte,d,grabnuittevetrhyoukginhdlyhe--wIask, nohwe  was   not all hard, as
we know;                                                             it  by experience....

Many remember him as the earliest and kindest friend of their

childhood, and how large and various was his spirit was seen

when his library was sold.

     The resolution which this speech supported ran as follows :
"That the proposed Museum be called the Sedgwick Museum,

and that a bust of Professor Sedgwick be placed in it."

Selwyn      pleaded  that    for ' bust ' we should                      read  ' statue    '
                                                                                         :

" Let us have the whole man, as we have been wont to see

him. For what is a geologist without the hand to wield the

hammer ? without the feet to carry him over the mountains ?"

The scheme to which this meeting gave a definite shape

was actively promoted by a well-selected committee, and

funds for the proposed Museum were rapidly and generously

subscribed. The Chancellor gave 1000; Professor Selwyn

500 for the suggested statue; others followed with smaller
sums, and before many months were over 11,000 had been

got together. To this sum may be added about 7000 by

                                                                               31--2

484 MEMORIAL AT DENT.

accumulation of interest, and 2000 by increase in value of
securities -- so that the Sedgwick Memorial Fund now amounts

to nearly 20,000. Here, however, the matter ends. This

\sum, large as it not sufficient to build the proposed
                                                                      is,
                                                                           isMuseum, as well as the lecture-rooms, class-rooms, etc.
                                                                                                           a
required for geological teaching; and, up to the present

                                                            Memorial Fountain at Dent.

time, the University has not been in position to provide
the balance. Meanwhile the site, the extent, and the
arrangement of the buildings required have been anxiously

MEMORIAL AT DENT.  485

debated ; more than one architect has submitted a design ;

but each has failed to win approval. The University is still
without a memorial of Sedgwick.

     In Dent, as in Cambridge, it was felt that Sedgwick ought
to be commemorated. After some discussion it was remem

bered that he had frequently drawn attention to the defective

water-supply ; and it was decided to bring a stream from one
of the adjoining hills, and to erect a Memorial Fountain in

the market-place. The money required, about 200, was

soon subscribed by the statesmen, by members of Sedgwick's

own family, and by friends ; and, happily, little or no debate

about the design was needed. It was agreed on all hands

that an architectural composition would be unsuitable both to
the place and the man ; and a plain pyramidal block of Shap
granite, inscribed Adam Sedgwick, was selected. He is further

commemorated by a tablet in the parish-church, bearing an

inscription by Professor Selwyn. It should be mentioned
that in the course of the year 1889 the restoration of this
church was carried out, at a cost of nearly 3000. Of this

sum at least 1000 was given in memory of Sedgwick; and
it was Sedgwick whom the Lord Bishop of Richmond, in his
eloquent sermon1 at the completion of the work, held up to

the dalesmen as an example to be followed.

    Sedgwick's biography is now concluded. I propose, how

ever, to add a short epilogue, in which, speaking in my own

person, I shall recount a few particulars that could not easily

be woven into the foregoing narrative.
     In the first place, let me try to describe his personal

appearance. " I am a taller man than you think for," he
told Murchison in 1829; " I am five feet, eleven inches, and a
half." His frame was spare, athletic, and capable of enduring
much fatigue. His complexion was dark --a peculiarity in

   1 Adam Sedgwick. A Sermon preached by the Right Rev. J. J. Pulleine,

Lord Bishop of Richmond, at the re-opening of the Parish Church, Dent, after its
Restoration, on the 14th February, 1890. 8vo. Sedbergh.

486 PORTRAITS OF SEDGWICK.

herited from his mother --and his face was always wrinkled,
with deep lines in it. It looked rugged and weather-beaten ;
but bore no trace of pain or overwork. His forehead was

overhanging, with bushy eyebrows ; his eyes brown ; his nose
prominent and hooked. His hair began to turn grey when
he was forty years old, but it never fell off to any great
extent ; and no part of his head was ever bald.

      There is a well-known story which relates how Sedgwick,
Whewell, and Peacock were one day standing on a hearthrug
in front of a large mirror. Sedgwick looked up, and catching

sight of the three faces reflected in the glass, exclaimed : " I

declare the three ugliest men in England are standing on this
rug at the present moment." " Speak for yourself, Sedgwick,"
said Peacock, while Whewell burst out laughing. Sedgwick
often joked about his own ugliness, his " weather-beaten, time-
harried, smoke-dried physiognomy " --and the like ; but with
very little justification. It was not a regular, handsome face ;
but one of singular power. His whole character was written
in it. The deeply sunk, brilliant eye ; the hooked nose ; the
kindly mouth ; gave an idea of great intellectual gifts, joined
to infinite kindness and good nature. It was a difficult face
for a portrait-painter to delineate, because, though the features
were so well-marked, their expression changed with wonder
ful rapidity. On this account those who remember him well
are probably dissatisfied with all the portraits of him. The
earliest, painted by Phillips in 1832, which appears as the
frontispiece to the first volume, is considered by his family to
have been like him then ; but he himself said : " it makes me
almost a dandy, a character I never much affected, for nature
cast me in a large mould, and gave me a very rugged counte
nance. There is a lithograph from a crayon drawing by
Lawrence [taken in 1844] which makes me look a little like a
savage ; to be perfect it should represent me with a tomahawk
in the right hand, and a bloody scalp in the left. Lastly,
there is a lithograph which makes me look like a fat, greasy,

butcher, and I had that look for a few months after I

         GEOLOGICAL LECTURES.                              487

recovered from a dreadful fall by which my arm was frac

tured, and I was nearly bruised to death." These last remarks

apply to the portrait by Boxall, painted in 1851, when the
effects of the fall, at the end of 1849, had not yet wholly

disappeared. The crayon drawing by Dickinson, prefixed to
the second volume, gives, on the whole, the best idea of his
face in repose. His features did not alter much as he grew

older ; and this portrait recalls him to me as I remember him

in his years of greatest energy and activity.
     He was scrupulously neat in his dress and personal

appearance --his face closely shaven --an operation which, to
the last, he insisted on performing himself ; and his clothes --
the black garments suitable to a clergyman --well made and
carefully brushed. Like many men of his time, he wore his

gown with the strings tied.

    I am sorry that I cannot give any account of his geological

teaching from personal recollection. I visited his lecture-

room only occasionally, and can recall nothing but a general
impression of picturesque description and energetic delivery.
I remember, however, that forty-five or fifty years ago his

lectures were regarded as one of the features of the Uni

versity ; and it is certain that, at a time when attendance was
not compulsory, and when knowledge of the subject-matter was
of no practical use from the point of view of examinations,
Sedgwick always had a large class of voluntary students. In

default of my own recollections, I have to fall back on those

of others. The earliest in point of time are those of the Lord
Bishop of Carlisle, who took his degree in 1840. He says :

Considered in the abstract, his lectures were not equal to others

which have been given by scientific men ; he was not equal as a

clear expounder of a scientific subject to the late Astronomer-
                                                           Professor Willis. He did not
Royal,   or Professor   --Tynatdallel,astorinthethloastee  courses of lectures which I
present    his science
have myself had the delight of attending -- in a manner which could
be described as first-rate, with regard to clearness of order and
logical arrangement ; in fact, if a student wanted to ' get up ' geology
for an examination, I should judge that Sedgwick's lectures would
not have been the most profitable employment of his time ; but for

488 GEOLOGICAL LECTURES.

the purpose of exciting present pleasure in the reception of know
ledge, and enthusiasm of desire to become geologists, few exposi
tions of the subject could have been more successful. It was a
positive delight, independently of all questions of geology, to watch
the bright countenance, and listen to the eloquent and almost
unpremeditated language of the Professor, as he moved about
from diagram to diagram, or described specimen after specimen,
sometimes throwing in a remark of high morality or bright poetry1.

     The next witness I will call is Mr Sedley Taylor, formerly
Fellow of Trinity College, who took his degree in 1859. His
recollections therefore refer to a period twenty years later than

Bishop Goodwin's.

    Sedgwick's lecturing in his later years, of which alone I had

experience, was certainly very discursive. The sight of some fossil
on the table, or of some diagram on the wall would recall the

occasion on which he found the one or noted down the memoranda
for the other. ' I was taking a geological excursion with my dear
        , long since dead, gentlemen, like most of my con
friend
temporaries ; ' and off he would go, recounting the ' glorious time we
had together,' with an exuberance of cheery reminiscence, a vivid
picturesqueness of description, and a homely raciness of language,
the impression of which remains with me still. Then, after an
apologetic ' But this is all by the way, gentlemen, this is all by
the way,' he would abruptly fall upon his assistant with, 'Where
is that fossil ? Eh ? what do you say ? Oh ! ah ! yes ! ' and then
launch out into a description of the animal of whose body the fossil
in question had once formed part : 1a very queer old fellow,

gentlemen,' just as though he had met him a short time before.
This would in turn be succeeded by another plunge into field-work

experiences, lit up with familiar biographical touches relating to men

known only to his hearers as occupying dignified niches in the
temple of geology ; but in Sedgwick's tenacious and affectionate
memory still living and moving in the light of old friendship and
camaraderie. It will be said that such lectures constituted a sort of
miscellaneous conglomerate, and so they did ; but to me for one

they had a vivid personal interest for which the most faultlessly

systematic exposition supplies a poor substitute.

     Lastly, I will quote Mr H. G. Seeley, F.R.S., Professor in
King's College, London, who was Sedgwick's assistant for
the last years of his life. His testimony is peculiarly

valuable, because he was able, from previous experience,
to compare Sedgwick's method with that of others.

        1 Macmillan's Magazine, April, 1880, p. 477.

    GEOLOGICAL LECTURES.                                                            489

    When I came to Cambridge I was familiar with the teaching
of the Professors of the Royal School of Mines ; I had attended a
course or two of Professor Owen's lectures ; and lectures by other
London teachers. The first impression which Sedgwick gave me by
contrast was the small number of facts with which he troubled you,
and the extreme clearness of the story with which they were con
nected. In London, lectures were a substitute for books ; with

Sedgwick they were introductory to books, for books, as he used
them, became a sort of commentary on, or elaboration of, some
parts of the course. His aim was essentially synthetic. He tried
to establish habits of thinking about the larger phenomena of

nature, and the interest which he roused was partly based on the
principle of contrast, partly created by making the discoverers

narrate their contributions to knowledge. If glaciers were being
discussed you learnt the history of the evolution of opinion in vivid
story of life on the Alps, intermixed with passages from the writings
of many men, and pictures from their works.
    The lecture was commonly broken into three, four, or five
                                     of subject, or by stories, or occasionally by
jpookretiso--ns onbythechthaenogrey  that such young men as came were not capable
of sustained attention ; and he had a horror of being over the heads
of his audience. He was very reticent as to his own work, so that

a pupil might pass through a course and hardly learn that Sedgwick

had ever made a physical observation ; and he did not utilize in any
systematic way the every-day observations of nature which many of

his audience must have made. This I have regarded as part of

his art, which was directed to concentrate attention on the principles

on which facts hang together.

    Sedgwick never lectured without diagrams, and generally preferred
to have one or two more than were to be used. He never attained

any facility in the use of the blackboard, though it was sometimes
used when a section was necessary. His favourite subjects were, I
think, the comparative anatomy and classification of the fossil
mammalia. A table laden with odd bones of animals from the

gravel or the fens, enabled him to give striking illustrations of the
way in which knowledge of principles introduces order and interest
into the study of mammals. He liked to have on the lecture-table
a multitude of specimens, as though to show the immensity of detail

which awaited examination.

He  There was no introduction to     thsetatleelcyturbeo,wa--ndtoveeryxplirtetlses  peroration.
     almost always ended with a                                                     thanks for

the attention with which he had been listened to.

     The effect of his teaching may be fitly summed up in a

Isentence of his own, heard at one of his lectures : " cannot

promise to teach you all geology; I can only fire your

imaginations." At the same time he always did his best

to put before his class the newest views on the subject. He

49 GEOLOGICAL LECTURES.

took pains to keep himself au courant with what others were

doing --both by reading, and by personal inquiry. I have
now before me a long letter from Darwin, in reply to one of
his, asking for information on the elevation of South America,
and the formation of coral-reefs. The change of his views
respecting the antiquity of man, after study of what had

been written on that subject, has been already stated1.
     Many of those who attended his lectures became distin

guished geologists in after-years. The language of one of
these, Mr Jukes, who in his private letters generally addressed
him as " My dear father," is too sincere not to be quoted :

My dear Sir,

          It is but a trifle I am going to offer you*; but, such as it
permit me to dedicate this little book to you. It will, at all
is,
                                       it
events, enable     me publicly to acknowledge your great kindness to
                   first spontaneously shewn to an idle undergraduate
me, -- kindness
at Cambridge, and subsequently renewed at many periods of my
life. Upon the course of that life your influence has been as great

as beneficial, and while lasts you will always be most gratefully

remembered by              Your sincerely attached pupil,

                                                                Beete Jukes.
                                                                J.

                                                                                      is
     Another letter by an anonymous undergraduate                                         also
worth preserving. It was written in 1845.

Dear Sir,

                                                                it,

                                                                          I
              am not poetising,' as you call when say that my'

very soul went with you yesterday.I
          I
The same feelings which would have urged me to grasp your
hand as you spoke those noble thoughts leads me now to this,
the only mode can find of expressing my                                  --thaHnisksg. oodTnruelsys
                                                       God  of  earnest
you have led us on  --toHciosntoemmnpiplaotteenthcee.            Nature

--His omniscience
    cannot believe that these words, coming from the heart of one
I

of your Geological Class (especially as know him to be one only of
                                           I
                                                             J.
many who feel with him), will be ungrateful to you after the pains

you have taken to lead us on.
Perhaps may be allowed to hope that you will resume the
lectures, great part of which the unusual shortness of the termof I

21  See above, p. 440.

   A  Sketch       the Physical Structure of Australia.         By       B. Jukes, M.A.

8vo. Lond., 1850.

FIELD LECTURES.  49'

 has deprived us of, if it should ever be convenient to you during
 this present year. Many of us also remember an allusion made to a
 ' Field-day ' in the next term -- which would be indeed a privilege to

 us all.

      Taking this opportunity of acknowledging your kindness in
 explaining after lecture little questions of difficulties,

                   I remain with esteem and affection,

                                                         One of the Class.

      My remark that Sedgwick's discourses in his lecture-room
were one of the features of the University is still more true of
his field-lectures. They were looked forward to as one of
the principal events of the term in which they were given,

and attracted an immense audience. I have already drawn

attention to several in the course of my narrative, but in this

place I am able to give one of his programmes of the route

to be followed, and an account of the excursion, drawn up

by himself :

     The WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR invites his CLASS to

meet him on horseback at the Barnwell Gravel Pits, on Tuesday,

April 7, precisely at Ten o'Clock. He will halt at Quy Hill,
quarter before Eleven ; at Swaffham Hill and Reach, quarter before

Twelve ; and at the Stone Pit, Upware, quarter before One. From
the last mentioned place he purposes to proceed to the Pits of Green
Sand and Kimmeridge Clay, near Ely ; after which he intends to
return by the Turnpike Road.

     Trinity College,
                 April 4, 1835.

                      GEOLOGICAL EXCURSION.

      On Tuesday last, a field lecture on Geology, attended by circum
stances of unusual animation and novelty, was given by the Wood-
wardian Professor, to a class of 60 or 70 academic horsemen. The
party assembled at 10 a.m., when the Professor mounted a
high heap of gravel, and, after producing a series of illustrative
sections, proceeded at considerable length to explain the hydro-
graphical surface of Cambridgeshire, and the geological structure
of all the country within sight. He dwelt at some length on the
contrast between the flat alluvial plains of the Cam and the Ouse,
and the uplands which skirt them -- the lower regions composed

of horizontal deposits of comparatively recent date, such as mud and

sand, river silt, and turf-bog, containing here and there skeletons,
and shells, and other spoils of animals, of like species with those

492 FIELD LECTURES.

which now live, or were known once to live, in the neighbour
ing country -- the higher lands, on the contrary, made up of a series
of marine deposits, dipping at a very small angle to the S.E., and
surmounted by irregular heaps of gravel and vegetable soil. This
gravel is therefore the newest deposit of the uplands; and though
formed, like the fen-lands, by the action of water, belongs to an

entirely distinct geological epoch ; for it is not spread out in regular
                                                                                 indications of
hruosrhizoonftwalatelary--ersa,ndb,utthionugmh ancyhipelfalycecsomexphoisbeitds  of chalk flint,  a violent
                                                                                                  contains,

in some of the higher elevations, rolled masses of rock drifted from
remote parts of the Island, fragments of the petrifactions of almost
all the British secondary strata, and portions of the skeletons of
extinct species of elephant, rhinoceros, and hippopotamus, mingled
with the bones of several species of deer, of the gigantic Bos Taurus,
and of the horse.
He then pointed out the regular succession of the phenomena
before them. On the surface of the ground where they stood was a
mouldering Abbey of the Middle Ages ; under this was the gravel
                                                   orfecmoradrsineofdethpeosictsou--ntirsyt.,
belonging to some epoch anterior to the
Then, in descending order, came a series
the chalk marl ; 2nd. under the marl (as seen in the brick-pits), a
thin band of green sand; 3rd. and lastly, the gait, or brick earth,
proved by boring to be about 150 feet in thickness. He then stated
that all these marine deposits (commencing with the chalk marl)
were respectively characterised by numerous organic remains of

species, or genera, which had entirely disappeared from among the
animals of the
                cporemsemnton,c--reasuticohn.  as  Among such                     remains he enume
rated the most                                     ammonites,                    belemnites, hamites,

corals, coprolites, sharks' teeth, teeth of crocodiles and of other

genera of large reptiles, &c. &c. From the grouping and preservation
of these remains, and especially from the condition of the bivalve

shells, it was evident that they had not (like the gravel) been drifted
from a distance, but that many of them had lived and died in the

position in which we find them.

Such were the phenomena seen and described in the gravel and
brick-pits of Barnwell. The Professor then pointed out to the
class that the south-eastern dip of the marine deposits naturally
brought up to the surface two lower formations -- viz. the lower green
sand of geologists (which rises from beneath the gait at Denny Abbey,
and caps the hills near Ely), and the Kimmeridge clay, which, rising
from beneath the sand of Denny Abbey, forms the sub-soil of
Cottenham fen, and the lower part of the hills near Haddenham

and Ely. Lastly he stated, that a local dislocation, near Upware,
had brought up some bands of shelly coralline limestone, which,

from their fossils and dip under the Kimmeridge clay, he considered
as probably the representatives of the coral rag (the lowest stratum
within the compass of the day's excursion), and that a few miles
west of Ely, the Oxford clay (the lowest stratum                                    of the county)
to the surface, and formed the base of the great                                 '  Bedford Level.'  rose

FIELD LECTURES.                                          493

After the introductory address, in the gravel-pits of Barnwell, of
which the preceding account is a short summary, the whole party

proceeded at a rapid pace to a chalk quarry near Quy church ; and
the Professor pointed out to them the true nature of geological
induction, and the natural connexion between the external form

of a country and its internal structure. --Thence, at the same rapid
                                                         Prior, where
rate, they moved on to the chalk hills above  Swnffham   formation --
they examined some of the higher beds of      the chalk

overlooked the great inland delta, formed by the junction of the old
Ouse and the Cam -- and were detained some time by a description
of the features of the country in connexion with its structure, and
of the changes the several features undergo in their prolongation
towards the south coast of England.
The whole party then descended to the level of the fens, and, at

a still increasing pace, crossed by Reach Lode to Upware. Some

adventurous spirits, deserting the haling-road, and attempting to

clear the ditches, were dismounted ; and several horses ran a risk

of being entombed among the fossils of the gait. Two, not without

some difficulty, were dragged out with ropes. Neither horses nor

riders were a whit daunted by these misadventures, but soon rejoined

their friends, and gave new life to the expedition, appearing, for the
rest of the day, like fossil bodies become reanimate for the instruction

of the party.
At the stone-pits of Upware the whole company halted for some
time; and the geological relations of the stone bands were explained

by a hypothetical section. Nearly one-half the assembled company
here deserted their leader and returned to Cambridge -- thirty-seven

horsemen were, however, true to their colours, including in that

number the two that had been half fossilized in the gait ; and they all
advanced, nearly at full speed, along the fine turf which leads from

Upware to the Soham road, and thence they proceeded, for the
sake of very necessary refreshments, to the Lamb, at Ely. After all
the choice organic remains of the city shambles had vanished in

wonderful succession before the party, they adjourned on foot to the
great clay-pits, where they examined a beautiful artificial section of
the lower green sand and Kimmeridge clay. The Professor
endeavoured to explain the relations of these beds to the forma

tions examined in the early part of the excursion, and particularly
called the attention of the class to a great escarpment of diluvial
clay with innumerable pieces of rolled chalk. It is of very great
thickness and extent, forming many of the hills of cold land on the
confines of Cambridgeshire and Essex ; and it occupies a great part of
the plateau which runs along the confines of Cambridgeshire and
Huntingdonshire. It is not stratified, but, in addition to the remains

of chalk, contains many fossils (such as saurian bones, &c.) derived
from the older strata. Lastly, although of recent date compared

with the regular marine strata, it appears to be older than most of
the beds of flint gravel in the county.

From the clay-pits the whole party adjourned to the top of the

494 ROOMS IN COLLEGE.

highest tower of the Cathedral, where a plan of the ancient drainage
of the Bedford Level was spread out and explained. Our limits do not
-allow us to give even an abstract of this lecture, which consisted of

antiquarian details, derived from Dugdale, and other old authorities.
The ancient cut connecting the drainage of the Great and Little
iOnuse14--90th--e  re-opening of                of the Nene by  Morton's Learn,
                   and the old    the  course  Hundred Foot     of the Earls of
                                  and   new

Bedford, completed respectively in the years 1629 and 1649, were
chiefly dwelt upon. Lastly, after some economical remarks, con
nected with the drainage of the fens, the singular complexity in the
hydrography of the county was accounted for by the expansion of
the fens on every side of the great outlier of Ely.
The party then descended, and mounted for their return. They
halted, just at night-fall, on the out-crop of the lower green sand near
Denny Abbey, where the Professor addressed them for the last time;
after which each man made the best of his way home, and the last

stragglers of the party reached Magdalene bridge at half-past eight
o'clock, after a ride of about 40 miles'.

His rooms in College were in the Great Court --the

spacious set on the upper floor next to the Master's Lodge.

In his time the door faced you when you got to the top of

the stairs, and the passage, out of which the bedroom and
gyp-room opened, was on the south side, instead of on

the north side as at present. The large room, which was

arranged by his successor, Professor Munro, was divided

into two, of about equal size. That next the Master's Lodge

was the dining-room, and only used on state-occasions.

It was simply but comfortably furnished, with plenty of
chairs and sofas -- and on the walls hung water-colour

drawings of Dent, Norwich, and the Lake District, a por
trait of Mr Dawson, and other memorials of his Yorkshire

home. He habitually sat in the other. There was a large

table in the centre, and the walls were lined with book-cases.

The table, and most of the chairs, were covered with letters

and papers, among which it was next to impossible to find

anything, except by accident. Occasionally, a fit of tidiness

would come upon him, and he would spend a day in sorting

and burning the accumulations of the previous months ; but
chaos would soon reassert itself. Papers of importance had a

                   1 The Cambridge Chronicle, 10 April, 1835.

LETTERS. HANDWRITING.  495

way, in that apartment, of hiding themselves in the most;"
strange and unexpected places. It is recorded that on oneit,
occasion, after an examination of his Geological Class, he and
his co-examiner drew up and signed the list of names, whichit
                                 it
ought to have been taken to the Vice-Chancellor without
                                              it
delay. But Sedgwick, having to go to Norwich that afternoon,
;
put it in a safe place, that he might not forget it. The
next day the co-examiner received a telegram: "For God's
sake look under the sofa-cushion. I left the list there!"

     It is quite impossible to describe his daily life -- because
there was little or no regularity in it. His time was not his

own, to be divided as he pleased ; he had to pay for popularity
in endless interruptions. His friends and acquaintance,

whether present or absent, would not let him alone. He
affected to dislike writing letters, and no doubt the enormous

correspondence which his good-nature entailed upon him did
worry him. " Young men and maidens," he said, " old doctors
and learned divines, so overwhelm me with their billet-doux,

that were my balm-pots for their troubled consciences as big
as Cheshire cheese-kettles I should not have wherewithal to

satisfy them. A penny-post and a large acquaintance are
among my misfortunes. If I could contrive to devote a

certain part of every day to letter-writing all might go on

smoothly; but this never has been, and I fear never will be,
my way. I am a terrible procrastinator. So I put off my

letters from day to day, and then, when my unanswered file is

as big as a haystack, I set to work on and fag at till my

fingers ache, and my poor head has no more sense than

a chafing-dish." Letters naturally suggest handwriting.
Sedgwick's was not good. He once happily described
as a "series of vicious inclinations and indeed was a hasty

scribble, flung on to the paper as fast as the pen could be

made to hurry across it.
      He sometimes grumbled at the number of invitations he

was obliged to accept but society, especially the society of

ladies and young people, was quite essential to his happiness.

496 FONDNESS FOR SOCIETY.

If it did not come to him, he sought it out. He paid calls ;

he constantly appeared, without special invitation, at the tea-
tables of intimate friends; he got up parties in his own rooms;
and took his young friends to any show that happened to be
passing through Cambridge. No dinner-party was thought
to be complete without "old Sedge"-- as he was usually

called --to brighten it up, and keep everybody in good
humour with what Julius Hare called "the sunshine of his
warm heart and of his aafieo-Tos yeXws." He was supposed

to be a valetudinarian, even in his best days, and " Professor

Sedgwick's pudding "--made of rice, or sago, or some equally
harmless substance --invariably appeared on the bill of fare,
when he was expected to be present ; but I never heard that
the presence of the pudding (which he religiously ate) pre
vented him from doing ample justice to the rest of the dinner.
It amused him to joke about indigestion, waste of time, and

the like ; but he thoroughly enjoyed both giving dinners

and going to them. Had I room, I could fill a page or two

with his quaint conceits on this subject, but I must be content
with a single sentence : " O those dinners ! those dinners ! I
wish I could separate my stomach from the rest of my frame,
and send my servant with it to those eating-parties, when it
might receive the proper contributions (like a beggar's wallet),
while my brain was employed on something better."

     No record of the social side of Sedgwick's life would be
complete without an allusion to the Porridge Club, of which,
I believe, he was considered to be President. I am able to
give a picture of him in the exercise of his functions, drawn
by his own hand.

     "...You would not, however, have thought me ill had you

seen me this morning at half-past ten, with my sleeves turned
up, a white apron tied round my waist, a handful of oatmeal
in one hand, and what in Scotland they call a sfmrtle in the
other, compounding and stirring a great pan of oatmeal
porridge. The Marchesa Spineto and her four daughters,

        DRESS. MANNERS. CONVERSATION.                      497

Monsieur and Madame de Barneveldt from Holland, Lord
Napier, Mr Gregory, and myself, all went to a village where

I had ordered a Scotch breakfast, and I was elected to the

office of grand master of the dish of stir-about. You did not

know what honours your uncle had come to. I succeeded

admirably, and then Madame de Barneveldt tried her hand,
but they all voted my mess the best. So in case of a

revolution, if turned out of my Fellowship and Stall, I can

set up for a cook1."

     His manners were distinguished by an old-fashioned

stately courtesy, such as we associate with the wigs and the

square coats of the last century. At the same time there was

nothing forbidding about him. He was perfectly accessible

to everybody ; and would bestow the same pains upon a
young undergraduate as upon one of the seniors of the
University. He was careful to impress upon the junior
Fellows of his College that he wished to know them, and

that, if he did not speak to them, they were to make
themselves known to him. " I am an old man, with dim
eyes, and I cannot distinguish faces." In company he never

engrossed the conversation, or laid down the law, or cor
rected those who were wrong with severity. In consequence,

nobody was afraid of him ; people talked when he was present

as easily as if he had been absent ; and he took up the con

versation which others had started, throwing in a joke here
and a serious remark there, as occasion offered. He had

unrivalled powers as a raconteur, and when he could be
started on one of his well-known stories, there was a dead
silence till he had finished. " North-country naivete", and
 irresistible grotesqueness of imagery" have been mentioned

as his special characteristics by one who knew him well.

To the former he owed raciness of expression, a homely
downrightness of plain-speaking, which in him was admitted
without rebuke. " I hate the mealy-mouthedness of these

        1 To Miss F. Hicks, Cambridge, 9 April, 1840.

s. 11.                                                 32

498 HIGH SPIRITS. CHRONIC ILL-HEALTH.

times," he said in his later days, when he felt obliged to
apologize for some of his narratives as too " Elizabethan "

for modern ears ; and in one of his conversations with

Mr Salter he said deliberately : " If I write sometimes in a

merry strain, and give a loose rein to the imagination, it

must not be supposed that I look upon life otherwise than

in a serious light. I am convinced that joy, and not gloom,

should be the normal condition of a Christian's life. He has

too much to make him happy to remain long depressed even

by real sorrows ; and to some natures God has kindly given

such elasticity of spirits that they cannot refrain from merri

ment where others would only see what is serious and sad."

Fortunately high spirits had been granted to him in no

stinted measure. Had he been differently constituted his

chronic ill-health would have made him a grumbling invalid.

It must be admitted that he allowed his ailments to occupy

too large a space in his conversation and his letters ; but in
judging him -- and in taking stock of what he accomplished
during his long life-- it must be recollected that from 1813 to

his death he could never count upon robust health for even a

single day. "My ailments are a flea-bite; but to have a flea

always biting, and to be always conscious of the bite, would be

bad enough in all conscience. And such is my case." Again,

he was one of those who cannot work unless they feel perfectly

well. As he grew old and weighed his own works against

those of others-- men whose natural gifts were no greater
than his own -- he would exclaim pathetically : " What a com
parative blank my life has been. If I ever conceived a plan
                or left others to carry out " and again,
I rarely began  it,
                       I

                                          !
                                                  :

                                                           it
                                                                  I;

                                                                         I
contrasting himself with Whewell, who had sent him one of
his numerous books, he says " With you supply and demand

go together in deeds, with me only in words. Vox et prceterea
nihil should be my motto "

     He was at his best when he could take plenty of strong
exercise. " Like my ancient namesake," he said, " was

meant to delve in the open air, and often have done so, and

RIDES. WALKS. GENEROSITY.  499

always have been the better for it." At Cambridge his

 favourite exercise was riding, and he might be seen on most
days on horseback, with Whewell or some of the other

Fellows of Trinity College -- for when I first knew Cambridge

riding was the favourite exercise. He was not a good rider ;
and besides, rode carelessly, thinking of anything rather than
his horse. Hence -- in addition to the serious falls which have
been already related -- accidents such as the following were
not uncommon : " My horse took it into its head to tumble,
and rolled me over its head. I fell quite soft in a puddle, and
was no worse, after the dirt was scraped off me with a knife.
' The more dirt the less hurt,' said Dean Swift on a similar

occasion."

      In summer-time he was fond of a long walk into the
country with an intimate friend. Mr Romilly has noted
several such excursions in his Diary -- I will cite the following

as a specimen.

      9 May, 1838. Sedgwick and I, according to previous compact,
walked to Clayhithe. We saw our fish caught, and then read and
smoked till dinner at four. Our book was Old Mortality ; we read
by turns a chapter ; and as we read sitting under the shadow of the
great horse-ferry boat (for the sake of shelter from the scorching sun)
we were amused at the interest taken in the reading by the son of
our host. We walked back on the other side of the river, through
Hornsea and Ditton. We drank tea at Chesterton. Home at half-
past eight.

      Though his means were not large, he was exceedingly

generous. I have been careful to point out what large sums

he spent on his Museum, and with what kind forethought he
provided education and amusement for members of his own
family. But this was by no means all. No public object
that he thought worthy of promotion, and no tale of private
distress failed to draw a contribution from him. He beggared
himself for the good of others. Wherever he might be, and

whatever he might be doing, he always remembered the poor,
and the afflicted. Sentences like the following are of frequent
occurrence in his letters : " I enclose five shillings for poor

                                                                                              32--2

                    PERSONAL INFLUENCE.

Charlotte           in the Lunatic Asylum. Would you order

half a pound of tea, and some sugar, and a few apples to be

purchased with and conveyed to her                                                  know you will not
                    it,
                                                 it

                                                                                 ?

                                                     I
grudge me this act of kindness, as will tend to make a poor

afflicted creature happy." Occasionally, but rarely, he felt

that his good-nature was being unduly taxed, and he would
turn upon petitioners with growl " As for begging ladies,
                    it                  :
                                   !
                                     a
there no end of them They would tear my heart out                                       if
   is

they could stamp into money!"
     In addition to my own imperfect recollections of Sedgwick,

let me now quote part of letter from the Archbishop ofa

Canterbury, in which he records his impressions of him during
his own undergraduate days at Cambridge (1848 -- 1852.)

     Sedgwick impressed us when we went up to Trinity almost more
than anyone. His grand walnut-coloured head, and his wide ex
pressive penetrating eyes, and the wonderful northern vigour of his
language, with its copiousness, and its touch of Yorkshire dalesman's

tongue, were delightful.
     The first course of voluntary lectures went to were his, my
freshman's term. He impressed me with the belief that my real
                                        II

                                                                             in
bent was for Geology, which made his course very vivid and in
structive to me. You know better than do, with what vehemence

he lectured, shouldering his black stick and tying, and untying the
silk strings of his gown and what unexpected bursts of eloquence
there were, and sometimes of fancy and of humour, and how the
                 the Natural History;
                              a         Creation supplied perpetual
Vestiges     a of                       of

                                             a
                                                                 it
                                                                  it
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                     a
thread of criticism, and with what ardour and love he used to speak
a word of personal Creator, all in flash, as were and of the

firm faith which he expressed in Scripture, when was set against
Geology, as record with wholly different bent and aim.
                 a

I  said how grand a sight the old man was giving vent to his

convictions among his fossils in the Museum. He was grander still
in chapel, in his stall opposite our great Master's stall -- leaning over

his folio prayer-book, and getting quite lost over something in the
Psalms standing there with his spectacles on his forehead and
          ;

turning over the corners of the leaves with quick loud rustle whicha
sometimes continued far into the quiet of the reading of the Lessons.
Then he would suddenly sit down, and again be lost in listening,
and sit thinking on, well into the Canticles. We used to like best

to have the Communion administered to us by him on the Sundays

when the celebration came. It was the intense earnestness of
Sedgwick's voice to each of us individually which thrilled us, and

the emphasis with which he uttered, and paused over, the pronouns                       :

             SUMMARY OF CHARACTER.

" The Body of our Lord Jesus Christ which was given for thee --
preserve thy body and soul."
To hear the Master and Vice-Master read the Lessons at Easter
and Whitsuntide was a thing not to be forgotten. The tones of

both, and the different points they seemed to direct us to, still ring
in my ears.
phenomenon.  Se"dgHweictkooskeeomffedtheailrwcahysariosot-wshtreueclks,  with any physical
                                                                         so that they drave
(or rather with a dalesman's accent, draave) heavily." Then came a
pause as he contemplated the horror of the situation.

    It would be beside my purpose, in these notes, to attempt
an analysis of his character. Each reader of his letters must
form a conception of it for himself. But I may quote a brief
summary by one who knew him in the intimacy of everyday
life. " He was transparent and straightforward -- the very soul
of uprightness and honour -- tender and affectionate -- most
generous and kind. He had a hatred of all duplicity and
meanness. He was entirely unsuspicious of evil, unless it

was forced upon his notice ; and he expected and believed

everyone to be as straightforward and truthful, as he was

himself. I do not think any man was so beloved by his
friends, as he was." To this I would add but a single line
--from Mr Kenelm Digby's Ouranogaia -- " Sedgwick past

compare."

                    CHAPTER VIII.

SEDGWICK'S GEOLOGICAL WORK.

We have pointed out in the course of our narrative when

Sedgwick went into the field, and when he published the
results of his observations. We have also touched upon the
manner in which his work was received, and its bearing on
the questions then from time to time under discussion. We
may now review briefly what was achieved by him, and its
place among the works of permanent value to Geological

Science.

     It is impossible, as already pointed out1, to ascertain the
exact amount of Geological knowledge which Sedgwick
possessed when appointed to the Woodwardian Chair ; but

in the following year we find him making observations in
the field of such a character, and taking up such an inde

pendent position in regard to questions which are matters
of controversy even to-day, that we cannot but feel that

    1 See above, Vol. i. pp. 159 -- 165. To what was there said a part of a letter
from Sedgwick's opponent Mr R. W. Evans to Dr Butler of Shrewsbury, dated
13 March, 1818, may be added: "An Opponent has started up against me in

my own college, Sedgwick, who does not pretend to know anything of the

subject, but is very strong in his Connexions, being a North Countryman, who all

hang together most perseveringly, and are in great force in this place.... I feel

very much provoked at being opposed by a man so little qualified for what

he aims at : all that his friends venture to say is that a study of three months

will be sufficient  to qualify  him.  I have pursued it more than twice as many
years. "

                   DEVONIAN ROCKS.                                                                                                   503

he was familiar with the methods of field-geology, and with
the literature of the subject. But, whether he approached

the investigation as a novice or with some experience, he
clearly established some very important points as early as
1 8 19, when, on stratigraphical and palaeontological evidence,

he assigned their proper positions to that portion, at any rate,

of the Devonian Rocks of which he was writing1.
     For Sedgwick, therefore, we claim the honour of having

done most to establish the true relations of the Devonian
Rocks --first by his early work alone in 1819, afterwards by
his joint work with Murchison, and, lastly, by the work which

he did when he returned alone in 1837 and 1838, and cleared
up many errors and difficulties still obscuring the results of
their joint work*.

     In the next place we refer to the short account of what
Sedgwick did towards establishing the true position of the
Upper and Lower New Red Sandstone or Poikilitic Series,
which we have given in an earlier chapter3. He says that
he began the examination of the district in 1821, and ac

knowledges the assistance he had derived from the maps

of William Smith in his examination and comparison of

adjoining areas, though they were not published for that
part of the district to which his paper chiefly refers. He
acknowledges also the excellent work of Mr Winch in
Durham and Northumberland*, of which he had an oppor

tunity of verifying the details in 1821.
     Sedgwick published the results of his own work in 1826-8.

Briefly it amounts to this, that he correctly described, and
placed in true relation with the other rocks of Great Britain,
all the lower part of the New Red Sandstone or Poikilitic
Series. In the lower part of these rocks there is on the east
of the Pennine Range a great local development of lime

1 See above, Vol.  pp. 285 -- 187.
433

                              i. i.,
                                                                                               6.

                                                                                                                            3
Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii.
See above, Vol. p. 294.
                                                                                                                             -- 10.
Transactions of the Geological Society, Old Ser. iv. pp.

504 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

stones containing a large proportion of carbonate of magnesia,

and therefore he called it the Magnesian Limestone Series.

A few years later he described the corresponding rocks on

the west of the Pennine Range in the Eden valley, and also
the New Red Sandstone of the north-west coast. He fully

recognised the fact that some of the red sandstones at the

base of the Magnesian Limestone Series are only stained

Carboniferous, or, as he puts that "the gritstone beds of
                             it,
                                                      is

                                                                a
the Carboniferous series are here and there of deep red

colour, and cannot always be distinguished from the New

Red Sandstone," especially where there               an accidental

coincidence of dip. He points out that the " lower Sand

stone overlying the Whitehaven Coal Field... contains...

impressions of Equiseta" (or Calamites). "The Magnesian
Conglomerates," he observes, however, "cannot be classed

with this lower red sandstone, to which they are sometimes

unconformable but they graduate into, and form an integral
             ;

                                             is
part of, the Magnesian Limestone, sometimes appearing

entirely to replace it."

     This classification he adheres to, although he fully re
cognises " that the Magnesian Limestone, notwithstanding

its unconformable position,                      in zoological characters

more nearly allied to the Carboniferous order than to the

calcareous formations which are superior to the New Red

Sandstone."

We give a diagram to explain what Sedgwick described

as the Magnesian Limestone Series. We need not complain

that the distinctive word Magnesian              is  not always applicable

as long as we use so many other names derived from

characters of local and limited occurrence, such as Carbo

niferous, Trias, Keuper, Corallian, &c.

The Magnesian Series passes up into the Upper New

Red Sandstone, but rests unconformably upon the Carbo

niferous rocks. There are local irregularities of deposition,

and evidence of contemporaneous erosion in           it,  as well as

here and there throughout the overlying parts of the New

NEW RED SANDSTONE.                                                             55

Red, but they are such as are common in most basement-
series, and hardly amount to an unconformity.

     Diagram showing the subdivisions of the Magnesian   Limestone  Series in the North of
England, and their relation to the Carboniferous Rocks.

     In the above diagram, which is not drawn to scale, we

have merely indicated the subdivisions which Sedgwick
established in the Lower New Red or Magnesian Series

of the North of England.

A. New Red Sandstone, (Poikilitic)1.                                the first  to

      /. Upper or Sa liferous Series (Trias).                       Keuper     of
     Sedgwick did much work in this Series, and was
correlate the ' Upper Marls ' of England with the

Germany.

    II. Lower or Magnesian Series (Permian or Dyas).

     East of the Pennine Range.
           a. Upper Red Marl and Gypsum.

                 Upper Red Sandstone.

       Grey thin-bedded Limestone.
      Lower Red Marl and Gypsum.

/ Yellow Magnesian Limestone.
      Marls with thin beds of compact Shelly Limestone.
g. Marl-slate with ditto.

      Lower Red Sandstone and Conglomerate.

West of the Pennine Range.
     1. Upper Red Sandstone.
     2. Red Sandstone with subordinate yellow fissile beds and
                bands of Magnesian Limestone and Marl (equivalents
                of c. tog.).

     1 See Woodward, Geology of England and Wales, Lond. Philip and Son,
1887. This manual will be found of the greatest value to those who would

follow these notes on Sedgwick's work.

    GEOLOGICAL WORK.

3.  Conglomerate abounding in fragments of Mountain
        Limestone -- generally in a magnesian cement, passing

    into sandstone, often hardly to be distinguished from

    the underlying red Carboniferous rocks.

B. Carboniferous.
    (With r whatever beds happened to be at the top stained red.)

     On the west side of the Pennine Range the Magnesian
Limestones have thinned out, and in places quite disappeared.
The brecciated conglomerates at their base, however, are
at the south end of the Eden valley of great thickness.
These pass upward into sandstones with thin bands of

magnesian limestone and marl, but, as we trace them to

the north and west, the conglomerates give place to the
finer deposits.

    All this Lower New Red is now called Permian, and the

credit of working out the true relations of the series is

commonly given to Murchison, who, having rapidly traversed
the district of Perm in Russia, grouped a number of different

formations which occur in it under one local name, Permian,

and then absorbed into it Sedgwick's Magnesian Limestone

Series. If Murchison's Permian is the same as Sedgwick's

previously described Magnesian Limestone Series, then all
that Murchison did was to find that certain rocks on the
continent were the equivalents of the Magnesian Limestone
Series, but that does not entitle him to priority of classifi
cation and nomenclature, any more than the discovery in a
new locality of an already well-known species entitles the
discoverer to rename it. Moreover the Permian, under various

names, has by many been bracketed with the Carboniferous

Rocks, rather than with the overlying Series ; a classification
suggested by the large number of palaeozoic forms of life
which were found in the Magnesian Limestone. But this
was known to Sedgwick, and the amount of discordancy much

discounted in consequence of it. It was what might be
expected in a basement series -- and the weight of the argu

ment is much reduced by the fact that on the continent a

CARBONIFEROUS ROCKS.

very palaeozoic facies occurs even in the Triassic Limestones
at much higher horizons. In every system the old forms are
found going out gradually, not disappearing at once, in the
basement beds. In his later paper on the New Red Sand
stone Series, p. 401, Sedgwick allows that the similarity in
lithological character between the Sandstones of the lower
part of the New Red Series and the upper beds of the
Carboniferous, together with the palaeozoic character of the
Magnesian Limestone fossils, and the fact which he had himself

verified, that the Carboniferous Rocks pass down into the
Old Red Sandstone, lend some support to the view advocated
in Germany, that the Carboniferous is an integral part of a
great system commencing with the Old and ending with the
New Red Sandstone Series. He says also that he would be
willing to adopt the classification which found some favour in
England, and include the Carboniferous and New Red Sand
stone in one great group, provided this classification did
enable us to place in their true relation, as determined by
considerations founded in nature, the varying types of

different remote countries.                     in preference
     We see in this a leaning to the German     we look into

to the newer English classification, but, when

Sedgwick's own earlier work and the conclusions at which he
arrived, we find there the true view of the facts, and the

classification which must in the end prevail, namely, that the
conglomerates at the base of the Magnesian Limestone Series
mark the commencement of a new order which is clearly

distinct from that which went before, and we claim for
him priority of correct description of all the series of rocks

now called Permian.

     We have pointed out what appeared to us to be his
plan of work among the Carboniferous Rocks of the North
of England1. It was a fine piece of local stratigraphy, and

no one can touch that ground without acknowledging it.
But the general classification of the rocks of that system was

1 See above, Vol. i. p. 531.

GEOLOGICAL WORK.

already established, and though he filled in many details, and
added much to our knowledge of the subdivisions and to
their nomenclature, still there was no room there for much

that was new and original.
     Sedgwick, as we learn from his remarks on mineral veins

made to the British Association in 1832, where he described :
(1) veins of injection; (2) veins of segregation; (3) infilled
fissures ; had long paid attention to the structure of large
mineral masses, and his great paper on that subject in 1835 '
is a chapter in the Principles of Geology of the greatest
value, and places him in the front rank of those who have
offered explanations of the superinduced structures which
have made the solid rocks with all their varying forms out of
the muds and sands of former ages.

      Sedgwick was among the pioneers of a new subject, and in
original observation of the phenomena, and criticism of the

various hypotheses brought forward in explanation, he did as
much as any man to promote the true methods of investigation,
and a candid discussion of the results. But, for his own

reputation, it might have been better if he had been more

prompt and energetic in placing his views on paper before
the public, and in compounding sonorous titles with which

his name might have been for ever connected.
     We have already, in the above short sketch, referred

to a mass of work sufficient to make the reputation of

any ordinary man, but we have not yet summarized the
great work of Sedgwick's life -- the establishment of the
Cambrian System. We will, for convenience, continue to

apply the old name Greywacke to all that we now call
Cambrian and Silurian. The Devonian was, in part at any

rate, once considered to belong to the same group, and some
of its subdivisions were supposed to be on the horizon of the
Caradoc Sandstone, but that was simply an error of identifi

cation. He began to study these rocks very early. At the

commencement of his paper on the general structure of the

1 See above, Vol.  i.,  p. 535.

SILURIAN OF LAKE DISTRICT.  509

Cumbrian mountains, read to the Geological Society 5 January,
1 83 11, he tells us that it is the result of observations made
principally during the summers of 1822, 1823, and 1824. "My
best fossils from Kirkby Moor," he wrote to Wordsworth*,
"were procured in 1822, under the guidance of Smith, the

' father of English geology,' on the day I first became

acquainted with him," and for some of the facts he mentions
in the appendix to his letter he refers to " a county survey
coloured by myself in 1822."

     In giving a sketch of Sedgwick's work among these older
rocks we shall find some unsettled points of classification,

carrying with them a disputed nomenclature which serves

as an index to the scheme adopted. Unfortunately such
questions can seldom arise without much feeling of a purely

personal character being imported into them. It must be
so as long as human nature remains the same --but the
scientific controversy is not at all a thing of the past, to be
regretted and buried as soon as possible. The difficulty is
such as commonly occurs during the course of an investiga
tion where two observers are following up similar lines of
enquiry ; and one of them, by greater skill or happier oppor

tunities, is able to come nearer to the true interpretation,
or successfully to commend his own view to those who

are acknowledged to be, or by self-assertion constitute

themselves, the arbiters.
     The principals in the dispute have long since passed to

their rest ; but many remain who have so strongly committed
themselves to one side or other of the controversy, that it

is still impossible to avoid offending some susceptibilities.

A fair and well-supported statement of the facts, however,

cannot but commend itself to the general public as preferable
to mere innuendos, or apologetic allusions to what were once
considered as great wrongs. We do not propose to refer to

    1 Transactions of the Geological Society, Ser. 1. iv. 47.
    s Third Letter to Wordsworth on Geology of Lake District : in Hudson's Guide
to the English Lakes, 5th ed. 1859, p. 202.

Sio GEOLOGICAL WORK.

the many subordinate questions that arose as the controversy

became alternately dormant or was fanned into flame. It will

not help us in clearing up the real question to enquire whether
Murchison always let Sedgwick know how matters stood

before he published, under names brought into accordance

with his own views, work which Sedgwick had already done.

All we shall say is that Murchison thought his was a better

system, and, with his usual vigour and promptitude, pushed
it into notice. His official position moreover, as Director
General of the Geological Survey, enabled him to enforce
his views of classification and nomenclature upon the pub
lications which would most largely determine the adoption
of his terminology ; an advantage of which he fully availed
himself. Nor shall we enquire into all the details of

Sedgwick's wrathful reclamations --how he angrily accused
Murchison of having published without giving him full
opportunity of protesting against some of his assumptions,
when it is very probable that he might have ascertained all

about  he had attended in time or might even have
       it,

         if

                                                                                ;
                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                                                                        ;
known the facts but not appreciated their bearing upon the

leading points of the controversy or, in the multiplicity of

other engagements, have let them slip from his memory
altogether. We do not propose to describe the weapons with
which they fought, so much as the causes of the quarrel

though our sympathy may be with the fierce indignation
against apparent injustice, and the courage and dash of the

one who threw his shield away and rushed on the armed

foe.

    It might, from scientific point of view, be urged that

there not much to be gained by raking up the embers of
if, is
                              a                                                         to ascer
                                                                                        the most
                                                     it is
                                                                                 is is
an old controversy, and that all that desirable
tain, from the best authorities of the day, what

convenient classification in the present state of our knowledge.
But in the course of that enquiry, should transpire that

all the modifications which have been adopted as the outcome
of more recent work, with greater knowledge and better

        GENERAL SKETCH OF GREYWACKE GROUP. 511

appliances, have only shown a return to the original scheme

drawn up by Sedgwick, and that Murchison's deviations

from it have proved to have been founded upon mistakes,

surely, in common fairness, this should be acknowledged. At

any rate Sedgwick's biographers cannot pass over this point,

but must explain why he was so indignant at the treatment

he received, why he harped upon the theme that his work
had been set aside, and, though much of it was afterwards

      a
                                                                                                  a it,
recognized as correct by his opponents having adopted

that they did not sufficiently acknowledge that they were

publishing, under new names, what was really his work.

We must therefore ask our readers to follow us through

short history of the progress of enquiry in the Greywacke

rocks.

     These consist of great masses of sand and mud, with here
and there evidence of volcanic outbursts --the age of the

lavas and ashes being known by their place among the

marine sediments --so that the first thing that had to be done,

with view to working out the history of these deposits, was

to arrange the sediments in order according to their date of

formation, and to explain how they were twisted and repeated

in great folds across the country. Difficulties arose when the

attempt was first made to identify the various series of

deposits in different, more or less widely separated, areas, be

cause, while volcanic outbursts furnished most of the material

in one district, nothing but ordinary marine sediment was

being laid down 20 or 100 miles away, and the beds could

not be traced continuously from one part of the country to

another. We will draw generalised section embodying so
        a
                            a
                                                             is
                                                                         is
much of the sequence of the Cambrian and Silurian rocks as

will be necessary for reference with view to an explanation.
We will, by reference to that diagram, point out what

now generally received as the classification which  most

true to nature. We will trace the progress of discovery by

which Sedgwick and Murchison filled in the details of that

section, and let our readers judge for themselves who has the

512 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

most just claim to the honour of having established the true
relations of the rocks of North Wales.

          Diagram to shew variation of Cambrian and Silurian rocks in N. and S. Wales.

     In the above diagram we have represented at the base
the primaeval land (A) upon which the Cambrian Rocks were
deposited. This was an irregular surface, with hills and

valleys, and therefore the basement beds of the Cambrian
were variable in character according to the part of the
Archaean group from which the material was derived, and
also of different thickness according as it filled up the ancient
valleys or crept up the mountain sides of the gradually
submerged land. The sinking went on and the sediment
accumulated through long ages, during which successive
migrations peopled the sea with new forms of life, and local
changes caused coarser or finer material to be carried over
different areas from time to time. This has enabled us to
arrange the deposits under divisions convenient for reference
-- the more marked changes in the nature of the sediment
often, but not always, coinciding with the incoming of new
forms of life, and the disappearance of those prevalent there
before. The first great division (B), includes four principal
subdivisions, named as follows, in ascending order.

      B r. Harlech Series. So called from its forming the great
mountains which rise inland at the back of the town of Harlech.

     B 2. Menevian. A smaller subdivision at the top of the former,

more recently distinguished under the above name.

GREYWACKE GROUP IN NORTH WALES.                               513

     B 3. Ffestiniog or Lingula Flag Series. So named from the town
of Ffestiniog in Merionethshire, and from a conspicuous fossil shell.

      B 4. Tremadoc Slates. Above the Lingula Flags comes a series
named from its occurrence near the village of Tremadoc at the
mouth of the river Glaslyn, which runs south from Snowdon.

    At this horizon there is a greater change in the sediment

and in the forms of life, which it is convenient to indicate by

a new bracket (C). The ages of Paradoxides and Olenus
have passed away, and a great development of graptolites

characterizes the epoch on which we are now entering. The

lowest subdivision (C 1 ) is named from the mountain Arenig,
where it consists of alternations of great masses of volcanic

ejectamenta, and thin beds of shale with graptolites. The

next subdivision in ascending order (C 2) is named from the
town and lake of Bala in Merionethshire, around which it is

well seen. It is characterised by the general predominance

of the genus Orthis over all other fossils. The highest

subdivision (C 3) takes in all the beds from the top of the
limestone of Bala to the lower limestone of Aberhirnant

inclusive. The Bala series is covered by great masses of

flags and grits (D) which form the hills round the vale of
Clwyd, and are called Denbigh Grits and Flags from the

county of that name, for the picturesque castle and town of

Denbigh, though surrounded by Silurian rocks, stand on

the Carboniferous Limestone.

Here again we find, in the Denbigh Grits and Flags, that

great changes have set in, and new forms of life have taken

the place of those that prevailed during the deposition of the

Bala rocks. On the whole too there is much difference in

the character of the sediment. Moreover the base-line of the
Ifwhole division is well-defined, and easily traced.
                                                              we

wanted a palaeontological name for this division we might

call it the Cardiolan Fauna, as Cardiola inter rupta, as far as

known at present, occurs all through  and not above or
        '

                                                       it,

                                                                                                                             1

                                                                                it

                                                                                                         '.
below it. Sedgwick distinctly recognised this fauna in 838

        Proceedings of the Geological Society, II. fi8o.

S. II.                                                    33

$14 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

Barrande has recognised the three principal divisions (B),
(C), (D), and named them, from the order of appear
ance of the new groups of fossils, First (or Primordial)
Fauna (B); Second Fauna (C); and Third Fauna (D); but
he missed the great distinction between the Paradoxidian

and Olenidian faunas, and was misled with regard to the
range of Cardiola interrupta. This was very unfortunate, as
he founds some important reasoning upon the supposed
occurrence of this species in the Bala Series.

     Now in South Wales most of these deposits can be
identified by their lithological character, and fossil contents ;
but there are cases in which we see that the conditions have

been somewhat different in the northern and southern areas.
The clear water necessary for the growth of limestone-
forming corals ; or the currents which transported great banks
of shell ; or active volcanoes, scattering ashes over the
neighbouring sea-bed, did not always occur at the same time
in the two areas. We find the Archaean at the bottom in both.
The representatives of (B) can also be made out in North
(B) and South (B'), though the lower beds thin out and are
overlapped as we approach the pre-Cambrian shore. In the
beginning of the age marked (C I ) there was an active volcano
somewhere near Arenig which poured out great masses of
lava, and covered the country round with ashes and cinders,
while mud was being deposited further south, with only a few
traces of volcanic ejectamenta which had been carried along
by currents, or which perhaps in some cases marked more
violent eruptions in the adjoining district. Geologists did not
at first recognize that there were in the south any rocks of the

same age as the great porphyries and interbedded graptolite
shales of Arenig. So also a little higher up in the same
division, in the age marked (C 2), we find on Snowdon evidence
of there having been an active volcano close by in the masses
of volcanic ejectamenta which form the great precipices above
the Half-way-house. The ashes from this volcano do not
appear to have been carried very far in the direction of Bala,

GREYWACKE GROUP IN SOUTH WALES.  515

and hardly any traces of them occur in South Wales. Still
the sediment thrown down during the period of activity of
this volcano can be traced by the identity of the forms of life
over very wide areas, far beyond the region affected by the
volcanic outbursts, and this volcano which furnished so much

of the material of the higher part of Snowdon is of later date

than that of which we see evidence in the lavas and ashes of

Arenig.

     In the upper part of this series (C) the sediment on the

south and south-east is often found to consist of sand and grit,
instead of the fine mud with which we are familiar in the

Bala district, and fossils are often very scarce; indeed we

may say that as a general rule the fossils we call character
istic do not occur all through any of the subdivisions of these
older rocks. Only here and there do we find bands full of the
hard parts of the animals that lived close by. As more and
more of such fossiliferous zones are discovered and traced

across the country, or recognised at long intervals by the
large proportion of identical forms of life, so the interpretation
of the structure of the country is by degrees arrived at.

      The calcareous bands of Bala are sometimes hardly dis
tinguishable from the rest of the shale, while not far off they

develope into good hard limestones quarried for building and
burnt for lime. The limestones of the Lower Bala Beds of
Llandeilo in South Wales (C) are probably on a somewhat
lower horizon than any of the important limestones near Bala,
but are represented by calcareous bands in some parts of
North Wales.

      We now come to a great interruption in the continuity of
deposition and of life ; but in the next succeeding series of
deposits also we find the same kind of local variation in the
character of the sediment and in the creatures that lived on

it, and left their remains to be buried in it.

     In South Wales and the border counties the beds at the
top of the Bala series are succeeded by the May Hill
Sandstone (D' 1), a great thickness of sandy mudstones with

                                                                                       33--2

                             GEOLOGICAL WORK.

a group of fossils quite different from those of the Bala Beds
(C 2). These are represented in the north by a small irregular
and inconspicuous set of sandy or gritty deposits ; and
further, whereas in the north the next overlying beds consist
of masses of coarse sandstones and flags -- the Denbigh Grits
and Flags (D' 2), (D' 3)--with few distinctive fossils, and
those widely scattered ; in the south, on the other hand, the
Wenlock and Ludlow shales and sandstones, which come on
where we should expect the Denbigh Grits and Flags, are full
of fossils, and moreover are over a large area split up by
three important and highly fossiliferous limestones which are
easily traced, and greatly facilitate the following out of those
arbitrary divisions so convenient for reference.

      Sedgwick worked out the northern district ; Murchison
based his system upon the southern types.

     We have thought it necessary to dwell at some length
upon the distinctive characters of the two areas, in order
to explain how it was that when Murchison visited the
North Wales Sections, and Sedgwick made traverses across
South Wales, they did not both of them see at once
which were the exact equivalents of the rocks with which
they were familiar in their own districts. We will in the
next place follow up the history of the investigations which
each carried on.

      We have seen how Sedgwick, after explaining the rela

tions which the great rock-masses forming the mountains of
Cumberland and Westmorland bear to one another and to
the newer rocks which surround the Lake District, suddenly
dived into the heart of North Wales'. Perhaps he thought

that he might in that way get some help towards under
standing the ancient central masses of the Lake District
which he had so long set himself to explain : for we must
remember that he had been working among the Silurian and

Bala Rocks of the Lake District since the year 1822*. At

                                         1 Vol. i. pp. 377--382, 533.
                                         - Ibid. pp. 246 -- 256, 531.

                  FIRST SKETCH OF SNOWDON.

any rate we know that he went to work in North Wales with
a good will, and with some very useful experience on similar
ground ; for on Arenig and Snowdon he found again the
rocks of Skiddaw and Borrowdale. Though many a native
could tell him that rocks like those they were looking
at appeared again in other places, no local geologist had
unravelled the complicated masses of North Wales. Single-
handed he grappled with the difficulties of that rough and
complicated area. On his first excursion in 1831 we find
him writing to Murchison (13 September)1 that he had nearly
completed one base-line, and that the rest must be done by
traverses. He further tells him that he had made out the
structure of Snowdon.

     In November, 1831, Sedgwick gave to the Cambridge
Philosophical Society " an account, illustrated by sections, of
the geological structure of Caernarvonshire*." Some of his

                                    I. The Survey section across Snowdon, 1858.

                            II. Sedgwick's section across Snowdon, 1831.

old diagrams have been preserved, that across Snowdon for
instance, drawn in 1831. This we reproduce, with a reduction
from the Geological Survey section of a quarter of a century
later, to show how Sedgwick had at once got hold of the
essential point in the structure of the district : namely, that

1 Vol. i. p. 379.  a Minutes of the Society.

5 18 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

the rocks of Snowdon were newer than the masses of slate

and grit to the north of and that the top of the mountain
1

                a
                                         a

                                              it,
formed great synclinal fold.

Murchison also had laid the result of his work on the

borders of Wales before the British Association at York in

 83 1. The short note in the Report of the meeting tells us
that he shewed on coloured map the distribution of the

Old Red and the Carboniferous rocks, and their relation to

the Transition rocks. The subdivision of the Transition rocks
was not yet attempted --only their local delimitation from

the overlying series. In fact, as he himself puts he only
" explained the discovery of an infraposition of certain beds
                                                   I
of unfossiliferous Greywacke to the lowest member of the
                                                             it,
old red sandstone1."
                                                                                          ;
In June, 1832, Sedgwick laid before the British Associa

tion at Oxford map and sections in illustration of the
         is
geological structure of Caernarvonshire. "On that occasiona

dwelt especially on the position of the fossiliferous trough
I

      I
of Snowdon, and on its strike along the Caernarvon chain

and shewed, on the unequivocal evidence of sections, that

the fossil-beds were many thousand feet above the great

slate-quarries of Nant Francon and Llanberis....I never
considered (as erroneously stated by the author of Siluria

        the fossiliferous trough of Snowdon 'to lie near the
p.
     9)

bottom of the so-called Cambrian rocks.'           proved the

contrary by the direct evidence of sections: viz. that com

mencing with the (Harlech) grits over the great Nant Francon
or Llanberis quarries there was an ascending series through

more tlian two miles of highly inclined beds before we came to
the fossiliferous trough of Cwm Idwal or of Snowdon. This

was one of the main points of my lecture in June 1832, and

my friend Murchison was,                           mistake not, present when gave
         '* 1

                              iIf

                                                             I
it*." Immediately after the meeting Sedgwick went back to

Wales to follow up the work. Fortunately we have his old

         Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 174.
         British Palaozoic Rocks, etc. p. xli, and note.

       SEDGWICK'S CAMBRIAN SYSTEM.                             S19

diagram illustrating the succession of the rocks between the
Menai Straits and the Berwyns, and also a rough sketch made
for Murchison in July, 18321, which shew that he had already
got the correct view of the structure of the country. To
make this perfectly clear we reproduced, by permission of the
Director-General of the Geological Survey, a portion of the
Survey index-map of North Wales*. On this are shewn the
boundaries of the Sedimentary rocks as known to the Survey
in 1858, and such other geological information as could be
introduced on the scale of four miles to one inch, which is
on nearly the same scale of distance as that of Sedgwick's
sketch. On this map are traced also the lines of the published

Survey sections, and we have indicated by strong black lines

the direction along which Sedgwick drew the transverse

sections which he sent to Murchison in 1832.
      Sedgwick's section, shortened into a diagram, stands

thus, putting in nothing that he had not mentioned.

23456  7B  9 10                      X.y.

       Sedgwick's section across the Cambrian System in 1832.

          Sedgwick's description.                    Explanation.

    1. Porphyry of the Menai.           In modern phraseology, the
                                     porphyritic rhyolite and associ
    2. Slates and Porphyry.          ated rocks of Archaean age.

    3. Porphyry.                        The Cambrian rocks between
   4. Great Zone of roofing Slate    the two great ribs of Archaean
and coarse Greywacke.                rhyolite (i), (3).

                                        The Southern or Llanberis
                                     ridge of Archaean rhyolite, &c.

                                        The Penrhyn and Llanberis
                                     Slates, with the associated grit
                                     and conglomerate at the base ;
                                     and above, the grit of Bronllwyd,
                                     Filiast, &c. with subordinate slaty
                                     beds as seen, e.g. in Nant Ffran-

                                     con.

       1 See above, Vol. i. p. 394.        s Ibid. p. 395.

J20 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

   5. Porphyry           of Mynydd                The intrusive rock of Mynydd
Mawr.                                             Mawr [see Harker, Sedgwick
                                                  Prize Essay 1888, pp. 43, 50],
                                                  towards which the strata dip on
                                                  either side owing to faults and

                                                  crushes [see   Geol. Survey    one-
                                                  inch map, Sh.                index
                                                                 75 N.E. and
                                                  maP. P- 395 supra\

    6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Slate and                     The Arenig and Bala Series,
Porphyry blended together in                      which roll over and over, and
endless confusion but not des                     occupy most of this area; the
troying the traces of stratification.             volcanic beds are inter-stratified,

In consequence of the five anti-                  not intrusive, as was that of

clinals the same stratified masses                Mynydd Mawr, just described.
                                                  The anticlinal which brings up the
are repeated again and again, so
that at the Merioneth anticlinal                  Harlech series between Ffestiniog

x and y are on the parallel of                    and Dolgelly is prolonged to the
No. 4.                                            N.E., so that beds of the age of
                                                  those seen at the North end of

                                                  Nant Ffrancon (4), i.e. Lingula

                                                  Flags, turn up again between
                                                  Manod and Arenig, and therefore
   [We have here added Roman
numerals to refer to some further                 even Arenig beds might be ex
details given in the body of the                  pected in the synclinal of Mynydd

letter.]                                          Mawr.

    xi.   iTnhwehiRchoc"ktsheowf htohele  Arenig  Arenig Series.
Chain,                                    region

forms the side of a great saddle,
dipping about E.S.E., much in

terrupted by... masses of porphyry
which... range with the strata."
   xii. " The porphyritic system                  Bala Volcanic Series.
of Snowdonia."                                    Bala and Coniston Limestone.
   xiii. " Bands of black shelly
Limestone of the Berwyns and

Bala. . . identical with the transition

lime which separates the Grey-
wacke of Westmoreland from the

great system of green slate and
porphyry of the central mountains
of Cumberland " = a of section

P- 394-   "
          "
   xiv.      ditto   at  the top of the
Berwyns       = a'       section p. 394.
                    of

    xv. "supposed reappearance
of the same beds of limestone on
the east side of Montgomeryshire"
= a" of section p. 394.

SURVEY SECTIONS IN NORTH WALES.             521

   xvi. " Newer rocks between    Silurian,

the Vernwy and the Severn,
which form the base of the

system in which you [Murchison]
are working."

    It will be noticed that the sequence of numbers is

geographical, not geological, but reference to the above
diagram will enable those not familiar with that most

difficult area to follow Sedgwick's traverse, and to appreciate
his shrewd identification of strata turning up at distant spots,
and to realise what a marvellous piece of work it was for any

one to have done single-handed, especially in 1832, when

there were no good maps, and practically nothing was yet
known of these older rocks.

     The section runs across the whole of Sedgwick's Cambrian.
The name had not yet been suggested, but here we see the
structure of the mountain region of North Wales, the general
grouping of the rocks, and their relation to one another clearly

indicated. Whatever is right in this section Sedgwick may
fairly claim, as there is nothing of Murchison's of that date to

compare it with, and it was many a long year before the
Survey touched that country. We must now ask : how does
this early sketch of Sedgwick's look in the light of later
work? In order to do this we have to refer to the Survey
maps and sections of a quarter of a century afterwards.

     The Survey Section (sheet 28) traverses nearly the same
country as the north-western end of Sedgwick's section I.1;
while part of the section on their sheet 32 coincides exactly
with its continuation to the S.E., which Sedgwick has

marked section II. Again, sheet 37 of the Survey gives a

section along the same line as the westerly half of Sedgwick's

section III., while the east end of Sedgwick's section III.,

the part, namely, from Rhobell to Careg y Big, traverses
very nearly the ground shown in the S.E. part of sheet 29 of
the Survey. We have therefore an opportunity of comparing

1 See Vol. i. p. 391.

522 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

the two, and of seeing how much more detail it was thought
possible or desirable to put on a map on about the same
scale of distances as Sedgwick's sections ; and how much
on sheets and sections the scale of which is 24 times

larger.

    It will be seen by reference to Section No. 28 of the

Geological Survey published in 1853 that they have not
given very much additional information as to the structure
of the country beyond what Sedgwick gave nearly a quarter
of a century before.

     The Archaean rocks, Sedgwick's No. 1, are described as
trap composed of Felspar and Quartz generally imperfectly
crystallised. Silurian and Cambrian Rocks altered in contact
with this mass. Murchison, in the first edition of his Siluria,
adopted the suggestion of De la Beche that these were
altered Cambrian. This at any rate is not the received

interpretation now.
     Sedgwick's No. 2 on the Survey Section includes

Cambrian Conglomerate and Sandstone, and, above that, Black
incoherent Shales and Sandstones -- Lingula Beds, all of which
are bracketed as Lower Silurian. Most of these shales are
now known to be of Arenig age.

     Sedgwick's No. 3 is described as Greyish and blue quartz
porphyry. The Cambrian conglomerates that rest on it have
often at the junction been nearly fused, and their bedding
has been almost obliterated.

     Sedgwick's No. 4 is described on the Survey Section as
alternations of purple slate ; Greenish grey and purple quartzose
sandstone and conglomerate with grains of felspar, covered
here and there by Lingula Sandstones and Slates.

      Sedgwick's No. 5 does not occur in the line of the Survey

 Section.
      Sedgwick's Nos. 6 to 10 are shown as Slaty and Sandy

beds alternating with volcanic ejectamenta not subdivided,
but covered by a general description of Llandeilo and Caradoc
or Bala, all referred to Lower Silurian, and represented as

PRIORITY OF SEDGWICK.  523

repeated by synclinal and anticlinal folds across Snowdon,
Cnicht, Moelwyn &c.

     The south-east end of Sedgwick's Section of 1832 is
reproduced almost exactly on the Survey Section sheet 32,
which shows the synclinal which carries the Bala Limestone
under the Silurian rocks of the Berwyns, and the anticlinal

over which it rolls, plunging again under the newer rocks

of Montgomeryshire.

     According to the best information we have at the present
time (see section, p. 512) Sedgwick's sketch, drawn so early
as 1832, was right, so far as it went; it gave as many
details and subdivisions of the stratified rocks as the Survey
found possible to give on the same scale a quarter of a
century later ; and it included all the Bala Beds, and placed

them in their true relation. It should be remembered, more

over, that Murchison was present when Sedgwick read the
paper which this diagram illustrated, and that the MS. sketch
and letter which we have reproduced, Vol. I. p. 391, was
in Murchison's hands while he was directing the work of the
Survey, and while he was carrying on a controversy with
Sedgwick as to the classification of the Cambrian and Silurian
Rocks, and as to which of them first established the true

position and sequence of the Bala series.
     Murchison remarks upon this point in 1852: "Professor

Sedgwick's first communication to the public on the structure

of North Wales was made to the British Association at its
second Meeting in 1832, and is entitled A Verbal Account of
the Geology of Caernarvonshire, which is reported in a few lines
of type, in which no allusion is made to an order of succession

in relation to any known stratum, nor to rocks characterised

by any organic remains1."
     We claim for Sedgwick that he had in 1832 explained the

geological structure of North Wales ; had sketched out the
leading subdivisions of the Cambrian Rocks ; had established
the correct sequence of the Arenig and Bala Series, and

                  1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 174.

524 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

had placed them in true relation with what were afterwards
known as the Silurian (Upper Silurian of Murchison) in
Central Wales and the borders.

     We do not gather that Murchison had at that time done
more than mark off the Old Red and Carboniferous of the
border-land from the great mass of Transition rock which
rolled over and over through Wales to the sea -- in fact what
Sedgwick had done years before in the Lake district1.

     During his early excursions in South Wales Sedgwick
seems to have given all the information he could to Mur
chison by letter ; and, in conversation afterwards, to have
freely discussed all his tentative groupings and hypothetical
explanations of difficulties of structure. For instance, in a
letter dated Nov. 15, 1832, we find that he explained the
exact position of the Wenlock Limestone south of Llandovery,
and even drew a section for him from the Lower Bala rocks,
which are seen here and there along the valley of the Towy,
to the Old Red. This is a rough sketch intended merely to
indicate the position of this limestone, to which he had, as we
gather from the context, drawn Murchison's attention in a
previous letter. But, as far as it goes, the sketch is correct.
Murchison, however, sometimes acknowledged the pence due
to Sedgwick, but forgot to mention the pounds. In this
case it would appear that Murchison had forgotten that his
attention was first called by Sedgwick to the occurrence of
the Wenlock Limestone along this line of country.

     In 1833 Murchison read a paper before the Geological
Society, in which he divides the rocks which had " hitherto
been known only under the common terms of Transition rocks
and grauwacke " into six groups :

     1. Upper Ludlow; which, however, he confounded with the
Tortworth Sandstone.

     2. Wenlock Limestone, which he describes as including the
Aymestry Limestone with Pentamerus, afterwards shown to be on
an entirely different horizon.

                                     1 See above Vol. ii. pp. 508, 509.

MURCHISON'S SILURIAN.                                                           525

      3. Lower Ludlow, under which title he evidently refers to the
Wenlock with its characteristic Phacops (Asaphus) caudatus, and
part of what he afterwards included in the Caradoc with Pentamerus
oblongus (lavis).

      4. Shelly Sandstones. He does not assign their geological
position to these, but from his description they evidently include the
rest of his Caradoc.

Buc5h. ii--BelavcidkenTtrlyilobthitee   Flagstone    characterised  by Asaphus  ( Ogygia)
                                       Llandeilo   Flags.

      6. Red Conglomerate Sandstone and Slaty Schist, under which
he includes all the rest of the older Palaeozoic Rocks.

    A very great advance was made by Murchison in 18341.

Most of the errors in his classification of the Ludlow and

Wenlock Rocks are here corrected ; but his Horderley and
May Hill Rocks are not the equivalents of what is now called
Caradoc. They included beds of very different ages, some be

longing to what he afterwards called Upper Silurian and some

to the Lower. It must also be remembered that the Trilobite

Flags of Llandeilo cannot, in any classification now received,
be taken as the base of such a system as the Silurian. In
this connection a remark of Murchison's, to which prominence
is given in the short abstract of his communication made in
the following year to the British Association at Dublin, is of
great importance : " that in South Wales he had traced many
distinct passages from the lowest member of the 'Silurian
System ' into the underlying slaty rocks now named by

Professor Sedgwick Upper Cambrian ;" the truth being that
the Llandeilo flags passed down into the underlying beds,

and did not themselves form a basement series. Sedgwick

had not been obliged to make any important changes in his
Bala Section, but Murchison had already found it necessary
to alter his arrangement, and to change the details of almost

every subdivision.

     In 1833 Murchison exhibited before the British Associa
tion some of his best sections through a district two years

afterwards called Silurian. Sedgwick followed him with an

1 Proceedings of the Geological Society, ii. pp. 13 -- 18.

526 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

explanation of his sections across the great series of North

Wales1. In the same year, Sedgwick read a paper to the

Cambridge Philosophical Society (n March, 1833), which

we find reported as follows :

     " Professor Sedgwick also gave an account, illustrated by draw
ings and sections, of the Geology of North Wales. He stated, that
by various traverses across Caernarvonshire and Merionethshire, it
was ascertained that the strata of that district are bent into saddles
and troughs, of which the anticlinal and synclinal lines occur
alternately, and are all nearly parallel to the ' great Merionethshire
anticlinal line.' The direction of these lines is nearly N.E. by N.
and S.VV. by S., and they appear to pass through the following
points : (1) Near Caernarvon ; (2) Mynydd Mawr ; (3) Cam Drws-y-
coed; (4) Moel Hebog; (5) Moel Ddu; (6) Between Pontaberglaslyn
and Criccieth ; (7) The great Merioneth anticlinal; (8) The west
side of the Berwyns ; (9) The calcareous beds to the west of
Llanarmon Fach. The bearing of these facts upon the general
views of Elie de Beaumont was noticed ; and it was observed that
the approximate parallelism of the most prominent mountain chains
of Wales, the Isle of Man, Cumberland, and the South of Scotland,
corroborate the justice of his theory up to a certain point ; although
on a wider scale, these apparently parallel straight lines may be
found to be portions of curves of small curvature*."

     This shows very clearly that Sedgwick laid before the
Society a section across very nearly the same line of country

as that described above, p. 519.
     Referring to these years, Murchison makes the following

remarks :

    "In   the years  I  1833 and   1834 Professor Sedgwick published
          as far as      know, on  the subject of Wales, whilst in that
nothing,
period I produced before the Geological Society several memoirs,
detailed sections, many sheets of the Ordnance Survey coloured
by myself in the field, and copious organic remains, by which, in
February, 1833, a first general view was adopted of four fossiliferous
formations, underlaid by a great mass of unfossiliferous GreywackeV

In 1834, Sedgwick and Murchison went together to

    1 Literary Gazette, April 10, 1852, No. 1838,    p. 338 et seq.    Report of
British Association, Cambridge, 1833, p. xxxiii.                       A partial
                                                     1852, viii. 174.
     2 Philosophical Magazine, ii. 381.

    3 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society,
correction of this statement appears in the Errata.

DIFFICULTIES OF CORRELATION.  527

examine their respective fields of operation. Sedgwick was
of course taken over the ground where the sequence was

most clearly displayed in natural sections, and left with the

impression that all Murchison's classification depended upon
equally good evidence and accurate observation. For years
he did not see any reason to doubt the statement that the
Trilobite Flags of Llandeilo were correctly " placed above the
great undulating slate rocks of South Wales," more especially

as Murchison told him that he had recognised the equivalents
of his Llandeilo Flags on the east flank of the Berwyns, and
that Sedgwick's Bala Beds were no part of the Silurian
System, but plunged under the true Llandeilo Flags. This,
coupled with the difficulty of distinguishing by a superficial
examination between the Wenlock Flags and Llandeilo Flags
near Builth, led both for the nonce to rest content with
the view that the Bala Beds were the top of Sedgwick's
Cambrian, and the Llandeilo Flags the base of Murchison's

Silurian.
     For several years the question remained in much the

same state ; Murchison's Upper Silurian being made up of
Ludlow and Wenlock, and his Lower Silurian ofCaradoc and
Llandeilo ; Sedgwick not believing yet that Murchison's

sections and grouping could be fundamentally wrong, and still
trying to throw the rocks of North and South Wales into a

sequence in which the palaeontological and stratigraphical

evidence could be brought into harmony, and with which
every clear natural section would be consistent. Still
Murchison found no definite base for his Llandeilo Flags.

At Llandeilo, as we shall see, he had mistaken the order of

succession, so that where he should have looked for a base

line, he was really at the top of the series. In other parts of
the district there was a passage down from the Llandeilo
Flags into Sedgwick's Arenig ; and, in the absence of all
evidence of a definite base-line, Murchison began to speak of
the Silurian System as " but the upper portion of a succession
of early deposits, which it may hereafter be found necessary

528

to describe under one comprehensive name1." Sedgwick, on

his side, observed that the Caradoc, as defined by Murchison,

contained in places nothing but Bala fossils, and said that if

Salter could prove that " the Meifod Beds were Caradoc, the

Bala Beds must also be Caradoc, or very nearly on its

parallel*." But in other places the Caradoc, as defined

by Murchison in The Silurian System, with its fossils as

given in the plates of that valuable though often incorrect

work, was above the Bala Beds, and hung on to the

Wenlock.

     Sedgwick was not contending for a nomenclature, but for
"Ia classification. He said in his paper of 1852:
                                                   used the

word Protozoic" (paying Murchison the compliment of accept

ing one of his own terms) " to prevent any wrangling about

the words Cambrian and Silurian." The point was that

Sedgwick had correctly described and determined the posi

tion of all the Bala Series as early as 1832, and that the

section then put forward has never been changed, and

the classification founded upon it is that which is now

everywhere known to be correct. It was afterwards found

that Murchison's Llandeilo, and portions of his Caradoc, were

only local developments of part of the Bala Series described

and named after Sedgwick had described and named the Bala

Beds ; and, moreover, that the Llandeilo and Caradoc were

wrongly defined, and wrongly placed, and based upon wrongly

drawn sections.

     Sedgwick, with much that was only tentative, added some

very important facts to our knowledge of the Cambrian and

Silurian during the years 1835 to 1838. His Section has

now become :

Silurian. Flags of the Berwyns : which he said were above his Bala
       Beds and referred to Murchison's Silurian.
           Murchison believed that the Bala Beds plunged under these
      Silurian Flags, but wrongly identified them with the Trilobite
       Flags of Llandeilo.

                 1 Silurian System, p. 1 1.
                a Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 153.

        THE CARADOC SANDSTONE.                                       529

i. Upper Cambrian. Shales of the Berwyns and Bala. "Cleavage
often observed... Beds of good roofing-slate occur, but other
parts are of a coarse texture... They are based on beds of lime
        and calcareous slate"
stone   Syllabus of 1837 he       [i.e. Bala Limestone] from     which
in his                           records Bellerophon bilobatus,   Pro-

ducta (Lepteend) sericea and nine species of Orthis.

Lower Cambrian. Some portions coarse and mechanical, some
yielding fine roofing-slate, some containing irregularly interstra-
tified masses of porphyry. Few organic remains and no con
tinuous beds of limestone.
ii.
                                           ii.

                                                                                                                                                             :
                                                                                                                                           i.
iii. Primary Stratified Groups. The altered rocks in Anglesey and
S.W. Caernarvon.
In his paper of 1835' he had named these three divisions
Upper Cambrian,                  Middle Cambrian, iii. Lower Cambrian,

but altered the terminology as above in his paper read before

the Geol. Soc. May 13, 1838*.

Sedgwick now begins frequently to note that the Bala

beds pass into coarse sandy deposits containing the same

fossils as those found near Bala, at the same time that he
was recording the superposition of the Caradoc Sandstone
of Murchison to the whole of his Bala scries. This not
                                                      it
                                                              is
explained till later, when we find from the fuller explanation
and plates of fossils in The Silurian System, what was that

Murchison pointed out to him as Caradoc, viz. the Pentamerus

Beds. Of course all the Bala Series was inferior to that and

to its equivalent in the north, and to all the sandstones either

in the south or north which pass up into the Wenlock Series.if   if
That this was the idea in Sedgwick's mind at this time
clear from his suggestion that the relations of the Llandeilo              is
and Caradoc were as represented by Murchison, and they
contained the fossils recorded by him, the Wenlock also had

better be bracketed with them*. Thus, through the Caradoc,
which seemed to be local sandy equivalent of the Bala, and
        8a1
contained Bala fossils, and that other sandstone which formed
                     by
the base of the Wenlock, there would be passage from thea
                                        a

Cambrian into the Silurian,      if     were true, as Murchison said

                                    it

he had proved actual sections, that those two sandstones were

        Brit. Assoc. Rept. Dublin, 1835, pp. 59 --61.

        Proceedings of the Geological Society, Vol. ii. p. 679.
        Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, ii. 130.

s. II.                                                           34

53o GEOLOGICAL WORK.

one and the same bed, and that both Orthis flabellulum and
Pentamerus oblongus occurred in it.

    If this was Murchison's Caradoc Sandstone, then it would

be better to consider it as an extensive and variable deposit
containing, as subordinate deposits, the Llandeilo Flagstone
and other characteristic calcareous and shelly bands1. This
would be a sufficient explanation why the top of his Cambrian
was not everywhere overlaid by beds obviously of the charac

ter of the Llandeilo Flags. It seemed to him more probable
that the Llandeilo Flags were a local development of the
shaly portions of the Caradoc, than that Murchison should
have got the order of superposition wrong in one of his

important traverses, the Meifod and Welshpool Section, or
even that he should have mistaken the identity of his
Llandeilo flags in his own area, and confounded it with
part of the Denbigh Flags. For here was a district which
Murchison claimed as peculiarly within his sphere of in
fluence ; here were the important members of the groups of
rocks the relations of which he claimed to have established

over that area ; and here he stated to Sedgwick, on the border

lands of their two areas, I find the Llandeilo Flags which I

have followed throughout my district pass over the Bala
Beds of yours. Murchison was responsible for determining
those to be Llandeilo ; Sedgwick answered for the Bala age of

these. If those were not Llandeilo, Murchison was wrong -- if

these were not Bala, Sedgwick was to blame. Well, it turned
out -- every body knows it now -- that Murchison was wrong.
His sections were wrong, and he had not here, any more than
near Builth, distinguished between the Llandeilo Flags with
Ogygia Buchii and the Wenlock Flags with Cardiola inter-
rupta2. Murchison could not maintain his position, and all
owed that his sections were wrong, but, in after years, he said
that it was Sedgwick's fault. This annoyed Sedgwick more
than anything that occurred during the whole of their long

              1 Proceedings of the Geological Society, Vol. iii. p. 549, 1841.
                                                  a See Sit. Syst.

                  THE SILURIAN SYSTEM.

controversy. If Sedgwick was responsible for the mistakes in

the sections across that country, why does Murchison claim it

as his ground ? It was either Murchison's or Sedgwick's

ground, and whoever has the credit for what is right in it

must bear the blame for the mistakes in the Sections through

it. It can be ascertained at once, by reference to Murchison's

map1, that he claimed the district in question, and took credit

for all that was correct in but wished to throw the blame of
                                            it,
                                                                     it
his great mistakes upon Sedgwick --and                                   was not till the

Meeting of the British Association at Cheltenham in 1856
that Murchison admitted that he himself was alone respon

sible for the great errors in the superposition of the strata

of that area*.

When The Silurian System was being prepared for press,

Murchison seems to have submitted some of the proofs to

Sedgwick, and we find, not only that there was some difference

of opinion, but that Murchison was already beginning to

encroach on his friend's work and, although Murchison did
                                            a
make certain alterations in compliance with Sedgwick's
                                                      ;
request, the "very painful misunderstanding," as Sedgwick
calls " left on his mind feeling not of anger but of sorrow,
it,
               a
mingled with most wretched and miserable condition of
"Isurprise, uncertainty and suspicion... and," said he,
                                                                         persist

most positively and unequivocally in refusing to look over

any single page of your work till                        it      before the public*."
                                                             is

     In 843* Sedgwick published an expansion of his views on1
the North Wales sections, giving many further details and

subdivisions.

a. Slates west of Arenig, containing Asaphus Buchii (O. scu-
         tatrix

     Porphyries of Arenig.
* 321
    b.

                             i. 1).
                                        5.
        See Map published with The Silurian System.              Quarterly Journal of the
                                                                                34--2
        See above, Vol. ii. p. 324.
        Sedgwick to Murchison, March 27 and 29, 1838.
         Proceedings of the Geological Society, iv. 251.

Geological Society,

532 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

c. Dark earthy slates, containing Asaphus Powisii, Trinucleus
          Caractaa, Leptana sericea, Encrinital Stems.

d. Grey slate, containing Asterias, Orthis flabellulum, Encrinital

             Stems.

d". Very fossiliferous band, supposed to be the equivalent of the
           Rhiwlas Limestone.

d". Grey slate with fossils.

e. Hard quartzose slates.
          Here his section indicates a sharp fold and fault, so that

          f=d,g=d'.

f. Hard grey slates about the horizon of (d).

g. Bala Limestone, with Orthis Actonia, O. Vespertilio, Lep-
         tcena tenuistriata, Asaphus Powisii, A. tyrannus t Favositcs,
            Chxtetes petropolitana, Ophiura Salteri, about the horizon

        old.

h. Alternations of tough sandstones and variable slate.
     Hirnant Limestone --a pisolitic limestone with fossils like
         those of Cyrnybrain.
/'.
            ;

                                                                ;
                                                                                               ;

                                                                                          (c)
                                                                                                                              ;;
     We have in this paper the fossiliferous beds (a) in Cwm
Elen, near the base of the Arenig, clearly indicated the

Arenig volcanic series (b) the Lower Bala  and (d) the

Bala Limestone stage (a") and (g) the Upper Bala (d")

and (h) the Hirnant Limestone (i). Those familiar with

this remarkable bed will recognise in the "new and very

flat species of Orthis" the form afterwards described as

0. himantensis, and also appreciate the note that some of

the fossils of this bed resemble the new species found at

Crynybrain, Cernioge, and elsewhere along the lower boun

dary of the Denbigh Flags and Grits. These Cyrnybrain

beds are in turn connected palaeontologically with the

conglomerate, sandstone, and limestone near Mathyrafal,
which he refers to " higher fossiliferous group than any
which has yet been described " in his paper. We can without
:

           a
much difficulty recognise the fossils he mentions as occurring

in these beds, though most of them are now known by

different names viz. Turbinolopsis (Petraia) bina, Far,ositcs
polymorpha (probably = F. fibrosa), F. alveolaris, Cyathophyllum,

Terebratula marginalis (Atrypa reticularis), Leptcena du

FOSSILS OF THE LOWER SILURIAN.  533

plicata (=L. transversalis), Atrypa (Pentamerus) icndata, and
globosa, Orthis lata (or protensd). This is a characteristic
May Hill group of fossils, but there follows the curious

remark that these were " shells which have been considered

as characteristic of the Llandeilo Flags."
     On turning to The Silurian System to see whether there is

any such group of fossils recorded there as occurring in the
Llandeilo series we find (PI. xxii.) among the fossils of the
Llandeilo Flags: Fig. 2, Leptcena duplicata. Fig. 2 b, Atrypa
globosa. Fig. io, Orthis lata; while Petraia (Turbinolopsis)
bina is given as Caradoc as well as Wenlock (PI. 16 bis.
Fig. 6).

     Thus it is perfectly clear that Murchison had got some

May Hill sandstone beds confounded with the Llandeilo in

the typical district of Llandeilo, whereas the equivalent of
these had been already distinguished by Sedgwick in North
Wales as " a higher fossiliferous group." We see how it
might well be that where fossils were not very abundant, and
many of those found were identical with forms described and
figured by Murchison as characteristic of his Caradoc, and
even of his Llandeilo, Sedgwick might still allow the possi
bility of the Llandeilo and Caradoc being superior to his

Bala Series as stated by Murchison ; seeing that the highest

fossiliferous zones he found above the Bala and below the

Denbigh Flags contained such a large number of fossils
wrongly recorded by Murchison as occurring in his Llandeilo

and Caradoc.

     In 18461 great advances were made in the elaboration of
the Cambrian and Silurian Rocks, but we still claim for

Sedgwick that in every important addition he was first. He

attacked the difficult and almost unexplored masses that roll
over through Central Wales from the Towy to the western

sea, following the very lines along which he had made hasty
traverses through this country in 1832.

      Sir Henry De la Beche let him see an unpublished section

         1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Vol. 3, 1847, p. 151.

534 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

by Ramsay, but the subdivisions which Sedgwick introduced

were not attempted by the Survey. All the work of the

Survey and of the few independent observers who have been
drawn into that obscure and almost unfossiliferous region has
done nothing but confirm the shrewdness of his genera
lization, and the correctness of his classification. He divided
the rocks observed into four principal groups. The first
division we must look upon as of geographical rather than
geological significance, as (B), (C), and (D) may turn out to
be developments of (A2), (A,), (A4), being remote, and put
in merely for purposes of correlation. To make Sedgwick's
meaning clear, we must drop the terms borrowed from The
Silurian System, and state what Sedgwick records as the
sections taken in descending order :

     A. Cambro- Silurian Group.

      1. Flags which pass by insensible gradations into Wenlock
                   Shale.

     2. Sandstones of Noeth Grug.
      3- Flags.
      4. Conglomerates and slates.

     B. Rhaydr Slates.
      Pale leaden or greenish grey slates.

      C. Plinlimmon Group.

    This "might be divided into two or three sub-groups." It

includes "the highly metalliferous rocks of Goginan, Cwm Ystwith
&c. ;" "the grits and Slates. ..of Plynlimmon ;" and the grits and
flags which extend thence to Llangurig.

     D. Aberystwith Group.
     Alternations of hard close-grained gritstone and indurated shale
and flagstone, with innumerable fucoids, &c.

     Sedgwick really did almost as much as Murchison towards

working out the Silurian proper, that is the Upper Silurian of

the Survey.
     The determination of the true place and sequence of the

Silurian rocks of Central Wales, following, as it did his
early researches among the Denbigh grits and flags, and his

             IMPERFECTION OF OLD MAPS.                   535

still earlier classification of the Silurian rocks of the Lake

District, as well as the help he gave to Murchison, whose
early efforts among the Silurian Rocks were, as we have
shown above, p. 524, not very happy, should undoubtedly
have met with ampler recognition, and probably would, had
not this great achievement been thrown somewhat into the
shade by his work among the complicated mountain-regions

of North Wales, and the controversy that arose out of it.

       In wild, sparsely populated districts, it is often difficult to
refer a section or a fossil zone to the name of a place on the
map, so that the locality can be readily identified by a person
 who is not familiar with the region. On some ordnance-

 maps, and, still more, on the old maps which Sedgwick
 had to depend upon, there are often large spaces devoid of

 names; and, when a Welsh name is given, it may extend
 over several miles of country. Thus it comes to pass that the

 nearest village is set down as a locality, though it may be at

 a considerable distance from the spot which it is desired to
 indicate. The village of Tremadoc, for instance, includes
 localities far up the valley to the west, or on the hills to
 the north and south. We must remember this in reading
 Sedgwick's papers. When, for instance, he says : " I found the

 Tremadoc Lingulm and fucoids in great abundance," he does

 not mean that those fossils were in what we now call the

 Tremadoc Series, but only that they were recorded from the

 neighbourhood of Tremadoc.
       We will, for clearness' sake, pick out from his scattered

 descriptions of sections, and exhibit in tabular form and

  descending order, the subdivisions which he had now (1846)
  made out among the Cambrian Rocks.

      1. Cleaved beds, containing Trinucleus Caractaci, Murchisonia
scalaris, Leptana sericea, Orthis opercularis.

2. Slates, flags, and trappean shales, interrupted by terraces of
                This series
greenstone.  by Sedgwick to  contains  "  Homalonotus    bisukatus, and is
considered                    be the      equivalent of  some of the fossil
bands east of Great Arenig." At pp. 138, 149, fuller lists of fossils
are given, proving these beds to be of Bala age.

536 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

3. Black slates with fucoids, trilobites, and graptolites ( Graptoli-
thus foliaceus,  G.  pMisuorclihtiicsoniri,onAsoarpeh,"usanPdowisisi"i)m. inTehraislogseicraielsly  "contains
large masses     of                                                                                   like the

dark slates on the shore of the Menai Straits."
    4. Lingula beds, containing " many specimens of a large Lingula,
first described by Mr Davis." These are elsewhere (p. 146) men
tioned under the name "Festiniog flags (Lingula Beds)1."

     5. Quartz pebbly conglomerates, which, "near Harlech, are
composed of very coarse grits" (p. 145).

     6. "Zone of crystalline hypozoic slates" (p. 148), which, he says,
are the equivalents of the slates and altered rocks of the centre

of the axis along the Merioneth anticlinal near Trawsfynydd.

     Murchison does not appear to have contributed much
about this time towards working out the details of any
rocks older than the Llandeilo Flags. To the paper by
Sedgwick which we last quoted he wrote a reply*, in which

he points out that twelve years before he had described

the Silurian Rocks, dividing them into two groups : the
Upper consisting of the Ludlow and Wenlock; the lower
of the Caradoc and Llandeilo formations ; and had given
the chief or typical fossils of each. Well, so he had ; but

those groups were wrong ; and, had they been right, Sedgwick
had correctly described the Bala Beds, which included the
Llandeilo and all that has been left in the Caradoc, before

Murchison had subdivided their equivalents in South Wales
and on the borders of Wales and England. We regret that

circumstances render it necessary to point out how far wrong
Murchison's sketches were, rather than how near the truth they
were in those early stages of progress; but we are dealing
with a question of who is to have the credit of being right
on certain definite points at that time, and so it must be done.
The Caradoc, as we have shown by our account of Sedgwick's
work a few years later8, was not a separate formation or group,
but made up of various beds of very different age, and this

    1 At a later period the Tremadoc Beds were cut off from the top, and the
Menevian Beds from the bottom, of this Series (4).

    2 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, iii. 1847, p. 16j.
     In 1852. See above, Vol. ii., pp. 279 -- 285.

FOSSILS OF THE LOWER SILURIAN.                                                                                   537

 mistake was not cleared up by the time The Silurian System
 was published. " Let these species be found," says Murchison1,
 " in any part of the world, and I ask if their discoverer can

 possibly assign to them any other geological name than
 Lower Silurian fossils." But, referring to Murchison's plates

of Caradoc, or even of Llandeilo, fossils in The Silurian

 System, we think no one would refer a rock with Pentamerus

oblongus, Buccinum (Macrocheilus) fusiforme, Atrypa hemi-
spherica, and A trypa (Meristella) crassa to Caradoc ; or a rock
with Orthis protensa (or lata), Spirifer (Pentamerus) liratus,
and Atrypa (Pentamerus) globosa (Plate xxii); Atrypa (Penta
merus) undata, Atrypa (Stricklandinia) lens &c. &c. (Plates
xix., xx., xxi.) to Llandeilo. To make it quite clear what he
 understood by the Silurian, Murchison reprinted the woodcut
used 12 years before, in which the Llandeilo Flags are drawn
resting on the upturned edges of the Cambrian or Slaty
Greywacke, as it was then called. We confidently assert

that there is no such section in Wales.
      Murchison apprehends that "the broken and porphy-

ritic region of North Wales, Westmoreland, and Cumber
land might long have remained undeciphered if it had not

been for the constant appeals which the geologists who have

explored those tracts have made to the established Silurian
strata" (p. 171). The relation of the rocks in the porphyritic
region of the Lakes was nearly as well known in 1828 as it is

at the present day, and certainly Murchison had thrown very
little light upon while by his mistakes as to the relative
position of certain fossiliferous beds in South Wales he had
rendered correlation with the correct sections of the North

impossible for years. Only few years later we see how the
progress of geological classification was impeded by this
reference of fossils to wrong horizons. Sedgwick writes,
" had never seen the Cardiolce but among rocks supposed
to be Upper Silurian." On the next page he quotes letter
from Salter, in which he says, " Cardiola occurs in Llandeilo

                    Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, hi., 173.
I

                       1

                            it,

                                                         a
                                                                                                              a

53 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

Flags at Builth ;" thatit           the Cardiola interrupta of the
                           is
Upper, or Wenlock Flags, which had been confounded with
                               is,
the Lower, or Bala Flags, by Murchison. This same mistake

was reproduced in later times by Barrande. Murchison trusts

that geologists will not forget the toil by which his results were

obtained (p. 171), but says nothing of the toil which Sedgwick

underwent among the far more difficult and dangerous moun

tain-wilds of North Wales, and the Lake District. He
pathetically appeals to geologists not to allow " the meaning

of the term (Silurian) to be changed and restricted to the
upper half of the original system," by pointing out "the

small area in various countries to which the Silurian System

would be reduced" by that process (p. 178), but in the same

paper he says that                not for him to determine whether

the Cambrian may not be so reduced " whether," in fact,
                                    a'
" geologists will use the word Cambrian in reference to
                                          :
still older and often unconformable Greywacke lying beneath
                                        I
all the beds with Silurian fossils." This appeal ad misericor-;
                                                       is
diam reads queerly after we have learnt how he afterwards            '
                                                           is
quietly absorbed everything down to the base of the Lingula

Flags, in order to cover his retreat from the erroneous base-line

he had drawn at the bottom of the Llandeilo Flags. He

dwells on the supposed fact that "there no general break

between the masses occupied by Upper and Lower Silurian
                      on " the great interchange of fossils between
fossils in Wales  ;"

the Upper and Lower Silurian Groups," sufficient " to convince

every one that they are so knit together in Britain as to be

geologically inseparable" (p. 175). But this in consequence

of his having mixed up the fossils of two totally distinct
horizons. He concludes as follows " maintain that the Lower

Silurian cannot be viewed as system independent of the
Upper" (p. 176). When was found that the Llandeilo and

Caradoc, after cutting off the May Hill rocks which had been
                      it
mixed up with them, were only local subdivisions of theit

southern equivalents of Sedgwick's Bala, the statement was

cleverly turned, and was said that Sedgwick's Bala was

THE MA Y HILL SANDSTONE.  539

nothing but Lower Silurian ; but, as we have shown, Sedgwick
had established the Bala sequence correctly long before Mur-

chison had put forth even his incorrect version. Sedgwick

points out that if Murchison's contention be maintained,

namely, that the term Silurian is to be applied as far down
as fossils of the same general fades can be found in the Older
Rocks, then the true definition of Silurian becomes only
' fossiliferous Greywacke.' The force of this observation
seems to have made considerable impression upon Mur-

chison.

     Sedgwick had re-examined in 185 1 the May Hill and

Horderley districts and made out some good points : firstly,
that there were shales with Ampyx and Trinuclcus overlying
the beds called Caradoc Sandstone in the Horderley area ;
and, secondly, that there were sandstones on May Hill, which
were also referred to the Caradoc Series, and that these " rise
immediately from beneath the undoubted Wenlock group,"
and contain fossils entirely different from those of the
Caradoc of Horderley, but similar to those of the over-lying
Wenlock, while the common or characteristic Bala forms

were absent.

       Here also, in the next great advance made in the classifi
cation of the Silurian and Cambrian rocks, Sedgwick is again
first; and now we find that he has cleared up the greatest
difficulty in the way of the correlation of the rocks of North
and South Wales. He again appeals to the common sense
and justice of the public to look into this question and consider
who had first established the correct classification of the

Upper Cambrian Rocks.
      In his paper of 18521, having filled in more of the details,

Sedgwick gives the following as the ascending sections in
North Wales :

     1. "The metamorphic rocks as a kind of hypothetical base."
     2. "The lowest groups of the whole [Cambrian] Series may...
be seen on... the great Merioneth anticlinal [see above p. 536] and also

               1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 144 et scq.

54 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

among the red-coloured slates which rise from below the great quarries
of Nant Francon and Llanberis."

3. " Llanberis slates."
    " Harlech grits."
4.
5.  " Lingula flags."
6. " Tremadoc slates."
7. " Arenig slates and Porphyry."
8. " Lower Bala, consisting of dark slates, flags, and grits."

     9. " Upper Bala, including Bala and Hirnant limestones, shale,
flagstone, and conglomerate."

10. " Over the group last noticed is a series of beds of consider
able thickness, made up of arenaceous flags and grits, sometimes of
coarse structure. It occupies a trough, on the east side of which the

Bala Limestone is repeated over again."

     With regard to this section he further remarks: "this
arenaceous deposit (10) was the highest member of my

original Cambrian Series, and I need not inform the Society

that it is now identified, in the Government Survey, with the

Caradoc Sandstone.... We now know, through the noble map
published under the direction of Sir H. De la Beche, that the
highest group of the great ascending section is the equivalent
of the Caradoc Sandstone of The Silurian System. Hence

this group, as interpreted by the Government Surveyors,

would be common to the Cambrian and Silurian rocks,

described by Sir R. I. Murchison and myself, --the highest
Cambrian group of my section being coincident with what
they regard as the true Caradoc Sandstone; and it is this

supposed overlap which introduces the only real ambiguity in
the development and nomenclature of the lower palaeozoic
rocks of North Wales. To make this more clear, I may state
that the Caradoc Sandstone of the well-known Horderley
Section contains numerous fossils of the Bala Group, and none
of the characteristic Wenlock species; while the so-called

Caradoc Sandstone of May Hill contains the Wenlock fossils

in abundance, and none of the characteristic Cambrian types.
But is there a single section in which these two distinct groups

Ifof fossils appear together in one stage ? no such section can

THE LITERARY GAZETTE.  54'

be found, why may we not suppose that the Caradoc Sandstone

of May Hill is a group superior to the Caradoc Sandstone of
Horderley ? Should we ever be able to answer this question
in the affirmative, the ambiguity alluded to in the text would
be at an end. The statement here given is drawn from the
fossil evidence supplied by the Cambridge Museum." The

force of this last remark is obvious when we search in The
Silurian System for the fossil evidence upon which we should

recognise the Caradoc Sandstone, and find that it is said to be

characterised by both Orthis flabellulum and Pentamerus

oblongits, by Tri nucleus Caractaci \concentricus\ and A trypa
[meristella] crassa -- fossils which nowhere occur in the same

bed.

     Sedgwick prepared an abstract of the paper from which
we have been quoting ; but the Secretary of the Geological

Society had already drawn up one on his own account,

which was published in The Athenceum. Subsequently,
Sedgwick's own was published in The Literary Gazette.

This gave rise to a correspondence in which Murchison

and Sedgwick stated very fully and clearly the positions
they severally took up.

     Sedgwick said : " The whole argument of Sir Roderick
Murchison is based on a general ideal section, which gives his
conception of the relations of the Silurian System to the other
rocks with which it comes in contact. This section the

author affirms to be not merely imperfect but erroneous
in its assumed base, and also wrong in its interpretation of
the second of its actual groups. Hence he affirms that the
whole argument built upon it comes to the ground. And he
further affirms, that in no part of the Silurian System have
the true relations of the Llandeilo Flags been made out, either

to the beds above them or below them1."
      Had Murchison been right on these points, Sedgwick

must still be allowed priority in virtue of his early Sections of
183 1-- 1834; but, seeing that Murchison was wrong up to

                                1 Literary Gazette, 6 March 1852, p. 234.

542 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

this date and much later, Sedgwick's position becomes un

assailable.

     Murchison's answer to this was, as he says, "the substance

of the reply which I made viva voce at the rooms of the

Geological Society to the points advanced by my old friend

who has become my antagonist.... On my part I contend that

geologists must adhere to my nomenclature, founded on data

which I have proved to be true--a nomenclature which has been
generally adopted at home and abroad." No reference is here
made to sections to prove that his classification was right ; in
fact he begins his reply by saying that it is "divested of

numerous local names;" whereas what was wanted was the

local name and the place where a section could be seen such
as he had published. The best proof that his classification
was wrong was that very soon after this reply he gave it up
himself. He rightly dwells on the word nomenclature, for he
wants to retain his nomenclature whatever might happen to
his classification. He then goes on to show that the officers

of the Survey had found that his Llandeilo was only part of
the Bala of North Wales ; but he turns the statement the other

way and says that the Bala Series was shown to be only
part of his Lower Silurian. Then we see the old difficulty
about the Caradoc Sandstone cropping up as usual. The
Caradoc of Sedgwick was the May Hill sandstone with the
Pentamerus fauna --the equivalent of the sandstones at the
base of the Denbigh flags and grits --the Meifod beds
having by this time been relegated to the Bala Series. But
the Caradoc of Murchison included also the Horderley beds
with Bala fossils. When Murchison spoke of Caradoc he
was thinking more of the Sandstones of Horderley, and the
sandy beds associated with the upper part of the Llandeilo
Flags. Hence he asks, in reply to a remark of Sedgwick's,
that the Caradoc would have made a better base for his
Silurian : " How then is the geologist to draw any line of
separation through the middle of a group the members of
which are thus naturally united ? How call one part of it

                    BASE BUT NO BOTTOM.                    543

Silurian and another Cambrian ? How indeed break up a

natural system of life in which a great number of fossils are

found to be common to its upper and lower divisions?" This

question was soon after answered by Sedgwick, when he

showed that the supposed community of fossils was owing to

Murchison having mixed up the fossils of two entirely distinct

formations. Further on Murchison adds: "how clearly do

we read in the book of nature opened out in the north of

Continental Europe that Silurian fossils constitute the earliest
                          "
recognisable  creation        and   appeals  to  Barrande  in Bohemia,
                         ;

and Hall and others in America, in confirmation. This has

not much meaning now when we remember that his Lower

Silurian consisted of Caradoc Sandstone and Llandeilo Flags,

whereas Barrande's Primordial Fauna is entirely below any
thing called Llandeilo, and the American and Scandinavian

geologists have carried down their fossil life as far as the base

of Sedgwick's Cambrian. We need not, however, refer more

to this ; Murchison himself soon gave up such an untenable
position; but, instead of allowing that his Llandeilo was only

a local development of part of Sedgwick's Bala, took into his

Lower Silurian bed after bed of Sedgwick's Cambrian down

to the base of the Lingula Flags ; and Ramsay, with con

sistency, if with nothing else, took in also the Harlech Series.
What further acknowledgment could be desired " that his

system  was   base  and  his  base  had  no  bottom    "

                                                     !

Murchison says : " it is now useless to refer back to the

inaccurate portion of a line of boundary on my old map which

is little more than a demarcation between my own hunting-

grounds and those of my friend." That is to say, he asks us
not to examine the maps and sections of the Llandeilo

district in order to see how he really did define the Llandeilo

Flags. We cannot gather, from the above letter, any argu

ments in favour of Murchison's view except the one he never

loses sight of, viz. "If I give up the Llandeilo, and part of the

Caradoc, what will be left of my Silurian ? "

Murchison, with very questionable taste, to use no harsher

544 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

expression, finished the letter from which we have been

quoting with an extract from a squib1 written by Edward

Forbes after the discussion at the Geological Society (25
February, 1852). There is no doubt that Sedgwick was
angry at this avoidance of the real question at issue, viz.

who had first got the Bala Series correctly defined ?--

that he was annoyed at the squib, and hurt by the general

sneering tone assumed. The insinuation " that I am try

ing ' to stifle my friend to serve my own selfish purpose ' is,"
he said, " unjust to myself and unworthy of his pen ;"

and the claim that Murchison deserved more considera

tion than he did on the ground of long and arduous

toil calls from him the following appeal : " I have for

thirty-four years kept my neck pretty steadily in the geo

logical collar, without ever having known a task-master, and

for nearly thirty years I have devoted no small labour to the
older palaeozoic series, especially in the British Isles. For

every year which the author of the squib may have toiled
among these rocks, I believe that I have toiled ten ; and
whatever may be thought of the results of my labours, be

it great, or small, or nothing, this at least I do affirm, that
I have stood in the way of no man, and that I have ever

done my best to stifle any spirit of premature generalisa

tion that might rise within myself, lest it might minister

to my personal vanity rather than to the lasting cause of
truth. Hence I have never been over-anxious to give names
to ancient groups of strata ; and where I have used such

technical names, I have willingly changed them when the

occasion seemed to call for it ; and by these very changes,
Imade in deference to others, have
                                    more than once been

led into great errors of nomenclature.... So far as regards

the great Welsh Series, I venture to affirm that, from first

to last, my Cambrian sections were right in principle ; and

that I never misinterpreted my upper groups except when

I endeavoured, hypothetically, to adapt them to the Lower

1 Printed above, p. 255, note.

                                                    545

Silurian Groups, which, in the end, were proved to be wrong
in principle. When this was at length made out, it would

have been an act of downright folly and moral cowardice

not to adhere to my original classification of the great
Welsh Series."

     In the next place, he offers a very temperate and clear
statement of the facts of the case : " We began our labours

independently in the summer of 1831. In July, 1832, I

exhibited before the British Association a section through
the undulating system of Caernarvonshire, with the excep
tion of a single doubtful group near the Menai. I then
determined the true succession of the several subordinate

groups of my section, and I have never changed it since.
During the same summer I completed one or two parallel

sections, from the Menai to the edge of Shropshire, which

determined, I believe correctly, the general relations of the

whole Cambrian Series of Caernarvonshire, Merionethshire,

and Denbighshire. In the autumn of the same year I

made two or three rapid traverses through South Wales,
which, however imperfect as to details, enabled me to

determine with absolute certainty that all, or nearly all,
the eastern portions of the great undulating system of
South Wales lying to the east of Cardigan Bay was

superior to the Bala Limestone.

    "In 1833, my friend exhibited before the British Associa

tion some of his best sections through a district two years
afterwards called Silurian. I followed him with an explana

tion of my sections, above noticed, across the great series of
North Wales. What was then the state of our knowledge,
and how far were we agreed ? At that time the overlying
flagstones in the north of Denbighshire offered no difficulty.
They were the undoubted equivalents of the overlying flag

stones near Welshpool, afterwards called Upper Silurian.

Neither at that time did the coarse sandstones  and con
glomerates at the base of the Denbigh Flags     offer any
difficulty of interpretation. They appeared to  represent,

s. II.                                          35

546 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

very naturally, the shelly sandstones etc. (afterwards called

Caradoc [with Pentamerns oblongus, etc.]), of the sections
exhibited by my friend. But there was a difficulty in the

interpretation of my groups on the east side of the Berwyns.

Left to my own sections I should, without hesitation, have

placed these groups nearly on the parallel of the calcareous

slates east of Bala, and called them a part of my Upper

Cambrian Series ; but this conclusion seemed to clash with
my friend's interpretation of the place of some shelly sand

stones (Caradoc) near Welshpool."
     The kind of explanation that had to be sought was

something like that which he suggested in a sketch which

he drew   for Murchison,   and which was published in The

Silurian  System (Plate   XXXII., Fig. 9). That, however,
          the result of
was not                   Sedgwick's field-work, but only a

manipulation of Murchison's work, which Sedgwick tried

to help him to clear up. This is obvious, as the section

is full of details carried far beyond the Berwyns, across

nearly the whole of Murchison's ground. But Sedgwick

always maintained that his sections across the Berwyns
did not favour Murchison's view of the structure of the

adjoining area ; and no such section as that given, on
Sedgwick's authority, in The Silurian System, appears

anywhere in Sedgwick's own publications.

    " Hence," added Sedgwick, " I concluded by asserting
' that there must be an overlap of our sections on the

east side of the Berwyns, which could only be explained

by a joint interpretation made by us in the field.' I have

noticed the previous facts, in historical order, mainly for

the purpose of laying down a principle of common sense
and common justice, namely, that if (in the region where
the overlap took place) I had blundered in my sections,

and mistaken the relations of my upper groups, I was

bound to expunge them from my Cambrian series, and

give them up to my friend. On the other hand, if he had

misinterpreted the relations of his lower groups (Llandeilo

                          >.

THE OLDER CAMBRIAN GROUPS.  547

Flags etc.), while I had given their equivalents a right place in
my Cambrian Sections, he was bound, by the same principle,
to give up those lower groups to me... My friend tells me
' that geologists must adhere to his nomenclature founded
on data which have proved to be true' I reply, that my

position in this controversy is defensive, and not offensive ;
that I maintain the nomenclature first agreed upon ; and that
my friend's nomenclature cannot be now adopted, simply be
cause the data on which it was constructed have, out of all
question, proved to be untrue!'

      Sedgwick then goes on to explain this position by reference
to Murchison's map and sections, but we need not dwell upon
it, as the Survey have proved the error of these sections, and
Murchison himself adopted their correction. While, however,

he admits that his principal sections were wrong, Murchison

has no idea of giving that part of his system up to Sedgwick,

but rather intimates that it may be necessary for him to take
in the whole of the Series below the Bala Beds -- about which
there had hitherto been no question -- and call them also

Lower Silurian. Sedgwick protests against the erroneous
statement that " the older Cambrian groups are made up of
the same strata, and contain the same organic remains, as the
Lower Silurian Rocks," by which this proposal was justified ;
and maintains that his opponent might descend more than
20,000 feet " lower than any rocks he has reached in any
true section before he reaches the lowest limit of organic
life as seen among the older groups of Wales."

       Murchison had appealed over and over again to the
proofs which he had gathered abroad of the correctness of
his classification, and to the acceptance of his views by

 foreign geologists. To this Sedgwick replies : " I cannot
 follow my friend in his excursions to distant lands. The

 question between us is a question only of the classification
 of British Rocks, and must be decided only on British

 evidence. If he, in a rash zeal for a premature nomenclature,

 had been misled himself, or misled others, in giving wrong

                                                                                        35--2

548 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

names and wrong British equivalents to distant regions,
such mistakes belong not to the fundamental questions
discussed in this reply." " The only questions admissible
in the debate are," he adds, "those which have a bearing
on the truth of the sections, the natural succession of the
groups, and the geographical propriety of the collective names

when applied to British rocks.... though I have not the

shadow of a doubt that my own scheme of classification
will bring the older British Palaeozoic groups into far
better coordination with the magnificent Palaeozoic Series
of America than they have ever been brought before." This
view of his is fully accepted by Professor Henry Rogers, who,
after reading his paper dated 25 February, 1852, wrote the
letter we have quoted above1.

    Murchison of course replied*: " It is beside the question

now at issue to revert to what we respectively did in the
field in 1831 and 1832, or to appeal to what he [Sedgwick]

communicated verbally in the latter year respecting a part of
North Wales, the only printed record of which is comprised
in about twenty lines of the first volume of the Transactions
of the British Association." When the question was one of

priority it is not very clear to us, looking back, why it was
considered beside the question to revert to the earliest work
done by each in the districts referred to ; we should have
thought that an enquiry as to which of them had got the
Bala Beds or their equivalents right in 1832 might have
been considered not quite foreign to the question. In fact
the idea does seem to have crossed his mind, when in the
next paragraph he speaks of his own work, for he says :
" The first methodical and digested view of a sedimentary
succession beneath the known and fixed horizon of the Old

Red Sandstone was presented by myself to the Geological
Society in 1834, as the results of memoirs of 1831, 1832, and
1833." We have seen how much he had made out in 1831

                             1 See above, Vol. ii. p. 284.
                             3 Literary Ciazcllc, 24 April, 1852, p. 369.

MURCHISON'S RESUME.  549

and 18321. Murchison was present in 1831 and 1832, when
Sedgwick explained his views and exhibited sections in illus

tration of them, and he had by him all this time the section

and explanation which Sedgwick sent him in a letter in 1832.
     We have given above a resume of Murchison's work on

the Welsh rocks as well as Sedgwick's during these years in

order that our readers may form their own opinion as to
which of the two was the first to publish any description of

the Bala Series. We followed that up by the enquiry as to

which was right in after years, when both had published
descriptions of the same series, and their views could not be

brought into harmony.

     Murchison then goes on to say that "in 1836 the word

Cambrian was first used, Professor Sedgwick affirming that

the slaty rocks which he so termed, and which lay to the
west of the Silurian region, were all of them inferior to the
strata of my system." They were inferior to the Caradoc
with Pentamerus oblongus ; to the Llandeilo with Cardiola
interrupta ; to the rocks pointed out by Murchison as over
lying the Bala Beds east of the Berwyns ; to the rocks shown
on Murchison's map issued two years afterwards as resting on
the Cambrian along the whole border-land, except where

Murchison had mistaken the section, and within his own

area inverted the order or mistaken the identity and grouped
together series that were palaeontologically and stratigraphi-
cally quite distinct. Then follow some personal explanations,
all of which we are endeavouring to avoid when they do not

bear directly on the question who first published a correct
description of the Bala Series.

      Further on Murchison quotes from his Presidential Address

of 1842 : "The base of the palaeozoic deposits, as founded on
the distribution of organic remains, may be considered fairly
established ; for the Lower Silurian is thus shown by Professor
Sedgwick himself (I was then speaking of a recent memoir of
his own) to be the oldest which can be detected in North

                                                       1 See above, p. 518.

                            GEOLOGICAL WORK.

Wales.... As Professor Sedgwick made no opposition to this
induction of the author of The Silurian System, nor to another
ample illustration of it in 1843, nothing, it seemed to me,
remained to be done in British Palaeozoic classification, except

that the government geologists, who were preparing detailed
maps and sections of Wales, should decide whether there were,
or were not, fossiliferous strata occupying a lower position
than any which had been formerly described as Lower
Silurian. Their reply, in a stratigraphical and physical

sense, is what I affirmed in my last letter." The substance
of their reply was, he tells us, "that the strata containing

fossils, which lie between the Berwyns and Snowdon (the
Cambrian of Sedgwick), are the same as those I had drawn
in sections, and described in words, in The Silurian System!'
That is no reply to the question whether there were or were
not fossiliferous strata occupying a lower position than any
which had been formerly described as Lower Silurian. The
Geological Survey found the Harlech Series, the Lingula
Series, the Tremadoc Series, and even the Arenig Series,
below Murchison's Llandeilo Flags and Caradoc; and found
them correctly sketched out across the country, and placed
in their true order, by Sedgwick.

     Murchison's contention was unwise when it was urged, but
is quite untenable now that the zones of Olenus, Paradoxides,
and Olenellus, have been discovered. The unsoundness of

this reasoning is obvious to those who are aware of the
existence of thousands of feet of rock in which no trace
of organic life has ever been found, which yet lie above

well-known fossiliferous horizons. And, when considering
the value of that kind of negative evidence, we must further
remember that the fossils of the Lower Cambrian escaped the
notice of the Survey, and were only brought to light by
Salter and Hicks years after the Survey had finished and
left the district.

     Let us next enquire what the Survey found it necessary to
do when they examined Murchison's sections in South Wales.

SURVEY CORRECTION OF LLANDEILO.                                                         551

They found it necessary to invert the order of the strata and
turn the Llandeilo Flags the other way up in Murchison's
typical section at Llandeilo ; to cut off from them the flags
with Cardiola interrupta &c. ; to break up his Caradoc Sand
stone and put some of it in the Upper, and some of it in
the Lower, Silurian ; and to prove that the whole of the
Lower Silurian Strata were only portions of Sedgwick's
Bala Series, the relative position, classification, and palae
ontology of which Murchison had entirely mistaken in his

own district.

     We reproduce two diagrams which Sedgwick used in 1846,
when explaining the relation of Murchison's Llandeilo Flags
to the Upper Cambrian. The first shows Murchison's Section
across the Towy Valley at Llandeilo as given on the Map
published with The Silurian System. In this he makes the
Llandeilo Flags overlie the rocks to the west, which he calls
Cambrian. The second gives the same section, as altered by
the Survey, without changing the nomenclature. The great

/a. Old Red.
bed. Ludlow and Wenlock.                        e'.  MfaylagHs.ill  Sandstone.          Caradoc
Sandstone with a subordinate Limestone.  Llandeilo                        g. Cambrian.

undulating masses, under which the Llandeilo is now shown
to plunge, are left as Cambrian. They consist in reality of
higher portions of the Bala (or Caradoc in part), rolled over
the anticlinal of Llandeilo Flags, and holding in their
synclinal folds further west masses of Lower May Hill
Sandstone.

     Well might Murchison wish that the enquiry should be

552 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

" divested of numerous local names," and that we " should not
revert to what " Sedgwick and Murchison " respectively did
in the field in 183 1 and 1832." Further on, however, he
takes up a more positive position, and says : " I have laid
it down that these subdivisions [the Llandeilo Flag and
Caradoc Sandstone] are characterised by many of the same
fossils. The researches of late years have, indeed, confirmed
the unity of the Silurian System, by shewing that many of
the same species of fossils pervade the whole series of its lower
and upper rocks. It is this fact which prevents the possibility
of a change of nomenclature, and the application of two
unconnected names to one system of life. In short, the
proposed amputation of the lower half of the Silurian System
would, in my opinion, be a violation of nature." That is to

say, Murchison still persisted in maintaining that the Upper
and Lower Silurian were more closely connected together
palaeontologically than the Llandeilo Flags with the rocks
below --a view that the warmest of his supporters would

hardly now defend. But, when the beds erroneously massed
together by him had been distinguished, and when, by the

separation of the May Hill or Pentamerus Sandstone from

the rest of the so-called Caradoc, the break between his upper
and lower Silurian had become accentuated, what did he
say ? and when the passage down from the Llandeilo Flags,
which Sedgwick had asserted, had been proved to be true by
the labours of the Geological Survey, what did he do ? He
simply cut the knot by taking into his Silurian nearly all
the rest of Sedgwick's Cambrian ; but the false principle --
that all these old fossiliferous rocks were to be Silurian, and
the underlying supposed unfossiliferous rocks were to be
Cambrian -- landed him in a difficulty similar to that from
which he was trying to escape, and left his system still
without a base.

     To this second letter Sedgwick of course replied ', but we
have endeavoured to incorporate his arguments elsewhere,

                               1 Literary Gazette, May 15, 1852, p. 417.

RECONCILIATION.  553

when dealing with the working out of the facts on which they

were founded.
     Sore as Sedgwick felt at the unworthy sneers of Forbes'

squibs, and the approval of them implied in Murchison's
printing one of them, he rebounded at once to any expression
of goodwill, and when Murchison concluded his second
letter with words of kindness : " Although my old friend
has, both in his first abstract, and his last letter, used some

racy expressions, and that I have thought it right to speak

plainly, I look with undiminished confidence to our sliding
down the shady slope of life with that mutual esteem and
regard which were formed when climbing many a hill together
both at home and abroad," Sedgwick at once responded :
" To the concluding words of my friend's comment I express
my heartfelt concurrence. When we went round the High
lands of Scotland in 1827, I was then his superior in physical
endurance ; but a quarter of a century has, alas ! made me
but a sorry labourer in the field. Still I am not without
hopes of again meeting him in his true Silurian country, and
endeavouring to settle, along with him, one or two minute,
and not laborious, questions of demarcation to which I have
just pointed." Not long afterwards he wrote the genial
letter which we have already printed1.

      We must now sum up the argument in Sedgwick's own

words2 : "At the end of the summer of 1832 I had made no

mistake in principle in my interpretation of the phenomena
of North and South Wales, so far as I had studied them ; and
most of my best sectional illustrations of the structure of Wales,

published afterwards in successive papers, have been copied
line for line from sections made in the field in the summers

of 1831, 1832." His old sections and diagrams of 1831, 1832,
are still in existence, and it is a very ungenerous thing, to use

no stronger expression, that those who were present when
they were exhibited and explained should appeal to the

                     1 Vol. ii. p. 150.
                  1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 152.

5S4 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

meagre report of proceedings in a manner that insinuates that

Sedgwick had, up to a later date, offered no clear view of the
classification of North Wales. "Twice," says he, "(in 1834

and 1843) I changed the nomenclature of some of my upper
groups, to bring them into a supposed accordance with his
(Murchison's) Silurian types, and each time I was driven
from my hypothesis by a downright reductio ad absurdum ;
and I afterwards returned to my first nomenclature, because
I found my sections consistent and true in principle, however
imperfect some of them might have been in finish, and in the
exhibition of minute details." When Sedgwick went over

the sections with Salter in 1843, but did not clear up the
inconsistency, he said, " Far be it from me to blame my friend
Mr Salter for it. He rightly translated the rocks we saw
into the Silurian tongue ; but that tongue misled us both.
In point of fact, we were attempting an impossibility ; we
were endeavouring to join my upper Cambrian Series, which
was rightly interpreted, to the lower beds of the Silurian

Series, which had been wrongly interpreted, and shifted out
of their true place in the great continuous Cambrian sections.

All my papers... between 1843 and 1846 necessarily partake
of the mistakes to which I have just pointed1."

     We have given extracts from Sedgwick and Murchison
at various periods during the progress of their work, and the
growth of the controversy, even at the expense of frequent
repetition of similar arguments, in order to show that Sedg
wick never acquiesced in the erroneous classification, but
maintained the accuracy of his original sections. He tried to

reconcile them with Murchison's sections, and offered all sorts

of suggestions in explanation. It was these attempts to

reconcile his correct sections with Murchison's classification

founded upon wrong sections, that Sedgwick sometimes

referred to as "mistakes" -- an expression taken advantage of
by his opponents. We have dwelt upon this, as it is not
unfrequently stated that " still Sedgwick made no protest "

                ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, viii. 154.

ORDO VICIAN AND TACONIC.  555

at this, that, or the other time. There was nothing to protest

about as long as he believed Murchison's sections must be
right, and that only more knowledge of the intermediate

ground was wanted to enable them to bring their work
into harmony. But now that the truth is known, the
protest has been, of necessity, strong.

     Now comes a curious sequel to our story. A proposal has
been made to take all Sedgwick's Arenig and Bala Beds, and
Murchison's Llandeilo and Caradoc, and constitute, not
Upper Cambrian, not Lower Silurian, but Ordovician, with a
view to putting an end to controversy ! One shell is given to

Sedgwick, the other to Murchison, but who gets the oyster ?

The Director-General of the Survey, Murchison's brilliant

biographer, does not accept this. Certainly Sedgwick's bio
graphers cannot. The distinguished American geologist Dana
has repudiated it, but he, unfortunately, has been misinformed
as to the part which Murchison and Sedgwick took in the
early working out of the Cambrian and Silurian Sections,
and therefore inclines to give Murchison credit of priority.

If priority of correct description is to weigh in deciding what

nomenclature shall be adopted, we claim for Sedgwick that
all the rocks from the base of the Harlech Series to the top

of the Bala Series must be called Cambrian, whatever sub
ordinate grouping of the various subdivisions may be found
convenient as the outcome of more recent work. Some have

endeavoured to show that the Taconic System of Emmons
has priority over Sedgwick's Cambrian, but Dana' points out
"that the term ' Cambrian' antedates ' Taconic' of Emmons by
seven years" and Sterry Hunt explains how "Emmons, misled

by stratigraphical and lithological considerations, compli
cated the question in a singular manner, which scarcely
finds a parallel except in the history of Murchison's Silurian
Section, namely [as Dr Sterry Hunt has elsewhere shown], by
completely inverting the order of succession in his Taconic
system." We claim, with Jukes, that " Sedgwick knew the

          1 American Journal of Science, Vol. xxxix. March, 1890, p. 171.

556 GEOLOGICAL WORK.

structure  of North  Wales    before  any  other      man   "  and  that

                                                           ;

"as to any controversy between Sedgwick and Murchison
on points of physical geology, the thing was ridiculous."

When it is urged that so many geologists at home and

abroad have accepted Murchison's views, we must remember

that it is not Murchison's classification as given in The Silu

rian System that is adopted, but Murchison's old nomenclature

grafted on to his classification as modified by the Survey ;

a classification which has been approaching nearer and nearer

to that of Sedgwick at each change, until the Lower Silurian
of Ramsay was exactly the Cambrian of Sedgwick. Also we

must bear in mind that the use of the nomenclature adopted

by the English Survey became almost a necessity among

geologists working on Cambrian or Silurian ground, and does

not at all imply a verdict in favour of Murchison on the

points at issue. There were only a few here and there who

felt called upon to look into the question and express an

opinion upon it.
     Dr Tornquist used Murchison's nomenclature because it

was generally understood, but in a note expresses his opinion

that Sedgwick was right in the controversy with Murchison1.

Meneghini held the same view.

    In that most valuable work The Manual of the Mollusca

by S. P. Woodward, we find that though references are often
given to Lower Silurian when quoting an author who uses

that terminology --still in the Geological Table given when

he is explaining the range in time of the various genera, the

classification is Sedgwick's, viz.

     I. Everything from the Longmynd rocks to the top of the Bala

Series.

    II. Everything from the bottom of the May Hill Sandstone to

the top of the Ludlow Series.

And Dr S. P. Woodward's son, the author of the best

     1 Om Fagelsaugstraktens  under Siluriska lager.  Lunds Univ. Arsskrift.

Tom. 1. iii. i.

                     DR WOODWARD.                                                    557

work on the Geology of England and Wales which has
yet appeared, writes :

     "The division between Cambrian and Silurian proposed by

Sedgwick is one that marks the most important break noticed in
the Series in England and Wales. Were this classification generally
adopted, it would only be an act of justice to the geologist, who first
made out the natural divisions of the older palaeozoic rocks, whose
early researches have been shown to be in all essential points correct,
but whose work has not until the last few years, received adequate
acknowledgment1."

     Dr Dawson, in his presidential address to the Natural
History Society of Montreal in May 1872, recognised "the
necessity of a reform in the nomenclature of the palaeozoic
rocks in conformity with the views of Sedgwick," and " would
restrict to the rocks of the third fauna the name of Silurian; "
but he would reserve the name Cambrian for the first fauna

only, and apply a new name to the rocks characterised by the
second fauna. But surely the honour of first correct determi

nation of these beds must be assigned to either Sedgwick or

Murchison. No third party has any claim whatever.
     Dr Henry Woodward, in a review of the Catalogue of

Cambrian and Silurian Fossils &c., says :

" One thing is very clear, that Murchison -- although not justified
by good evidences of unconformity in the strata and of a break in
                     sucacnedssiopnalaoefonthteolorgocickasl,--ancadrraiedchatnhgee
time  and in the                                                                     in conditions,
both   lithological                                                                  day with the

public, stealing a march on his old friend's boundary-line ; at first,

as Sedgwick intimates, by issuing a small map in the atlas published
by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge (in 1843)
and afterwards by a bold assumption of right of priority, which he
            maintained. Of                                                           of the
ever after   Society -- (then,  his treatment by the council
Geological                                                                           led by
Murchison   and completely      it is  to    beconfteraorle) d--,    entirely        cannot
                                under   his                        Sedgwick
                                                                                          All
evidently bring himself to speak in any measured terms

through his life Sedgwick retained [his] honest, frank simplicity of
manner      There was a singular blending of almost womanly ten

derness and affection in his nature, with a stern, uncompromising
love of truth, and a healthy and hearty aversion for whatever was
unjust or mean. Thus while he keenly regretted to the last his loss
of Murchison's friendship -- more so perhaps even than the usurpation

        1 The Geology of England and Wales, jnd ed. 1887, p. 49.

55 MR MARR.

by another   of the   labours of so many years   of good,  sound, honest,
geological  work --  yet he could never recover  from the  sense of unfair

treatment which he felt he had so little merited either from his

friend Sir Roderick or from the Geological Society1."

    In an able essay* on the classification of the Cambrian
and Silurian Rocks Mr Marr says :

     "Since the year 1831, memorable in the history of the Lower

Palaeozoic rocks as the date when Sedgwick and Murchison inde
pendently set to work to unravel their structure, and to establish two
systems from out of the confusion of the greywacke, every year has
added afresh to our knowledge of these rocks ; but notwithstanding
the numerous detailed accounts published, we are still far from

possessing any definitely accepted nomenclature.

    As is well known, this confusion originally arose on account of
errors committed by the founder of the Silurian System... Yet, rather
than assign to the Silurian System only those subdivisions to which
Murchison was entitled to lay claim, geologists have been content to
see absorbed into it one after another of the subdivisions of that

grand natural system which was built up single-handed by Sedgwick,
until either the whole of it has been thus taken, or a few hundred
feet of slate only left as a tribute to the genius of the founder of the
Cambrian System. For many years the claims of our late Professor
were ignored, or at most passed over, on the ground that it was too
late to adopt his classification as that of his opponent was now

definitely accepted. Of recent years, however, compromises have
been offered which have had one beneficial result, viz. that of
throwing the nomenclature of the Lower Palaeozoic rocks into a
state of confusion ; and it is difficult to see how this state of affairs
can be altered, except by the adoption of the true historic classifica

tion, which is accordingly being done by an ever increasing number
of geologists."

     His essay concludes as follows :

    " I see neither truth nor geological convenience in adopting any

other classification than that which includes the rocks from the base
of the Harlech to the top of the Bala Series in the Cambrian System,
and the rocks from the base of the Valentian to the top of the
Downtonian Series in the Silurian System."

     Dr Sterry Hunt1, "having been desired, in 1872, to prepare
for publication a notice of the Scientific labors of Murchison,"

     1 The Academy, Sept. 1, 1873, P- 331-

    2 The classification of the Cambrian and Silurian Rocks, by J. E. Marr, M.A.,
F.G.S. 8vo. Cambridge, 1883.

    1 Chemical and Geological Essays, Boston, 1875. Canadian Naturalist, April
and July 1872. Nature, May 1872. Geological Magazine, 1873.

DR STERRY HUNT.                                                  559

found it "necessary to examine the whole ground of the

Cambrian and Silurian controversy, a task which," he says,

"proved much more serious than I had supposed, and brought

to light facts which both surprised and pained me."

     He remarks that in 1854 Murchison coloured as Lower
Silurian, on the map published with his first edition of Siluria,

all but the lowest division of Sedgwick's Cambrian, and any

one reading the abstract [of Sedgwick's paper of March, 1845]
will see that it was not drawn up by the author of the paper.

Indeed Sedgwick expressly repudiates it and the nomencla
ture substituted in it for that which he had used. " Yet the

words of this abstract are quoted with emphasis in Siluria1

as if they were Sedgwick's own language recognising Mur-

chison's Silurian nomenclature."

In an able review of the whole question he explains how :

     " Notwithstanding the support given by Barrande, by the Geo
logical Survey of Great Britain, and by most American geologists to
the Silurian nomenclature of Murchison, it is rejected, so far as the

Lingula Flags and the Tremadoc Slates are concerned, by Lyell,
Phillips, Davidson, Harkness, and Hicks in England, and by Lin-
narsson in Sweden. These geologists have, however, admitted the
name of Lower Silurian for the Bala Group or Upper Cambrian of

Sedgwick ; a concession which can hardly be defended, but which
apparently found its way into use at a time when the yet unravelled
perplexities of the Welsh rocks led Sedgwick himself to propose, for
a time, the name of Cambro-Silurian for the Bala Group....

     The Silurian nomenclature of Murchison and the British Geo

logical Survey has been, through Lyell, de Verneuil and the Canadian
Survey, introduced into American Geology in opposition to the
                                     of James    Hall and
judgment, and against the protests,              geology   theI  Messrs
Rogers, the founders of American     palaeozoic                  cannot

but agree with the late Henry Darwin Rogers, who, in 1856, reserved
the designation of ' the true European Silurian ' for the rocks above
this horizon (that of the second fauna)... and followed Sedgwick in
giving the name of Cambrian to the whole Palaeozoic series up to

the base of the May Hill Sandstone... As regards the extension to
the Upper Cambrian of Sedgwick of the name of Lower Silurian,

which, as has been shown, was given to it only through an enormous,
and now universally acknowledged, mistake on the part of Murchison,

I am constrained, notwithstanding its adoption by so many eminent
geologists, to maintain for the division the name given to it by its

true discoverer Sedgwick."

1 Siluria, 1st ed. 1854, p. 147.

                            DR STERRY HUNT.

     The "want of agreement among geologists as to the
nomenclature of the lower palaeozoic rocks, causes no little
confusion to the learner," but Dr Sterry Hunt points out,
that instead of the difficulties being cleared up by Mur-
chison's work, referring especially to this abridgment of the
Silurian System, of which several editions rapidly followed
one another from 1854 onward1, "the student of Siluria soon
learns that in all cases where Murchison's pretensions were

concerned, the book is only calculated to mislead."
     After showing how unsettled was the Cambrian nomen

clature, some taking in lower and lower beds of the Cam
brian, and adding them on to the base of the Silurian ; others
retreating upwards, and adding on to the Cambrian of
Murchison, first the Menevian, then the whole of the Lingula

Flags, then the Tremadoc beds also ; and after pointing out

how Barrande made the Silurian to include not only the

Lingula Flags proper, but the Menevian and even a great
part of the Harlech rocks themselves (the Cambrian of
Murchison and the Geological Survey), for the reason that

the primordial fauna had now been shown by Hicks to extend
towards their base, Sterry Hunt thus concludes :

" This, although consistent with Barrande's previous views as to
the extension of the name Silurian, is a still greater violation of
historic truth. By thus making the Silurian System of Murchison
to include successively the Upper Cambrian and the Middle Cam

brian of Sedgwick, and finally his Lower Cambrian (the Cambrian
System of Murchison himself), we seem to have arrived at a rcditctio
ad absurdum of the Silurian nomenclature ; and we may apply to
Siluria, as Sedgwick has already done, the apt quotation once used
by Conybeare with reference to the greywacke of the older geo
logis"tsT, hewhilcahboirts  replaces: ' Est Jupiter quodeunque rides'."
                             of his (Sedgwick's) successors in the study  of
British Geology, up to the present time, have only served to confirm

the exactitude of his early stratigraphical determinations ; and the
last results of investigations on both continents unite in showing
that in the Cambrian Series, as defined by him more than a genera
tion since, he laid, on a sure foundation, the basis of palaeozoic

geology."

     1 Siluria. The history of the oldest fossiliferous  rocks and their foundations,
&c. London, Murray, 1854 et set].

                     GENERAL SIR E. SABINE.                                                                                              561

The American Naturalist, commenting upon Dr Sterry

Hunt's essay, says :

    " It is a very valuable contribution to the history of the science,
and its value will increase with time. It throws a flood of light on
points of great perplexity for the student, and Dr Hunt has, in writing
done the science                            real service. It the first complete recogni
it,                                         is
                        is                                     it
                                                                    is
                                         a
                                                                                                   s
tion of the claims of Sedgwick from the pen of one well qualified to
write the history of that painful controversy, and
                                                                      to be hoped

that the time not very remote when geologists will generally refuse
to recognise the unwarrantable usurpations of Murchison'."

     In awarding the Copley medal to Sedgwick in 1863 tne
President, Sir Edward Sabine, gave an excellent sketch of his

work, from which the following extracts may fitly close our

quotations.

" Up to recent period, comprising an interval of upwards of
         a
                  a
forty years, he has devoted himself to geological researches with an

ability,   persistent zeal, and untiring perseverance which place him
amongst    the foremost of those eminent men by whose genius,
sagacity,  and labours the science of geology has attained its present

high position. To duly appreciate his earlier work as geological
                                                                      a

observer and reasoner, we must recall to recollection the compara

tive ignorance which prevailed forty or fifty years ago, to the
dispersion of which his labours have so largely contributed.

Geology was then beset by wild untenable speculations on the
one hand, whilst on the other even its most calm and rational
theories were received by many with distrust or with ridicule --
and by others with aversion, as likely to interfere with those
convictions on which the best hopes of man repose.

     Under such circumstances geology needed the support and

open advocacy of men who, by their intellect and acquirements,

and by the respect attached to their individual characters, their

profession, or social position might be able on the one hand to

repress wild fancies, and on the other to rebut the unfounded
assertions of those who opposed the discussion of scientific

truth. Such man was Professor Sedgwick, and such was the in

fluence he exerted. It may be well to make this allusion on an
           21
                      a

                                                           it

                                                                                                                 7,
                                                                                                                      p.
                                                                                                                                 7.
occasion like the present, because often happens, not unnaturally,

that those who are most occupied with the questions of the day,
in an advancing science, retain but an imperfect recollection of
the obligations due to those who laid the first foundation of our

subsequent knowledge.

      More than forty years have passed since Professor Sedgwick
began those researches among the older rocks of England which

        American Naturalist, Vol. IX. July 1875, No.              41
         Proceedings Royal Society, vol. xiii. 1863 -- 4, p. 31.
s. 11.                                                                                                                               36

562

it became the main purpose of his life to complete.... Before the
names of Cambrian and Silurian were ever heard, under which

we now thankfully class the strata of the English lakes, those
rocks had been vigorously assailed and brought into a lucid
order and system which is to this day unchanged, though by the
same hands which laid the foundations many important additions
have been made.... Perhaps no district in the world affords an
example of one man's researches begun so early, continued so long,
and ending so successfully. By these persevering efforts the Geology
of the Lake District came out into the light ; and there is no doubt,
and can be no hesitation in ascribing to them the undivided honour
of the first unrolling of the long series of deposits which constitute
the oldest groups of British fossiliferous Rocks.
     Still more complete, however, was the success of that work
which was undertaken immediately afterwards on the coeval rocks

of Wales. ... Further and still minuter details were subsequently given,

as was to be expected, by the Government Surveyors ; but the
general arrangement, finally recognised on the map of the Survey,

is essentially the same as that previously worked out by his unaided

labours.
     It was a principle always advocated by Professor Sedgwick,
that the geological structure of a complicated district could never

be accurately determined by fossils alone without a detailed
examination of its stratification. He always proceeded on this
principle ; nor (from the paucity of the organic remains) would it
have been possible on any other principle to have determined
the real geological character of those older districts which he
investigated so successfully. His arrangement and nomenclature

of the Cambrian rocks in North Wales... possesses the weight which
must always be recognised as appertaining to the authority of the
geologist who, by his own labours, first solved the great problem
of the physical structure of the district....
    It will be observed that the memoirs which have been noticed
are for the most part pervaded by a certain unity of purpose. The
investigations were not on points of merely local interest, but were
essential for the elucidation of the geological history of our planet
during those early periods of which the records are most difficult
to unfold. Few persons perhaps can have an adequate idea of

the difficulties he had to contend with when he first entered North

Wales as a geologist. Geologically speaking, it was a terra incognita
of which he undertook to read the geological history before any one

had deciphered the characters in which it is written. Moreover,
besides the indistinctness and complexity of the stratification, and

the obscurity which then prevailed as to the distinction between
planes of stratification and planes of cleavage,
the difficulty of what may be called ' mountain    gtheeorme etwrya's--athlsaot

geometry by which we unite in imagination lines and surfaces
observed in one part of a complicated mountain or district with
those in another, so as to form a distinct geometrical conception

GENERAL SIR E. SABINE.       563

of the arrangement of the intervening masses. This is not an
ordinary power; but Mr Sedgwick's early mathematical education
was favourable to the cultivation of it. We think it extremely
doubtful whether any other British geologist forty years ago could
have undertaken, with a fair chance of success, the great and difficult
work which he accomplished.

      Such are the direct and legitimate claims of Professor Sedgwick
to the honour conferred upon him by the award of the Copley
Medal. But there are also other claims, less direct, but which
it would be wrong to pass altogether unnoticed. It is not only

by written documents that knowledge and a taste for its acquire
ment are disseminated ; and those who have had the good fortune
to attend Professor Sedgwick's lectures, or may have enjoyed social

intercourse with him, will testify to the charm and interest he
frequently gives to geology by the happy mixture of playful eluci
dation of the subject with the graver and eloquent exposition of

its higher principles and objects."

                        36-

                    CHAPTER IX.

     SEDGWICK'S LIFE AT NORWICH.

                                        1834-- 1873.

                                                 BY THE

                  Rev. C. K. ROBINSON, D.D.

     MASTER OF S. CATHARINE'S COLLEGE, AND PREBENDARY OF NORWICH.

    The appointment of Sedgwick to a Prebendal Stall at
Norwich in 1834 has been already related.1 The selection
reflects great credit on the foresight of Lord Brougham, for no
member of the Chapter, in living memory, left a deeper
impression upon the city. His strong character, his marked
individuality, his impulsive manner, his warm heart --are still
fixed in the memory of the few friends who can remember the
early days of his residence at Norwich.

    The other prebendaries were Dr Philip Fisher, the Rev.
Edward South Thurlow, Dr Procter (Master of S. Catharine's
College, Cambridge), and the Rev. Charles Nourse Wode-

house.
     When Sedgwick first took up his residence in the Close, in

December 1834, Norwich still retained many traces of the

literary and artistic celebrity to which it had attained in the
early years of the century. The musical festivals were still
famous, as well for the local talent by which they were

                                 1 See above, Vol. i. pp. 432 -- 437.

SOCIETY. BISHOP STANLEY. MRS OPIE.  565

maintained, as for the new musical works performed at them.
Under Dr Buck the Cathedral choir was carefully and
successfully trained. The Norwich school of painting was in
the midst of a successful career, stamping its own individuality
upon local art. Old Crome had been dead thirteen years,
but his son, J. B. Crome, John Sell Cotman, Stark, Middleton,
Ladbrooke, and others were still at their best. Like that
outburst of Dutch painting in the 17th century, with which
the Norwich School has some analogies, it was both preceded
and accompanied by a period of literary culture. The " Friars

Society," instituted in 1785 for literary purposes, had not long
ceased to exist. William Wyndham and Sir Robert Walpole
were still well remembered by the older inhabitants. Harriet
Martineau was a native of Norwich ; and though, after her

young days were over, she seldom resided there, she often
visited her relations, and took a pleasure in going over the
old house in Magdalen Street. " There it is," she writes, " a
handsome plain brick house in a narrow street, roomy and
good-looking enough, but prosaic to the last degree. Yet
there were my dreamy years passed."

     For the first three years of Sedgwick's tenure of office,
Bathurst, as already mentioned1, was Bishop of Norwich. He
was succeeded, in 1837, by Bishop Stanley. One of his family,
Mrs Vaughan, writes to me : " We knew Professor Sedgwick
better than any one else did during the days of his residence
amongst us. Next to ourselves, Mrs Opie, Joseph John
Gurney, and Hudson Gurney were his greatest friends. He
threw a mantle of love over every one, and loved us and was
beloved by all as no one in Norwich ever was, or ever will be

again."
     Mrs Opie was the daughter of Dr Alderson --the wife, and

for many years the widow, of the painter Opie. In early life

she was famous for her wit and attractiveness, and also for her

Simple Tales, now almost forgotten. Sedgwick was much
attached to her, and was a frequent guest at her hospitable

                                     1 See above, Vol. i. p. 485.

a566 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

                                                   it,table. His thoughts on reading her Life have been already
                                                                      isquoted ; but I cannot refrain from giving here his recollections

of her and some of her friends, written twelve years after her
death :

     "...Mrs Opie, her face beaming with joy, and her high-
peaked cap standing erect by the power of starch ; and
Rachel Fowler with a charming face and manner, of sweet
intelligence, and with a starched soaring cap-- not however so
stiff as to defy all collapses (and the thought struck me that
it certainly would collapse were she to marry a good Episco
palian) ; and Mrs Elliott, of rarest taste and talents, but of
such shyness as to conceal her talents, not under a napkin but

under a tablecloth, yet, when her heart and mind became

uncovered, a woman not only of highest gifts but of sweetest
temper, and -- No ! I will stop short --for the party you
mention does, at this moment, fill my mind's eye and my
memory, and I thank you for the vision...."1

     Mr Joseph John Gurney, a rich and benevolent Quaker,
had studied at Oxford. His fine library, now in the possession
of a relative, remains much as he left and evidence that
his theological writings were the work of one who had a large
collection of ecclesiastical and patristic literature. Mr Hudson
Gurney, man of considerable knowledge and cultivation, was
seen in later years (at Keswick near Norwich) only by a few
friends who did not object to turn night into day. They were
well repaid by the brightness and intelligence of his conversa
tion. Sedgwick often called upon him, and arriving at seven
in the evening was his earliest visitor. At nine he departed,
and, in allusion to the invariable respirator, Gurney parting
joke used to be " Now, Mr Professor, have you got your
muzzle on?"

     Such was the circle of friends into which Sedgwick was
warmly welcomed in December, 1834.* The house assigned

                              To Mrs Philpott, 18 January, 1865.
                                  Ste his own account of Vol. p. 437.
*1
       :

                                               it,
                                                            i.

                                                                               's



HOUSE.                   569

to him stands between the upper and lower Close, at the
corner of the road leading to the south transept of the
Cathedral, opposite to the Deanery. It has been very much
altered since his time, but the sketch of it here given,

reproduced from a water-colour drawing by one of his nieces,
as well as his own description, will supply us with some idea

of what it was when he lived in it.

To Miss Catherine M. Sedgwick1.

                             The Close, Norwich, September gth, 1869.

     "...I live here in a queer old house that lurks under our

grand Cathedral. The north wall of my house formed the
south wall of the Infirmary of the great Monastery erected by
Herbert de Losinga, one of the hungry ragamuffins who
came over with William of Normandy. They committed
atrocities during life enough to sink them into the pits of
purgatory ; and then out of the spoils of the poor Saxons
built churches of a grandeur novel to the old England of
Anglo-Saxon days --in which monks, and whole armies of
acolytes, might by the magic of masses and mummeries bring
them back again into the light of heaven's sun. What a
portentous scheme of clerical imposture ! And yet it had
its brighter side in those dark and evil days. In my kitchen-
wall are two Norman arches. Our streets are narrow and

crooked, showing, at every turn, strange grotesque marks

of great antiquity. I like them all the better for it. We
have a noble market-place. Our city walls, put last in repair
by Edward the Third, are crumbling away into entire ruin,
and are much used in supplying materials for modern build
ings; but the Keep of the Royal Castle, built by William
Rufus, still frowns grandly upon the lower city as seen from
a chalk hill on its southern side ; and we are surrounded by
Roman antiquities of great extent and antiquarian interest.
One of the largest of three castra stativa was about four

1 An American "cousin."

57<J

miles out of Norwich. It still retains a part of its mural
facings of alternating flint and brick...."

     His daily life at Norwich, too, can be given in his own

words.

To Miss Kate Malcolm.

                       Norwich, December  1844.

    ..."My life is as uniform as that of a mill-horse. I have

no continuous time to call my own -- it is not a staff for me to

lean upon, but made up of chips and shavings. Nay that

old thief Time seems to be running such a race with me,

and so twists about among the nooks and corners of our
Cathedral Close, that I seldom catch a real glimpse of his

body, and only now and then see his ugly shadow. The only

time I can come up with him is during the hours I ought to

be sleeping. I have tried to make him do some of my dirty

work about midnight ; but the old man is so tired and cross,

that he only spoils the work I set him on. So I have been

forced to change my treatment, and I call the old gentleman

up two or three hours before daylight, and then I make him

brush my shoes, mend my pen, and boil my coffee. Then I

sit down, as I am now doing, to write, and send him about

his business. But soon after the old knave will come back,

and rouse me out of my morning dreams-- telling me my
servants are waiting for me --that Mrs Barnes has some house
bills --that my horse has been merry and thrown my groom

off its back (and no wonder, for the lad is as dull as a lump
of lead, and I dare say feels heavy to my light-heeled horse ;

but the beast has never had me off yet. Oh that you were

here to train it for me !) --that my little German dog wants

some physic. These things done, I dip my pen in ink again ;

and before I have written a page I am told that the Dean

wants me on particular business before morning service.

Well ! I have this instant been called out, not figuratively, but
literally -- so good morning for one half hour.

HOUSEHOLD. CATHEDRAL DUTIES.  571

        I meet my servants at eight, and we have morning prayers

by candle light. I wish you had been here to drill them.

As they are my only live companions, except my dog, I am

anxious that you should know all about them. John, my old

fac-totum, is grave and solemn ; my groom is a lout ; but he

 is virtuous as well as dull. But Mrs Barnes ! the perfect
image of a Canonical house-keeper --grave and respectful in
 manner -- voluble in tongue -- neat in dress-- tall in person,

 and skilled in the lore of old receipts for table-comforts, and
 practised in the use of them -- (do come and try as soon as
you can) --in short, she is perfect in her way, as far as
 perfection may be found below the moon. My cook makes

 mutton-broth and plain pudding to a marvel, and my house

 maid airs sheets well, and makes blazing fires. Now you

 know all about my establishment, and all about my life here,
 as far as regards externals ; for I am living in solitude, and

have so far refused all parties. I began Residence, as we call
 it, on Sunday the first of this month. It was not a day of

 rest. The day was pinching, the service very long -- my
 sermon not short -- and after morning service the Sacrament.

 Before evening service, I went to the County Hospital (of
 which I am this month the Chaplain) and again had a long
sermon. It did not, however, fatigue me, as I always talk my

 sermon to the poor people, and they like it better than

 reading. I can, in that way, make it more personal, and

 more immediately applicable to their condition. Oh ! how

 these poor people put to shame the more formal congregation

 of the Cathedral ! But that day a clergyman was taken
 suddenly so ill that he could not begin his duty, and I went

 and had evening service and a third sermon at one of our

 parish churches in his place. I came home half frozen, and

 very much fatigued ; and all night after my head so throbbed

 that I could hardly close my eyes in sleep.

       ...We have admirable Church music. Our Minor Canons
do their duty well. We have, of course, full Cathedral

 service morning and evening... .But all this will not bring a

572

daily congregation ; and the duty is most cold, and formal,

and desolate. I do not love its great formality"

     The Canons of Norwich receive a good deal of hospitality,

and are expected to return it. No member of the body was
ever more truly ' a lover of hospitality ' than Sedgwick. One

of his early friends, the Rev. H. Symonds, writes :

     " His arrival in Norwich was a signal for the beginning of high
festivity. He was so genial and hospitable. Many were the enter

tainments he gave, and many were those that were offered to him
in Norwich, and in the country for miles around. His own enter
tainments were made very attractive by the frequent presence of
friends of his own from Cambridge, as Whewell, Airy, Romilly ;
and others of note and celebrity from a distance, as Murchison,
Buckland, Henslow, Phillips. The conversation at his table was
very fascinating. An impress of his genius pervaded                            He would
                                 a
                                          :
                                                                          it.
tell us of his wanderings in England, Ireland, and on the continent,

in the most delightful strain."

     Mrs Vaughan writes to me

     " His house was the scene of constant succession of hospitalities;

and his warm and genial influence had such an effect upon his guests,

that those who were shy and reserved elsewhere, were transformed,

when once they got into his drawing-room, and became bright, and

happy, and talkative. Most delightful were the evenings we have
                          am quite sure that none who have assisted at those
passed there.
a

             if

                    ' it

                   is I
gatherings can ever lose the recollection of them. Under his roof
we learnt the true meaning of the word hospitality,' and all that
                                   '
includes,                 to be seen in its perfection. We felt that he was
                                     a
man who abhorred every false way,' and would endure no shadowa

of insincerity, and at the same time that he would suffer no departure,a;
however slight, from the law of kindness and of love."               it

     A volume might be filled with his table-talk and indeed                  it

     much to be regretted that no one ever persuaded him to
it
    is
                           is
write his reminiscences. Now and then some friend, more

careful than the rest, did commit  striking anecdote to

paper. Here                    one, out of many such, preserved by the

care of Miss Brightwell.

     We were dining at the Professor's house in the Close -- was so
long ago as the year 1847 -- when the conversation turned upon Sir
Harry Smith. The Professor told us how he early got Commission
in the army, and saw hard service in the Peninsular war, where he
was wounded, and sent home invalided. After time he recovered

                   TABLE TALK.                             573

sufficiently to be off again, and was at the storming of Badajoz,
where he found his wife. ' The soldiers there behaved terribly '
said Sedgwick; 'for some days they continued to pillage... Harry
was passing down a street, when suddenly the door of a house, or

convent, burst open, and a young girl rushed out, screaming with

terror, three or four soldiers after her. Seeing an officer, she flung
herself upon him, clinging to him for protection. He acted like

a humane and brave man, and did protect her, conveying her to
his hotel, and taking care of her. She was a lovely girl, and very
                                     made him
soon they were married. She     has  campaigns,            an excellent wife,
accompanying him through all    his                        sharing his fare --

Iliving, in short, like a gipsy, or a tinker's wife. She was an excellent

horsewoman, and have heard officers say they had frequently seen
her on the field of battle looking after her husband... And now she

is a pleasant comfortable looking dame, with mild manners and soft
sweet voice, and none of that roughness you might have expected
from such a course of life.' Our host then went on to tell us of
another episode in Sir Harry's history : ' On the second day of
Prince Albert's Installation at Cambridge, when the Duke of Welling
ton was leaving the Senate House, a loud peal of cheers was raised

lffaoorridhSihimrolHd; aaronrfdy,SSiirmmmiHthaerd"riyawteearlnyedacftatuellrre,ndeHdaforrhryi;mwanarosducntahdue,ghsDtauysiknieggh, t:tuo"rfn.Tihne"gCrehbeayecorksu,

have him." Indeed he is more like the Duke's son, so much is he

attached to him.'

     His geological rambles had led him into many out-of-the
way places, and supplied him with many amusing experiences.
Some of these have been related already, but two more may

be inserted here.

Scene : The coast of Cornwall.

       Sedgwick discovered geologising on the cliff-side.  Enter to him two

or three Smugglers.

      Sm. (respectfully). Good morning, Sir.

      S. Good morning, my fine fellows.
     Sm. You seem too sharp a looking gentleman to be looking
after them stones. (After a pause.) We'll shew you the nicest
little cove where you can land a keg o' brandy.

     S. My good friends, I'm much obliged to you, but I don't want
to land a keg of brandy.

     Sm. (with a disappointed air). Us sees you've no confidence
in we.

                        The Lady and the Shilling.

    Did I ever earn a shilling ? Yes, I did -- one day in Wales. I

had had a long tramp on the hills, and was walking home, dog-tired,

and very dirty, when I caught sight of fossils in some stones laid by

                   SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

the wayside. So I sat down, and began hammering away. Presently

a lady came up, and asked me several questions about the country,

and how she was to get to a place the name of which I have now
forgotten. She thanked me for my information, and added : ' Poor
man, you must find this very hard work.' 'Yes, indeed I do,' I
replied ; whereupon she took out her purse, and gave me a shilling.

Next evening, to my great amusement, she came to dine at the

house where I was staying. I recognised her at once, but she did
not know me, in my altered dress. She was visiting Wales for the

first time, and was full of enthusiasm for the scenery and the people.
'They are so obliging, and so communicative,' she said ; 'only yester
day I had a long conversation with an old man who was breaking

stones on the road. He told me all I wanted to know, and was so
civil that I gave him a shilling.' I could not resist the pleasure of
saying, 'Yes, Ma'am, you did, and here it is!'

     Among the narratives specially popular on these occasions
were three love-stories. I have often heard them, for his lady-
friends used various devices to draw them from him, and were
never tired of listening to them. These stories were so en
twined with his earliest recollections, that he told them with
as much pathos and vivacity as if the shadow on the dial of
time had gone backwards, and he himself was one of the
heroes of the narrative. Many will recollect his account of a
beautiful girl, the daughter of a simple " statesman " in the
dale of Dent, whose path was crossed by a young man far
above her in station, while taking an excursion through the

remoter parts of north-west Yorkshire. A strong attachment

on both sides quickly sprang up. He determined that his
future wife should be properly educated, for she knew little
but the simple learning taught in the village school. Sedg
wick's relatives at the vicarage were asked to invite her to
their home in the evenings, and so help to prepare her for her

future life. " All this," Sedgwick said, " might have been a

failure and a disappointment, as commonly happens. The
young wife might have felt herself unable to rise to her new
position. The husband's relatives might have slighted and
despised her, and in the end the husband himself, tired of
his new toy, might have treated his wife with neglect and
indifference." But then he passed, with triumphant delight.

LOVE-STORIES.                            575

to the climax of his story. He told us that the marriage was

a perfect success. The young wife, with a fine temper, strong

sense, tact, and judgment, rose to her new position. Instead

of being neglected and despised by her husband's family, she
became herself the bond of union --linking together all its
members --the centre of attraction to which they all turned --

loving and beloved to the end of her life. All who knew

her could testify that this was no mere romance. I myself

well remember spending a Sunday evening at her house in

her old age, and being a witness of a moral sunset sweeter

than the landscape seen from her windows, then steeped in
the summer's sun -- and of that almost finished romance which

had long since reached its catastrophe.

The heroine of his second love-story was the sister of one

of his earliest and most intimate friends. This lady, when on
a visit to her sister at Oxford, was seen in New College Chapel

by a young undergraduate, who was so struck by her appear

ance that at the end of term he wrote to her brother in the

north of England, for permission to see his sister, and plead

his cause with her. On being asked as to his means of

supporting a wife, he admitted that he was a younger son,

mainly dependent upon his own exertions. Such being the

case the brother declined to allow an interview with his sister,

alleging that a feeling which arose from seeing her only on

one or two occasions, without a word having passed between

them, was not likely to be either deep or lasting. The young
man was much disappointed. It happened, however, that

within a year his elder brother died, and he succeeded to a

large family property. As soon as he was able to leave home,

true to this strange and sudden attachment, he went north

again, and asked to see Mr  . " Now," he said, " I have

come to tell you that the objections you urged against my

suit are removed, as by the death of my brother I am possessed
of ample means, and I hope that you will now allow me to be
introduced to your sister." The brother answered : " I am

very sorry to say that this is now impossible, for since you

576 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

were here last year my sister has become engaged to another,
and is shortly to be married." Some time afterwards, the
lady, who knew nothing of this strong attachment to herself.
was surprised to learn that one who had never spoken a word
to her, and whom she had never distinguished from other
undergraduates whom she had seen at Oxford, had died,

and left her the whole of his real and personal estate. A

paragraph from a newspaper, announcing her marriage, was
found pasted inside his writing-desk. Through some infor

mality in the Will his intentions as to the real estate could not
be carried out, but the whole of the personal estate and effects
passed, as he desired, to her, a glimpse of whom had wrought

in him a lasting and imperishable love.

     The third story can fortunately be given almost exactly as
Sedgwick used to tell it.

           THE OLD MAID OF THE VILLAGE.

' Have you ever been in Swaledale ? ' ' No ? ' Then you have
not seen one of the most beautiful dales of the north-west of

Yorkshire. The lower part is well wooded and fertile ; the upper
part runs up to the grand lonely moors and fells, and has a wild
beauty of its own. And now for the love story ! and a true love

story it shall be !
Many, many years ago, sometime in the last century, Mr D.,
the son of a Leicestershire Squire, joined a party of friends, who

were shooting grouse on Stainmoor and the adjacent fells. Some of
them lodged at a farmhouse at Muker in the upper part of Swale

dale, and occasionally saw a very beautiful young girl in the distance,

who had evidently come to visit one of the farmer's daughters.
Mr D.,                                           in a
           whose heart    seems to    have been           very inflammable
condition               take fire in   a moment  -- fell  in love with this
           -- ready to

charming girl, whose name, he ascertained, was Bessie. She was the
daughter of a ' statesman ' at Muker, who had made a fortune by
the lead-mines on his small ancestral estate, and, added his in
formant, ' Bessie is as good as she is beautiful.' When the shooting
season was nearly over, Mr D. called upon Bessie's father, and asked

to be introduced to his daughter.                He was told that Bessie

    His request was treated with ridicule.
was a girl of only sixteen, little more than a child, and the father said
he would not have ' stuff and nonsense ' put into her head. So the

lover was dismissed, and Bessie knew nothing about his visit, neither

had she ever spoken to him. Mr D. went home in low spirits,
fell ill, and on consulting a doctor was told he was suffering from 'a

              THE OLD MAID OF THE VILLAGE.                                      577

disease of the heart.' Marriage was counselled as the only cure.
He took the advice, looked out for a wife, and married, and before
long, sons and daughters surrounded his table. Alas ! for Mr D.,
before long his wife died.

     After her death the vision of the beautiful young girl in Swaledale

came before him. She had long been grown up, and he heard she
was still unmarried. He thought he would go and see her, so he
mounted his curricle, and drove his two fine horses to Swaledale,

called upon the old yeoman at Muker, made known his errand, and

proposed for his daughter. Unfortunately Bessie was from home.
Her father had neither sympathy nor patience with the middle-aged

lover, and refused his consent. ' I will not part with my daughter,'
he said, ' when I am growing old, and want her society and care.'

So Mr D. turned away in just anger, for the old man refused to tell
him where his daughter was staying. On the return journey, owing

to his reckless driving, the carriage was upset, his leg was broken,
and for many weeks he was laid up at a little country inn. At last
he returned home, resolved to put Bessie out of his head, and, as the
truth must be told, though it rather spoils the romance of my story,
he looked about for another wife, married, and again had sons and

daughters.
     When Bessie heard of her admirer's visit to Muker, she said, she

ought to have been told, and that if she had given her own reply,

perhaps the accident might never have happened, for things might

have turned out differently.
     Some years after, the second wife died, and Mr D. was again a

widower. Again his thoughts strayed back to the moors above
Muker, and to the girl, who, years ago, when he and she were both
young, had left such an abiding impression on his heart. The old

statesman was dead, and Bessie lived with her married sister at

Cowgill in the valley of Dent. But          she had lost her  btoeahuteyr,--asnhde
                                           day a letter came  from Mr D.
was   now    a joyless  old  maid ! One
read         and found   it  contained an  offer of marriage
       it--

Her sister told her she was too old to be married, and advised her to

refuse the offer. But Bessie said, she would have her own way this
time, and wrote an encouraging reply. Again Mr D. mounted his

curricle, and two beautiful horses carried him from Leicestershire
to Cowgill. The day after his arrival, he drove down the valley to

my father at Dent, asked him to grant him a marriage-license, and to
marry him to Bessie the next day. ' How did the bride look ? ' do

you say. Truth again compels me to say that the lady was old and

wrinkled, but just as an old wrinkled      apple,   wwherinnklyeosu--psuot  it in an
oven, gradually swells out and loses       all its                          she lost

all hers in the warmth of a happy home and a husband's love ; and
when I last saw her, during my freshman's year at Cambridge, she

had become plump and rosy, and was again beautiful !

     Children, more than their elders, drew forth his innate

love of making others happy. I remember on one occasion,

      S. II.                                                                37

578 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

when he came to see us, my children brought him a Chinese
puzzle, which consisted in threading and unthreading ivory
rings from an ivory ellipse. For an hour, at least, Sedgwick
and they were busy at their task -- he quite as much interested
and absorbed as they were. " Young people," he said,
"make me happy, and their cheerful, merry, ways are my

delight." At Norwich his kindness towards young people

was a marked feature of his life. " His parties for the
children of his friends were full of all sorts of fun and delight.
Nothing pleased him better than to take out a party of young
ladies on horseback, and many there were who thought it the
greatest of pleasures to be entrusted to his guardianship1."

      Once in every year he gave a treat to the choristers. One
of these is described in the following letter.

 To Miss Grace Milne Holme.

                                             Norw1ch, June 23rd, 1863. 6 a.m.
     " I had hardly time to read your very kind note, for my
family party of six, and four or five friends who had come
to join us in a trip down our river, were waiting for me ; and

I had engaged three boats for our choristers, who were in

intense excitement, and the moment service was over, ran

down to the boathouse. So, in a jolly party of thirty-two,
distributed in four boats, we went down to a favourite little
inn called The White Summer House, on the edge of a
beautiful wood which skirts the river. The inn is about three

 miles down the river, and is famous for its ginger-beer, and
 pretty walks, and artificial caverns dug out of the chalk hills.
 And the young people made the place ring with happy lively
 songs. We then returned to my house, where my house
 keeper had prepared a capital tea in the drawing-room, of
 which indeed the tea and coffee formed the smallest part
 And in my dining-room there was a preparation for more

than twenty connected with our choir. A round of beef; a

                                    1 From the Rev. H. Symonds.

THE CHORISTERS; THE CHAPTER.            579

sirloin of beef ; cold veal pies ; gooseberry pies, cakes, loads
of strawberries, &c. &c. to help out the tea and coffee. And
the lads did ample justice to Mrs Barnes' fare. That done,

and after we had had our good tea &c. in the drawing-room,

the choristers, men and boys, all turned out into my little
garden. The evening was lovely, and they sang very beauti
fully. The chorus of Handel, See the conquering Hero comes,

was sung twice over very admirably. About ten, more
strawberries and cakes, and a good dose of home-made

champagne. Then, God save the Queen; a little tip to the

lads ; good-night and away.

    So, though often a wasp, I am not always so. But you
are no judge, my dear Miss Grace ; because I always behave
my best when I am with ladies...."

     Before I quit the subject of his hospitality at Norwich,
one word may be added in respect of his relations with his
brethren of the Chapter. It is almost needless to say that
every member of it loved and venerated him. And well

might this be the case, when he treated all with the utmost
kindness. He could answer an invitation in such a way as to

make even a refusal more charming than an acceptance.

To Mrs Robinson.      May 27 th, 1868.
     My dear Sister,

                 The Canons make a brotherhood. You and one
of the Canons are one. Therefore you must be my canonical
sister, and I tell the truth when I say that it would be a great
joy to my fraternal feelings to dine with you. But my rule is
rigid. It used in former days to bend ; but it has long lost

that power!

     I trust, however, that you will kindly allow me to wait

upon you on the evening of the Chapter day. I will take for
granted that I shall have your permission, and count with joy

upon the coming pleasure of meeting my friends at your
Residence on the evening of the second of June....

                              37--2

580 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

I send my love to anyone who will accept that Christian

offering.  Ever gratefully and truly yours,

           A. Sedgw1ck.

     When Sedgwick came to Norwich the Museum formed the
centre of attraction for those interested in science. He joined

this institution soon after his arrival, and with characteristic

ardour sought to promote its interests by every means in his

power. In the course of the winter of 1834-- 35 the com
mittee had established a series of Conversaziones to be held
in the Museum. In the succeeding winter, with the view of
increasing the attraction of these gatherings, Sedgwick offered
to deliver a course of lectures on geology1. The Committee

at first intended that these lectures should be delivered in the

Museum itself, but their announcement caused so large an
accession to the number of subscribers that it became neces
sary, on the eve of the delivery of the opening lecture, to
engage the large room at The Swan Inn, opposite to the west
end of St Peter's, Mancroft. The house is no longer an Inn,
but the room in question may still be seen, used as a grocer's
warehouse. It measures about forty feet by twenty-four.

     The first lecture was delivered on Wednesday evening.
8 December, 1835, at 7.30; and the seventh and last on
Wednesday, 21 January, 1836. On the first occasion 280
persons were present ; but after the second lecture these
numbers had increased to 400, so that the Committee were
compelled to seek a still larger room, and removed to the
Assembly Rooms.

      Some of those who attended these lectures are still alive ;
and they assure me that the impression left on their minds--
after an interval of more than fifty years -- is still clear and
vivid. The topics handled, and the characteristic manner of
the lecturer, are still fresh in their recollection. The subjects
of the lectures arc now before me. They shew that it was

                                     1 See above, Vol. i. pp. 451 -- 453.

                LECTURES AT THE MUSEUM.                            581

Sedgwick's object to give his audience a rapid sketch of the
formation of the crust of the earth.

Lecture I. The action of water on the surface of the Earth.

Lecture IL. Further discussion of the action of water. Diluvium.

Transported blocks. Gravel. Fossil bones in gravel. Hyaena

dens. Supposed conflict between Geology and Revelation.
III.Lecture
                The Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalia.

Lecture IV. Volcanic phenomena.

Lecture V. Stratification. Synoptical view of the different English
       formations, with the fossils characteristic of each.

Lecture VI.     Fossil Fish and Reptiles.                          of the
                 Classification of the rocks composing the strata
Lecture VII.

        earth.

It is interesting to notice, having regard to the line

Sedgwick took up in after years against Darwin, that in the
third lecture he attacked the views of Lamarck. " He next

elicited the smiles of his audience," we read, "by a most

graphic and humourous sketch of Lamarck's absurd theory of
molecules, and the transmutation of species -- a speculation

which supposes that the lowest animal in creation, by an

exertion of its will, puts forth new organs, by the possession

of which it becomes a member of the order immediately

       and so proceeds through the scale of being, till
above  it,

arrives at the most perfect form."  1

                        in I

                                                                  a

                                                                                                            1

                                                                              A it
In the concluding lecture he alluded to the theories which

had been advanced to harmonize geological conclusions with

the words of Genesis. As, however, his views on this difficult

question have been already stated, they need not be recapitu

lated in this place1.

On this subject have heard          striking anecdote.

meeting to promote national education was held in Norwich,

Bishop Stanley in the chair. A clergyman spoke at some

length of the evils he feared in the movement, and of the

influence of Science weakening belief in revelation. When

he had ended Sedgwick suddenly rose, took a Bible from the

                       See above, Vol. ii. pp. 79, 343.

582 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

table, and holding it up exclaimed in his most vehement
manner: "Who is the greatest unbeliever? Is it not the
man who, professing to hold that this book contains the
Word of God, is afraid to look into the other volume, lest it
should contradict it ? "

     Sedgwick's exertions in the cause of the Museum did not

pass unrewarded. At the Anniversary dinner of the Com

mittee, held 14 December 1836, a massive silver inkstand
was presented to him, as a mark of gratitude " for the high
services rendered to the Norfolk and Norwich Museum1."
In this connection it may be observed that it was Sedgwick's
custom for some years to invite the committee of the Museum
to dinner at his house. In 1837 he held the office of
President, and in that year and the next gave a course
of lectures, similar in scope and purpose to the one which

I have described.

     These lectures were afterwards supplemented by a more
enjoyable form of instruction --field-lectures on horseback, as
at Cambridge. These afforded him an excuse for sharing the

recreation of riding with intimate friends. A good rider
Sedgwick never was --but he was enthusiastically fond of the
exercise -- riding daily for many years, and during his summer

Residence often going out at 6 a.m. His niece writes me :

    " From 1840, I or my step-cousin, Fanny Hicks, Miss Catherine

Stanley (now Mrs Vaughan), Dean Pellew and his daughters, and
any Cambridge friends who were staying with my uncle, used to be
his companions. They were very happy days. His conversation
was most instructive and amusing. He was always in good spirits
when he was on horseback."

      Bramerton pits, some four miles down the river Wensum,
was often their destination. Here the Norwich crag is well

exposed. It rests on the chalk and is " a very variable series

of pebbly gravels, sands, and laminated clay-bands, which
contain here and there seams or patches of shells.... At
Bramerton two horizons of shells have been exposed, the

                                       1 See above, Vol. i. p. 472.

           READING OF THE LESSONS.                              583

upper layer of which contains fewer species than the lower1."
Hither, as I have been told by one of his companions in those
delightful rides, Sedgwick often led his cavalcade. Here,

standing below the high escarpment on the level ground close
to the river, any one who knows the place, as I do, can realize

the striking picture, and see the figure we can never forget,

pointing upwards to this fluvio-marine bed which comes out
into the light of day below the trees and trailing plants on the
summit of the rock ; and see him, with dramatic action, and
an enthusiasm which was part of the man, dilating on the

features of the geological landscape. It was a literal com

pliance with the advice given by the mother of Coriolanus: --

Go to them, with       this  bonnet in      thy  hand,
Thy knee bussing       the                   in  such business
                             stones -- for

Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant

More learned than the ears.

     To the last Sedgwick continued to take an interest in the

geology of Norfolk. The Rev. John Gunn tells me that in the
autumn of 1863 a letter came from him in which he expressed
his desire " to wipe out what he had long considered a blot in
his geological scutcheon "-- namely, to visit the Norfolk
Forest-bed with Mr Gunn as his guide. "By good fortune

several stumps were exposed at low water at Happisburgh. I

can never forget the delight of the veteran geologist as he

exclaimed ' This is indeed a golden day !'"
    And now I must say a word upon Sedgwick's more

immediate duties as a Canon of Norwich. Mr Symonds,
formerly precentor of the Cathedral, writes to me:

     "Sedgwick entered with all his heart and mind into everything
that he did. His reading of some of the Lessons in the Old Testa

ment, especially the narrative parts, was sometimes so dramatic that
one could hardly resist a smile. There was so much earnestness in

his reading of the Epistles of St Paul, that he seemed to be studying

them at the very moment he was reading them to the congregation.
He seemed                            no part of
           to wish to  be sure that  ever heard  their meaning escaped
him. I do  not think                             anything in the singing
                       that I have
of voices or the sound of instruments so pathetic and touching as his

           1 The Finland, Past and Present. 8vo. 1878, p. 501.

584 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

reading of the first chapter of the Lamentations of Jeremiah. There
was no fine reading, but simple pathos, deep as if he had been
Jeremiah himself or one of the captives.   There was the same
earnestness and simple devotional feeling  in his reading of the

Litany, especially in the words Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners.
But perhaps the most impressive feature was the depth of humility,
trust, and supplication in his utterance of the prayer of access in
the Communion Service. In such passages there were tears in his

voice."

    An early scientific friend of Sedgwick's in Norwich said
to me of his reading : " He felt every word, and made his

hearers feel also;" and another writes: "It was worth while

going a long way to hear him read the Song of Deborah.
I used to wish that he might have held a sword in his
hand ! At the final peroration he and his hearers were alike

overcome and electrified."

     It will be readily understood, that, as the springs of tears

and of smiles lie very close together, though they do not

rise from the same source, Sedgwick's reading, especially in
his later years, verged on the grotesque. He was once heard
to read the seventh chapter of Amos with great fervour

and dramatic power. But, when he came to the prophet's

personal history: 'I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's

son ; but I was an herdman '--etc., in his effort to give due
prominence to the letter h, he exclaimed : ' I was an haber
dasher! And he would occasionally throw in comments of
his own in an audible voice. When reading the story of the
captives placed under harrows of iron, he once added, in an
undertone, "How very barbarous!" But, after all, the slips
were forgotten, and the pathos was predominant. He used
to say of himself that his tears were near the surface. An
old friend of mine, since dead, Mrs Blakiston of Thorpe Hall,

who knew Sedgwick fifty-two years ago, told me that at

times it was impossible to hear him read without being
moved to tears; and her sister, as she tells me herself, can
bear identical testimony to the dramatic power and pathos
of his delivery. The voice and manner of the reader, and the
ready response of the hearers, were as vivid in the memory

SERAFONS.  585

of these two ladies after half a century, as though the music
of his speech had only yesterday been hushed into silence.

     What I have said of Sedgwick's reading is equally true
of his sermons. Their style was the outcome of his character,

and partook of all the peculiarities of his mental and moral
organization. The progress of thought and utterance was at
first hesitating, and full of repetitions. Sometimes the loose

sheets on which the sermon was written would become mixed

up and unmanageable, and moments, which seemed an age,

would be required to marshal them into order for action.

In later years the different pairs of spectacles --three pair
if I remember rightly --required to be adjusted, the right pair

being often, in their perversity, the last to be tried on. Then

there was the bottle and glass at his elbow, containing a
cunning preparation of his house-keeper's, made up of gum

arabic and orange juice, for occasional assistance to his vocal

power --which his friends persisted in telling him was brandy
and water. All this made his first progress slow, and, to a
stranger, tedious. To this day I can recall the first address
I heard Sedgwick give in Cambridge, when I was an under

graduate. The meeting was in connection with the British

and Foreign Bible Society. At first he hesitated, floundered,

and we thought he must break down. When things seemed
at their worst, he caught an idea. I think it was the powerful
and wide-extending influence of Holy Scripture. Then all
his difficulties of utterance vanished, and nothing could sur

pass the fervid and poetic eloquence of his words.
     It was just the same with his sermons. They were, for

the most part, written ; but their most effective passages were
struck off in the heat and inspiration of delivery, suggested
by some sudden thought. Then words, red-hot with passion,
or forcible and impetuous reasoning, were thrown out upon
his audience, rousing them to enthusiasm, or hushing them

into silence, if not melting them to tears. When I first came
to Norwich (in 1861), his sermons on St Paul's Shipwreck
were often mentioned to me. The subject had been suggested

586

by Mr Smith's remarkable work ', but under his treatment it

was kindled into a new life. The evidence of the accuracy

of St Luke's narrative tested by soundings taken after the
lapse of centuries--the peril of the ship-- St Paul's calm and
brave spirit sustained by a superhuman voice -- the crashing
of the ship's timbers -- the escape of the passengers --were all
dwelt on with a force and feeling which I have often heard

commemorated. This might be partly due to his great
interest in the life and writings of St Paul. On this I will
again quote Mr Symonds :

     " He was always very fond of preaching on some point relating
to the life and teaching of St Paul. When he came into Residence,

and had a staff of servants in his house, he used sometimes to ask
them what part of Scripture they would like him to read and explain
to them at family prayers. It was remarked that they had discovered
his predilection, and used to ask for something about St Paul. The

sermon on St Paul's shipwreck was interesting beyond description.
You allude to the emotion which accompanied the delivery of the

sermon. This has passed away from my recollection, but I can well
Iimagine that it was there. The Professor was a man of the very
deepest feeling.  remember his telling me how the singing of a
certain passage of music had made him shed tears.
     His sermons were curious. Of course, they were never common
                                   acnodulddigbreessnioved. oubTth--atintdheeyedwethreeiwr rbiteteinng,
place. They     were often  long
and carefully   prepared,   there

written was plain from a habit he had of reading them over during
the prayers, without any concealment, to the amusement of the

choristers in the gallery over his head. But, when delivering them,
something would strike him which he had not thought of before.

Then he would go off across country for some time and distance,

and afterwards seem very much astonished to find how far he had

wandered.       Suddenly    he   would   pull  himself up with  the words :
' But this      the way !'  "
            by

     1 See Sedgwick's letter to him, quoted above, p. 298. The following extract

from a letter to Miss Isabella Sedgwick, dated 2 July, 1856, is worth quotation :

"...I think I told you that I meant to make a sermon out of the Voyage and
Shipwreck of S. Paul. I made two --so they completed my work, for this season,

in the pulpit of the Cathedral.  I had some doubts about the first sermon on the

Voyage ; but it excited no small curiosity in talk, and it was heard with great

attention, though it lasted 50 minutes or more. And it was pretty clear that I had
not quite tired them, for last Sunday, when I concluded the subject, there was
Iby far the largest Sunday morning congregation
                                                 ever addressed at Norwich .

I really think I will get a series of illustrative drawings, and make a lecture of it

to some of our public Institutions...."

                       FAMIL V PRA YERS.                                       587

     Sedgwick was very particular about his family prayers, and
took great pains with them. But, like all he did, they were
sometimes a curious mixture of opposite characteristics. The
following incident was told by a lady who was present.

Scene. The dining room of Sedgwick's Residence. Sedgwick seated

       at the breakfast-table with a bible and prayer-book before him.

              Enter Mrs Barnes followed by the servants.

S, turning over the leaves of the Bible.                         Mrs Barnes ?
Mrs B. Yes, Sir.
S. Where was I yesterday?
Mrs B. You were reading the second chapter of St Luke, sir.
S. Oh ! very well. Turns the leaves over rapidly, and is about
to begin, when he looks round the room. Mrs Barnes, where's Tom ?
Mrs B. He's gone out, Sir.
                                                                 ! I won't have him go out
    I5.  (in  oaugvhoticetoofbethuant dperra.)yers.GonIe    out
         he                                               have   often told you, Mrs Barnes,
when
that insist upon my servants attending prayers regularly. Do you

hear?

     Mrs B. Yes, Sir.

S. Very well, don't let it happen again.

     I have said nothing as to his opinions. That they were
not weak, uncertain, or ill-defined, everyone will believe. But

he was quite free from what is known as party-spirit. " Oh !
that Christians would love one another," he writes, " and think
of the great points of common faith on which they agree, and
not quarrel about the little points on which they may differ ! "

No bitterness was ever felt by him towards a theological
opponent. His strongest expressions of objection to ecclesi

astical practices from which he differed were so touched with

imagination, and brightened with humour, that the shafts from

his theological quiver never angered an enemy or wounded a

friend. On this subject an amusing story occurs to me.
When Dean Goulburn came to Norwich he replaced the

ancient lectern, a handsome eagle, in the choir, and requested
the canons to read the Lessons from instead of from their

stalls, as heretofore. Sedgwick, on coming into Residence,

ignored the innovation, and read, as he always had done, from
his own seat. One day lady, one of his numerous admirers,
                       a
                                                it,

5S8 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

met him in the street. " Oh ! Professor Sedgwick, why don't

you read the Lessons from the new Lectern ? I am so sorry
you don't. I had quite looked forward to seeing you there--
etc. etc." " What ? Me, ma'am ! Me ! expose myself before
that bird! Nothing shall induce me!"

     He could not bear the ritual innovations that were at that

time being generally introduced into churches and cathedrals.
He had been reared in a parsonage among the Yorkshire

mountains, where more importance was attached to personal
influence than to the refinements of worship. The modes of

conducting the service to which he had been in early life

accustomed had wrought into his strong and impetuous

nature an aversion to the most innocent changes in ritual.
He was much shocked at the idea of a weekly celebration
of the Holy Communion. He regarded the scarlet tassels
which were attached to the caps of the choristers at the wish
of the late Dean as " a vestige of the scarlet lady," and said

that they had the same effect upon him as a red rag on a
bull ! Dr Goulburn writes :

     " He was  exceedingly narrow in his religious opinions. I do            not
                                                                              so
think I ever   came across a man so intellectually powerful, and
very highly cultivated, who was equally so. The Bishops of the
Eastern counties (Peterborough, St Albans, Norwich, Lincoln, and

Ely,) meet annually for conference at one another's houses. Our

Bishop, when it is his turn to entertain, kindly asks the Dean and the
resident canons to meet the Bishops at luncheon. On one of these
occasions I happened to be calling upon Sedgwick in the morning,

and I casually said, ' I suppose, Sir, you are coming to meet the
Eastern Bishops at the Palace to day?' Sedgwick, I imagine, had
not been apprised of the custom ; for by Eastern Bishops, he
evidently thought I meant, Bishops of the Eastern Church ; for
he burst out, ' Eastern Bishops, Sir ! no ! I wouldn't for the world
                             a pack of                         !-- quite as
break   bread with  '  such             superstitious rascals                bad
as the  Catholics.     "

     I have often heard him express his views on Providence,
on the personality and omnipresence of God, and especially
on redemption wrought by the death of Christ, with a warmth
of feeling and a grandeur of expression which shewed that
religion with him was the very stay and consolation of his

MEMORIAL WINDOW AND INSCRIPTION.  589

life. No one can read his private letters without perceiving
the strength of his religious convictions ; and no portraiture
of him would be complete which omitted this feature of his
mind. Those who have read the previous chapters will
remember many such passages in the letters there printed ;
but I cannot refrain from adding one more. Sedgwick is
writing to his niece on the death of a friend at Scalby :

     " Oh ! that I had St Paul's faith, and could look on death
and speak of it as he did ! Oh ! that I had the quiet placid
confiding faith which my dear old Father had for many years
before he died ! I only have it not because God has not given
me the grace to deserve it. For Christian faith is God's gift,
and is of God's grace, and no living man ever had this grace
by counting up his own poor deeds, but rather by asking for
it in repentant humility and in the heartfelt words of the
publican --'God be merciful to me a sinner!' These are
grave words, but life and death are grave things to write
and think about."

     He is commemorated in Norwich Cathedral by a stained
glass window in S. Luke's Chapel, the gift of Dean Goulburn.

A brass tablet beneath it bears the following inscription,

written by the present Archbishop of Canterbury :

                                     in  christo .

                             ADAMO  SEDGWICK .

                                     PHILOSOPHORVM  MAGISTRO 

                         REGVM . AMICO  PARWLORVM - DF.LICIIS 

                                                       PROPTER 

                                AMPLIATOS  FINES  SCIENTIAE .

                              IMPERATORIVM . VERI . AFFECTVM .

                          ILLVSTREM  MORVM  SIMPLICITATEM 

                          IMMOTAM . IN  FIDE  CONSTANTIAM 

                                                      CANONICO 

                                                       DECANVS 

                                              MDCCCLXXIII

59 SEDGWICK AT NORWICH.

    The translation is by Dean Burgon :

                                     IN CHRIST.

                                                                     TO

                              ADAM SEDGWICK,

                               A MASTER AMONG PHILOSOPHERS,
       THE FRIEND OF PRINCES, THE DELIGHT OF LITTLE ONES,

                                                  AS ONE WHO
                      EXTENDED THE FRONTIERS OF SCIENCE,
        AND WAS FIRED WITH A RIGHT ROYAL LOVE OF TRUTH,
                 WHOSE CHARACTER WAS A GRAND SIMPLICITY,
                AND WHOSE ROCK WAS THE FAITH OF CHRIST,

                                                 TO HIM,
                ONCE A CANON OF THE CHURCH OF NORWICH,

                    THIS MEMORIAL IS RAISED BY THE DEAN.

                                                          1873

            LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

1820    On the Physical Structure of those formations which are immediately

            associated with the Primitive Ridge of Devonshire and Cornwall.

            Read 20 March, 1820.         Trans. Phil. Soc. Camb., i. pp. 89 -- 146.

1 82 1  On the Physical Structure of the Lizard District in the County of

            Cornwall. Read 2 April and 7 May, 182 1.

                                         //.Trans. Phil. Soc. Camb., i.  291 -- 330.

        A Syllabus of a course of lectures on Ceology. 8vo. Camb., 1821.

1822    On the Geology of the Isle of Wight. A Letter to the Editor of
1823        The Annals of Philosophy, dated Trinity College, Cambridge,
            17 March, 1822.
                                  Annals of Philosophy, N. S., iii. pp. 329 -- 355.

        On the Phenomena connected with some Trap Dykes in Yorkshire
            and Durham. Read 20 May, 1822.

                                         //.Trans. Phil. Soc. Camb., ii.  21 --44.

        Letter to the   Members  of the  Senate, dated Trin. Coll., 14 May,
                 1823.
                                         The Cambridge Chronicle, 23 May, 1823.

        A reply to an Address to the Senate, published by the Master of

               Jesus College. 8vo. Cambridge, 1823, pp. 86.

1823-24 On  the Association of Trap Rocks with the Mountain Limestone
            Formation in High Teesdale, &c. Read 12 May, 1823;
            1 March and 15 March, 1824.
                                                                         139 -- 195.
                                         Trans. Phil. Soc. Camb., ii.

1 824   Remarks on the observations of Dr French ; with an argument on
              the law of elections to offices created by the Senate. Dated
              Trin. Coll., Feb. 25, 1824. 8vo. Cambridge, pp. 48.

1825    On the Origin of Alluvial and Diluvial Formations. A Letter to the
               Editor of The Annals of Philosophy, dated Trinity College,
               Cambridge, 11 March, 1825.
                                            Annals of Philosophy, N. S., ix. 1825, pp. 241 -- 257,

      592 LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

      On Diluvial Formations. A letter dated May, 1825.

                                                             Annals of Philosophy, x. 1825, pp. 18 -- 37.
      The Minutes of the Phil. Soc. Camb. shew that a paper " On the essential dis

             tinction between Alluvial and Diluvial Deposits," had been read to the
             Society, 21 February and 7 March.

      " A portion of a paper was read by Professor Sedgwick on the
             Geology of the Yorkshire Coast, a section of which was
             exhibited to the Society."
                                                          Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 2 May, 1825.

      The paper was completed 16 May (Ibid).

1826  On the Classification of the Strata which appear on the Yorkshire
      Coast. A Letter to the Editors of the Annals of Philosophy,
      dated 20 Feb., 1826, followed          by a Memoir.      Issued   with
      separate title-page, as above, and  "  London : printed   by C.  Bald

      win, New Bridge-Street, 1826." Read to Phil. Soc. Camb., 2 May,
      16 May, 1825.
                     Annals of Philosophy, N. S., 1826, xi. pp. 339-- 362.

      " A paper was read by Prof. Sedgwick ' on the Geology of the Isle
             of Wight '."
                                                          Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 8 May, 1826.

      " Rev. Prof. Sedgwick exhibited to the Society a pair of large horns
            of some species of the genus Bos found near Walton in Essex."
                                                  Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 13 November, 1826.

1826-28 On the Geological Relations and Internal Structure of the Magnesian
      Limestone, and the lower Portions of the New Red Sandstone

      Series in their Range through Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire,
      Yorkshire, and Durham, to the Southern extremity of North

      umberland. Read  17 Nov., 1826; 30 April,         18 May, 1827;
      7 March, 1828.                                   2, iii. pp. 37 -- 124.
                        Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., Ser.

1827  "After the meeting Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the
            peculiarities of the Coal Strata in the neighbourhood of White

      haven."          Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 14 May, 1827.

1828  On the Geological Relations of the Secondary Strata in the Isle of
            Arran. By Rev. A. Sedgwick [etc.], and R. I. Murchison.
            Read 18 January and 1 February, 1828.
                                                Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., Ser. 2, iii. pp. 21 -- 36.

      " After the meeting Prof. Sedgwick gave an account of the Geo
            logical Structure of Scotland as collected from the observations
            made by himself and Mr Murchison during the preceding
             summer."

                                                              Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 3 A/arch, 1828.

        LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                                         593

On the Structure and Relations of the Deposits contained between
       the Primary Rocks and the Oolitic Series in the North of
       Scotland. By the Rev. A. Sedgwick [etc.], and R. I. Murchison
       [eta]. Read 16 May and 6 June, 1828.

                                             Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., Ser. 1, iii. pp. 125 -- 160.

1829 Letter to Right Hon. H. Goulburn.  3 June.                       Signed : A Resident
                Member of the Senate.
" After the meeting Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the
Geological Structure of the Alps, illustrated by a section passing
from the plains of Bavaria to those of Trieste."

                 Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 30 Nov., 1829.

9--30 A Sketch of the Structure of the Eastern Alps ; with sections through
the Newer Formations on the Northern Flanks of the Chain,

and through the Tertiary Deposits of Styria, etc., etc. By Rev.
A. Sedgwick [etc.] and R. I. Murchison [etc.].
20 Nov., 4 Dec., 1829 ; 5 March, 1830.                                Read 6 Nov.,

With Supplementary Observations, Sections, and a Map. By R. I. Murchison,
[etc.] Read 19 Jan. and 2 Feb., 1831.
                 //.Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., Ser. 2, iii.             301 -- 420.

1 830 Address delivered [as President] at the Anniversary Meeting of the
Geological Society of London, 19 February, 1830. 8vo.
London, pp. 28.
                 //.Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., i.                        187 -- 112.

A Sketch of the Structure of the Austrian Alps. By Rev. A. Sedg
       wick and R. I. Murchison. Read 21 May, 1830.

                                                       Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., i. pp. 227 -- 231.

1 83 1 Introduction to the General Structure of the Cumbrian Mountains;
               with a Description of the great Dislocations by which they have
                 been separated from the neighbouring Carboniferous Chains.
               Read 5 January, 1831. With an Appendix. Read 6 November,

                 //.Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., Ser. 2, iv.              47 -- 68 *.

Address on announcing the first award                                 of the Wollaston Prize.
       Delivered 18 February, 1831.                                   Lond., 1831, i. pp. 270 -- 279.

                                                    Proc. Geol. Soc.

Address to the Geological Society, delivered on the evening of
the 1 8th of February, 1831, on retiring from the President's

Chair.           Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., 1831, i. pp. 281 -- 316.

Description of a Series of Longitudinal and Transverse Sections
       through a Portion of the Carboniferous Chain between Penigent
       and Kirkby Stephen. Read 2 March and 16 March, 1831.
                                       Trans. Geol. Soc, Lond., Ser. 2, Vol. iv. pp. 69 -- 102.

s. 11.                                                                38

      594 LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

      Address to Senate in opposition to the claims of Mr Goulburn and
            Mr W. Y. Peel (2 May). Signed : A Resident Member of the

              Senate.

      "After the meeting Professor Sedgwick gave an account illustrated
            by sections, of the geological structure of Caernarvonshire."
                       Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 14 Nov., 183 1. Phil. Mag. 1832, 69.

1832  On the New Red Sandstone Series in the Basin of the Eden, and
      North-western Coasts of Cumberland and Lancashire. Read

      1 February, 1832.

           //.Trans.                                           383 -- 408.

      Lond. i. pp.
             3G4e3ol--. S3o4c5.,         Land., Ser. 2, iv.                         Proc. Geol. Soc.
                                                                                    the carboniferous
      series in the valley               entitled: On the deposits overlying
      and Lancashire.                           and on
                            Pohf itlh.e  Eden,  xi. pp.   the  --no2r8t5h.-western  coasts  of Cumberland
                                         Mag.,           283

      " After the meeting Professor Sedgwick gave an account, illustrated
             by maps and sections, of the Physical Geography and History
             of the Fens of Cambridgeshire."

                                                Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 7 May, 1832.

      On the Geological Relations of the Stratified and Unstratified Groups
            of Rocks composing the Cumbrian Mountains. Read 16 May,

      1832.                                              Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., i. 399 -- 401.

      Verbal account of the Geology of Caernarvonshire.

                                         /.Report, Brit. Ass. (Oxford), June 1832,          583.

      Remarks on Mineral Veins.

                                                                                            Ibid. p. {79.

      Note on certain fossil shells overlying the London clay in the Isle of
             Sheppey. Read 21 November, 1832.

                                                                                    Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., i. 409.

      A Syllabus of a course of lectures on Geology.           2nd Edition.                 8vo.

             Camb., 1832.

1833  "After the meeting Professor Sedgwick gave an account, illus
            trated by representations of sections, of the Geology of North
             Wales."

                   Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 11 March, 1833. Phil. Mag., 1833, ii. 381.

      " Professor Sedgwick described the leading features in the Geology
            of North Wales, the lines of elevation, the relation of the trap
             rocks to the slate-system, the cleavage of the slate ; pointed
            out the relations of this tract to that examined by Mr Murchison:
             and drew a general parallel between the slate formations of
             Wales and Cumberland."
                                                     Report Brit. Ass. (Cambridge), 1833, p. xxxiii.

LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                             595

Professor Sedgwick gave a general account of the Red Sandstones
       connected with the Coal-measures of Scotland, and the Isle of
       Arran.

                                                                                                                      Ibid.

A Discourse on the Studies of the University.  8vo. Camb., 1833.

       The preface is dated 5 November, 1833.

On a Band of Transition Limestone, and on Granite Veins, appearing
       in the Greywacke Slate of Westmoreland, near Shap Wells and
        Wastdale Head. Read 6 November, 1833.

                                                                                   Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., ii. 1.

On Charnwood Forest, Leicestershire. Read Phil. Soc. Camb.,

5 December, 1833.  Phil. Mag., iv. 1834, pp. 68, 69.

834 Remarks on Mr Beverley's Letter to H. R. H. the Duke of
               Gloucester. First Letter to the Editors of the Leeds Mercury

(7 January).       The Leeds Mercury, 18 January, 1834.

Remarks on Mr Beverley's Letter to H. R. H. the Duke of

        Gloucester. Second Letter to the Editors of the Leeds
       Mercury. No date.

                                                                The Leeds Mercury, 8 February, 1834.

Letter to the Editor of The Times in support of the Cambridge
       Petition for the Abolition of Tests on proceeding to degrees.
       Dated Trin. Coll. 8 April.

Published in The Times, 10 April, and reprinted in The Cambridge Chronicle,
         1 1 April, with a few corrections.

Letter addressed " To the Resident Members of the Senate." Dated
       Trin. Coll. 16 April, in defence of Professor Hewett.

                   Printed in The Cambridge Chronicle, 18 April.

Seventeen Reasons for adopting the Prayer of the Petition signed
       by sixty- two resident Members of the Senate.

                                                                   The Times, probably about 18 April.

Letter to Editor of Cambridge Independent Press, dated Trin. Coll.
       18 April, in reply to a letter signed A Member of the Senate
       [Dr French], printed in The Cambridge Chronicle, 1 1 April.

Remarks on Mr Beverley's Letter, etc. Third Letter to the Editors
       of the Leeds Mercury. Dated Trin. Coll. 15 May.

Remarks on Mr Beverley's Letter, etc. Fourth Letter to Editors
       of Leeds Mercury. Dated Trin. Coll. 2 June.

Letter "To the Members of the Senate," in reply to Mr Selwyn.

       Dated Trin. Coll. 9 June.

                                                     Printed in The Cambridge Chronicle, 13 June.

                                               38--2

      596

      "Professor Sedgwick on the Geology of Cambridge."
                                                           Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 24 Nov. 1834.

      A Discourse on the Studies of the University.  Second Edition.
                                                         8vo. Camb., 1834.

                       do. do.                       Third Edition.
                                                         8vo. Camb., 1834.

1835  Remarks on the Structure of large Mineral Masses, and especially
1836
           on the Chemical Changes produced in the Aggregation of

           nStratified Rocks during different Periods after their Deposition.
           Read       March, 1835.

      Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., m.pp. 461 --486. Karsten, Archiv, x. pp. 581 -- 626.

      Account of a field-lecture.   The Cambridge Chronicle, 10 April, 1835.

      On the range of the Carboniferous Limestone flanking the primary
            Cumbrian Mountains ; and on the Coal-fields of the N. W. coast
             of Cumberland, etc. By A. Sedgwick and Williamson Peile,
            Esq. of Whitehaven. Read 10 June, 1835.
                                                              Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., ii. pp. 198 --200.

      On the Silurian and Cambrian Systems, exhibiting the order in

           which the older Sedimentary Strata succeed each other in
           England and Wales. By Professor Sedgwick and R. I.

           Murchison.               Report, Brit. Ass. (Dublin), Part pp. 59 -- 61.

      A

                                                a
                                                                                   le

                                                                                                le
                                                                                                                           ii.

                                                                                                                    le
      Extrait d'une lettre M. Elie de Beaumont sur Developpement

           des Roches stratifiees anciennes dans Cumberland et                                                                  Pays

           de Galles.               Bull. Soc. GM. de France, vii.                                                            152 -- r55-

      Discourse on the Studies of the University. Fourth Edition.
                                                                                  8vo. Camb., 1835.

      "Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the system of formations

           inferior to the Carboniferous Series, as illustrated by his own

           researches in Wales, and those of Mr Murchison in the same

           country."               Minutes, Camb. Phil. Soc. Camb., 18 April, 1836.

      On the Coal fields on the North-western coast of Cumberland. By
           A. Sedgwick and Williamson Peile, Esq. of Whitehaven. Read

           June, 1836.
      A

                8

                                                                                              I.
                                    Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., \\. pp. 419 -- 422.

      Classification of the old Slate Rocks of the North of Devonshire,
           and on the true position of the Culm Deposits in the central
           portion of that County. By Rev. A. Sedgwick and R.

           Murchison.               //.Report, Brit. Ass. (Bristol), Part ii.

                                                                                                                              95, 96.

                  LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                                          597

Description of a Raised Beach in Barnstaple or Bideford Bay, on
        the North-West Coast of Devonshire. By A. Sedgwick and
       R. I. Murchison. Read 14 December, 1836.

                                                                 Trans. Gtol. Sac. Lond., v. pp. 279 -- 286.

Four Letters to the Editors of         the Leeds Mercury in    reply to
        R. M. Beverley, Esq. [Not                               pp. 64.
                                       published.]
                                        8vo. Cambridge, 1836.

1837 On  the Physical Structure of Devonshire, and on the Subdivisions

         and Geological Relations of its older Stratified Deposits, etc.
         Part I. By A. Sedgwick  [etc.], and R. I. Murchison [etc.].
         Read 14 June, 1837.
                                   Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., v. pp. 633 --687.

Notice of an Incursion of the Sea into the Collieries at Workington.
                                             Report, Brit. Ass. (Liverpool), Part ii. pp. 75, 76.

" Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the Geology of Charnwood

        Forest, and the neighbouring coal-fields."

                                                        Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 13 Nov. 1837.

A Syllabus of a course of Lectures on Geology. 3rd Edition.

1838 Petition to the House of Commons against a Bill to carry into effect
              the Fourth Report of the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical
                Duties and Revenues.

[Undated: but sealed at a meeting of the Dean and Chapter of Norwich held
        14 May, 1838. It was then printed and circulated among members of the
         House of Commons.]

A  Synopsis of    SthaendEsntognliesh--Sweitrhiesanof  Stratified Rocks inferior to   the
      Old Red                                          attempt to determine the      suc

         cessive natural groups and formations. Read 21 March and

         23 May, 1838.                 Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond., ii. pp. 675 --685.

1839 Classification of the Older Stratified Rocks of Devonshire and
             Cornwall. By the Rev. Professor Sedgwick [etc.] and R. I.
              Murchison [etc.]. Dated 25 March, 1839.
                                                                Phil. Mag. Ser. 3, Vol. 14, pp. 14 1-- 260.

Postscript to the communication of Prof. Sedgwick and Mr Mur
       chison in the present number at p. 241. [n. d.]

                                                                                                             Ibid. p. 317.

Supplementary      Remarks   on the "  Devonian "      RSy. sIt.emMuorfchRioscokns.[etcB.]y.
        the Rev.  Professor  Sedgwick   [etc.] and

         April 19, 1839.         Phil. Mag. Ser. iii. Vol. 14, pp. 354--358.

" Professor Sedgwick on Geology of Cornwall and Devon."

                                 Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb. 22 April, 1839.

598 LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

"A Communication respecting    the Geology of Northern Germany East
      and West of the Rhine."      Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 25 Nov. 1839.

On the Physical Structure of Devonshire eta Part n. By A. Sedgwick
      [etc.] and R. I. Murchison [etc.]. Read 24 April, 1839.

Proc. Geol. Soc. Land., iii. pp. 121 -- 123. Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond., v. pp. 688 --

          703*-

840 On the Distribution and Classification of the older or Palaeozoic
               Deposits of the North of Germany and Belgium, and their

                comparison with Formations of the same age in the British
               Isles. Read 13 May and 27 May, 1840.

By A. Sedgwick [etc.] and R. I. Murchison [etc.]. Followed by a
      Description of the Fossil Mollusca, by Viscount D'Archiac and
      M. E. de Verneuil, Members of the Geological Society of
       France, etc. etc.

Trans.      Geol.   Soc.   La"Lnod.n, dvoi.n,ppp.rin2t2e1d--  410. Issued with separate Title-page,
        as  above,    and                                     by Richard and John E. Taylor, Red

Lion Court, Fleet Street, 1842."

1841 Two letters to the Editor of The Norfolk Chronicle in answer to a
              correspondent signing himself Miles. 27 April and 10 May,

                   1841,

Supplement to a " Synopsis of the English Series of Stratified Rocks
inferior to the Old Red Sandstone," with additional remarks on
the Relations of the Carboniferous Series and Old Red Sand
stone of the British Isles. Read 3 November and 1 7 November,

1841.                          Proc. Geol. Soc. Lend., iii. Pi. ii. pp. 545 --554.

" Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the comparative classification
      of the older strata of the British Isles."

                               Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 15 Nov., 1841.

Circular to Members of the Senate soliciting subscriptions to buy
                               19 November, 184T.
the Whitby Plesiosaurus.

84 2 "Professor Sedgwick gave an account of Professor Owen's memoir
              on the skeleton of the Mylodon, and on the structures and
              habits of certain extinct genera of Fossil Sloths."
                                                           Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 20 March, 1842.

Three letters on the Geology of the Lake District addressed to
W. Wordsworth, Esq.
                            (23 May,                           24 May, 30 May). Printed
in A Complete Guide to     the Lakes,                         by John Hudson, Kendal.

1843 Outline of Geological Structure of North Wales. Read 21 June, 1843.
                                                        Proc. Geol. Soc. Loud., iv. Pt. i.pp. 212 -- 224.

                LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                            599

      " Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the structure and relations
            of the slate rocks of North Wales."

                                    Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 13 Nov., 1843.

      On the Older Palaeozoic (Protozoic) Rocks of North Wales. Read
              15 November, and 29 November, 1843.

      [A continuation of the paper on Geological Structure of N. Wales, read 2 1 June,

        1843-]                      Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., i.pp. 5--22.

844 Notes appended to Notice on the Occurrence of Land and Freshwater
        Shells with Bones of some extinct Animals in the Gravel near
        Cambridge. By P. B. Brodie, F.G.S., Emmanuel College. The

        notes are dated 8 March, 1844.   Trans. Phil. Soc. Camb., viii. 139.

      " Professor Sedgwick gave a sketch of the progress of discovery
        among the older stratified geological deposits of Britain."

                                                          Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 11 Nov., 1844.

      A communication on the geology of North Wales in continuation of

             the Memoir read 15 November and 29 November, 1843.
             (29 May). No abstract of this paper is given.

                                                                       Quart, yourn. Geol. Soc. Land., i. 214.

845 On  the comparative Classification of the Fossiliferous Strata of
        North Wales, with the corresponding deposits of Cumberland,
        Westmoreland, and Lancashire. Read 12 March, 1845.

                                             Quart, yourn. Geol. Soc. Lond., i. pp. 442 --450.

      On the Geology of the Neighbourhood of Cambridge, including the
             Formations between the Chalk Escarpment and the Great
            Bedford Level. Read at Cambridge Meeting of Brit. Ass. June,

        1845.                       Brit. Ass. Rep. {for 1845) Pi. 2, pp. 40 -- 47.

      " Professor Sedgwick gave an account of the fossiliferous slate rocks
         J7of the Lake Mountains."
                                         Phil' Soc' Cam6-, "1*Nov-' '845-
      $41 <^/5^vt,
      On the Classification of the Fossiliferous Slates of Cumberland,
1846
        Westmoreland, and Lancashire (being a supplement to a paper
        read to the Society, March 12, 1845). Read 7 January and 21
        January, 1846.

                                                 Quart, yourn. Geol. Soc. Lond., ii. pp. 106 -- 131.

      Supplemental letter to Wordsworth  on Geology of Lake District.
             Cambridge, 30 May [Letter   iv]. Published in Hudson's
               Guide.

      On the Classification of the Fossiliferous Slates of North Wales,

        Cumberland, Westmoreland, and Lancashire (being a supple
        ment to a paper read to the Society, March 12, 1845). Read
        16 December, 1846.
                                    Quart, yourn. Geol. Soc. Lond., iii. 133 -- 164.

      6oo LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

        Geology of the Lake District, in four letters addressed to W. Words
                worth, Esq.
                              Printed in ' A complete Guide to the Lakes,' edited by the publisher.

1847 " Professor Sedgwick made a communication on the geology of
                 North and South Wales."

                                                                    Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 15 March, 1847.

1848  On the Organic Remains found in the Skiddaw Slate, with some
             Remarks on the Classification of the Older Rocks of Cumber

      land and Westmoreland, etc. Read 2 February, 1848.
                                          Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc. Lend., iv. pp. 116 -- 225.
      " Professor Sedgwick gave a lecture on the structure of the southern
      mountain-chain of Scotland, compared with that of the neigh
      bouring parts of Cumberland."

                                 Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 12 Feb., 1849.

850   A Discourse on the Studies of the University of Cambridge. The
             fifth edition, with additions, and a preliminary dissertation.
      8vo. Camb. 1850. The preface is dated 30 November, 1849.

                                                     8vo. Camb., 1850.

      On the Geological Structure and Relations of the Frontier Chain of

      Scotland.        Report, Brit. Ass. (Edinburgh), Part  103 -- 107.

      A" Professor Sedgwick gave lecture on the Gulf Stream, and its
                                                                a
                                                                                                                          5 ii.effects on the climate of the British Isles."
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                 3Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 25 Nov., 1850.

851 Reply to Sir Charles Lyell (President of the Geological Society) on
                receiving the Wollaston Medal, 21 February.

                                 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Land., vii. XX.

      Synopsis of the Classification of the British Palaeozoic Rocks.
         First Fasciculus. Advertisement dated May, 1851.

      Letter to the Editor of the Morning Chronicle on the case of the
             Rev. Philip Bland (17 May).

      A second letter on the same subject (28 May).

      On the Slate Rocks of Devon and Cornwall. Read November,

      1851.                      Quart, Journ. Geol. Soc. Land., viii. pp. -- 19.

      " Professor Sedgwick gave an account of certain phenomena ob
      served at the junction of the carboniferous chain of Yorkshire

      and Westmoreland with the Cambrian and Silurian rocks."

                                 Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 24 Nov., 185 1.

      On the Lower Palaeozoic Rocks at the Base of the Carboniferous
            Chain between Ravenstonedale and Ribblesdale. Read

      December, 1851.  //.Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Land., viii.  35 -- 54.

                      LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                                       60 1

1852 On  the Classification and Nomenclature of the Lower Palaeozoic
         Rocks of England and Wales. Read 25 February, 1852.

                                //.Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., viii.              136 -- 168.

Reply to an article by Sir R. I. Murchison (Lit. Gazette, 20 March,

         p. 278).                                          Literary Gazette, 10 April, /. 338.

Second article on same subject (in reply to a second letter by Sir R.
       I. Murchison, Lit. Gazette, 24 April, p. 369), dated Norwich,
        May 8.
                                                                 Literary Gazette, 15 May,/. 417.

A Synopsis of the Classification of the British Palaeozoic Rocks.
      Second Fasciculus. Advertisement dated July 16, 1852.

On a proposed separation of the so-called Caradoc Sandstone into
      two distinct groups; viz. (1) May Hill Sandstone; (2) Caradoc
       Sandstone. Read 3 November, 1852.
                                        Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., ix. pp. 215 -- 230.

Answers from the Rev. Adam Sedgwick, M.A. Woodwardian
       Professor of Geology.

Report of Her Majesty's Commissioners appointed to inquire into the State,
         Discipline,  Studies,  and Revenues   o1f15th--e  University  and            of Cambridge,
         Fol. Lond.    1852.    Evidence, pp.                               Colleges
                                                           121.

Recollections of Henry Bickersteth, afterwards Lord Langdale, while
       at Cambridge.

Printed in Memoirs     of       the Right    Honourable Henry Lord Langdale.          By Thomas
        Duffus Hardy.            vols. 8vo.   Lond. 1852. i. 231 -- 234.
                          2

1853 Supplemental letter on Geology of Lake district [Fifth of the series],

            addressed to Mr J. Hudson, Bookseller, Kendal. [Letter v.]

               Cambridge, 23 June, 1853.

On the Classification           and Nomenclature of the older Palaeozoic
      Rocks of Britain.
                                     Report, Brit. Ass. (Hull), Part ii. //. 54--61.

Geology of the Lake district of Cumberland, Westmoreland, and
       Lancashire, in [five] letters addressed to W. Wordsworth, Esq.
       i2mo. Kendal, John Hudson, 1853.
                      Printed in A complete Guide to the Lakes, edited by the publisher.

1854 A   Reply to two Statements published by the Palaeontographical

         Society, in their volume for 1853; one appearing to accuse the
         University of Cambridge of illiberality in the administration of
         its Museum ; the other reflecting on the character of Professor

         McCoy. [A letter dated 4 March, 1854 ]
                      //.Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Ser. 2, Vol. xiii.                 280 -- 292.

      (,02 LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

      On the May Hill Sandstone, and the Palaeozoic System of England.

      [Letter dated 20 August, 1854, followed by a memoir.]

      The paper read to the Geol. Soc. Lond. 3 May, 1854, but not published in their
      Journal.
                      //.Phil. Mag., Ser. 4, viii.        301--317; 359-- 370.

      Rejoinder       to Professor Milne-Edwards           and Mr Bowerbank. [A
              letter  dated 21 August, 1854.]
                                                          Ser. 2, Vol. xiv. pp. 195 -- 197.
                               Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.,

      On the May Hill Sandstone and Palaeozoic Systems of England.

      [Letter dated 31 October, 1854.]

      This is the paper read to the British Association at Liverpool, September, 1854.
      Brit. Ass. Rep. Sections, p. 95.
                                        Phil. Mag., Ser. 4, viii. pp. 472 -- 506.

1855  "On the classification and nomenclature of the Palaeozoic rocks."

                                                            Minutes, Phil. Soc. Camb., 12 Nov. 1855.

      A Lecture, delivered at The Athenaeum, Bury St Edmund's,
             December 19th, 1854, on the natural affinities and habits of

             the extinct Gigantic Sloths, by Professor Sedgwick.

      Bury St Edmund's : Printed for the Bazaar, by W. P. Jackson, Angel Hill.

          8vo. Lond. //. 38.

      A Synopsis of the Classification of the British Palaeozoic Rocks, by

             Rev. A. Sedgwick : with a systematic description of the British
             Palaeozoic Fossils in the Geological Museum of the University

             of Cambridge, by Frederick McCoy, F.G.S. etc. 4to. London
             and Cambridge, 1855.

1856  Letter to the Members of the Senate soliciting subscriptions for the
            purchase of a collection of fossils formed by Rev. T. Image.
             (10 January.)

      Letter to the Editor of The Cambridge Chronicle on the same
             subject (20 February).

1857  Remarks on a passage in the President's Address delivered at the
      Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society of London, on
      the 15th of February,
      followed by memoir.]   1856. [Letter dated 9 January, 1857,
                               Phil. Mag., Ser. 4, Vol. xiii. pp. 176--182.

      Description of a series of dislocations which have moved the
            Cambrian and Silurian Rocks between Leven Sands and
             Duddon Sands. Read to Phil. Soc. Camb. 9 Nov. 1857.

           Phil. Mag., Ser. 4., Vol. xvi.//. 155--158. Proc. Phil. Soc. Camb., i. pp.

                                                                    187--190.

1858  Farewell Letter to Dr Livingstone (10 February).

      Printed in The Personal Life of David Livingstone.  By W. G. Blaikie, D.D.
              8vo. Lond. 1880,/. 238.

LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.                                              603

On Faults in Cumberland and Lancashire.
                                Report, Brit. Ass. (Aberdeen) Part ii., p. 265. Title only.

860 Article on The origin of Species, originally written in the form of a
             letter to the Archbishop of Dublin. Not signed.

         /.The Spectator, 24 March, p. 285 ; revised, with some additions, 7 April, 344.

On the Succession of Organic forms during long geological periods ;

and on certain Theories which profess to account for the origin
of new species. Read 7 May.
                                                     Proc. Phil. Soc. Camb. i. 223.

A synopsis, supplied "by the courtesy of the Professor" is printed in The
Cambridge Chronicle, 19 May.

A Lecture on the Strata near Cambridge and the Fens of the Bedford
       Level, delivered to the members and friends of the Working
       Men's College, and of the Young Men's Christian Association,
      at the Town Hall, Cambridge, 1 June, i860. Not published.
       With map and supplement.

The preface is dated 1 December, 1861.  The lecture was really delivered 25 May,
         1860, not 1 June.

On the Geology of the Neighbourhood of Cambridge and the Fossils
      of the Upper Greensand.
                       Report, Brit. Ass. (Oxford), Part ii. /. 101. (Title only).

863 Letter to the Editor of The Cambridge Chronicle describing the
            career and death of Mr Lucas Barrett. Dated Norwich, 19
               January, 1863.

865 A Sketch of the Geology of the Valley of Dent, with some account
of a destructive Avalanche which fell in the year 1752. Read
13 November, 1865.
                                        //.Proc. Phil. Soc. Camb., i.  236 -- 238.

867 Report on the Woodwardian Museum.
       First Annual Report of Museums and Lecture Rooms Syndicate, 1 April, 1867.

Impressions of the character of Prince Albert : in a Letter to
      General Grey. See Preface to The Early Years of His Royal
       Highness the Prince Consort. 8vo. Lond., 1867.

868 Report on the Woodwardian           Museum.      Rooms Syndicate,  24 February,
                                        and Lecture
       Second Annual Report of Museums

                     1868.

A Memorial by the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, with a preface and
      appendix, on the climate, history, and dialects of Dent. 8vo.
      Cambridge, 1868. [Printed for private circulation.]

Letter of condolence on the death of Rev. H. V. Elliott. Printed
      in Life of Rev. H. V. Elliott. By Jos. Bateman, M.A. 8vo.
        Lond., 1868, p. 374.

      LIST OF SEDGWICK'S WORKS.

1869  Report on the Woodwardian Museum (9 March).
      Third Annual Report of Museums and Lecture Rooms Syndicate, dated 16 March.

      Prefatory Notice (dated 20 August), to Index to the Fossil Remains
            of Aves, Ornithosauria, and Reptilia . . .in the Woodwardian
            Museum. By Harry Govier Seeley. 8vo. Camb., 1870.

1870  Supplement to the Memorial of the Trustees of Cowgill Chapel, with
             an Appendix, etc., printed in 1868. Printed for private circu

             lation only. 8vo. Cambridge, 1870.

      Report on the Woodwardian Museum (29 March).
      Fourth A nnual Report of the Museums and Lecture Rooms Syndicate, dated 2 1 May .

1871  Report on the Woodwardian Museum (11 March).
      Fifth Annual Report of the Museums and Lecture Rooms Syndicate, dated 31 March.

      Printed circular soliciting subscriptions for the purchase of the
             Leckenby Collection (23 November).

1872  Report on the Woodwardian Museum.
1873
      Sixth Annual Report of the Museums and Lecture Rooms Syndicate, dated 21 March.

      A Catalogue of the collection of Cambrian and Silurian Fossils

             contained in the Geological Museum of the University of

            Cambridge, by J. W. Salter, F.G.S. With a preface by the

             Rev. Adam Sedgwick ; and a table of genera and index added
             by Professor Morris. Cambridge, 4to. 1873.

      Sedgwick's preface is dated 17 September, 1872.

       LIST OF SEDGWICK'S PORTRAITS.

Date.  Description.       Artist.                 In the possession of

1832   Oil-Painting .     Thomas Phillips . .     Joh. Hen. Gurney,
                                                     Keswick, Norwich.
1845   ....Chalk Drawing  Samuel Lawrence
1846                      H. Weekes . . .         Mrs Richard Sedgwick.
1851   Bust               William Boxall . .
1860                      Thomas Woolner          Geological Society,
1867   ....Oil-Painting.                             London.
1870                      ....C. Lowes Dickenson
       Bust                                       Trinity College : Small
                          R. Farren                  Combination Room.
       Chalk Drawing
                                                  Trinity College : Library.
       Oil-Painting .
                                                  Woodwardian Museum,
                                                     Cambridge.

                                                  Professor Humphry,
                                                     Cambridge.

                               INDEX.

Abbotsford : Sedgwick visits, ii. 302         Ainger, Will. at Sedbergh school with
Abbs Head (St) : visited by Sedgwick, i.      Sedgwick,             is i. : 59; introduces him to
                                              St John's Coll. 75; invites him to his;
   43                         at, i8fo, ii.  father's house at Whittlesea, 1804, 76;
Aberdeen: British Association

    351                                       nurses him through fever, 1805, 78;
                                              curate at Beccles, 103 comes to Cam
            Lord : offers Sedgwick Deanery    bridge to vote, 1811, 109; hastens to
   of Peterborough, 1853, ii. 248                                             ;
Abolition of slave-trade: Univ. election                                           a
   of 1806 turns on, i. 88                    Sedgwick when he broke blood-vessel,
Acts and Opponencies for B.A. degree:         81 127; curate of Hackney, 1815,
   system explained, i. 82 -- 85              1
Adams, Joh. Couch : discovers the planet              3,
    Neptune, 1845, ii. 107; attends meeting
   of Brit. Ass. at Oxford, 1847, 123 ;       134; appointed Principal of St Bees,
    Sedgwick describes his discovery, 286 ;   149; Sedgwick god-father to his child,
   declines to communicate his discovery      225; serious illness, 1827, 272; made
   to the Camb. Phil. Soc. 287, note.                          of                                his death,
                                              Canon                 --Ch1e6sterm, oniubmide. nt  at St Bees,
          , Ri. Newton: reads with Sedg       1840,       ii.   14            i.
   wick at Lowestoft, 18 12, i. 121                                                 ;
Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry:       16
   Sedgwick invited to write Article Geo
                                              Airy, Geo. Biddell: entertains Macaulay
      logy for, 1848, ii. 141                                                 282; conducts
Affleck, Lady: last illness and death, ii.    and his sisters, 1831,

                                              experiment at Dolcoath mine, 1828,
                                              331, 332; admitted ad eundem gradum
                                              at Oxford 383, note; signs Declaration
                                              in favour of sitting members for Uni
                                              versity 83 1, 374; with Sedgwick at
                                              Charnwood Forest, 1833, 408; signs1

   412                                        petition against tests, 1834, 419; visits
Africa : Universities Mission to, ii. 354     Sedgwick at Norwich, 1842, ii. 38;
Agassiz, Alex. ; meets Sedgwick at Edin       invites him to see cliff at Dover blown
                                              up, 1843, 49; work at Greenwich,
burgh, 1834, i. 430; intended visit to
Cambridge, 432 ; criticism of his paper
at Dublin meeting of Brit. Ass. 1835,         1844, 72; paper on the new planet,
                                              107; attends meeting of Brit. Ass. at
447; visits Sedgwick at Cambridge,            Oxford, 1847, 123; Sedgwick's account
451; has specimens in Woodwardian             of his action with reference to Adams

Museum drawn, 503 ; consults Sedg             and the planet Neptune, 286; lectures
wick on theory of erratic blocks, 505;
                                              at Cambridge on magnetism, 445; at
Sedgwick's answer, 5oj ; his glacial          tends Sedgwick Memorial meeting,
theory criticised, ii. 17; letter to, from
                                              482
Sedgwick, on the Vestiges, 1845, 85;          Albans (St): visited by Sedgwick, 510
,
         ii.

                                               i.
                                                                    :
                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                1 i.
                                                                                                                                                                 ;
again consulted, 87; reference to his         Albert, Prince: visits Cambridge with
                                                                              ii. 57 -- 64; elected
   difference with McCoy, 160                 the Queen, 1842,                119; makes Sedg
Aikin, Art.: geological work in Shrop         Chancellor, 1847,

   shire, i. 324                              wick his secretary, 120; attends meeting
Ainger, Geo. Hen. : describes Sedgwick        of Brit. Ass. at Oxford, 123; installation
                                              at Cambridge, 125 -- 127 converses with
in 1867,      435.      to Will. Ainger)      Sedgwick              on University studies,
         Ja.  (brother                        advocates             establishment of new         T3r6i-
visits Sedgwick at Dent, 1814, 132

                                                                                 INDEX.                                                          607

poses, 1848, 169; deprecates Lord J.                                                       Argyle, Duchess of: sat on Sedgwick's
                                                                                           shoulder at Coronation, ii. 184; invites
Russell's scheme for a Commission,                                                         to Inverary Castle, ibid.; visits Cam
1847, 170; unfavourable to the issue of
a Commission, 1850, 176; is anxious that                                                   bridge with Duke, 207
Sedgwick should be a Commissioner,                                                         Corni,sDhugkeeoloofg:y,Se1d8g5w1i,ciki.'s2l1e0tt--er   to,  on
178 -- 181 ; discusses Report of Com                                                                                                             213
missioners for Oxford with Sedgwick,                                                       Armstrong, Rob. Baynes: college friend
223; Report of Commissioners for                                                           of Sedgwick, i. 81 ; with him in London,
Cambridge with the same, 236; repre
                                                                                           1811, 104; his account of Port Latin
sented by Sedgwick at 500th anniversary                                                    dinner, i. 112; Sedgwick's visit to,
of Corp. Christ. Coll. 1852, 142; visits
Cambridge with D. of Brabant, 1853,                                                        1812, 116; opposes petition against
                                                                                           Catholic claims, 118; opposes second
267; gives 50 towards purchase of                                                         do., 126; canvasses for Sedgwick,
Image collection, 1856, 322 ; his death,                                                   181 8, 154; his marriage, ii. 151; enter
186 1, 374; portrait given to Sedgwick,
ibid.; character, 375; proposed Me                                                            tained  I.byofS: eSdegdwgicwki,ck15v2isits   with  Mur-
                                                                                           Arran,
                                                                                           chison, 1827, i. 301; opinion of its
morial to, at Cambridge, ibid.; his                                                        geology, 305 ; papers on, to be written,
                                                                                           309; finished by Sedgwick, 314; read
Speeches given to Sedgwick by the
                                                                             in  Early
AldQYeuereaseorsnn,,o3fE8Pd3w. ;.CSoHensadoglrlw:t, icc4ka3'ns3dildeattteer  to            to Geological Society, 315; analysis
                                                                                 repre     of, 325; criticism of second paper,

sent University, 1829, 341; retires,                                                       arv31a7l: refreshment offered at a funeral, i.

    341    Dr : entertains    Sedgwick at Edin                                             Au2s7ten, R. A. C. : with Sedgwick in
                              results of the visit,                                           Devonshire, 1835, i. 461
Alison,

burgh, 1834, i. 430;

ii. 68
         , Mrs : letter on her brother's death,

    1844,  ii. 69                                                                          B : how to form this letter,
           victory  of:                                                                                 L                                  405
Aliwal,                  ii.                                                                              :
                                                                                                                                   ii.
                              102                                                          Babbage, Ch. elected Lucasian profes
Allen, Joseph : paints Mr John Dawson's
                                                                                           sor, 1828, 320; signs petition against
                                                                                           tests, 1834, 419; his Ninth Bridge-
portrait, 1809, i. 70, note
Alluvium and Diluvium: Sedgwick's pa                                                       water Treatise revised by Sedgwick,
                                                                                           1837, 483 accepts the criticism, 484
per on, 1825, discussed, i. 291 ; his                                                                 :;
views changed by first foreign tour,                                                                          ,
                                                                                           Bacon, Fra. his statue given by Whewell
                                                                                           to Trin. Coll. ii. 93; Sedgwick's letter
357; he publicly recants, 370                                                              of thanks for the gift, 99
Alnwick Castle: Sedgwick visits,
America, Civil War in: ii. 376;                                              i. 395216--.  Bala rocks:  i.        392; ii. 513, 515, 520,

    394                                                                                        519- 538
American lectureship at Cambridge, ii.                                                     Balmoral Sedgwick visits, 1859, ii. 352
                                                                                           Bankes, Geo. candidate for University,
American Naturalist: quotation from, ii.                                                              :
                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                               :
                                                                                           b1y829M, r341Gouhlbisurcnan, va3s4s3, ,  342  ;; supported
     561                                                                                                                              344      presents
                                                                                           petition against Catholic Emancipation
Amiens : Sedgwick's opinion of the Cath
edral, ii. 288
Amwell, near Hoddesdon, Herts : R.                                                         from Bachelors and Undergraduates
                                                                                           to House of Commons, 345, and note
                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                                         ;
   Sedgwick curate       at, 1761--68, i. 37                                               Sedgwick's character of him, 347 his
Ansted, D. T. :          assists Sedgwick                                        in        defeat,
                                                                                                        1829,      349
   arrangement of Woodwardian Museum,                                                                                 ;:  candidate          to repre
    184 1, ii. 26; and note; still at work                                                            Will.       Joh.
   there, 1842, 45; grant to, from Wood                                                    ,
   wardian Fund, 119                                                                       sent University, 1822,:        i.        257 account
Antrim: Sedgwick visits, i. 445, 448                                                                  a                                    ;
Arago, Fra. Joh. Dominic: Sedgwick                                                                                                                           ;
   visits, 1827, i. 271; his differences with                                              of him, 258, 259 Sedgwick's further
                                                                                           opinion of, 268 verses on, 1826, 276
                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                           contests seat, 1827, 278; Macaulay's
                                                                                           ballad on, 279 canvasses for
                                                                                                                      ;                                his
                                                                                                                                                       for
                                                                                           brother, 1829, 342
   Laplace, 273                                                                            Bankland      farm in Dent, 35
Arbuthnot, Joh. : writes against Wood                                                                                               i.

   ward, 1697, i. 174, and note                                                            Barnes, Geo.: examines Sedgwick
Archer, Tho. : tailor in Dent, i. 19
Arden, R. Pepper: writes satiric verses                                                    degree, 1808,          i.  94

   on Dr Ogden, i. 194.                                                                    Barrande, J.: criticism of, ii. 514
Arenig rocks: i. 393; ii. 513, 514, 520                                                    Barrett, Lucas: account of his career and

                                                                                           death, ii. 322, 323; his summer in
                                                                                           Baffin's Bay, 326 work
                                                                                                                        ;                    Museum,
                                                                                                                                        in

6o8 INDEX.

348 ; prepares sections lor Sedgwick's                 Blomfield, Ch.             Ja.  :  a friend of    Sedgwick's
    lectures, 363                                         1804 --8, i.                 ;    inferior     to him in
Barrow, in Lancashire : description of,                                            81
                                                                                      95 ; elected Fellow of
   ii. 456                                             mathematics,                  1809, 99; presents Dr
Barrow, Is. : suggested for statue in Trin.
                                                       Trin. Coll.
                                                       Ainger to canonry of Chester, 1S17,
   Coll. chapel,   ii. 329--332                        175, and note ; Sedgwick's letter to,
Bartleman, Ja.    : Sedgwick's                                                             Sedgwick at Court,
                                    recollections      1834,  42 1 ; presents               inscription for Dr
                                                       1835,  443 ; corrects
of his singing, ii. 207, 447
Bartlow, in Essex : opening of tumuli                  Ainger's monument, ii. 16 ; visited
   there, in 1835 and 1838; i. 506; in
   1840, ii. 10--13                                    by Sed-,gwiEcdk,w.18V53a,le2n6t5ine : goes to
Barwick, Joh. : patron to Dr Woodward,                 France with Sedgwick, 1816, i. 143;
   i. 167 ; takes him with him to Glouces              his death, ibid, note
                                                       Blomefield, Leonard (prius Jenyns) :
   tershire, 170                                       reminiscences of Sedgwick's early lec

Bateman, Wynne : master of Sedbergh

   school,  iW. 3il6l.:  appointed  secretary to          tures, i. 164                            in  Trin.  Coll.
Bateson,                                               Blucher, Marshal : dines

Commission of Inquiry, 1850, ii. 187 ;                    hall, 1814, i. 131
                                                       Blumenbach, Prof.: receives Sedgwick
signs remonstrances against proposed                   and Murchison at Gottingen, 1829, i.

Bill, 1855,292; opposes Commissioners'
proposals on tenure of Fellowships,
                                                           35t>                                 Sed,gwi.ck, and
1858, 345 ; calls meeting to promote
abolition of Tests, 1869,451 ; is present              Boue, Ami : controverts
                                                       Murchison on valley of Gosau, i. 360
   at Memorial meeting, 1873, 482                      Bournemouth: Sedgwick recruits at, 1870.

illBath: Sedgwick takes waters at, 1847,                454                         his dog Boy, ii.
   ii. ; 1870, 453                                     BBoowxsatlel,adW, iJlal..     paints portrait
Bathurst, Hen. Bp. of Norwich : ordains                                           :                      o9f4--Se9d6g
                                                                                  :

   Sedgwick deacon, i. 151 ; story of his              wick, ii. 208
   card-playing, 485 ; his death, ibid.
Battersby : a reputed conjuror in Dent,                Brabant, Duke of : visits Cambridge,
                                                          ii. 267
   i. 11, note. ; ii. 245                              Bracker, Mr, surgeon at Lancaster : takes
Bayley, Joh. : Sedgwick's pupil at Ditton,               John Dawson as assistant, i. 62
                                                       Brennan, Dan. : gallantry at Workington
   1808, i. 98 ; Fellow of Trin. Coll. 99.             colliery, and Sedgwick's subscription
Beaumont, Elie de : his theories praised

   by Sedgwick, i. 370                           by        for, i. 489, 493--495
Beccles, in Suffolk : estate at, bought                Brewster, Dav. : meets Sedgwick in
                                                       Edinburgh, 1825, i. 264; description
   Dr Woodward's executors, i. 187                     of, 265 ; attends meeting of Brit. Ass.
Beckett, Peggy : story of, i. 10
Belgian refugees: settle in Dent,                      at Oxford, 1847, ii. 123
Belgium : geological work in,       i. 24          i.  Bristol: geology of neighbourhood studied
                                    1839,                                                  Dr Gilby, 1819, i.
                                                             Sedgwick with                  Conybeare, 1810,
Bel5g1ra3v--e5, 26Will. : reads with Sedgwick at       inby  ; with W. D.
   Lowestoft, 1812, i. 120                             117; meeting of Brit. Ass. at, 1836,

Bell, Joh.: senior wrangler, 1786, and                    460
   pupil of Joh. Dawson, i. 05, note ;                 British Association: first meeting at York,
   writes inscription on Dawson's monu                 1831, i. 379;                  at Oxford,
                                                       Cambridge,                    1833, 406--    1832, 390; at
   ment, 70                                                                                        408; at Edin
                                                                                                   Dublin, 1835,
Bennet, Dr Ja. : master of school at                   4b4u3rg--h,44518; 34,at       430; at       1836, 460; at
   Hoddesdon, i. 37 ; edits Ascham, ibid.;                                            Bristol,
   his daughter marries Sedgwick's father,
ibid.                                                  cLaivstelerp, oo1l8,38,1853174, --45891,6;  493   ; at New
Bentley, Ri. : his lines on Dr Woodward                                                              at  Plymouth,

quoted, i. 189; suggested for statue in                41584--1,47  ii.    26; at           Manchester, 1842,
   Trin. Coll. chapel, ii. 329                                            at Cork,         1843, 56; discussion
Berwyns: structure of, i. 392;                                       ;
Bethell, Hugh : executor to
                                     ii.               r7e0s--pec7t5in;g          Cambridge meeting, 1844,
                                    Dr                 buildings          Grace             grant use of
                                          520                              to, 71      to  at York, 1844,     U7n6i--v.
                                          Wood                                         ;

ward, i. 181                                           78; at Cambridge, 1845, 89; at Ox

Beverley:   Sedgwick visits,        1814, i. 133       ford, 1847, 123 ; at Birmingham, 1849,
Beverley,   Rob. Mackenzie          ; account of,      163; at             Edinburgh, 1850, 183; at
                                                       Ipswich,           1851, 108; at Hull, 1853, 264;
i. 410; his       attack  4o1n0--U4n1iv6ersity,  and
Sedgwick's        reply,
                                                       at Liverpool, 1854, 279; at Glasgow,

                                                                   INDEX.                                                          609

1855, 302, 304; at Cheltenham, 1856,                                        Calvert, Tho.: supports Lord Hervey,
324; at Aberdeen, 1850, 352; at
                                                                            1822,
Oxford, 1860, 364; at Manchester,                                           i.            259
                                                                                      ; i.
                                                                            Cambria: joint paper with Murchison On
   1861, 373; at Cambridge, 1862, 384;                                      Silurian        and
   proposed meeting at Norwich, 1868,                                           444;        his     Cambrian Systems,              --183358,,
   429 ; notice of the meeting, 439                                                                 classification, 1835
Brodie, Pet. Bellenger : Sedgwick's let                                     ii. 528         part of Sedgwick's Cam
   ter to, on geology of Lake District,                                     brian rocks annexed to Silurian by

                                                                            Gov. Survey, 215; his paper On the
                                                                            Classification etc. of Lower Palccozoic
    i. 249                                                                  Rocks, 1852, ibid.; quarrel with
Brougham, Lord : visits John Dawson at                                      Council of Geol. Soc. Lond. thereon,
                                                                            216; Murchison's justification of him
    Sedbergh, i. 68 ; Sedgwick's acquaint

ance with,       383    ; gives preferment to                               self, 218; study of Caradoc Sandstone
Sedgwick       and      Thirlwall, 433 ; Sedg                               of May Hill, and paper on, 230;
wick revises his Discourse on Natural
Theology, ibid, note ; dines in Trin.
Coll., 1846,                                                                Sedgwick's views on Cambria and
                        108; criticises fifth                               Siluria stated in fifth Letter on
             i.
   edition of        :Sedgwick's Discourse,                      1C93oll.   Geology of Lake District, 1853, 250;
Brown, Joh.       made tutor of Trin.
                           : ii.                                            Warburton's unauthorised changes in
                                  i. : i. :                                                                                        Hull,
1815,        138                                                            nomenclature, 251                        paper    at   Sand
                                                                            264 second paper                         May
Browne, Geo. Adam interested in the                                         ;                       on                      Hill
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                         it

                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                    ;
Greek Cause, 1823, 234, note; made                                          stone, 262 examines limits of Cambria
chaplain to the D. of Sussex, 366                                           and Siluria in S. Wales, 276; asserts
Buck, Hen. Rishton Sedgwick's pupil                                                                 in2719854/,dis2c7u9ss--ion285of
at Ditton, 1808,                                                            these at    Liverpool,
                                             98; subsequent                 the case    as stood                                     ;

   career,   99Will.    his theory respecting                               controversy re-stated in Preface to
Buckland,                                                                   Salter's Catalogue, 1872, 468; general
                                                                            consideration of the whole question,
fossil footprints controverted,                          1;      314;
supports Mill for Boden Professorship,                     ; 1.
                                                                            508--556
383 entertains Sedgwick at meeting                                          Cambridge: small number of matricula
      ;

of Brit. Ass. at        oOfxGfoerodl,ogi3c9a0l                   passed     tions, 1804,            72 and           note; system    of
over for President                                             Society,                 87                           for degree, 82  --
                                                                                                i.
                                                                 of his     Acts and Opponencies
                                                                 Sedg              elec--tion90;ofsorceipetryeseant,tat1i8v1esr,,
1836, 463;        Sedgwick's                    criticism                   85;                                                    1806,
Brtdgewater        Treatise,                 469 -- 47                      1807,                                                  105--

wick godfather to his son, 511; attends                                     107; election of Chancellor and repre
Public Commencement at Cambridge,
1847, ii. 127                                                               sentative,      181 1, 108; petition                   ag1a17in--st
             kind of worsted cloth,                                         Catholic        Emancipation, 1812,

bump :                                                         16           119; second do, 126; term allowed for
         a
                   :                                                        fever, 18 15, 135; Lord Lyttelton
                     i. :
                                                   i.
Bunbury, Lady visits Sedgwick at Cam                                        candidate for High Steward of, 1840,
                                                                            ii. 17; Duke of Northumberland instal
bridge, 1825, 282                                                           led Chancellor, 1842, 47; visit of
Burke, Edw. anecdotes of, ii. 24
Burns, Rob.: memorial to, ii. 31
Burrorooumgh,forJaD.:r  superintends         building              of                    and Prince Albert to,
                        Woodward's           cabinets,                      Q--u6e4e;n  invitation to Brit. Ass.            1843, 57
                        :                                                                                                   to meet
                                   i.
                                            ;                               at, 1845, 70--75; meeting of, 1845,;
                                                                            89 petition against admission of Jewsi.
                                                             i.             to Parliament, 1847, 131 appointment
     187                                                                    of Royal Commission, 1850, 172;

Bury S. Edmunds Sedgwick takes read
ing-party to, 1811,                          113; further
                                                                                                                     ;

account of this, ii. 426 revisits in                                        a

1812, 125; in 1815, 134; lectures at,                                       address to Queen on Papal Aggression,
   on Extinct Sloths, 1854, ii. 290                                         1850, 196; meeting of Archaeological
Butler, Geo. pupil of John Dawson,                                          Institute, 1854, 276; proposed Parlia
      ,                                                                     mentary Commission, 1855, 292; con

        i.

                  ::
                       : i.
                                                                        i.
1792, 64; senior wrangler, 1794, 65,                                        test between Denman and Walpole as

note

           Sam. Sedgwick writes to on                                       representatives, 318; humorous sketch
Darwin, 1831, 380; writes Sedgwick                                          of answers to Commissioners, 340;
                                                                            lecture On Strata near Cambridge,
   on Lubbock's candidature, 398                                            1860, 363; invites Brit. Ass. to meet
Buttermere, Jos. works coal in Dent,                                        at, 1862, 366; account of the meeting,

18.                                                                         384; improvements in the town, 402;
                                                                            visit of Prince and Princess of Wales,
Caernarvonshire: Sedgwick's paper on,
   1831, ii. 517, 523; do. 1832, 518;                                       ibid. hon. LL.D. conferred on Sedg
    notes on structure, 393
                                                                            wick, 1866, 423; recollections of
      S. II.
                        i.
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                            39

6io INDEX.

Commencement          in former days,                 discoverer of new planet,
                                                                       i.                                107, 287,
                                                                                                    ii.
    447                                               note; attends meeting of Brit. Ass. at
Camden, John Jeffreys, Marquess : elected             Oxford, 1847, l13
                                                      Chancellor:      election    of Duke of            Gofl,ounceos;
   Chancellor of the University, 1835, i.                ter, 181 1,       108;    installation

--4. 43,  note     :  Sedgwick's  opposition     to,     of Marquis Camden, 1835, 443; of
          Society                                        Duke of Northumberland, 1842, ii. 47;
   ii. 192                                               of Prince Albert, 1847, 119
Camerarius,      El.: criticises Dr Wood              Chantrey, Fra. presents cast to Wood

   ward's Essay, 1714, i. 176                                          :
Canterbury: Sedgwick visits, 1825, i.                                                  ;

                                                                                                         ;
    264               : see May Hill                  wardian Museum, 1823,1. 262 his bust
Caradoc   Sandstone                                   of Walter Scott, 265 presents casts to
                                                      Woodwardian Museum, 1832, 429;
Carlisle: visited by Sedgwick, 1793, i.               carves statue of Dalton at Manchester,

47, and note                                             ii. 46
                                                      Charlie: story of a dog so called, ii. 91
      , Bp. of: account of Sedgwick's                 Charnwood Forest examined by Sedg
   speeches, i. 207 ; of his geological
   lectures, ii. 487                                                   i.
Carr, Joh. : Sedgwick's early friendship                                        :
   for, i. 77; expects S. to be Senior                wick, 1833, 408; revisited, 1837,490,
   Wrangler, 93; S.'s pleasure in his
                                                          495                                            a
society, 181 1, 104; leaves Cambridge,                Cheltenham: Sedgwick visits, 1838.                            i. i.
105; accepts mastership of Durham
School, 1812, 115; S. visits him there.                  514; drinks waters at, 1839,527; 1842,
                                                         ii. 47; meeting of British Association
                                                          at, 1856, 324
                                                      Chillingham herd Sedgwick describes,
                                                                          :

1813, 130; his subsequent history, ibid.              5'6
note; notice of his marriage, and                     Chobham: Sedgwick visits, 1853, ii. 257
presentation to living of Hatfield                    Christie, Mr: moves for issue of Com
Broad Oak, 1816, 150; congratulates                      mission, 1844, ii. 170
                                                      Clarkson, Joh. his last illness, ii. 121
   S. on his election, 18 18, 163; visited                             :
   by S. at Durham, 182 1, 229                                        Thos. personal friend of Sedg:
Carrighan, Art. Judd : a probable candi                         ,
   date for Woodwardian Chair, 1818, i.                  wick,     i.ii. 394,426    of Sedgwick's
                                                      Clark,    Will.     a friend
                                                                       :

'54, '55; protests against election for               1804-8, 81 elected Fellow of Trin.
Professorship of Mineralogy, 1822, 239;                                ;

proposes to Vice-Chancellor a joint                   Coll. 1809, 99; to Chair of Human
                                                      Anatomy, 1817, 150, and note; signs
application to Court of King's Bench,                 petition against tests, 419; takes care
ibid.                                                 of skeleton of Irish Elk, 1835, 450;
Carus, Will.
   ii. 122    :    his Life of Simeon  criticised,    purchases Whitby Plesiosaurus, 1841,

                                                      ii. 27; supplies information on foetal
Case, Isham : reads with Sedgwick at                  development for Sedgwick's article on
    Lowestoft, 1812, i. 121
                                                      the Vestiges, 87 takes part in discussion
Catharine (S.) Hall: Ri. Sedgwick entered
                                                      on Darwin's Origin of Species, 1800,
   as sizar at, 1756, i. 36; Adam Sedg
                                                      362 congratulates Sedgwick on receipt
                                                      of Copley medal, 1863, 396; attack of
wick's wish to enter at, i. 60, note                  is
cat-malison; name for a high shelf in                       ;
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                                             i.
                                                                                                                       ;
    Dent, i. 24                                       Claprakreal,ysEisd, w4.02Daniel: supports Gorham
Catholic Emancipation: Univ. election                    for Woodwardian Chair, 1818, 157;
of 1807 turns on, i. 88; Duke of                             proxy for Sir Jos. Banks, 160; his
Gloucester supposed to favour, 181 1,                    lectures attended by Sedgwick, 162
                                                         supports scheme for founding Philoso
108 : petition against, from University,
1812, 117 -- 119; second do, November,
1812, 126; petition against, 1829, 336;               phical Society, 205 delivers address at
   Duke of   Wellington's speech                      opening meeting, 207 a collection
Cavendish,   Will.: proposed as         for, 337      formed by him removed to Woodward
                                       University     ian Museum, 1833, 429; Sedgwick's
representative, 1829, i. 341 ; his qualifi            testimony to value of his lectures, ii.

cations stated        by Sedgwick,  --  345   ;  ac   Cla3r4k9e, MissC. B.: Sedgwick's friendship
count of the          canvass, 346      348;     his
                                                      with, at Norwich, 453 entertains at
    success, 350; defeated, 1831,       376           Cambridge, 456; renewal of intercourse
                                        nominate      i.
Chafy, Will.: urges Heads to                                     ii.
   for Professorship of Mineralogy, 1822,                                            i.with,
Chia. l2li3s6, Ja. : asserts claims of Adams as                                                       ;
                                                                372; her death, 423, 424
                                                      Cleavage: recognised by Sedgwick, 1827,

                                                      306

                                                                  INDEX.                                                                   611

Clough R., or Garsdale Beck: course                                          1828, 324; Sedgwick visits, 1828, 330;
described, i. 6
                                                                             do., 1837, 489; death of, 1858, ii. 340;
                                                                                death of his daughter,
Coal-measures : Sedgwick examined by                                         Conybeare, Will. Joh.                 1866, 423
   H. of Commons                                                                                                   writes Sedgwick
Cockburn, Will.,   on,                    18o3f0,Yoi. rk36:2                 i. i.                  of his Discourse,
                  Dean                                        sketch              ,on fifthedition                                         193
                                                                                               :Cook, Ja.Tobias:
of his life,                 his geological views,
                                                                                                         :
                                                                                                                  i.
                                                                                                                     :
                                                                                                                                      ii.

                                                                                                                                              i.
            ;                                                                                       intimate with Sedgwick,
                 ii.

                         ; ;76
                            is
                                  a
                                        1.
ibid.; paper at the York meeting of                                          81
the Brit. Ass., 1844, ibid.; description
                                                                                    Jos. reads with Sedgwick                               at

of the  scene, 77                         answered by Sedg                   Lowestoft, 18 12,                     121
wick,   77 demands                          second discussion,
                                                                             Copley, Sir Joh. Sedgwick's opinion of,
Cock-fighting, at Dent: 28                                                          268; election for University, 1826,
                                                                             276, 277; vacates seat as Lord Lynd-
Coddington, Hen.: proposes to accom
pany Sedgwick and Murchison up the                                              hurst, 1827, 278
Rhine, 1829,                 348; in Switzerland                             Cornwall: Sedgwick's visit to, 1819,
                                                                                                    Pri2m85it--ive28R7i;dgepaopfer(reaodn
                 :                                                           213; paper on
                      i.                                                     March, 1820),

                                       i.
   with Whewell, 355                                                         Lizard district (read April, 1821), 288;
Cole, Viscount presents casts to Wood-                                       Sedgwick joins Whewell and Airy at
wardian Museum, 1832,
                                                     429; visits             Dolcoath, 1828, 322, 329 -- 333; re
N. of Ireland with Sedgwick, 1835,
448; informs him of skeleton of Irish                                        visits alone, 1836, 461; hasty visit to,
Elk, 1834, 449; Sedgwick's letter to,
                                                                             1838, 513; hasty visit to, with McCoy,
                                                                                                    letter to Duke      of
    45                                                                      1851,ii.      208;      210 -- 213             Argyle
Coleridge, Hartley: present at foundation                                             ii.
                                                                             on geology of,
of Cowgill Chapel, 1837, 488                                                 Corpus Christi College: 500th anniver
                                          i.
                                                 i.
Combe, Geo.       phrenological critic of                                    sary of, 1852,         ; ii.
               :                                                                                           242
                    a                                                        Council of the Senate Sedgwick elected
                        ii.
Sedgwick's Discourse, 405, note                                                 to, 325 resigns seat, 345  : :7 :
Commencement: Sedgwick's account of,                                         Cowgill Chapel: foundation laid, 1837,
                                                                                           : ii. ;
in former days,              447                                                                                            i.
Commission of Inquiry (Royal) moved                                                                                                  ii. i.
for by Lord Radnor, 1837,                   J. ii.                           487, 491--493 completed, 1838, 518;
                                                 :   169; by                 consecrated,         520;     --Me4m38o; riaAlpbpyeTnrduisxteetos,
Mr Pryme, ibid.; by Mr Christie, 1844,                                       of, 1868,              435
170; suggested by Lord
                                                     Russell,                Cowper, Will. passages from his works

1847, 169; applied for by certain per                                            recommended,
sons, 1848, 170; moved for by Mr                                                                    ii.

Heywood, 1850, 171; agreed to by                                             Craters of elevation Sedgwick's views
Lord
to join,    Russell, ibid. Sedgwick                             invited         on, 446i.
             172; his hesitation, 172                           -- 181;      Creation of the world Sedgwick's
        J.                                                                                                                                 views
                                                                                on, ii. 76--80; 343, 344                                   in,
                               of ;                                          Crimean war Sedgwick's interest

                                           a
                                                  :

                                                         ,
                                                               ;
names of the Commissioners, 187 pub
lication of their Report, 1852, 226
                                                                                           :
Commission (Parliamentary) resolved on                                           288, 297    :

by Government,               1855,          292Bill,reimbiodn.;              Crosse, Andr. Sedgwick visits, 461;
strances against             proposed                                           his Acarus crossii, ii. 83

Sedgwick's sketch                           representation                   Culm Measures: investigation of, by Sedg
                                                                                wick and Murchison, 1836, 458 their
to, 340; their proposals respecting                                             joint paper, 460; Sedgwick revisits;
tenure of Fellowships discussed in Arts                                         with Mr Austen, 461 notes of progress      i.
                                                                                 among them, 462, 465                                   ;
    School, 1858, 345
Convocation Sedgwick's remarks on,                                           Cumming, Ja.: signs notice of meeting to
               :                                                i.              institute Philosophical Society, 1819,
                          :                                             ii.     206; Declaration in favour of sitting
     462                                                                                                                                   i.

Conybeare, C. R. Sedgwick's letter to,
   ii. 340; attends Memorial Meeting,

482            Joh. Josias meets Sedgwick                                    members for University, 1831, 374;
                                                                             petition against tests, 1834, 419; seconds
            ,                                                                proposal to receive Brit. Ass., 1845,
                                  i. :
                                                 ;
at Penzance, 1819,                          213; describes

him to Buckland, ibid. Sedgwick                                              Cuvier, G.: Sedgwick visits, 1827, 271
visits, 1820, 217; further information                                          his soirees, 273; bust of, presented to
                                                                                Woodwardian Museum by Mme. Cu
                                                                                 vier, 1834, 429
about, 220, 221                                                                                                         :
               Will. Dan.: takes geological                                                                                        i.
            ,                                                                                                                                    ;

excursion with Sedgwick, 1820, 217;
Sedgwick's obligations to him, 221;
proposed joint work with him on geo
                                                                             Dalmellington, in Scotland                 curious cus
                                                                                tom at, ii. 32
logy, 322 letter detailing scope of this,
              ;

                                                                                                                        39--2

6l2 INDEX.

Dalton, Joh. : his papers in the Manches                          De la Beche, H. T. : suggested to help
   ter Memoirs mentioned, i . 66 ; Sedgwick
   meets, on Helvellyn, 248 ; announces                           in general geological work, 1828, i.
   grant from Civil List to, 407 ; statue                         324 ; error in his map of Pembroke
   at Manchester, ii. 46 ; Sedgwick's                             shire, 448; his views respecting struc
   speech on, ibid.; colour-blindness, 134                        ture of Devonshire impugned, 473 ;
                                                                  account of the misunderstanding with
Dalton, in Lancashire: description of, ii.                           him, 478 ; conversation with Sedgwick
                                                                     on Cambrian nomenclature, ii. 252
    456  F. C. : negotiates                 publication  of       Denbigh grits: ii. 513
Danby,                                                            Denham, Capt. : his son baptized by
Sedgwick's Letters to Wordsworth, ii.

    40, note                                                         Sedgwick, i. 444
                                                                  Denman, Geo. : contests seat as Univer
Dartmoor: geology at, 1841, ii. 26;                                  sity Representative, 1856, ii. 318
                                                                  Dent, dale of: Sedgwick's attachment
   beauty  of,  353                         Sedgwick     to
Darwin,    Ch.  : accompanies
N. Wales, 1831, i. 379; his recollections
of the tour, 380 ; Lyell's high opinion                           dtoe,sci.rib5e;d,situ6a--tio8n;  and natural features
                                                                                                   avalanche in, 1752,

of, 484 ; is suggested by Sedgwick to                             7 ; the statesmen described, 8 ; di
write article on Geology for Admiralty                            minished population, 8, 11; exports
Manual     SoefdSgcwieicnktifiwc ithInqcoupiryy,ofiiO. r1ig41in;  of butter, 15; of wool, r6 ; knitted
letter to
                                                                  stockings, ibid. ; Southey's poem quo
                                                                  ted, 25; geology, 17; black marble
of Species, 356 ; criticised by Sedgwick,                         and coal, ibid.; coal profitably worked.
ibid. ; replies, 359 ; criticised by Sedg                         18 ; manners of the statesmen, 21 -- 28;
wick in The Spectator, 360 ; attacked                             wood-carving, 24, note ; decline of the
before Philosophical Society, 361 ;
Sedgwick preferred to, for Copley                                 industries of the dale, 28 ; want of
                                                                  magistrates, ibid; the effects of this,
J.medal, 305 ; Sedgwick criticises, 411                           29; the French Revolution, 30; effects
Davis,     E. : draws pen-and-ink sketch                          of the war, ibid.; roads in the dale,

   of Sedgwick, i. 255                                            3'
Davy, Martin : signs petition against                             Dent, village of, or, Dent's Town : popu

tests, 1834, i. 419                                               lation,  i. 8; carriers             tgoalalenrdiesf,ro1m2,--1104;;
Dawson, Joh. : teaches mathematics to                             reputed
Ri. Sedgwick, 1756, i. 36 ; Mr Lyell                                        conjuror, 1 1          ;
one of his pupils, 45 ; attends as surgeon                        grammar-school, 14; stories of Wad-
                                                                             Archer,                                  -- 21
at Sedgwick's birth,                  4--6  ; Sedgwick's          dington,   decay of              Blackburne,    19   "sit  ;
sketch of his career, 61                    70; his senior-       gradual                          prosperity,  21 ;

wranglers, 65, and note; controversy                              tings," 23 ; knitting, 25 ; the laling
wStitehwaErtm, eibrsiodn,,no6te7;       with Prof. Matth.         rd (seeking-row), 26; customs at a
                                   ;  withTho. Priestley,         childbirth, ibid. ; at a death and

68 ; his personal appearance, 69 ; death                          funeral, 27; festivities of Christmas,
and monument in Sedbergh Church,                                  ibid. ; horse-racing, ibid. ; cock-fight
ibid, note; portraits, 69, 70 and note;
interest in Sedgwick's work at Cam                                ing, 28 ; early communion on Easter
bridge, 1807, i. 90; congratulates him                            Day, 40;
on his Fellowship, 1810, 100; loss of                             sports, 41  --Su4n3d;aySefdogowtbicakll,  41 ; athletic
                                                                                                            spends sum

his wife, 1812, 114; his own weakness,                            mer at, 1805, 77 ; do. 1806, 79 ;
                                                                  projected return as schoolmaster, 1807,

   ibid.                                                          92 ; spring and summer at, 1808, 96 ;
                                                                  Christmas at, 181 1, 113; holiday at,
         , Dr: supports Sedgwick's geo                            1813, 127; difficulties of access, 1814,
                                                                  132; autumn at, ibid. ; news of Water
   logical views, 1i. 557
Dealtry, Rob. : elegy on Tho. Jones                               loo brought to, 1815, 137 ; long vaca
                                                                  tion at, 1817, 151; preaches at, ibid.;
   quoted, i. 75
De Beaumont, Elie de : his views ac                               short visit to, 1821, 230; death of

   cepted  by   Sedgwick, i. 370                         in       Isabella Sedgwick at, 1823, 260; is
Decken,           von : meets Sedgwick                            accused of preaching a political sermon,
           H.

Scotland, 1827, i. 306; visits him at

pCaapmebrriodngeA, rr3a0n7,  ; prepares     map  for     the      1835, 441 ; adventures on mountain
                              314
Dee, R. : course described, i. 6                                  road to, 1836, 455 ; executor's work
                                                                  at, 1837,    487; foundation of               Cowgill
Deepdale, part of dale of Dent : i. 8                             Chapel,    487 -- 493 ; contested             election,
De Foe: novels read in Dent, i. 23, 25;
works read through by Sedgwick, ii.                               489 ; short visit to, 1838, 518;                Christ

                                                                  mas at, 1842,  ii.               49; snow in October,

108                                                               1843, 56; preaches extempore at, 1847,

                                                        INDEX.                                                                                   613

130; visit to, 1850, 185; Christmas                                                      i.  52; explores coast of, 1821,                   i.   229;

at, 1852, 245 ; visit to, on death of                                    geological                     work       ine,nte18rt3a8i,ns517Dr  Wood
                                                                      Dutton, Sir                       Ra.
Margaret Sedgwick, 1856, 313; speci                                                                     ;
mens of dialect, 1864, 407 ; last visit                                                                    :
                                                                                         ward, 170              :
to, 1870, 455 ; generosity to poor, 1871,                                                        i. i.
462 ; regret that he cannot revisit,                                  East Farleigh living offered to Sedg

ibid. ; memorial fountain                               at, 485 ;         wick, 383--386
restoration of Church, ibid.                                          Eaton, John his gallantry at battle of

Derbyshire: Sedgwick visits, 1818, i.                                    Aliwal, ii. 102

     199                                                                          Mrs: story of, ii. 114,
                                                                      Eclipse of the sun, 1858: ii. 341
De Verneuil : visits Sedgwick at Cam                                  Edinburgh: Sedgwick visits with Whe-

i.bridge, 1849,            165                                                           well, 1824, 264 Brit. Ass. meets at,
                         ii.

                                              ;
Devonshire: visited by Sedgwick,                        1819,                                           ;
                                                                                                           i.
212; paper on, read 1820,                               285;
                                                                                                               :
                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                                           ii.
                                                                                         1834, 427 in 1850,                      183
revisits with Murchison, 1836, 458                                                               Review Sedgwick's article in,
joint paper with Murchison on its                                  ;

structure at Bristol, 460 returns alone,                                 against Vestiges, ii. 87
                                                                      Edouart, Aug. his silhouette of Sedg
                            with                 Murchison on                                    i. i.
461; joint paper           -- 480;                  paper read,          wick,                                :
its structure, 473                                                    Egerton,
                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                 Si3r09Phil.       entertains Sedgwick,

482; hasty visit to, 1837, 489; visits                                                   1835, 448; 1837, 490; his difference
again, 1838, 513; second joint paper                                                     with McCoy, ii. 160 proposes Sedg
with Murchison,                                                                          wick for Copley medal of Royal
                                    1839, 522, 528;
                   of Sedgwick's                 work there,
c3r0i6tic--ism308     his love of                the scenery,            Society, 395, 397                                            of Man,
                                                                      Elk, Irish skeleton of, in
           :                                                                                     :                                                      i.
                :
                                                                                                                         I.
                     :; ;
   u. 353                                                                                214; skeleton bought for Cambridge
Devonian system commencement of re
                           i. :                                       ElyM:useSuemdg,wi4c4k9 visits, 1841, ii. 23; lec
                               ;

                                      ;
searches, 1836, 458 tour in Germany
and Belgium to correlate foreign rocks,                                                  ture on, by Sedgwick, on the geol.
                                    difficulties of this,
1839, 523--526                                                                           phenomena displayed                     in the railway
526; paper read, 528; general results,                                                   cuttings, 1844, 1i. 80;
                                                                                                                                 Sir H. Smith's

    1'. 503        see Alluvium                                          reception at, 1847, 124
                                                                      Enniskillen, Lord entertains Sedgwick
Diluvium                                                                 at Florence Court, 1835,       : i.
Discourse on Studies of University:                                   Erndl, or Erndtel, C. H                  ::
399--                                                              s i.                                                             445                 Dr
           4ii0.5;120,ap1p5e9n--dix1,61  410;           preface,               i.Woodward,                                    :  criticises
1847,                                       new         edition,      Erratic blocks                                          i.
                                         i. : ;                                         ;                178
1850,        183            copy    sent to Balmoral,                                                    Sedgwick's views on,                           i.
185;         fifth         edition    described, 187 --
                                                                                            447 letter to Agassiz on, 502
Dit't9o3n, near Cambridge                             Sedgwick'                          Eugenie, Empress her dress described,

   reading-party at, 1808, 98                                                            Euisit.on2,98Lord: contests University, 1807,
Divinity Act proceedings at, described,
                                                                                             89
                                                                                         Evans, Joh. Wilson candidate for Wood-
    1. 339                                                                                                         :

Dodd, Rev. Edw.                                                                                                             i.
                           :        opposes American                                     wardian Chair, 1818,                    155; retires,

lectureship, ii. 420                                                                     156; his death, 1866, ii. 422; account
Dolcoath mine, in Cornwall pendulum                                                      of Sedgwick's geological knowledge in
                                         i.
experiment at, 1828,                           :

                                                     ;
                                                 329 further                             1818, 502 note
   account of, 332
Dover account of blowing-up of cliff at,                                                 Fakenham: Sedgwick visits, 1857, ii.
   1843, ii. 49--53
Downham Market, Norfolk: Ja. Sedg                                                            333

                                                                                         Falconer, Hugh: congratulates Sedgwick
   wick curate at,                                                                          on receipt of Copley medal, ii.
Drift: Sedgwick's          i.38          on,          1823 -- 24,                        Farish Will.: Sedgwick attends                     395         lec
                             : i.views                                                                                                      his
                                                    i.             i.
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                     :
                                                                                                    : i.
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                             i.
                                                                                                                                    i. i.
                                                                                                                                                     9
    290--293                                                                             tures, 1814, 132; votes for Sedgwick,
Dublin: Brit. Ass. at, 1835, 443                                                         1818, 157; account of his lectures, 162,
Duckworth, Sam. Sedgwick's pupil at
                                                                                         and note
   Ditton, 1808, 98; congratulates him
   on Fellowship at Trin. Coll., 1810,                                farlies: strange sights, wonders, 116
   100; with him in London, 181 1, 104;                               farrand: "deftly farrand lad,"
   in 1812, 116; canvasses for him, 1818,                                                Fawcett, Tho.             dinner at his house,

                                                                                         1807, described,          72, note

Durham: Sedgwick sent to, with deeds,                                                    Fellowships Sedgwick's views on ten
                                                                                         ure, ii. 345

6i4 INDEX.

Fever at Cambridge: in May, 1815, i.                  ibid.; elected member of Council, 1824,
   135 ; breaks out again in October Term,                                                                 Lime
                                                      299 ; reads paper On Magnesian                       Vice-
142                                                   stone, 1826--28, 294; elected
Ffestiniog series : ii. 513                                                                                 I. of
Field-lectures: in 1835,     i.   440; account        President,             1827, 275 ;      paper  on
   of this, by Sedgwick,     ii.  491 -- 494; in      Arran, and             Sandstones       of N.  of     Scot

                                                      land, 1827, 309--322; invited to be
                                                      President, 1828, 333; installed, 337;
1839, i. 522; in 1845, ii. 89; in 1856,               reads paper with Murchison On Vale
326; in 1859, 354
Fisher,  Rev.   John Mutton   : death, ii. 377        of Gosau, 1829, and                On Tertiary For
Fitton,  Will.  Chambers :   Sedgwick visits          mations of Bavarian                 Alps, 358 -- 360;

Sussex with, 1825, i. 266; suggests that              presidential address, 1830, 361; ad
Sedgwick should write a notice of work                dress in presenting Wollaston medal
done in the Highlands, 1827, ii. 307;                 to Will. Smith, 1831, 367; presidential
                                                      faedrdoruesss,C3h6a8in--,          paper On Carboni
fears for Sedgwick's credit, 311 ; selects                                       371 ;    On the Range of
Sedgwick to succeed him as President of                                           376;
                                                      Carboniferous Limestone, 409; On the
Geol. Soc. 1828, 333; his performance                 Structure of large             Mineral
of the duties of President, 334 ; severe              441 ; Whewell                  President,
criticism of Babbage's Ninth Bridge-                                                             mas4s6e2s,--1486355,;
   water Treatise, 483, 484                           paper On a Raised Beach in Barnstaple
Forbes, Edw. : his squib on Sedgwick                  Bay, 1836, 466; expected paper by
and Murchison, ii. 255, note; his death,              Sedgwick and Murchison on structure
                                                      of Devon, 1837, 473 -- 476; paper read,
295 , Ja. Dav. : Sedgwick's opinion of,               482 ; second joint paper with Murchi
   ii. 295                                            son on same subject, 1839, 522; joint
Forsyth,    Will. :  writes  reply to R. M.           paper with Murchison on results of

Beverley, i. 413, note; denies gambling               German tour, 1840, 528; paper On
                                                      Stratified Rocks inferior to Old Red
   at Cambridge, 415, note                            Sandstone, 1841,               ii. 35;  On Outline of
Foster, Edm. : Sedgwick lodges with at                                               Wales,   1843, 5^; two
                                                      Structure of N.
Sedbergh, i. 57                                       other papers, 64;              paper on
       , Robert: visited by Sedgwick at                                                             Classifica
                                                      tion of Strata of              N. Wales       with cor
Newcastle,      him18,212, 30i.--222393;  Sedgwick's  responding deposits of Cumberland,
account of
                                                      1845, 80; on Classification of Fossili-
France: Sedgwick projects journey to,
1815, i. 134; visits, 1816, 142 -- 144;
                                                      ferous Slates of Cumberland, etc., 1846,
feeling of, against England, 1858, ii.                101 ; Wollaston medal given to Sedg
                                                      wick, 1850, 200; paper On Slate Rocks
Fre3n4c2h, Will. : issues notice respecting           of Devon etc., 1851, 213; On Raven-
   Professorship of Mineralogy, 1822, i.              stonedale and Ribblesdale, ibid.; On
   237; his interview with Sedgwick, 238;             LColawsseirficPaatiloienozoicanRdockNs oomfeEnnclgaltaurned anodf
   Sedgwick's account of this, 240; pub               pcWailaplteeors,SeO1d8ng5w2Mi,c2ka1y5o;nHcoitlhnlidsu,Sca2tn1d5os--ftotnh2ee1,8C; o2fu3irn1st,
   lishes Address to the Senate, 1823, ibid.;
                                                      254; second paper on do., 262 ; breach
    Observations upon Professor Sedgwick's            with Geol. Soc. ibid.
   Reply, 1824, 243; writes against Sedg
   wick in the Cambridge Chronicle, 1834,

Frere, Will. : introduces Grace to increase           Geological Survey: comparison of sections
   salary of Woodwardian Professor, ii.               with those of Sedgwick, ii. 521
                                                                             work
    349         I. of Wight: Ja. Sedgwick             Geo18lo1g8ic--al  27,  i. 283  --by297  Sedgwick :    --fro3m8,
Freshwater,                                                                                    ; from 1828

curate at, 1833--39, * 38                            Geg--5rae2rn92de--0,r6a5;lM3ri9sef;ssrou:mmftrehoamon1fk8sh51i1sf8--o3lrif85e--a5, ,5b51r0o,23n0z--e6ii--5.p6l33at1toe0o,;

Gay, Joh. : presents Dr Woodward on                   ii. 270
    the stage, 1. 175                                 Germany:          Sedgwick visits,            1816,  i.34184--8;
                                                          tour in,      with Murchison,             1829,
Geology: sketch of progress of, i. 284
Geological lectures: syllabus of publ.                357; second do., 1839, 523; scheme
                                                         for living                      year, ii.
    1821, i. 288; second edition, 1832, 288 ;         Gibbs, Sir        in, for a        contests   54
    third do., 1837, 500; to ladies at Cam                              Vicary:                      University,
   bridge, ii. 140; general account of,
                                                           1807,         89          i.  36
    487--490                                                            in Dent :
Geological Society: Sedgwick's account                Gibshall,

   of, in early days, i. 298; elected Fellow,

                                              INDEX.                                                               615

Gilby, W. H., M.D.: instructs Sedgwick                 support of Mr Cavendish,                                    1829,
in geology of Bristol, 1819, i. 21 1
      , Will. Robinson : Sedgwick's                    Great Eastern steamship: visit to, ii.
            at Ditton, 1808, i.       98 ; Fellow  of
pTunpni.l    Coll. 99; with            Sedgwick    in  415
                                                       Greeks their cause espoused by Sedg
London, 1811, 104; in 1812, 116;                            :
                                                                      :

                                                                         i.

                                                                                  :
                                                                                             i. i.
agitates against petition against Catho                wick and others, 1823,                              234
                                                       Green, Tho. elected Woodwardian Lec
lic claims, 126 ; accompanies Sedgwick
to Cornwall, 1819, 213; clergyman of                   turer, 1778,      194; account of him,
                                                       ibid.

a village near Bridlington, 1821, 226;                 Greenough, G. B. his geological map of
                                                       England and Wales,
accompanies Sedgwick on excursion                                                                          448; visits
   along Yorkshire coast, 227                          Warwickshire coalfields with Sedg
gill-brack, or avalanche, in Dent, 1752:                  wick, 1837, 490, 491
                                                       Gregory, Duncan Farquharson: visits St
   '7     Hen. :  seni.or                             Abb's Head with Sedgwick, 1834,
Gipps,                      wrangler,  1807,  and                                                                        ; i.

   pupil of Joh. Dawson, i. 65, note                   431; account of his career, ii. 69;
Glacial theory: as propounded by Agas                  Sedgwick's fondness for him, ibid.
   si*, ii. 17                                            his death, ibid.
Glasgow : meeting of British Association               Greville, Rob. Kaye visits Sedgwick at
at, 1855, ii. 302, 304; scene with                                       :
                                                                            i. :
Murchison at, 305                                          Cambridge, 1827, 307
Gloucester: Sedgwick visits,                           Grey, Lieut. Col. correspondence with
          , Will. Fre., Duke                           Sedgwick on nomination as Royal
                                      i. 514                                                                    a
                                      of : elected
                                                          Commissioner, 1850, ii. 172--181
Chancellor,        181  1, i. 108; installation,       Griffith, Ri. his geological map of
                    at  Commencement, 1819,                           :
no; present                                                                     i.
                                                                                               ;
                                                       Ireland exhibited at Dublin meeting
210; at Commencement, 1828, 322;                       of Brit. Ass.,                 447 visits N. of

    death, 1835, 443, note                             Ireland with Sedgwick, 1835, 448;
Gorham, Geo. Cornelius: candidate for                  S. W. of Ireland, 1841, ii. 27; North
                                                       Wales, 1842, 48; regrets Sedgwick's
Woodwardian Chair, 18 18, i. 155; is
invited to retire, 156; account of his                 absence from the Cork Meeting of the
prospects to his father, 157; of the                   Brit. Ass., 1843, 56; visits Sedgwick,

result, 158; had studied geology in the                    1872, 462                                            n, note
                                                       ground -works: foundations,
field, 160; Sedgwick's                 joke about his                   :
geological knowledge,                 ibid, and note;                               i.
                                                                                       i.

                                                                                            i.
                                                       Gunpowder Plot celebration of deliver
had collected plants in Switzerland,                      ance from, at Dent, 52
                                                       Gurney, Hudson, ii. 566
161
Goulburn, Hen.: Sedgwick's opinion of,                             Jos. Joh., ibid.: 437
                                                       Guthrie, Mrs: see Clarke, Caroline,
                                                       Gwatkin, Ri. accompanies Sedgwick to
1825, i. 269; verses on, 1826, 276;
number of votes polled for, 277; comes
forward again, 1827, 278; supports Mr                                 :
                                                                                  i.
                                                       Lakeland, 1822,                247; sends fossil

Bankes, 1829, 342; Sedgwick's letter                   fish to Sedgwick, 1834, 432
to him, 343; is brought forward for
                                                       H value of the
University, 1H31, 375; elected, 376;                   Hailstone, Joh.: letter, ii.   448
                                                                           elected     Woodwardian
again elected, 1832, 398; presents                                    i. :
                                                                                            a
petition to H. of Commons in favour                    Lecturer 1788, 195; goes to Germany,
   of tests, 1834 ,421                                 and attends Werner's lectures, ibid.;
Grafton, Duke of: presents fossils to                  account of his Plan of Course of
   Woodwardian Museum, i. 196                          Lectures, ibid.; gave no lectures, 196;
Graham, Joh., Master of Christ's Coll. :               enlargement of the Museum, ibid.
                                                                                                                         ;

supports invitation to Brit. Ass. 1844,                attends to explain  it         to visitors, 197;

ii. 7 1 ; is made a Royal Commissioner,                intended marriage, 1818, 152; resigns

1850,       187    executor  to Dr Woodward,              lectureship, 155
         ,                                             Hall, Rob. Sedgwick's recollections of,
            Ri. :                      i.
                                                  ii.
i. 181; had urged him to give his col                          i.

                                                                                ,
                                                                                    :

                                                                                                  ::
                                                                                                       i.
    lections to Cambridge, 180                         Ham7il9ton, W. T. criticises Sedgwick's
Grange: Sedgwick's visit to, 1870,                     conduct, ii. 262
                                                               Sir Will.: attends meeting of
Granite: relation of, to the overlying                    Brit. Ass.  at Oxford, 1847, ii. 123
rocks, discussed by Sedgwick, 286                      Hardwicke,     Earl speaks in House                               of

Grant, Rob. candidate to represent                     Lords on Univ. petition against Roman
                   :                                   Catholic claims, 1812, 117
                                  i.  257; writes in
University, 1822,

6i6 INDEX.

Hare, Julius Ch. : account of Hyde Hall,                          one of the Bartlow barrows, 1838,
   i. 283; translation of Niebuhr, 305;                           507; visits St Albans with Sedgwick,
signs Declaration in favour of sitting
                                                                  510; hospitality to naturalists at Cam
members for University, 1831, 374;                                bridge, ii. 42 defends Darwin against
                                                                  Sedgwick at Philosophical Society,
Sedgwick's      long letter to, 1847, ii.                                        ;
109 -- 1 14;   doctrinal difficulties, 115;                                            ;

                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                       i.
                                                                  1860, 362; Sedgwick' last visit to,

Sedgwick visits, 1848, 141 ; recollec                                 186 1,  371Joh.recForlele.ctWionisll.:of,co4m02munica
tions of an evening at his rooms, 327;                            Herschel,
                                                                  tion to Phil. Soc. Camb., 1819, 208;
   testimony to Sedgwick in society, 496
Harford, Mr, of Blaise Castle: his death,                         Sedgwick's speech on his marriage,
   ii. 423
Hargreave, Oliver: Sedgwick's pupil at                            1828, 338; suggested by Sedgwick as
                                                                  President of Royal Society, 1827, 365,
Ditton, 1808, i. 98; entertains Sedg                              note; proposed in opposition to Duke
wick in London, 181 2, 116                                        of Sussex, 1829, ibid.
                                                                       ;                                      unsuccessful,
                                                                                                           ;
Harlech series : ii. 512                                                                                  is
Harkness, Prof.: Sedgwick's                                       366 dinner to, on his return from Cape,
                                                 letter of
                                                                  1838, 510; describes Sedgwick's speech
                                                                  at Tynemouth, 1838, 515; with Sedg
Hagreroisloogni,calCha. d:viceentetort,aiin. s250Sedgwick in      wick at Dover, 1843, ii. 49; invited by
London, 1811, i. 104; in 1812, 116
               , Tho. : senior wrangler, 1793,                    Sedgwick to be President of                   th70e--B7r3it.
                                                                  Ass. at Cambridge, 1844,
and pupil of Joh. Dawson, i. 65, note                                  ;
                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                            ,
Harrogate: Sedgwick visits,                                       accepts the office, 73; consulted by
Harwood, Sir Busick: attends                                      Sedgwick on the Vestiges, 87 enter
                                    i. i.         104             tains Sedgwick at Christmas, 1845,
                                          ii.    Sedgwick         101 Sedgwick's joke on his work on

   in typhoid fever, 1805,              77       Sedgwick         the southern hemisphere, 1846, 107;
                                    with                          attends meeting of Brit. Ass. at Ox
Haviland, Joh.: travels
in Switzerland, 1816,                          144; returns
to England, 148; elected Regius Prof,
of Physic, 1817, 150; signs notice of                             ford, 1847, 123; corresponds with

meeting to institute Philosophical So                             Sedgwick on article            on Geology                for
                                                                  Admiralty Manual                   Scientific
                                                                                                 of                        In
                                                                                                       is
ciety, 1819, 206; attends Sedgwick,                               quiry, 141 Sedgwick's humorous in
                                                                  a
                                                                                        ;
    1827, 312                                                     vitation to, 1848, 142;                     appointed
Hawes produce brought from, to Dent,
i.                                                                Commissioner for Cambridge, 1850,
         :
10                                                                187; signs remonstrance against pro
             ,                                                    posed Bill, 1855, 292 Sedgwick con
                        :                                         gratulates, on his daughter's marriage,

                             :
                                i.
Hawkins, Joh. presents fossils to Wood-                                                          ;

wardian Museum,                     196

               Thos. presents collection of                       +
Saurian Reptiles to Woodwardian Mu                                            ,  Miss: marriage with Colonel

   seum, ii. 320:      pupil of Joh. Dawson,                         Gordon,  Loiir. d2:35candidate           to represent
Haygarth, Joh.      a                                             Hervey,

62                                                                    University, 1822, 257, 258, and note
i.                                                                Hewitt, Cornwallis offers Grace for: i.

   I.
Henslow, Joh. Stevens: with Sedgwick
in of Wight, 1819,                             204; joint-        abolition of tests in respect of Medical
               of Philosophical          i.
--fou2n0d7er   gives its labours               Society, 205       Faculties, 1834, 418; signs petition,
                                           I. a    zoological                              i.

            ;                                                     419 vetoes Grace to petition for main
                                                                       ;

direction, 207; work in                          of Man,          tenance of tests, 420
W18o19od--w2a0r,dia21n4M; usaerruamng, es1820m--ine2r1a,ls222in;
                                                                  Heywood, Ja. moves for issue of Royal
                                                                                    :

presents Anglesea collection, 1821 --                                Commission of         Inquiry,    1850, ii. 171
                                                                  Hodgson, Will.,          Master     of Peterhouse:
                                                                     supports invitation to Brit. Ass., 1844,
22, 234; candidate for Professorship                                 ii. 71
of Mineralogy, 1822, 235; nominated                               Holder, Rob. Keyse reads with Sedg
                                                                     wick at Lowestoft, 1812, 121
by Heads, 237; elected and admitted,                                                       :

--23923; ,  arranges Anglesea collection, 1822                    Holland: Sedgwick            visits,   1816,a i.    148
              260; writes pamphlets against                       Holme, Joh. assists                             i.
payment of out-voters at University                                                             Dr E.
elections, 1826, 278 and note; admitted                              his lectures,ii. : :                     D. Clarke    in
ad cundem gradum at Oxford, 1830,                                                    : i.
                                                                  Hooker, Dr                164               address at
                                                                                           presidential
                                                                  HoNpokrinwsic, hW, ill.439proposes
383, note; signs Declaration in favour
of sitting members for University, 1831,
374; induces Sedgwick to take Darwin                                                                          friendly re
                                                                  ception to Brit. Ass. in 1845, ii. 74
to Wales, 380; signs petition against                                          Miss: her wedding, 1856, ii.
tests, 1834, 419; present at opening of                                   ,

                                                                  3*3

                                                              INDEX.                                                                        617

Hopkins, Miss Augusta: letter from                                             Jerdan: occasion of quarrel between
                                                                                  Sedgwick and Whewell, 99
   Sedgwick on her              lost glove,       ii.
Horner, Leonard:                                      1                        Joe and the Geologist: sketch so-called,
                                                         54                                                   ii.
                                   visits Sedgwick              at                                                                   i.

       Cambridge, 1825,                   282 his death,                          *5*-- 254
                                   i.      36 ;                                John, Archduke of Austria: his charac
     1864,      ii.  401               i.
                in   Ribblesdale,                                              ter, 351; Sedgwick meets, 352--354;
Horton,                                                                        account of his career, 354, note
                                                                               i.
Hudson, oh. senior wrangler, 1797,                                                        ,
   and pupil of Joh. Dawson, 65, note;                                                                                              :
   accepts vicarage of Kendal, and vacates                                                                                             i.
       ;                                         i.                            Jones, Thos. tutor of Trin. Coll. Sedg
           ,              Trin. Coll.                i.                           wick entered as his pupil, 1803,
                          bookseller                                               60; takes part in remonstrance to
          J

                         :
       tutorship at                        1815,         138
                                           of Kendal
               Joh.,                                     :    his              Master and Seniors respecting elections

       Guide to the Lakes, 247, note; ii. 40,                                  to Fellowships,          786, 73; account of
                                   i.                                                      J.
                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                                        is
       41 publishes Sedgwick's fifth Letter                                    Jones as             College tutor, 74, 75;
       on Geology of Lake District, 1853,                                          illness,           87; death, 91
                                                                               Jukes,        1807,  geologises with
Hu2l4l:9 Sedgwick visits, 1814,                                                                                                   Sedgwick
                                                                                             B.:

                                                     i.      133;              in Leicestershire, 1837, 490;                                about

   meeting           of Brit.  WAislsl.,  at, 1853,      204                   to start for Newfoundland, 1839, 521;
Humboldt,               Ch.               von: Sedgwick
                                                                                    letter  to Sedgwick, ii.  490

       meets, in Paris,            i.     274; theory on                       jyking:       creaking,
                                       i.                                      i. :                     32
   diluvium, 371 note                                                                    :
Humphry, Geo. Murray: attends Sedg
                                                                                                          ; i.
                                                                                                                                               ii.
   wick Memorial meeting, ii. 482                                              K value of the letter, ii. 470
Hunt, Sterry defends Sedgwick, ii. 555,                                        Kaye, Joh.: Sedgwick meets, 1820,

Hunter, Mr.          ::                                                           400
                         a                                                     Kendal produce brought from, to Dent,

                            statesman in Mosdale,               ii. ii. i. i.  10; government agents for stockings

    254     Hall:       charms     of,     283                                 stationed at, 16 coal carried to, from
                                                                               Dent, 18; retreat of Pretender's army
Hyde

Image, Thos. his collection of fossils                                            through, 1745, 50; Sedgwick's lecture
   bought for Woodwardian Museum,                                                 at, 1855, ii. 300
                ii.                                                            Kennedy, Prof.: attends Sedgwick Me
                    :
                                                                               morial Meeting,
       1856,            ::320--322                                                           i.         482
Indian policy opinion on, ii. 335.                                             Kent: visited by Sedgwick,     ; ii.
Ingle, Ch. reads with Sedgwick                                                                                          1         1865, ii.
                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                at                4'4
                                                                               King, Col. Ri.: buys Dr Woodward's
       Lowestoft, 1812,i. 121, 122; his death,

ii. ii.  65                                                                    shield, 169; erects monument to him
Ingleborough: Sedgwick visits, 1830,                                           in Westminster Abbey, 181; one of

    365; exploration of, 1838,             i. i.  519        and               his executors, 182 charges for carriage
                                                  1800,                        of collections to Cambridge paid to him,
Inman, Ja. Senior Wrangler
                     :

       pupil of Joh. Dawson,                      65, note;                       186, note; contributes to purchase of
                                                                                  Woodwardian estate, 87 Woodward's
       Sedgwick visits, 1825, 265                                                 residuary legatee, ibid.; appoints Joh.
Inverary Castle: Sedgwick visits, 1850,                                           Michell lecturer, 1762, 191; Dr Ogden,
       ii. 184                                                                     1764, 193; his death, 169, note
Ipswich: Sedgwick lectures at, 1848,                                           Kirkby Lonsdale produce brought from,

    150                                           443 --448;                   i.
                                                                                   ;7
Ireland: visit to, 1835,
                                                                                                 i.
                                                                                                           :

                                                                                                                i.
                                                                                                                           i.

                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                               i.
                                           i.                                  to Dent, 20; government agents for

       geological tour in S. W. of, 1841, ii.                                  stockings stationed at, 16

    27--29                                                                     Kirkby Stephen: government agents
Irish Church: disestablishment of,                                                for stockings stationed at, 16

       448                                                                     Kirthwaite, hamlet of: position described,
Isle of Wight: Sedgwick visits with                                                       avalanche in, 1752, ibid.; Quaker
       Henslow, 1819,              204; stays with Ja.
                          i.                                                      families in, 11; coal first worked in, 18;
                            :
       Sedgwick, 1820, 219; does geologicali.                                  Belgian refugees in, 24, note con
       work in, 1821, 233; explores thoroughly,
       1825, 267 shells from, added to Wood                                       troversy respecting, 1868, ii. 436
       wardian Museum, 1827, 280; visit to,                                    Knitting, in Dent, 25
                ii.
       1864,         ;                                                         Lake District: winter visit to, 181 2,
                     405                                                           114; summer do., 1813, 128 -- 130;
                                                                                  visited twice, 1817, 151; detailed ex
Jardine, Sir Will. Sedgwick visits, 1841,                                         ploration of, 1822-1824, 246 -- 256,
                                                                                  261, 531 advice to explorers of, 249--
           33                                     in     Edin                     252; first paper on, 366; paper On

Jeffrey, Fra. meets Sedgwick
                     :                                                                       ;

burgh, 1825,                265

6i8 INDEX.

cCoanrjbuonncitfieornouswithChMarinP,eil1e8,31O,n  376; in           Lind, Jenny reception at Norwich, 1847,:
                                                   Carboni              ii. 129; in 1849, '52; so'r^e at Bishop;
                                                                        Stanley's, ibid. entertained by Sedg
ferous Limestone, 1835, 409; first three                                wick at Cambridge, 155; her perfor
Letters to Wordsworth on Geology of,                                    mance in The Messiah, 1856, 318;
1842, ii. 39; short visit to, 1843, 56;                                 visits Bishop Stanley's grave with Sedg
geological work in, 1845, 90; fourth                                    wick, 319
Letter to Wordsworth, 102 ; fifth do.,
                                                                     Lingula beds ii. 536
     249; criticism of Sedgwick's work in,                           Litchfield Sedgwick buys fossils at,
                                                                               :
     rt&i-hh' 308--310; visit to, 1856,                                              :                                                        i.

     325; visit to, 1857, 334; two days in,                               533                :      correspondence in, be
     1859, 352, paper On Faults in Cum
                                                                     Literary Gazette
                                                                     tween Sedgwick and Murchison, 1852,
   berland, etc. , ibid. ; further discussion                           ii. 219, 541-- 550
   of work in, 509                                                   Litterdale: name of pupil in portrait of
Lamb, Joh. : opposes payment to out
   voters at University elections, 1826, i.                          Joh. Dawson,                        70, note
                                                                     Liv1in85g7s,toini.e3, 36D--r.: i.
   278, and note; chairman of Mr Caven
                                                                                                                ;
dish's Cambridge Committee, 1829,                                                                        visit to Cambridge,
                                                                                                    340; Sedgwick's speech
                                                                                                                   in Combination
342 ; signs petition against tests, 1834,                            in Senate House, 337                          ibid.; writes to
419 ; opposes Universitypetition against                             Room of Trin. Coll.
admission of Jews to Parliament, 1847,
                                                                     Sedgwick, 1858, 338; Sedgwick's fare
                                                                     well letter to him, 339; lectures pub
          131L ii. Marquis speaks in H. of                           lished with Preface by Sedgwick, ibid.
Lansdowne,                    :                                      letter to, from Sedgwick, 1865, 410;                       ;
                                 :                                   visits Sedgwick at Norwich, 1865, 416                        ;
                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                       i.                           Mrs: entertained by Sedg
     Lords on University petition against
     Roman Catholic claims, 1812,
                                                           117;

     offers statue to Trinity College, 1856,                                   i.
                                                                                    ,

                                                                                             :
   ii. 329                                                              wick, ii. 365
Laplace, Marquis de Sedgwick's visit to,                             Lizard District visited by Sedgwick,

     1827,  i. i.271; further recollections of,                      1819,       213; paper on, discussed, 288
                                                                     Llandeilo Flags: Murchison's error re
     273                                                             specting, ii. 283, 583; discussion on
lattng-rd,         26                                                structure and position of, 525, 527 551
Lawrence,        Sam.: draws Sedgwick's por

   trait, 1844, ii. 70                                               Ill,Lodge, Joh. reads with Sedgwick at
Law School moderator's seat in figured,                                                    :                       122; visits
                                                                                                         i.
            :                                                        Lowestoft, 1812,
               :
       83                                                            Dent with Sedgwick, 1815, 135 joins
                                                                     Committee in aid of Greeks, 1821, 235,
Lax, Will. opinion on Sedgwick's pro                                 note; waits on Vice-Chancellor to pro
     bable place in Tripos,
     Lowndean Professorship,                 93 vacates
                                            1836, 473
                                            i.

                                                      ;

Leckenby collection: purchase of, ii. 465                            pose joint application to Court of
                                                                     King's Bench in the matter of the
Lee, Sam. signs notice of meeting to                                 Professorship of Mineralogy, 1822, 239;
     institute Philosophical Society, 1819,:;                        visits Yorkshire with Sedgwick, 1832,
                :                                          1                                                                    of the
                                                               ; i.                        present at the                       that of
                           :                                                               Barrow, 1835,
     206 petition against tests, 1834, 419                           i.405                                         opening
                                                                            ;                                      506 at
     article on Epistles of St Ignatius, ii. 13                      Bartlow                                       ;
                                                                               ; is
Leeiid. s242S--ed2g4w4ick's two lectures at, 1852,                                  ii.
Le Grice, C. V. epigram on Sedgwick,                                                      :
                                                                         another 1838, 507
                                                                     London: Sedgwick's first visit to, 181 1,

                                                                             104 452 visits in,                     1812,       116
                                                                     Long, Roger devises room                                   Wood
    l834, 435. note                                                                               ;                for Dr
Leicester: dinner of Philosophical Society                                                           i.
                                                                     ward's cabinets, 186

     at, to Sedgwick, 491                                            Longfellow, Hen. Wadsworth: visits Cam
                   ,
                     i.                                                 bridge, ii. 438
                                                                     Lough, G. proposes to make bust of
                          i.
                              i.

                                        ::
Leicestershire coal-field visited by Sedg
     wick, 1837,
                   490, 491, 495                                               i. J.
                                                                                    :
                                                                                          ;
Leigh, R. H. of Leeds owns portrait of                               Sedgwick, 1843, ii. 55
                                                                     Lowestoft                                                  party at,
     Joh. Dawson,             70, note                                                     11S6e,dg1w19ic--k's12r4e;advinisgit  to, with
Leslie, Joh.: meets Sedgwick in Edin                                      1812,
                                                                     nephew's children, ii. 275
LebuVrgehr,rie1r,825U, rba2in64,Je2a6n5. Jos.: attendsi.
   meeting of Brit. Ass. at Oxford, 1847,
                                                                     Luard, Hen. Richards: at Sedgwick's
                                                                        last dinner party, ii.
     ii. 123; visits Cambridge at Public                             Lubbock, Joh. Will.:                 463      University
                                                                                                         contests

   Commencement, 126                                                    unsuccessfully, 1832, 398
Lightfoot, Jos. Barber dines with Sedg                               Lune, R. course described,

   wick, ii. 463; attends Memorial meet
                              :
                                                                                              :

                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                                        i.

                                                                                                                                           7

                                                                                                                    i.
     ing, 482                                                        Lunn, Fra.: nominated by Heads for Pro
                                                                        fessorship of Mineralogy, 1822, 237

                                            INDEX.                                                                               619

Luscombe, Bishop: Sedgwick meets in                                       Mag. Nat.   Hist.,          285:      recollections of
Paris, 1827, i. 272, and note                                             Sedgwick,   286 --        288      ;
Lushington, Dr: visits Trinity College,                     Macculloch, Joh.: his views controverted
   1870, ii. 454; his death, 1873,                                        by Sedgwick and Murchison, 322,
Lyell, Cha. (father of Sir C.               4L7y9ell):                                                                   ii. i.
Sedgwick's letter to, i. 45                                               326
                                                            Magnesian Limestone
   , Cha. : Sedgwick visits at Kinnordy ,                      on, discussed, 294                        --S2e9d7g;wiccko'ms pleptaepde,r
                                                                                          ; : ; i.
1827, i. 306 ;   his Principles        of   G--eo3lo7g0y;                 1828, 314, 315 read to the Geological
criticised by      Sedgwick,                                              Society, 316; abstract of, 318
                                       368
opinion on Sedgwick's refusal of East                       Malcolm, Sir Joh. Sedgwick visits, 1826,
   Farleigh, 383, 385; letter on Suffolk
   Crag read by Sedgwick at Dublin                                        270; 1827, 275; estimate of his
   meeting of Brit. Ass. 1835, 446; criti                   i.
   cism of his theory of erratic blocks,                                 ,character, 283 recollections of, ii.
   447 ; invites Whewell to be President                                  327; Kaye's Life of, discussed, 328;
   of the Geological Society 1836, 463;                                   article in Edinburgh Review respecting,
. urges Murchison to publish his views                                    ibid.
   on the structure of Devon without
                                                                                      Kate: Sedgwick's first ac
                                                                          quaintance with,
                                                                                                    i.   283

                                                            Man, antiquity of Sedgwick's views on,
                                                                                           :

delay, 1837, 474 ; Sedgwick's letter to,                                  ii. 440
on the   4m7i7su--nd4e8r0st;anidnidnugces witShedgdweickla  Manchester: Brit. Ass. at, 1842,                                     45;
Beche,                                                                    Sedgwick visits, 1857, ii. 334; Brit.

to revise Babbage's Ninth Bridgavatcr                          Ass.             at, 1861, 373
Treatise, 1837, 483 ; high opinion of                       Marr,
Darwin, 484; letter, from Sedgwick,                                             Joh. Edw.: supports                   Sedgwick's
                                                                          views, ii. 558
   on Vestiges, 1845, ii. 83; presents                      Marsh, Herb. his memoir of Thos.
   Wollaston medal to Sedgwick, 1851,                                                 :
   ii. 200; Sedgwick's opinion of, 411                                    Jones quoted,   :              75; supports and
Lyndhurst, Lord : candidate for High
   Steward of University, 1840, ii. 16                                                           i.
Lyttelton, Lord : candidate for High                                      defends Duke of Gloucester, 181 1, 108
   Steward of University, 1840, ii. 16
                                                                          and note

                                                            Mason, Ch. appointed second Wood

                                                                          wardian Lecturer, 1734, 189; descrip
                                                                          tion of him by Cole and Cumberland,   ; i.
                                                                          190; his inaugural lecture, ibid.; his dis
Macartney, Dr: sells Sedgwick skeleton                                    charge of his
   of Irish Elk, 1835, i. 449                                             by marriage,    duties,        h1is91deavtahc,atiebsido.ffice
                                                                                          ibid.;
Macaulay, Tho. Babington : brings non
                                                                                Joh. marries Margaret Sedgwick,
residents to oppose petition against                        1
Roman Catholics, 1829, i. 336 ; sug                                 ,
gests Bentley for memorial statue in                                           :
Trin. Coll. chapel, 329 entertained                                  37
by Sedgwick, 1831, 282                                                                                                           i.
                                                            Matlock: visited by Sedgwick, 1818,

                 :                                              200
                       ii.                                  Maule.Will. Hen.: bon-mot on Sedgwick,
                                    ;
McCoy, Frederick becomes assistant to                       Maurice, Rev. Fre. Denison his writings
                                                                                                                :

Sedgwick, 1846, ii. 118; Sedgwick's                            criticised,              ii. 295                          of and
liberality to, 119; paper on fishes from                                              Sedgwick's
                                                            May Hill                                     examination
                                                                                   :

the Old Red Sandstone, 149; difference                                    paper on, 1852,  ii.       230, 231 complains
with Agassiz and Sir P. Egerton,                                                                                ;;
                                                                          of delay in publication, 255 conclusions
160; work in Woodwardian Museum,                                          on after work    i--n 41, 85236,2           256 second
                                                                          paper on, 1853                              ;  further in

193 obtains Professorship at Belfast,;                                                                          ;
ibid.; Sedgwick's high opinion of, 194,;
and note undertakes description of                                        vestigations respecting, 1854, 276;
British Palaeozoic Fossils for Sedgwick,                                  paper on, at Liverpool meeting of Brit.
ibid.; visits Cornwall with Sedgwick,                                     Ass. 279; discussion of whole question,

  85 1,  208; examines Caradoc Sand                             270--185; 515, 529, 536
stone    of May Hill with Sedgwick,                         Mead, Ri.: abuse of Dr Woodward,
1                                                                                        :
                                                                                                 1.
                                                                                                     :

                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                  i.
                                                                          167, note; attacks him with sword

1852, 230; opinion on the fossils, 255;                          169, note
at work on third Fasciculus of Brit.
Pal. Rocks, 256; examines Caradoc                           Member of Parliament                                see Representa

                                                                          tive

Sandstone again 1853, 261, 262; visits                      Menevian rocks ii. 512
S. Wales with Sedgwick, 1854, 276;                          Michell, Joh.: appointed Woodward's
leaves for Australia, 278; his opinion                                    Lecturer, 1762,                191; his scientific
on the May Hill sandstones, 283;                                                      ibid.; sketch        of his life,
defended by Sedgwick in Ann. and                               writings,                Conyers            appointed     192
                                                            Middleton,                                                     first

620 INDEX.

Woodwardian Lecturer, i. 188; his                                 Moore, Joh. Carrick Sedgwick visits,
inaugural lecture, ibid.; his resignation,                           1841, ii. 30
                                                                                               jun. takes tour with
     189                                                                    ,
                                                                                                  ,
Miles : Sedgwick' s controversy with,
                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                   ;
                                                          i. ii.  Sedgwick, 1841, ii. 32 writes Sedg
Mill3, Joh. Stuart criticism on Sedgwick's                       wick on resolution of Council of Geol.
1
    ,           i.                                                Soc. 1852, 216
                      :
      ; 7, ; ,Discourse,                                                      Captain Willoughby: quartered
                             :
     Will.              405                                                 ,
                                                                                           i.
                   Hodge                                                                             ;
                                                                                                         ;
                                 travels with Sedg                at Norwich, 454 visits Sedgwick at
wick from Paris to Geneva, 1816,                                  Cambridge, 456 visits Sedgwick at
 44 ordained deacon at Norwich,                                   Norwich, 1842, ii. 38; burnt in the
181 is1 curate of Taplow, 1820,
                ;                                                 Europa transport, 1854, 273
                                                                            Mrs Willoughby: goes to the
215 Sedgwick's regard for him, 220;                                  East as a nurse, ii. 296i. I. ; ,
asked by Sedgwick to preside at his                               Morpeth, Vise. elected                        M. P.         for W.
Divinity Act, 339 canvassed by him;;                                                   :
for Cavendish, 347 solicits Sedgwick's                                                      :
good offices for Boden Professorship                                 Riding of Yorkshire,                   1835,         i.  441
                                                                  Morris, Joh. deputy
of Sanscrit, 1831, 382; death, 1853, ii.                                                                    for Sedgwick,          ii.
                                                                  458 works on Salter's catalogue,
268
                                                                  468
Miller, Hugh Sedgwick thanks for                                  Mosaic cosmogony Sedgwick's views on,
                   :                                                                   :
                                                                                                  :
Witness newspaper, and work on Old                                   ii. 79,         86, 343
Red Sandstone, 1845, ii. 89; letters                              Mull,                                         by Sedgwick,
                                                                                       of described

to, on structure of frontier-chain of                                 1827, 303
                                                                  Miinster, Count Geo.
Scotland, 1848, 147; on fishes of Old                                                                       :   his collection

Red Sandstone, 148, 160; thanks for                               bought, 1839, '8
                                                                  Murchison, Rod. Impey: first acquaint
Footprints         the Creator, 159
       i.                                                         ance with Sedgwick, 299; suggests
               : of

                               i.
                                             1, ;
Milner, Isaac preaches at Great St                                                                          i.

Mary's, 1807, against Cath. Emancipa                              jowtohfiientihtrthiStsfoi,eeudldr1g-8wiwn2i7ocS,rkck,o3,t03l1a30n19--d2--,;330p326a02;p0;e;jrohdiinseotsnschrpAaiaprrpetreiaornisnn
                86, and note; opposes Lord
tion,
Hen. Petty, 1806,
                                 88 enthusiastic

support of ministers, 1807, 89; supports                          finished, 314, 315; remonstrates with
Duke of Gloucester, 181 108; drafts

petition against Roman Catholic claims,                           Sedgwick, 318; second paper finished
                                                                  and read, 321; suggests continental
     1812, 118                                                                t3o49S--ed3g57w;ickjo,in3t 40p;apearcscouonnt         of
                                                                  tour                                                             the
Milton House: Sedgwick visits, 1828,                              this,

   ' 335 1841, ii. 23
Mineralogy, Professorship of Grace to
       ;                                                          results, 358 takes second tour alone,
                                         i.                                            ;
                                                                                            ;
                                                   :
                                                                                                                                     is
continue, 15 May, 1822, 235; nomi                                 1829, 360, 363; supports Herschel as
                                                                  President of Royal Society, 1830, 365;
nation by the Heads announced, 236                        ;;      begins Silurian System, 1831, 376;
Representation against this signed, ibid.
Grace to rescind Grace of 15 May                                  paper on Wales at York, ii. 518;

rejected, 27 May, 237            ;    two              persons    said to have advised Sedgwick to refuse
nominated by Heads,              ibid.;               proceed     living of East Farleigh, 1832, 384; in
                                                                  vites him to share his first Silurian
   ings at election, 28 May, 238; subse                           researches, 397 his Welsh paper, 1833,
   quent proceedings, 239 -- 245                                  ii. 524; do. 1834, 525; goes with
Mineral Masses: paper on discussed, ii.                           Sedgwick to South Wales, 1834, 429;
                                                                  to St Abbs Head, etc., 431; reads
    508                                                           joint paper at Dublin meeting of Brit.
                                                                  Ass. On Silurian and Cambrian Sys
Monk, Ja. Hen.: made tutor at Trin.                               tems, 1835, 444, 448; visits N. of
Coll. 1815,                138; offers assistant-                 Ireland with Sedgwick, 448; goes to
     ;
tutorship to Sedgwick, ibid.: writes; i.
memoir of E. V. Blomfield, 1816, 143,
note signs notice of meeting to insti
tute Philosophical Society, 181 206;                              Devonshire to study coal-deposits,
                                                      9,

controversy with Sir T. E. Smith,                                 ibid. sends MS. for revision to Sedg
1818 -- 19, 216 applied to by Sedgwick                                      ;

                                                                                           of

                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                  wick, 1836, 453; goes to Devon
in the matter of the Professorship of                             shire with him, 458; their joint paper
Mineralogy, 1823, 241 congratulated                               at Bristol meeting of Brit. Ass. A
by him on Bishopric of Gloucester,i. ;                                                                      Old Slale /focis
   1830, 363 visits Sedgwick at Norwich,                          tChleasAs'i,ficoaftioDnevonshtihree,        460 recalled         of
   1853, ii. 248;
Montgomery, Col.: visits N. of Ireland                                                                                             by
                                                                  his mother's illness, 461 invites Whe-
with Sedgwick, 1835, 448                                          well to be President of the Geological
                                                                  Society, 1836, 463; joint paper with

                                                INDEX.                                                                          621

Sedgwick on Raised Beach in Barn                                             229; meeting of British Association at,

staple Bay, 1837, 466; anxiety for                                           1838, 514
p--ub4l8ic0a;tionpartof  structure of Devon, 473                             Newman, Joh. Hen. : thoughts on his
                         of his Silurian System                                 secession, ii.
revised by Sedgwick, 500 and note, ii.                                       Newton, Sir          I9.3:  Woodward
531; publishes The Silurian System,                                                                                       dedicates

1839, 520; asks Sedgwick to review it                                        his Classification of Fossils to him, .
in The Times, ibid.; joint paper with
                                                                             177; Woodward's grave near his, 180;
                                                                             contrasted with Woodward by Middle-

him on Older Stratified Rocks of Devon,                                      ton and Bentley, 188, 189
                                                                                     Thos.: candidate for Wood ward-
522; suggests continental tour, 524;                                            ian Chair, 1788, i. 195
                                                                             Nightingale, Miss : her work as a nurse,
their tour in Germany and Belgium,

525 ; difficulties in arriving at conclu                                        ii.  297      of
sions, 526; joint paper read, 1840, 528;                                     Nile,    battle

starts for Russia, ibid. ; opposition to                                                          the:   Sedgwick's       bonfire to
Whewell, 1844, ii. 70; letter from
                                                                                celebrate, i. 51
Sedgwick on geology of N. Wales, 1846,                                       Nine: mysteries of this number, ii. 266
                                                                             Northumberland: Sedgwick visits, 1830,
104; receives honorary degree at Cam

bridge,     --184573,9;  126; geological   papers,                           i. 364
       536                  takes short   tour in                                    Duke of: installed Chancellor at
                                                                                Cambridge, ii. 47
Scotland with Sedgwick, 1850, 184;                                           Northwich : salt mine visited by Sedg

invited by him to a geological tour,

1851, 209; Sedgwick s estrangement                                              wick,  1837,      Ei. li4o9t0:            Miss      R.
                                                                             Norton,   Cha.
from, 216; writes explanatory letter to                                                                         marries         S.

him, 1852,      218; articles     in Literary                                   Sedgwick, ii. 389 ; visits Sedgwick with
Gazette, ibid.   ii. 541 -- 553;   letter from                                  his wife, 446
                                                                             Norwich : Sedgwick ordained deacon at,
Sedgwick on controversy, 1853, 250;
paper at Liverpool meeting of Brit.                                          --i.
Ass. 1854, 279 ; discussion of the                                                   151;   made prebendary      of, 1834, 43s
                                                                                     437 ;  describes society   at, 437 ; Miss
                         value of his and                                    Clarke, 453; describes his domestic
comparative               279 -- 285; friendly  Sedg                         life at, 467; death of Bp Bathurst,
wick's work,                                      inci

dent between them at Glasgow, 1855,                                          485; sermons criticised by Canon
                                                                             Wodehouse, 1837, 496; describes house
304 ; discussion with        Sedgwick at
Cheltenham, 1856,        324 ; at Man                                        hold, 501; Bishop Stanley's family, 502;

chester, 1861, 373; notice of their es                                       presides at dinner of Philosophical

trangement, 441 ; Sedgwick writes to,                                        Society, 1840, ii. 18; controversy with
on Lady Murchison's death, 1869, ibid. ;                                     Miles, 184 1, 23; hospitalities, 1842,
                                                                             38; residence at, 48; life at, 1844,
   sends Christmas greetings to, 1870, 459
Murchison, Mrs: her help to her husband,                                     65; Archaeological Institute at, 1847,
                                                                             129; visit of Jenny Lind, ibid.; second
i. 308, note; her picture sent to Sedg                                       visit, 1849, 152; trial of Rush, 155;
   wick, 316; her death, 441
Musgrave, Ch.: reads with Sedgwick at                                        Sedgwick s accident at, 157; establish
Lowestoft, 1812, i. 121, 122; writes                                         ment of his nephew and niece, 1853,
him an account of France in 1814,
133; ordained deacon at Norwich, 151;                                        246; residence at, 1854, 272; 1856,
                                                                             324; large congregations at, 1857, 334;
visits the Lakes with Sedgwick, ibid.                                        Sedgwick's winter dress, 332; sermons
          , Tho. :
against tests, 1834,     ap1c.rtoi4om1n9ota;egsoapinpsotpseeTtsihtiioDrnlr-  on Commandments, 1858, 344; heavy
Wordsworth in his                                                            snow at, 1867, 428; advocates reception
                                                                             of Brit. Ass. at, 429; Brit. Ass. at,

wall, 427, and note; leaves College,                                         1868, 439; speaks against export of
                                                                             articles                            of war, 1870, 457 ;
1837, 481                                                                    meeting        contraband          in Sedgwick's rooms
                                                                                            of Chapter
Napier, Sir C. J. : Sedgwick's feelings on
    his death, ii. 263                                                       at Cambridge,               1872,    471  ;   general ac
            , Macvey: asks Sedgwick to review                                count of his life           and              there, 564--
    the Vestiges, ii. 83, 87 ; his despair at                                                                   work
   length of article, 88
                                                                             No5r9wi.ch Museum: lectures by Sedgwick
III.Napoleon I. : his defeat in Russia, ii. 289                                 at, 1835, i. 451; presentation of ink
                                                                                 stand, 1836, 472; elected President,
                   : attempt to assassinate, ii.                                1837, 501; further course of lectures,
                                                                                ibid.; do. in 1841, ii. 24; do. in 1844,
    342, 343, note                                                              66 ; detailed account of his lectures,
Naval Review: held in 1853, ii. 258                                              ii. 580
Newcastle on Tyne: Sedgwick visits, i.

622 INDEX.

Oeynhausen, K. von.: meets Sedgwick              petition against Catholic Emancipation,
   in Scotland, 1827, i. 306; visits him at      1828, 336; admitted ad eundem gradum
                                                 at Oxford, 1830, 383, note; proposes
    Cambridge, 307                               that a house be built for Camb. Phil.
Ogden, Sam. : appointed Woodwardian                                                          Dr Words
                                                 Soc.   1832, 396; opposes                    Thirlwall,
    Lecturer 1764, i. 193; his appearance        worth   in his action against
   and peculiarities, ibid. ; satiric verses
    on him, 194; story that he obtained          1834, 427 and note; made Lowndean
   the Lecturership by a bribe, ibid.:           Professor, 1836, 473; a probable
Oken, Laurenz: his theories criticised, ii.      Master of Trinity College, 1841, ii.

188                                              35; chairman of meeting to invite

Opie, Amelia: criticism of her Life, ii.         Brit. Ass. to Camb., 1844, 74; con
               society at Norwich,               sulted by Sedgwick respecting Commis
    274; her     for B.A.             565
Opponencies     i. 82 -- 85  degree:     system  sion, 172; appointed a Commissioner,
                                                 187; signs remonstrance against pro
   explained,                                    posed Bill, 1855, 292; Sedgwick's letter
Ordovician System: ii. 555
Otley, Jonathan : Sedgwick's opinion of,         to, on Parliamentary Commission, 340 ;
   i. 249, 151; his Guide to the Lakes,             his death, 351
   ibid, note; last illness, 1856, ii. 325       Peel, Sir R. : suggested as President of
Out-voters: payment of resisted, 1826, i.        Royal Society, 1827, i. 365, note
                                                   , Will. Yates : contests University,
    277, 278                                         1831, i. 375; elected, 376
Owen, Ri. : consulted by Sedgwick on             Peile, Williamson: writes joint paper

   the Vestiges, ii. 87 ; criticises fifth          with Sedgwick, 1833, i. 409; Sedgwick
   edition of Sedgwick's Discourse, 193;            visits, 1834, 431; corresponds with,
                                                   respecting Dr Brennan, 1837, 493
   supports Sedgwick for Copley medal,           Pennington, Sir Isaac : notice of his death,

395. 398

paired, ii. 407                                     i. 150
Palaeozoic rocks: Sedgwick's intended            Pentamerus beds: ii. 529
work on, ii. 34 ; will publish pamphlet
on, 54; third Fasciculus of work on,             Pentland, J. B. : assists                   Sedgwick in
                                                    determining fossil fish,                 1828, i. 314,
                completion of, 305
    1853, 256;  takes his son to Cambridge       317.3"
                                                 Permian Series : 506, 507
Paley, Will. :                                   Peterborough: deanery of, offered to
                                                              ii.
   on a pony, i. 36                                                 ii.
Palmer, Joh. : senior wrangler 1792, and            Sedgwick, 248
                                                 Pettiward, Dan.: Sedgwick visits, 18 12,
   pupil of Joh. Dawson, i. 65, note                 124; supports Sedgwick for Wood
Palmerston, Vise.: contests University,          i.

   1807, i. 87 -- 89; elected, 181 1, 108;       wardian Chair,
   Sedgwick supports, 1825, 268; probable                     i.                  163
                                                                     :1
                                                                        81
                                                                              8,
                                                 Petty, Lord Hen. candidate for Univer
success, 270; election, 1826, 277; de                                87; account of his elec
                                                 sity, 1807,
                                                    tion, 1806, 88; defeat, 1807, 89
   feated, 1831, 376; meets Sedgwick at          Phelps, Rob., Master of Sidney Sussex
   Cambridge, 1864, ii. 404
Paris: Sedgwick visits, 18 16, i. 143;              Coll. supports invitation to Brit. Ass.
with Whewell, 1826, 270; with nieces,                :
                                                                  :
    1854, ii. 288                                   1844, ii. 71
Parker, Mr, Sedgwick's godfather : takes         Phillips, Joh. paper at Dublin meetingi.

him to Cumberland, 1792, i. 47; Sedg                of Brit. Ass. 1835, 448; Sedgwick's
   wick visits, 181 2, 115                          paper On Nomenclature and Classifi
Parkinson, Ja. : specimens from his col             cation Older Paleozoic Rocks referred
                                                        of
   lection bought for Woodwardian Mu
                                                 to, 1852, ii. 216; congratulates Sedg
                                                    wick on Copley medal, 1863, 397; first
   seum, 1827, i. 280                               meeting with Sedgwick, 398
Peacock, Dan. Mitford, vicar of Sedbergh :       Philosophical Society, Cambridge: want
advises Sedgwick's entrance at Trin.             of, felt by Sedgwick and Henslow,
Coll. i. 60; paints portrait of Joh.                          205; history of foundation,
                                                 819,
                                                 1
                                                             i.
                                                                   ;
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                         i.
Dawson, 70, and note                             205--207 Sedgwick's speeches at the
     , Edw.: intimate with Sedgwick,             annual dinner, 207; reads papers on
i. 81; elected Fellow of Trin. Coll.             Cornwall, 1820, 1821, 213, 285; on

1810, 100                                        High Teesdale, 291 elected President,
                                                 1831, 397; charter of incorporation
       , Geo. : reads with Sedgwick at           obtained, 1832, 396; Sedgwick again
Lowestoft, 1812, i. 121, 122; signs              President, 1853, ii. 265; notice of his
notice of meeting to institute Philo             attendance at anniversary dinner, 1856,
sophical Society, 1819, 206; opposes

                                         INDEX.                                                     623

   326; 1867, 426; 1869, 450; his criti         Rebellion of  1745: recollections of, i.            51
   cism of Darwin's Origin of Species           Reform Bill:    feelings in University              re
   before, i860, 361 ; invitation to Brit.
   Ass. to visit Cambridge in 1862, 366         specting, i. 373 ; petition against, ibid. ;
Playfair, Joh. : visits Joh. Dawson at          Sedgwick's opinion on, 1807, 431
    Sedbergh, i. 68                             renable,  loTquhaoc.i:ouss:uppio. r2ts5
                                                Rennell,                                 Lord   Hervey,

Plymouth : account of construction of           1822, i. 259
breakwater, i. 114; Brit. Ass. meets            Representatives (University): election of
at, 1841, ii. 26                                Lord H. Petty (1806), i. 88; of Lord
Poikilitic Series: ii. 503 -- 506               Euston and Sir V. Gibbs (1807), 89;
Porridge Club : account of,    ii. 496          of Vise. Palmerston                                 ; of
Porson, Ri.: funeral in Trin.  Coll. chapel,    Will. Joh. Bankes           (18(2128)1,1),2561--08  259;
                                                of Sir Joh.
    1808, i. 99                                               Co27p5le--y  and           Vise.   Palmer
Portsmouth: Sedgwick's visit to, 1825,          ston (1826),               278;            of   Sir Nic.

    i. 267; 1853, ii. 257                       MCMorrnyGnCogauhvalebmnudrisnhTainnd(d1aM8l2r9)P(,1e8e23l 47(1)1,--832317)4,89;3; 76oo;ff
Potts, Matth., of Dent: follows Scottish

army in 1745, i. 50                             of Mr Goulburn and Rt Hon. Manners
Pre-Raphaelite   School: criticism, ii.
Prescott, Will.                          363    Sutton (1832), 398; of Mr Walpole
                 H.: meets Sedgwick         at

Inverary Castle, 1850, ii. 184; con             (1856), ii. 318
versation with, on slavery, 185, and            Richardson, Sir Joh. : decides question
                                                of right of nomination to Professorship
note

Priestley, Tho.: his controversy with           of Mineralogy, 1827, i. 245
   Joh. Dawson, i. 68, and note                           , Sam. : his novels read in

Pryme, Ch. de la: Sedgwick congratu                Dent, i. 23; Clarissa read by Sedg
lates, on his marriage, ii. 449                    wick, ii. 197
       , Geo. : plays cricket with Sedg         Richmond, Bp. of : sermon at opening of
                                                   Dent Church, ii. 485
wick at Sedbergh, i. 82; their friend           Ritson, Miss: her verses on the Lowes
ship at Cambridge, ibid.; associates
with Fellow-Commoners, 106 ; his Ode            toft party, 181 2, i. 120
to Trinity College quoted, 107; action          Roberts, Rob. : Sedgwick's pupil at
at contested election for University,              Ditton, 1808, i. 98
                                                Robin Hood's Bay : accident to Sedg
1807, 89; examines for Sedgwick,                   wick in, i. 227
1813, 127; supports Mr Gorham,                  Robinson, Crabb : Sedgwick's acquaint
181 8, 160; his account of Sedgwick's           ance with, ii. 426
ignorance of geology, 161 ; joins the
Greek Committee, 1823, 235 note;                Rochester: Sedgwick visits,              ii. 414
Greek Deputies stay with him, 1824,             Rogers, Prof. H. B. : writes             to Sedgwick
ibid. ; attitude towards the Reform             on his Cambrian system, ii. 284
Bill, 183 1, 373; offers Graces respect                   Catholic Claims
ing abolition of Tests, 1833, 418;              Roman    against, 1812, i.  1:17U--niv1e19rs; itsyecpoentid
                                                   tion

moves for issue of a Commission, 1837,          do. (November), 126; frequency of
ii. 169; allusion to, 401; recollections
                                                petitions against, 257; petition against

of, 449                                         rejected, 1829, 336; verses on this,
                                                ibid.

Quakers, in Kirthwaite : i. 1 1                 Romilly, Sir Joh. : appointed a com
                                                   missioner, 1850, ii. 187; signs remon
Radnor, Lord : moves for issue of a Com            strances against proposed Bill, 1855,
   mission, 1837, ii. 169
                                                292
rake-veins: vertical fissures in mines, i.
                                                       , Jos. : joins Committee in aid of
200                                             Greeks, 182 1, i. 235, note; his friend
Ramsden, Ri. : alarmed at Will. Joh.            ship for Sedgwick, 281 ; his diary, ibid.
Bankes' supposed Romanism, i. 259               note; gives silhouette of Sedgwick to
Ranke: his German Reformation,      ii.         Registry, 309 note; opposes petition
Rawthey, R. : course described, i.       113    against Catholic Emancipation, 1828,
                                    6           336; opposes Dr Wordsworth in his
Ray, Joh. : criticises Dr Woodward's            action against Thirlwall, 1834, 427 and
Essay, i. 174                                   note; attendance on Sedgwick, ii. 374;
Ray Club: Sedgwick elected to, 1839,            allusions to, 402 ; his death, 1864, 405 ;
ii. 42, note; account of Club, ibid.;           funeral, 406; excursion with Sedgwick
Sedgwick receives, 1842, ibid.; resigns,        to Clayhithe, 499

446

624 INDEX.

Rossall School ; Sedgwick's letter to a                               Sccti2oihh.9tials9a2i,--n9n,--d33:0036164t;8o;4;u8sgri,hneoworlWt1iot4ghi4tigco--taMuolrnu1srw4wch8ohi;itrrihekso,conMrnie,tutisccr1o.cis8uhm2ti1hs78eo.4rnn1oi,.,f
   boy at, ii. 378                                                       1850, 184; tour with him proposed,
Royal Society : Sedgwick elected Fellow,
1820, i. 365, note; opposition to D. of

Sussex as President, i. 365 ; Copley
   medal adjudged to Sedgwick,                  Niio. rw39i5ch,
                                                                      1851, 209; pleasure-tour in, 1815, 302
Rush, Ja. Bloomfield : his trial at
    "55-- '57
                                                                         --304
Russell, Lord John: proposes to issue a                               Scott. Walt.: Sedgwick meets, 1825, i.
                                                                      265; supports movement to honour
   Commission, 1847,11. 169; is dissuaded                             memory of, 1832, 397; account of his
   by Prince Albert, 170; receives me                                 dinner with, 1830, ii. 302
morialists in favour of such Commission,
ibid. ; declines to support Mr Heywood's
                                                                      Sedbergh : position, i. 6                 of, in Sedg
                                                                                                                description of
motion, 171; intends to advise the                                              School  :   account
Crown to issue a Commission, ibid. ;                                  wick's time,      i.  54 -- 59 ;

conciliatory speech, ibid.; asks Sedg                                 the building, 58
wick, Bishop of Chester and Dean of                                   Sedgwick, in Westmoreland : supposed
   Ely to be Commissioners, 172                                       birth-place of Sedgwick clan, i. 33
Russia: Napoleon's defeat in, 1812, ii.                               Sedogf wnicakme,fai.m3il2y--:  origin and
                                                                                                     35 ; position  etymology
289                                                                                                                  of family
                                                                      at end of 16th cent., 35; American
Ruthven, Joh.: Sedgwick's opinion of, i.                                                ii. 367
250, 251 ; first summer in the field with                                branch of,     Adam:
hWCihmaalrelise1,,84158,9416--,ii.              story of his dog                                                     character
                                       91  ;                          Sedgwick,          1-- 4,        general      height and
                                    93;       with Sedgwick in              istics, i.               ii. 501 ;
                                              in Scotland, 1848,
                                    104;                              personal          appearance, i. 72, ii.          ib48id5.;;
144 ; does work in Scotland for Sedg                                  manners,            497; conversation,
wick, 1849, 146; goes to Wales with
Sedgwick, 1851, 210; his death, 1868,                                 handwriting, 495 ; chronic ill-health,
                                                                              generosity,                499 ;  pen-and-ink
   44'                                                                498 ;                             Davis,  i. 255 ; col
Rutland, Duke of: candidate for Chan                                  sketch  of, by Mr

                                                                      lege rooms, in 1805, i. 78; in 1825,
                                                                                                         daily          ii. 495 ;
cellorship, 181 1, i. 108; Sedgwick's                                 i. 387 ;          ii. 494      ;  ibid.;  life,  Porridge
                                                                      love of           society,                the
opinion of, 109                                                       Club, 496 ; college friends, i. 280 ;

Sabine, Gen. Sir E.: resumes Sedgwick's                               fondness for ladies and young people,
   work, ii. 561
Salamanca, battle of: Sedgwick receives                               i. 281, ii. 577; for open-air exercise,
                                                                           498 for riding, 499, 582 for
                                                                      ii.     i. ;                   i.
                                                                                  i. 8                    5,
                                                                                                                i.

                                                                                                                   ii

                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                     ;;
news of, at Lowestoft, 1812, i. 124                                   writing letters,                   ii. 460, 495 for
Salisbury:                                                            his birth-place, Dent, 5, 53 recol
Salter, Joh.  SWedigllw. i:ckwrivteissitsr,em1i8n7is0c,eniic.es45o3f  lections of old manners and customs
                                                                                        -- 32; his nurse Peggy
Sedgwick, i. 49, and note; Sedgwick                                   there,

describes Dolcoath mine to, 332; ac                                   Beckett,              10, ii. 245 invents an
                                                                                                     ;
companies Sedgwick to North Wales,                                    etymology for the                             ;
                                                                      reminiscences of
                                                                      early hatred of                                        ; i.

                                                                      Romanism, 88                                                            ;;
1842, ii. 48; in 1843, 56, ii. 554; does                                                                family name,    --4343
work in Woodwardian Museum, 118;                                                                        his father, 39
                                                                                                        slave-trade, 87                          of
his obligations to Sedgwick, 284;                                                                         criticism of                          Dr
attacks Sedgwick's views on Cambria,                                  Woodward's geological views, 173;
1853, 255; prepares catalogue of Cam                                  of MichelPs do., 192; deplores his
brian and Silurian fossils in Wood                                    own early devotion to Werner, 251,

wardian Museum, 467; Sedgwick's                                       and note;         2sk52et--ch      called Joe and the
                                                                      Geologist,
    Preface to this, 468                                                                                254; characteristics
                                                                      of geological papers and work, 338;
Scalby, near Scarborough : Ja. Sedgwick                               of geological lectures, ii. 487-- 490;
                                                                      testimony of                   BpT.ayolofr,Ca4r8li8sle,of48M7 r
   app. vicar of, 1840, i. 38                                         of Mr Sedley                   489 letter from B.
Scaleby Castle, near Carlisle: Sedgwick                               H. G. Seeley,                                 ;
                                                                           ;
   visits, 1793, i. 47                                                                 ;                               J.
                                                                                                                                    ;
Scarlett, Ja : contests University, 1822,                                                  a
                                                                                                      ;
       257    J. J. :                                                 Jukes, 490 from an undergraduate,
Scheuchzer,                         translates  Woodward's            ibid. sympathy                    of his pupils, 490
                                                                      account of                        field-lecture, 491                      ;;
    Essay  into Latin, i. 1                   74
Schlegel,    Will. : visits                      Cambridge,  ii.      d50e2ta--ile5d63a;ccouexnpt eorifengceeoslogicwailthwoMrkr,

    327                                                               Hunter in Mosdale,                 i.         254; with

Sconce, a partition : i. 24

                                                                                           INDEX.

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                                                           Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
                                                                                                                     In 1812: winter excursion to Winder
    the landlady at Wastwater, 256;                                                                                      mere, 114; visits Mr Parker, 115;

    reminiscences of, by Abp Benson,
                                     of                         ibid.;                                                   pupils in Lent Term, ibid. visits
             ii.                               --cha59ra0cter,
                      :;            564
                                             i.
          500          summary                                                                                                                                          ;
   life at           Norwich,                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                    7
In 1785                                                                                                                  London, 116; opposes University
                                                                                                                                                Catholic claims,
                     born at Dent, 45                                                                                    petition   against     at Lowestoft, 119 --
In 1785-93: childhood at Dent, 47;                                                                                       -- 119;    summer      Pettiward, 124; ap
                                                                                                                         124; visits Mr
    holiday in Cumberland, ibid.
In 1793-1801: tastes as a boy, 49;                                                                                       pointed sub-lecturer at Trinity, ibid.
                                                                                                                                                                               ;

    shooting, fishing, 50; reminiscences                                                                                 opposes second petition against
    of 1745, ibid; bonfire for victory of                                                                                Catholic claims, 126; carries news
    the Nile, 51 for Gunpowder Plot,                                                                                     of Napoleon's defeat in Russia to
                            ;                                                                                            Combination room, ii. 289
    52 sent to Durham with title-deeds,a                                                                                   1813: breaks blood-vessel,
             1;                                                                                                      In
                  ;                      ;
                                             a
IniiSbbeiiddd8.b0; e1rcb-ghrh1oo,8itch0ee4r:5os4fli--faenc5do9alslseisgtees,rcsshc6,oh0oo5;lo3feleblnlootyewrse,adt                 a                                          127;
                                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                                         holiday at Dent, ibid.; visits Lakes,

                                                                                                                     In  128--130        frost,        131;             advised
                                                                                                                           1814: severe
             sizar at Trinity (1803), ibid.                                                                              to take curacy in Northampton
a

In 1804: reads mathematics with Mr                                                                                       shire, ibid. autumn at Dent with
    Dawson, 60; his account of him,
    61 -- 70; begins residence at Trinity,                                                                               Ainger and his brother, 132; visits
                                                                                                                         York,                         Hull, 133
    J7o1n;esa,cco7u3n--t     of     his tutor, Rev. T.                                                               In   1815:     Beverley,   and          journey           to
                                                                                                                                      prepares    for
                            75      spends Christmas                                                                     is
                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                       is

                                                                                                                                                                     a
             :                                                                                                           France, 134; learns French, ibid.;
                                a;                                                                                       reading divinity, ibid.; driven
   with Ainger at                 Whittlesea, 76
In 1805 obtains                     first class in College                                                               home by fever at Cambridge (May),
                                                                                                                         '35 brings news of Battle of Water
    examination, 76; spends summer at
    Dent with Joh. Carr, 77 attack of
    typhoid fever, ibid; news of battle             ;                                                                    loo to Dent, 137                offered assistant-
                                                                                                                         tutorship at Trin.          Coll., 138; subjects
    of Trafalgar, 78; full account of                                                                                InoGfe1rl8em1cat6un:rye,sv,isHit1os4l2laFnradn,ceB,elgSiuwmitz, erl1a4n2d--,

    this,    : ii.   238

In 1806              placed in first class in College

    examination, 79; summer at Dent,                                                                                 In  149
    ibid.; recollections of H. Kirke                                                                                       181      ordained deacon at Nor
    White, and Robert Hall, 79--81                                                                                              7:  is
                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                           ;                             wich, 151; spends Long Vacation in

In  college friends, 81                                                                                                  the north, ibid. pays two visits to
                                                                                                                         the Lakes, ibid.; goes out shooting
      1807:             preparation    for degree, 82;                                                                   for the last time, 152; work in
    keeps            first Act, 85;  University gossip,                                                                 Michaelmas Term, 153
                                                                                                                     In 1818: ordained priest (February),
    86; reading for Senate-House ex

    amination, 87 elected to scholarship                                                                                            is
    1                                                                                                                                                               a
             :

                             ;;
                                       ;

                                                        ;;
    at Trinity, 91 possibility of return                                                                                 151, note; rumours of vacancy in
    to Dent as schoolmaster, 92 of being
   Senior            Wrangler, 93                                                                                        the Woodwardian        elPercotfioenss, ors1h5i2p--,  152;
                      examination                                                                                        account of the                                        165;
In 1808:
                                               for  degree,                                94;                           Sedgwick's geological         --kno1w65le; dfguertheart
                                                                                                                         this time discussed, 159
    wish to          read   Dfeonr t,the96B--ar,989;5       spring                                                       reference to, 287; his own account
    months            at                                  reading                                                        in 1858, ii. 349; account by Mr

    party at Ditton, 98 attends Porson's                                                                                 Evans, 502, note; summer excursion
   funeral,
                      99    to  obtain         Fellowship at                                                             to Derbyshire and Staffordshire,
In 809               fails                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                               '

                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                   '

                                                                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                                                                                    ; i.
IInnTwr11oi8n8r111k1t0yw:, ivteh9ils9eitcptuetpodilsLt,oon1dF0oe1nl--lo, w1100s34h,ipii,.  100;                         199--203 elected Fellow of Geolo
  proceeds to M. A. degree, 105;                                                           452                       Inglo11gc8aic1la9lS:olecdcieettuliyvrees(r,Ns o2v0fei3rms;tbinecro)Eu,arsset2e9r8oTf egremo,
                                                                                            dis
             ;:                                                                                                         ii. 349; visits Isle of Wight with
                                         ;

                                                i.
                                                                          ;
    appointed with society at High Table,                                                                                Henslow in Easter vacation, 204
    ibid. opinion of Duke of Rutland,                                                                                    foundation of Cambridge Philo
                             Installation           of Duke of                                                           sophical Society, 205 -- 207; account
    109; enjoys             no, ii. 405;            books read                                                           of Sedgwick's speeches at the annual
    Gloucester,

    in Lent Term, 112 reading party at                                                                                   dinners, 207; visits coast of Suffolk
    Bury St Edmunds, 113, ii. 426;                                                                                       (June), 209; his accident there, ibid.;
    pupils in Michaelmas Term, 113;
    Christmas at Dent, ibid.                                                                                                    manager at public breakfast to

                                                                                                                         Chancellor, 210; summer tour in

             S. II.                                                                                                                                                     40

626 INDEX.

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                             Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
       West of England, 210-- 214; with
      Dr Gilby at Bristol, 211; describes                  tested election for University, 257;
       construction of Plymouth break                      account of Will.              sBisatenrkeIss,ab25e8lla,
                                                       In             : death of   Joh.
                                                           251892--3  261; letter   his

water, 212; meets Joh. Josias Cony-                                                to Cambridge Chro
beare at Penzance, 213; explores
Cornwall, ibid. ; is made chaplain to                      nicle on Profp. of Mineralogy, 240;
H.R.H. the Duke of Sussex, 366,                            answered by Dr French, ibid.; pub
                                                           lishes A Reply to an Address to the
note                                                       Senate, 242; summer in Lake land,
In 1820: urges Henslow to buy Mega-
ceros in Isle of Man, 214; paper on                        246, 261; suggestion respecting the
Primitive Ridge of Devon and Corn
wall discussed, 285 ; enumeration of                       name of The King's Court at Trin.
                                                          Coll. 263
                                                       In 1824: elected member of Council
lectures given previous to June, 1820,                     of Geological        tShoecioebtys,erv2a9t9io; npsubolifshDesr
                                                           Remarks on
224 ; is preparing to print two, ibid. ;                   French, 243; continued exploration
summer tour in West of England,
215 -- 220; visits       W.   H. Mill at                   of Lake land, 246, 261; absence of
Taplow, 215; with        W.  D. Conybeare                  letters for this year, 262; lecture to
at Bristol, 217; on the Mendips, 218;                      ladies in Michaelmas Term, 263 ;
examines Cathedral at Wells, ibid. ;                      visits Edinburgh with Whewell,
                                                       In 1825 : presented to vicarage           26o4f
visits coast of Dorsetshire, 219; stays
with his brother James in Isle of
Wight, ibid. ; his mother's death,                         Shudy      Camps,      265  ; summer excur                ;
ibid., 221; is made F.R.S., 365,                           sion to    Sussex
                                                                                with   Dr Fitton, 266
                                                           Jspends a month at Freshwater with
    note                                                    a. Sedgwick, 267; visits Ports
                                                           mouth, ibid. ; supports Visc. Palmer-
In 1821 : paper on Lizard District                         ston for Univ. Representative, 268 ;
   (read April and May) discussed, 288;                    entertains Mr Horner and family,
   syllabus of lectures published this                     282 ; paper on Alluvial and Diluvial
   year examined, ibid.; additions to                  InF1o8r2m6 a:tiaonnxsietdyiscruessspeedc,tin2g91his father's
   Woodwardian Museum, 222; in                             health, 269; supports Copley and
   crease of stipend, 223. 224 ; becomes                                        for University   (June),
   godfather to Ainger's child, 225;                       P27a5lm--er2st7o7n;  resists payment  of out
   goes to Isle of Wight, ibid., 233;
                                                           voters, 277; begins to read paper
    returns to Cambridge, and starts on

summer tour, 226; buys fossils at                         On the Magnesian Limestone (No
Litchfield, 233; visits Gilby near                     Inwve1em8ll2b7e(D:r)e,cee2lm9e4cbtee;rd)v,isitV2s7icCPe<--a-rPi-s2re73wsiidthenWt heof
Bridlington in Yorkshire and with
                                                          Geological Society, 275; supports
him explores coast, 227; one eye                          Sir Nic. Conyngham Tindal for Uni
seriously injured by a splinter of rock
in Robin Hood's bay, ibid, and note;                       versity, 278; purchases specimens
visits coast of Durham, Tynemouth,                         Jlate the property of as. Parkinson,
and Newcastle, 229; meets Bewick,                          280; starts with Murchison for Scot
233; visits Teesdale, 230; paper on                        land (July), 300; describes I. of Arran
Trap Rocks associated with Mountain

Limestone (read 1823-24) discussed,                        to Whewell, 301; describes            I.   of
291; letter on Strata of Yorkshire                         Mull, I. of Skye, etc. to same,            --
Coast (publ. 1826) discussed, 293;                                                               302
   number  of  lectures  delivered, 234                    304; visits Lyell, 306; is made
               report    to Woodwardian                    Senior Proctor, ibid.; suffers from
In 1822:

auditors, 233; takes a prominent                           weak        eyes, 307 ;   proctorial duties,
                                                                      silhouette by  MMu.rEchdiosuoanr,t,30390--9;
part against the Heads respecting                          308;
right of nomination to Professorship                       joint      papers with
of Mineralogy, 238; interview with                     I1n8g13w82e1o2o8--rl2ok;8g,1:Mi8c3a2pu1l7a2rc:p;hepdraimsipsooeecnndrus'isscA,sariosl2rhna8a4tnrre--oefafint2iminS9seeh7tnedhtdge,,wfiii3bce1klidd4'-s.;
Dr French, ibid.; protests against
form of election, 239; proposes to
Vice-Chancellor joint application to
Court of King's Bench, ibid.; swears
affidavit before Court of King's Bench,
ibid.; summer in Lake land, 246;                           read to Geological Society, 315;
                                                           value of this discussed,
sketch  scuapllpeodrtsJoeMranSdcatrhleett  Geologist,      in commencing second            325;  d3e1la6y--s
252 ;                                        in con-                                     paper,
                                                           319; promotes election of Babbage

                                             INDEX.                                                                                                     627

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                                      Sedgwick, Adam, continued:

    as Lucasian Professor, 320; second                                                              Murchison in his first Silurian re
                                                                                                                                  tour in North Wales,
    paper read, 321, 321;                   criticism  --of                                         s3e7a7r--che3s8,2;376  i. is ;accompanied by Ch.
    this, 327; death of his               father, 322
    324; proposed geological work with                                                              Darwin, 379; paper on Caernarvon
    cCWooa.rtnhDw.maliClnoenw, yib3the2a9rW--e,h3e3w13e2;l4l,;geov3il3so0igt;sisevsDisoitilsn-      shire, ii. 517, 523; tries to obtain
    Conybeare in South Wales, ibid.;                                                                Oxford Professorship of Sanscrit for
                                                                                                    W. H. Mill, 382; entertains Ma-
                                                                                                   caulay and his sisters, 282
    asked to become President of Geolo                                                          In 1832: publishes Syllabus of lectures,

    gical Society, 333 ; accepts reluctantly,                                                      23S8o83m8--;edr3ve8cil6llien;esinreliTcveriniivnge.soCf oDElla.rst3a8Fn7ad--rl3e9iMg0hrs,
    334 ; spends Christmas at Milton                                                               attends meeting of Brit. Ass. at Ox
   House,
In 1829:         335          University petition                                                                                              i.
                 opposes                                                                                                                                    ;;
    against Catholic Emancipation, 336 ;                                                                                                              ii.395118--
                                                                                                    ford, 390       paper read there,
                                                                                                    geological
    hears Duke of Wellington's speech                                                               it,            tour in N. Wales,
    in favour of, 337 ; installed President                                                         396; gen. account of his sections, ii.i.
    of Geological Society, ibid. ; speech                                                           519 -- 524; charter of Camb. Phil.
    to congratulate Herschel on his                                                                          J. ; ;
    marriage, 338; Divinity Act, 339;                                                               Soc. 396               movement  to honour the
                                                                                                    memory of                         Scott, 397;
                                                                                                                             Sir W.
                                                                                                                           W. Lubbock as Univer
    agrees to accompany Murchison                                                                   supports

    faobrroadC,ave3n4d0i;sh,can3v4a1ss--es349v;igorworuitselsy                                      sity representative, 398; preaches
    letter to Goulburn, 343; starts for                                                             Commemoration Sermon in Trin.
                                                                                                    Coll. 399; analysis and criticism of
                                account of    tour,
    continent,          349;  the Archduke                                                      In     400--405                   of illness,  406;     visit
    349 -- 357;        meets  details, 356;  John,                                                  1833: attack

    353; geological                          paper                                                  to Walton-on-the-Naze, ibid. Presi
                                                                                                                                                      ;;
    read to Geological Society,              335588--;                                              dent of British Association at Cam                             ;
    Sedgwick's own account of                                                                       bridge, 406 -- 408; visits Charnwood
                       ;                                                                            Forest, 408               WMhritehWa.venP,ei4le0,9
    360                       ;316                                                                  paper with             ;                             joint
      1830:                                                                                                                                             ibid.
In               presidential addressa    to Geo
                                               ;
    logical Society,                   examined before                                              writes appendix to Discourse, 410;
                                              ; it,
                                                                                                             to R. M. Beverley, 410--
                                                                     a                                       Brougham's Discourse on
    Committee of House of Commons on                                                                replies                                             416;
    the Coal Measures, 362 attends                                                                  revises
    Committee to direct survey of the                                                                                                                   Na

    NThoartmhuems, b3e6r3lands,umm36e4r;  excursion to                                             tural Theology, 433, note; paper on
                                           dines with                                              N. Wales, ii. 526
                                                                                                In 1834: dislocation of right wrist,
                                                                                                   416; made chairman of meeting to
    Sir Walter Scott, ii. 302 visits                                                                         a
    Ingleborough, 365; opposes Duke of                                                                          i.

                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                i.
    Sussex as President of Royal Society,                                                           procure abolition of tests on proceed

                                                                                                    ing to degree, 417; presents petition
    ibid. receives ad eundem degree at                                                              to Earl Grey, ii. 173, 174; writes let
    1                                                                                               ter in The Times in vindication of his
           :1 ;
    Oxford, 383, note
Intai8n3s,             paper On the Lake Moun
                first  address on presenting the                                                    action,                420; further correspond
               366;
                                                                                                    ence, 421; letter to Bishop Blomfield,
    Wollaston medal to Will. Smith,                                                                 T42h1ir--l w4a25ll;'s                               of Mr
    367; presidential address, 368 -- 371                                                                                  action in respect
                       ;                                                                                                    resignation, 426;           letters
                            ;
    clorgityi,cis3m68--of3L7y0ello'sf                                                               from Southey and Wordsworth, 427;
                                                of

                                                                        ;
                                        Principles Geo                                              with Murchison in S. Wales, 429;
                                       Elie de Beaumont,                                            in N. Wales alone, 430; British As

    370; recants former views on dilu
    vium, ibid. attitude towards the                                                                sociation at Edinburgh, ibid. intro
                                                                                                    ;
    Reform Bill, 373; signs Declaration                                                                             a
    in favour of sitting members for Uni
                                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                             is ; ;
                                                                                                                                                 2;

                                                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                    duced to Prof. Agassiz, 430; visits
                                                                                                    St Abb's Head etc., with Murchison,

 versity, 374; writes Address to Senate   ;                                                        431 expects visit from Agassiz, 432
against Goulburn and Peel, 375;                                                                    made prebendary of Norwich, ibid.;
feelings on their election, 376; De
                                                                                                Inin1s8t3a5ll:atifoienld,-l4e3ct3u--re4,37 440 scheme for
scription of. . .a portion of the Carboni                                                          building new Library with new Geo
ferous Chain between Penigent and                                                                  logical Museums, ibid. contributes
Kirkby Stephen (March), ibid. revi
sion of paper on Eastern Alps, ibid.;                                                               .100, 441; contested election for
elected President of Phil. Soc. Camb.                                                               West Riding, ibid.
                                                                                                                                               accused of

    (May), 397; invited to accompany                                                                delivering political harangue from

                                                                                                                                     40 --

628 INDEX.

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                                    Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
      the pulpit at Dent, ibid, note; reads
    a paper on Structure ofLarge Mineral                                                          Association at Liverpool, 488 ; Presi
    Masses, ibid. ; statement of political                                                        dent of Geological Section, 493 ; reads
                                                                                       Miss       Notice of an Incursion of the Sea into
    oSBpirliilnt,iiso4hn43s,A;spso4re4c2siaetn;iotanbteioqanuteasDttuCboflruionrmt,,  ibid.;      the Collieries at Workington, ibid. ;
                                                                                      443 --      account of Brennan's gallantry and

    448 ; officiates as chaplain on board                                                         the subscription for him, 489, 493 ;
    the steamer from Liverpool, 444 ;                                                             visits Northwich salt-mines, 490;
    paper with Murchison On Silurian                                                              Warwickshire coal-field, ibid. ; Leices

    and Cambrian Systems, ibid.; visits                                                           tershire coal-field and Charnwood

    Lord Enniskillen at Florence Court,                                                           Forest with Greenough and Jukes,
    445; opinion on age of Suffolk Crag,                                                          490, 491, 495 ; dines with Philo
    446; on craters of elevation, erratic                                                         sophical Society at Leicester, 491;

                                                                                                  Canon Woodhouse remonstrates w1th,
    blocks, etc. ibid. ; visits Antrim, 445,                                                                    --at50N0o; rwthiicrhd,
    448; obtains skeleton of Irish Elk,                                                           on sermons                                        496;                           his
                                                                                                  defence, 497                                     edition                          of

In  449--451                          Norwich,                                                    Syllabus, 500; revises Murchison's
       1836:                                                                                      Silurian System, ibid., and note; ii.
                     lectures   at                                                    451;
    becomes acquainted withMissCIarke,
    453; difficult journey to Dent by                                                         In  531                         of household
                                                                                                    1838;  description                                                             at

    mountain-road,              Mi4s5s5Cla; rvkiesi,t45f6rom--C4a5p8;                             Norwich, 501 ; bishop's family, 502 ;
    tain Mooreand                                                                                 J.Dl5boe0lfuto9tckReke;rosm,potrafooneSptuocAss.t,lseueesmx5x.0uh2aleit--Aadlgati5hant0sn5Bseoiarzf;rtHtleooox.wnRpS,li.orHer5ar.0rtia6oWtthn--ice.

    g45o8es--w4i6t0h  ;  Murchison    to Devonshire,
                         their joint  paper at Bristol
    meeting of Brit. Ass., 460; returns to
    Devonshire, 461; visits Mr Crosse,
    ibid. ; examines Culm Measures with                                                           Herschel, 510 ; visits St Alban's with
    Mr Austen, ibid. ; goes into Cornwall                                                         Prof. Henslow, ibid ; presented to the
    alone, ibid. ; work there, 462 ; corre
    spondence with Whewell respecting                                                         Queen, 511; is godfather to Prof.
                                                                                              Buckland's youngestson, ibid; attends
    4P6r2es--ide4n65tsh; iopccuopfaGtioenoslogoicfaSledSgowciicekt'ys,                            Coronation, 51 1-- 513 ; holdsDuchess
                                                                                              of Argyleon his shoulder,                              84; visits
                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                i.

                                                                                                                                       ; ii.
                                                                                                                                                  1
    stiomneo, n4A65  ; joint    paper  with Murchi                                            Devon and Cornwall, 513; short tour
                     Raised     Beach  in Barnstaple                                          with Whewell, 514; British Associa
                                                                                              tion at Newcastle, 514 -- 516; speech
    Bay, 466; domestic economy at Nor
    wich, 467; employments at end of                                                                                                               at Alnwick
    Michaelmas Term, 468; Simeon's                                                            at Tynemouth, 515 stays                              wild cattle,
    death and funeral, 469; story of lion's                                                   Castle, 516; Chillingham
    cub called "Sedgwick," ibid.; criti                                                       ibid.; geology on coast of Durham,
                                                                                              517 at Whitehaven, ibid short visit
    cism of Auckland's Bridgnvater Trea                                                       to Dent, 518; exploration of Ingle-
    tise, 469 -- 471; presentation of ink
    stand by committee of Norwich                                                             182b8or--ou1g8h3, 8;519discussion of Sedgwick's
                                                                                                                        529 -- 539
In  Museum, 472          paper      with  Murchison                                              geological papers,      review The                                                Silu
      1837: joint
                                                                                              In 1839 declines to
                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                ;
    on physical structure of Devon, 473;                                                      rian System, 521; cordial approval
                                                                                              of it, 522 joint paper with Murchison
    Sedgwick's delays, 474; influenza,

    475 ; scene at the Geological Society,                                                    on Classification  aonfdthCeoorlndewrasltl,ratiibfiiedd
    476 ; letter to      Lyell   on the   4m77is--und4e8r0;
    standing with        de la  Beche,                                                        Rocks of Devon
                                                                                              tour with him in Germany and Bel
    affection of left eye, 480 ; departure                                                    Ingfiic1ua8mt4io,0n:5, 2o35rd2--e6r;5e2di6ll;-thodeiCaffhlitcehult,letine5hs27amof,
    of Thomas Musgrave, 481; paper read                                                                                                                                            classi
    On the Physical Structure of Devon                                                                                                                                               527;
    shire, 482 ; revises Babbage's Ninth                                                      joint paper with Murchison read,
                                                                                              528; Whewell dedicates Philosophy
    Bridgewater Treatise, 483, 484 ; death                                                        Inductive Sciences to, ii. loses his
    of Bishop Bathurst, 485; Sedgwick                                                         of
    spoken of as his successor, ibid. ;
                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                      9; ;9 ;2
    executor's work at Dent, 487, 488;                                                        niece Emma, ibid consolation and
                                of Cowgill                                                    advice to his nieces, -- a college
                                Sedgwick's  Chapel,                                           examination described,
    4fo8u7n,da49ti1on--   laid              address,                                                                                                 visit to
                         493;
    488; hasty visit to Devon, 489; con                                                       Ely,  1100;--o1p3e;nindgeaothf  tumulus                at Bart
                                                                                              low,                                                   Ainger,
                                                                                                                               of Dr
                                                                                              14 -- 16; promotes subscription for
    tested election at Dent, ibid. ; British

                                    INDEX.                                                            629

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                     Sedgwick, Adam, continued :

his monument, 16 ; supports Lord                   how little he has accomplished, ibid. ;
Lyttelton for High Steward of Uni                  is going to sit for his bust, ibid.;
                                                   reads Outline of the Geological Struc
versity, 17; criticises Agassiz and                ture of North Wales to Geological
his theory of glaciers, ibid ; presides            Society, 56; goes to North Wales
at annual dinner of Philosophical
Society at Norwich, 18; preaches in                with Salter, ibid.; short visit to

college chapel on Christmas Day,                   Westmoreland, ibid. ; visit of Queen
ibid; arrival of Count Munster's col               and Prince      Albert to Cambridge, 57
lection, 18; history of this, 18 -- 20;            -- 64; reads    two papers to Geological
correspondence with Canon Wode-
                difficulties of subscription,      Society, 64 ; death of Charles Ingle,
h2o0u--se22o;n  corrects Smyth's Lectures
                                               In  65        life  at  Norwich,  65;  lecture
                                                     1844:
   on Modern History, 22                           there, 66; death of Mr D. F.
In 1841 : controversy with Miles, 23;              Gregory, 68--70; portrait drawn by
                                                   Lawrence, 70 ; supports invitation to
   defects of Woodwardian Lecture-                 British Association to meet at Cam
room, ibid ; visit to Ely and Whittle-
sea, ibid; to Lord Fitzwilliam's, 24;             bridge in 1845, 70--75; account of
Norwich lectures, ibid.; advice on                the voting in the Senate House, 71 ;
solitude, ibid. ; removal of geological           reply to Whewell, 74 ; visit to Wis-
                                                  baden, 76; British Association at
collections to new Museum, 26 ; plans             York, ibid.; reply to Dean Cock-
                                                  burn, 77, 78 ; views on Mosaic Cos
last geological tour, ibid. ; supports            mogony, 79 ; lecture at Ely, 80
Whigs at general election reluctantly,         In 1845: reflections on being 60 years
ibid. ; geology on Dartmoor, ibid. ;              old, 80 ; reads to Geol. Soc. paper On
British Association at Plymouth, ibid ;
journey to Ireland with Mr R. Griffith,
27 --  29; visit       to Scotland by way of
Port    Patrick,       29; coast of Wigton-        the Comparative Classification of the
                                                   Fossiliferous Strata of North Wales
shire, 30; memorial to Rob. Burns,                 with the corresponding deposits of
31 ; further tour in Scotland, 32 --               Cumberland etc. ibid ; criticism of Ves
34 ; intended work on palaeozoic                           o8f1t--he8N8;atuacracol unHtistoofrythoef
rocks, 34 ; reads to Geol. Soc. Sup                tiges                                              Crea
plement to a Synopsis of the English               tion,                                              book,
series of Stratified Rocks inferior to the
Old Red Sandstone, 35 ; Whewell                    81, 82; Sedgwick's feeling towards,
made Master of Trinity College,                                    to8L5y--el8l 7a; gahiinssto, wn83  -- 85 ;
ibid.; his letter to Sedgwick, ibid.;              82  ; letter                                       views
                                                   to  Agassiz,

                                                   on development and creation, 86 ;

   Sedgwick's reply, 36 ; purchase of              agrees to criticise the Vestiges in
   the Whitby Plesiosaurus, 37                     Edinburgh Review, 87; his article
In 1842: Norwich hospitalities, 38;                discussed, 88 ; field-lecture, ibid. ;
   revision of statutes of Trinity College,        letter to Hugh Miller, 89; British

                       three letters to Words      Association at Cambridge, 89, 90;
                        Geology of the Lake        made Vice-Master of Trinity College,
39 ; writes     first                              90; geological work in Lake land,
worth On         the

District, ibid. ; letters from Words               90  ; Ruthven and       his dog Charlie,
worth, 40; description of Wood                     91  -- 93; statues of  Bacon and Byron
wardian audit, inspection, and dinner,             in                     93; thoughts on
42--44; British Association at Man                       Trin. Coll.,

                                                   Newman's secession, ibid. ; an old

chester, 45 ; after-dinner speech, 46,             bachelor's reflections on marriage,
47; installation of Duke of Nor                            story of Mr Bowstead's dog Boy,
thumberland, 47; week at Chelten                   94   ;  97 ; misunderstandingwith Whe
                                                   94
                                                       --

ham, ibid. ; geological work in North              well, 97  ;  letter from Whewell about
Wales with Mr Salter, 47, 48; resi                 Shindy,      98; introduction of Mr
                                               Jerdan into hall, 99 ; as Vice-
dence at Norwich in October and                Master thanks Whewell for his gift
November, 48
In 1843: visits Dover to see         cliff         of Bacon's statue, ibid. ; Whewell's
   blown up, 49 ; account of this,  49 --
   53; is thinking of publishing                  reply, 101 ; spends Christmas with
                                       his        the Herschels, ibid.
                                               In 1846: reads paper to Geol. Soc. On
classification of old rocks of England
                                                 the Classification of the Fossiliferous
and Wales as a         pamphlet,  wo5r4k,;        Slates of Cumberland, Westmoreland,
of going to Germany    for quiet                  and Lancashire, 101 ; writes fourth
ibid; chronic illness, 55; laments

630 INDEX.

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                              Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
    letter to Wordsworth, 102; interest                    In 1848: winter illness, 141; visit to
    in Sir H. Smith's victory at Aliwal,                       Hare, ibid. ; declines to write article
    ibid.; gallantry of John Eaton, 102,                      on Geology for Admiralty Manual
    103 ; visit to Harrogate, 104; geology
    in North Wales, with John Ruthven,                  of Scientific Inquiry, 141 ; humorous
    ibid.; letter to Murchison, ibid. ; diffi           invitation to Sir John and Lady
    culty of pronouncing Welsh names,                   Herschel, 142 ; letter to Bp Wilber-
    105; visits South Wales, 106; large                 force, 143 ; his disgust at the policy
    geological class, 107; Adams and                    of the Whigs, ibid.; story of signing a

    the new planet, ibid. ; tercentenary                petition against the slave-trade as a
    of Trinity College, 108                             child, 144; geological work on the

                                                        frontier-chain of Scotland, ibid.;
In                                                      characteristics of Scotch landlords,
       1847 :   confined to      his rooms by
    influenza,    108 -- 114;    reads Robinson         146 ; geological conclusions, ibid. ;
                                                        further details, 147 ; corresponds
    Crusoe, 108; De Foe's complete                      with Hugh Miller on fishes of Old
    in;works, 110; Hare's Mission of the                Red Sandstone, 148; on his Eng
    Comforter,                   praise of Luther,
    ibid.; reads Cureton's edition of Epi
    stles of St Ignatius, 113; Ranke's                  lish tour, 149; lecture at Ipswich,
    German Reformation, ibid. ; story of
    Mrs Eaton and the pound of tea, 114;                '50
    advises Wodehouse to take Arch                      In 1849: entertains his old       friend
    deaconry of Norfolk, ibid. ; his ne                    Armstrong, 151; Jenny Lind   at Nor
    phew Richard coming to Cambridge,                   wich, 152; letter to Miss Hopkins

                                                        on her lost glove, 154; entertains
                                                        Jenny Lind at Cambridge, 155;
                                                        J.attends trial of  B. Rush     at Nor
    115; reflections on modern changes,                                     accidental   fall at
                                                        wich, 155 -- 157 ;
    116; criticises A. P. Stanley's Ser                 Norwich, 157; slow recovery, 158;

    mons, 117; letter from the author,                  death of Marquis Spineto, ibid.;
    ibid.; arrangement of the Wood-                     thanks Hugh Miller for Footprints of
                                                        the Creator, 159; is writing Preface
    wardian Museum by J. W. Salter                      to his Discourse, ibid.; remarks on
                                                        fishes of Old Red Sandstone, 160;
    and Fred. Mc Coy, 1 18, 1 19 ; promotes
    election of Prince Albert as Chancel

    lor,   11n9o; ;  is made     Chancellor's   Secre   object in writing Preface, 161 ; death
    tary,             preface    to Discourse,  ibid.;  of Bishop Stanley, 162; attends
    visit to Rev. J. Clarkson, 121 ; goes               meeting of British Association at
    to Bath for his health, ibid. ; advice              Birmingham, 163 ; account of Bishop
    on reading St Paul's Epistles, ibid. ;              Stanley's funeral, 164; falls from
    criticism of Carus's Life of Simeon,
    122; preparations for the public                    horse and breaks right arm, 165 ;
    Commencement, ibid; illness of his                  letters of condolence, 166
                                                        In 1850: invited by Lord J. Russell to
    nephew Richard, 129; attends meet
    ing of British Association at Oxford,                  be one of a Commission of Inquiry into
                         Sir H. Smith's reception       the state, etc. of the University, 172;
    a1t23E;lyatteanndds                                 correspondence withLieut. -Col.Grey,
                         Whittlesea, 124 ; enter        J.172 --

                                                        sends
    tains him at Cambridge, 125; descrip                     181; consults   Dean    otfoELlyo,rd172  ;
    tion of the Public Commencement,                         a qualified    refusal
    125 -- 127, ii. 573; conversation with
                                                        Russell, 177; consults Drs Cartmell
                                                        and Whewell, ibid. ; will do as Prince
    the Queen, 127 ; meets Archaeological               Albert wishes, 178; agrees to accept,
    Institute at Norwich, 129; residence
    at Norwich, ibid. ; visit of Jenny
    Lind, ibid. ; account of his Chinese                180; attends Concert at Buckingham
                                                        Palace, 182; completes new edition
    dog, 130; visits Dent, and preaches                 of Discourse, 183; attends meeting
    extempore, ibid ; retrospect of Cam                 of British Association at Edinburgh,
    bridge life, ibid. ; lectures to ladies in          ibid.; short tour with Murchison,
    Michaelmas Term , 140 ; opposes peti                184; visits Inverary Castle, ibid.;
    tion against admission of Jews to                   conversation with Mr Prescott, 185;
    Parliament,           131;    visits the Queen      visits Dent, ibid.; sends copy of Dis
    at Osborne,          131 --  140 ; tells the story  course to Balmoral, 186; account of
                                                        gfMiofutehsseutomedWitioiwnnd,itshor18Mw7 c--itCho1y9U3,n;iv1e9wr3so--itryk19a5din;
    of Mrs Woodcock's accident to the                   dress, 196; catches cold there, ibid.

    Royal children, 137; to the Queen,

    138; further remarks on his visit to

    Osborne, 140

                                                         INDEX.                                                         631

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                   Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
1838 -- 1851:
   geological  pdaispceurss,sio2n00--of   Sedgwick's                         245 ; reminiscences of his childhood,
                                         206                                 ibid.
                                                                             In 2h1i4s865--n3e:2p4hi8netw;erreeasfunt sdeinsnideeecsaetnaebarltiyshNomofernPwteitcehro,f
In 1851 : influenza, 197 ; reads Richard
son s Clarissa, ibid. ; visit to Wind

sor Castle,    1SW9t8ao;nlllaecysr,ittoicnis1m98m--eodf2a0Ml,0e; m20or0eir;  borough, 248; writes fifth Letter on
of Bishop                                                                    Geology of Lake District, 249 ; writes
ceives the

Commission and London Season,                                                letter to   Mtuhrecmh,iso2n50o--n t2h5e6c;onwtroorvkersoyn
                                                                             between
206 ; hears The Messiah at Exeter                                            third Fasciculus of British Palaeozoic
Hall, 207; entertains Duke and                                               Rocks, 256; visits Chobham, Ports
Duchess of Argyle at Cambridge,                                              mouth, etc., 257 ; attends Naval
ibid. ; Commission, 208 ; sits for por                                       Review, 258--261 ; geology in North
trait to Boxall, ibid.; hasty visit to                                       Wales with McCoy, 261; writes
Cornwall with McCoy, ibid. ; asks
                                                                             second paper On the May Hill Sand
Murchison to join him in Scotland,
                                                                             stone, 262 ; this leads to breach with
209; goes to N. Wales with J. Ruth-
                                                                             Geological Society, ibid. ; feelings on
ven, 210; letter to Duke of Argyle                                                       of  Sir C.J. Napier, 263 ;
                                                                                         of
on Cornish Geology and his subse                                             death           Geological Section at      Presi
quent work, 210 -- 213; reads paper                                          dent
                                                                                                                         Hull
                                                                             Meeting of British Association, 264 ;
to Geological Society On the Slate                                           interest in Fellowship Examination
Rocks of Devon and Cornwall, 213;                                            at Trin. Coll. ibid.; visits Bishop
On the Lower Paleozoic Rocks at the

base of the Carboniferous Chain                                              Blomfield, 265 ; elected President of
between Ravenstoncdale and Ribbles-
                                                                             Cambridge Philosophical Society,
dale, ibid. ; celebration of last night                                      265; mysteries of number nine, 266;
   of old year at                                                            visit of Prince Albert and Duke of
In 1852: reads     Trinity,  214                                             Brabant, 267; catches cold, ibid.;
                    paper    to Geological                                   death of Dr Mill, 268
Society On the Classification and No
menclature of the Lower Paleozoic                                            In MP1lius8sr5a4Gl:ietryraermdoaf rfkoWsr oarolbdnrso, nDzer269pWla;hteet,wha2en7lkl0'ss;
Rocks of England and Wales, 215;                                                Miss Hicks for a pair of slippers,
paper printed and published in the
Society's Journal, 216; the Council

resolve to cancel the number, ibid. ;                                        i2b7id1.;;  has entered   his  seventieth  year,
                                                                                            residence  at   Norwich,    272;
this resolution rescinded, 217; further
action of the Council, ibid. ; explana                                       death of Col. Willoughby Moore,
tory letter from Murchison, 218;                                             273; marries Rev. A. Thurtell to
          5in41T--he54L3it; eartarwyorGkazoenttet,heA21V9-,                  Miss Bertram, 274; criticism of Mrs
articles                                                                     Opie's Life, ibid. ; at Lowestoft with
220; ii.

port   of the  aCt oOmsmboisrnsieo,n,22212--0;22v6isi;t   to                 his nephew's children, 275; meeting
the   Queen                                              the
                                                                             of Archaeological Institute at Cam
Report of the Commission published,
                                                                             bridge, 276; does geological work
226; analysis of the recommendations,                                        in S. Wales with Mc Coy, 276; visits
ibid.; suggestions for the future of                                         Bishop Thirlwall, 277; departure of
the Woodwardian Chairand Museum,                                             Mc Coy for      Australia,
                                                                             paper On the                     278; reads
227; investigates the May Hill Sand                                                          May Hill       Sandstone to
                                                                             Brit. Ass. at Liverpool, 279; the
stone, 230; reads paper to Geological                                        importance of his work at May Hill,

Society On a proposed separation of                                          Llandeilo, etc., 279--285 ; defence
                                                                             of Mc Coy in Annals and Magazine
the so-called Caradoc Sandstone into

two distinct groups, 231; its recep                                          of Natural History, 285; Mc Coy's
                                                                             reminiscences of Sedgwick, 280--
tion by the Geological Society, 255 ;
marriage of Richard Sedgwick, 232;                                           288; visit to Paris with his nieces,
visit to the Queen at Windsor, 234;
thoughts on funeral of Duke of                                               288 ; solicitude for Crimean army,
                                                                             ibid. ; recollections of Napoleon's
Wellington, 237; recollections of                                            defeat in Russia, 289; lecture at The
                                                                             Athemcum of Bury St Edmunds on
Trafalgar, 238 ; contrast between                                            Extinct Sloths, ibid.
Nelson and Wellington, 239, 240;                                             In 1855: proposed parliamentary re
represents Prince Albert at 500th                                               form of University, 292 ; agrees to
anniversary of Corpus Christi Col
                                                                                be a Commissioner, ibid. ; signs
lege, 242; gives two lectures at
Leeds, 242 -- 244; subjects of these,

63- INDEX.

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                                     Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
                                                                                               In 1858: receives letter from Living
remonstrances to Lord Chancellor                                                               stone on eve of departure,                                   writes
against proposed Bill, ibid.; letter                                                           Preface to his Lectures,                         ib3i3d8.;;  death
to Whewell thereon, 293; declines
to serve on Commission, ibid. ; feel                                                           of Dean Conybeare, 340; humorous

ings on death of Edward Forbes,                                                                sketch of representation to the Uni
295; opinion of Rev. F. D. Maurice,                                                                versity Commissioners, ibid. ; tries to
ibid. ; Mrs Willoughby Moore, 296;                                                             see eclipse of the sun, 341 ; sympathy
    Miss Nightingale and Miss Stanley,                                                         with French feeling against England,
                       the war, ibid. ; dress                                                      342 ; geology and the Mosaic record,
    297 ; feelings at   Eugenie, 298 ; Mr                                                          343, 344; attacks of giddiness, 345;
    of the Empress                                                                                 resigns seat on Council of the Senate,
    Smith's Voyage etc. of S. Paul, 299 ;
    lecture and public breakfast at                                                                iobfidF. e; sllpoewaskhs ipins,AritbsidS.c;honoewl onstatetuntuerse
    Kendal, 300; illness of his sister
    Margaret, 301 ; account of Scotch                                                              for Trinity College, 346; delivers
    tour, 302, 303 ; meeting of British                                                            fortieth course of Lectures, 347 ; in
    Association at Glasgow, 302, 304;                                                              tended                            --334571,              sketch
                                                                                                   of last   resignation,                       348;
                                                                                                            lecture, 348
    sermon on board steamer between                                                            In

   Staffa and Iona, 303 ; scene with                                                                1859:    death of           Rev. John        Sedgwick,
   Murchison at Glasgow, 304 ; com                                                                 351;    of Dean              Peacock,        ibid.; visit
   pletion of work on British Palaeozoic                                                           itbo idW.;aleresa, ds352pa;petro  Lake District,
   Rocks, ibid.                                                                                                                      On Faults in
1851 -- 1855 : discussion of Sedgwick's                                                            Cumberland and Lancashire before
                                                                                                   British Association at Aberdeen,
In  geological papers, 306--310                                                                    ibid.; visit to Balmoral, 352, 353;
    311285--6:31d7ea; tshupopforhtsis  sister Margaret,
                                       Denman as Uni                                               field-lectures, 354; speaks at meet

    versity representative, 318; Jenny                                                             ing to promote Universities Mission
    Lind at Norwich in The Messiah,                                                                to Africa, 354, 355; last lecture,
                                                                                                                                of
    ibid. ; takes her to see Bp. Stanley's                                                         3Sp5e5c;iesc, rit3ic5is6m--       Darwin's   Origin of
                                                                                                                                362
    grave, 319; promotes subscription
    to buy Image collection for Wood-                                                          In 1860: writes letter to The Spectator,
    wardian Museum, 320; account of
                  success of the subscription,                                                     360, and note; attacks the theory
                  in Museum from Mr Lucas
    this,  321 ;                                                                                   before the Philosophical Society,
    322 ;  help                                                                                    361 ; sits for bust to Woolner, 362;
    Barrett, 323 ; account of him, ibid. ; is                                                      his reading while it was proceeding,
    present at wedding of Miss Hopkins,                                                            ibid. ; delivers lecture On the Strata
    ibid. ; residence at Norwich, 324; goes                                                        near Cambridge in the Town Hall,
                                                                                                   363 ; criticism on the pre-Raphaelite
    to meeting of British Association at                                                           School, ibid.; on the French Exhibi
    Cheltenham, ibid. ; discussion with
    Murchison, ibid. ; visit to Lake Dis                                                           tion, 364; President of Geological
                                                                                                   Section at meeting of British Asso
    trict, 325; last illness of Jonathan                                                           ciation at Oxford, ibid.; receives
    Otley, ibid. ; 38th course of lectures,                                                        honorary degree of D.C.L., ibid.;
    ibid. ; elected to Council of Senate,
    ibid.; field - lectures, 326; attends                                                         lectures in Michaelmas Term, 365
    Anniversary dinner of Philosophical                                                        In 1861 : entertains Mrs Livingstone,
    Society, ibid. ; supports claims of                                                            365 ; takes part in inviting British
    Barrow against those of Bentley for                                                            Association to meet at Cambridge
    memorial statue in Trin. Coll. chapel,                                                         cinan18S6e2d, g3w6i6c;ks,ac3c6o7u--nt   of   the Ameri
                                                                                                                                          369   ; visit from
    329--331
In 1857 : winter garb at Norwich, 332 ;                                                            Miss Susan Ridley Sedgwick, 369;
                                                                                                   receives letter from Catharine Sedg
   visit to Walsingham, 333 ; gout and                                                             wick, 370; last visit to Henslow,
   bad cold, ibid. ; preaches in Trin.                                                             371 ; renewed intercourse with Mr
   Coll. chapel on Easter Day, ibid. ;                                                             Guthrie, 372; attends meeting of
   visits Blackpool, Manchester, etc.,                                                             British Association at Manchester,
   334 , geological expedition to Lake
   District, ibid. ; thoughts on Indian                                                            373 ; discussion with Murchison,
                                                                                                   ibid. ; lectures in Michaelmas Term
  spDtoirtluiLctiiyov,nin3g3fso5tro;nTeori,nn3.p3rC6o--oplol.s3e4d303;6np;erwvoipsoictsoenosf
   his health in Combination Room of                                                               interrupted by illness, ibid. ; delivers
   Trin. Coll. 337                                                                                 last lecture, 374, and note ; feelings
                                                                                                   on death of Prince Albert, ibid.
                                                                                               In 1862: receives portraits of Queen

                                        INDEX.                                                                                                                       633

Sedgwick, Adam, continued:                                                                                                   Sedgwick, Adam, continued:
and Prince Albert, 374; speaks at                                                                                                                  Mr     Harford,
meeting for Memorial to the Prince,                                                                                          Mrs Guthrie,               Cambridge,   422 ;
    375 ; thoughts on Civil War in                                                                                                                  at               423;
                                                                                                                             honorary LL.D.
                                                                                                                             ship called The Adam Sedgwick,
JA.mHer.icaF,ish3e7r6,                  of Rev.                                                                              ibid. ; feelings on loss of Mrs Guthrie,
                        ; on    death   to a boy                                                                                                        course of
                         377 ;  letter                                                                                       4ib2i4d.; ;  forty-eighth  mark for     lectures,
at Rossall School, 378;                                                                                                                    is made a                 a pistol-
Remains of Mrs Trench,                  37le9tt--er381on;
    wishes to resign Vice-Mastership of                                                                                         shot, 425
    Trin. Coll., 381; visit to Blackpool,
    382 ; interview with the Queen, ibid.                                                                                    In 1867: recollections of Crabb Robin
    391; resigns Vice-Mastership, 383,                                                                                          son, 426; snowed up at Norwich,
    384 ; attends meeting of British As                                                                                         428; speaks in favour of reception
                                                                                                                                of British Association at Norwich,

                                                                                                                             429 ; eighty-second birthday, ibid. ;
    sociation    at Cambridge, 384                                                                                           tour in the west of England, 430;
In    1863:    infirmities of old age,                                                                                       feelings on new Reform Bill, 431;
                                        385;                                                                                 has become a Tory in politics, 432 ;
                                                                                                                             letter in preface to Early Years of
    performance of his academic duties,
    386; care of his nephew's children,
    387 ; receives Speeches and Addresses                                                                                        Prince                              ; concluding
    of Prince Consort from the Queen,                                                                                            lecture  oCfonfsoorrtty, -nin4t3h3   course, 434;
                                                                                                                                 presides at Trinity College Com
    388; marriage of Miss S. R. Sedg
    wwcmoaiencrdgk,ar,al t33uf8r9loa92mt;e--sfRe3o9e4ylRinae;glvs.SoroAceni.ceetPtiyhv.,eesS3At9am5nC--eleoriyp3cl9aeo8nyn;
                                                                                                                             In  memoration, 435   of   the          Memorial  by
                                                                                                                                   1868: account

Inhis18m64a:rriagcoen, gr3a9tu8lates                                                                                             the     Trustees  of Cowgill Chapel,
                                                                                                                                 435               the Appendix to the
                                                                                                                                      --438 ; of   ; Mr Longfellow at
                                                                                                                                 Memorial, 438
                                      Rev. A. P.                                                                                 Cambridge, ibid.; injury to the left

    Stanley on his being made Dean                                                                                               knee, 439 ; British Association at
    of Westminster,             400 ; death of                                                                                   Norwich, ibid. ; fiftieth course of
    Leonard Horner, 401 ;
    old friends, Prof. Pryme,         allusions to                                                                               lectures, 440 ; admits greater an
                                      Prof. Clark,                                                                               tiquity of man,   ibid. ; death of John
                                                                                                                                 Ruthven, 441      of Lady Murchison,
    etc. ibid. ; improvements in Cam                                                                                         In    1869: death
                                 of Prince and
    bridge,    402; visit       402 --405 ; visits                                                                               441 ; interest    in Miss           Sedgwick's
    Princess   of Wales,                                                                                                         Italian tour,     442 -- 444        ; letter to

    Isle of Wight and Weymouth, 405 ;                                                                                            Mrs Somerville, 444 ; visit from
    death of Mr Romilly, ibid.                                                                                                   Professor and Mrs Norton, 446 ;
In 1865: specimens of Dent dialect,                                                                                              resigns membership of Ray Club,
   407 ; how to form B, ibid. ; salary                                                                                           ibid. ; the pains of gout, ibid. ; recol
   raised to ^500 per annum, 408 ;
    foundation of Sedgwick prize, ibid. ;                                                                                        lections of Commencement in former
    symptoms of heart disease, 409;
    opinion on admission of ladies                                                                                               days, 447; disestablishment of Irish
    to University examinations, ibid.;                                                                                           Church, 448 ; value of letter h ;
                                                                                                                                 wedding congratulations to Ch. de
    eDigrhtiLetivhingbstirotnhed,ay4, 104--104; 12;letteilrlnestso                                                               la Pryme, 449; Sedgwick's answer
    and death of Lady Affleck, 412;                                                                                              to a Unitarian, ibid.; fifty-first course
    geological tour in Kent, 414; visit                                                                                          of lectures, 450 ; attends jubilee of
    to Rochester, ibid. ; to Anniversary                                                                                         Philosophical Society, ibid. ; attends
                                                                                                                                 meeting for abolition of University
    at Greenwich Observatory, 415; to                                                                                            tests, 451
    Great Eastern steamship, ibid.; en                                                                                       In    1870: severe    attack of         bronchitis,
    tertains Dean Stanley and Lady                                                                                                                 at Bath,          ibid.; at
    Augusta, and Dr and Mrs Vaughan                                                                                              453; recruits
    at Norwich, ibid. ; Dr Livingstone,                                                                                          Bournemouth, 454 ; visit from Dr
    416; congratulates Sir J. Herschel                                                                                           Lushington, ibid. ; goes to Dent for

    on his daughter's marriage, 417;                                                                                             the last time, 455 ;                --to45G7ra; nsgpeeecohn
    forty-seenth course of lectures, 418 ;                                                                                       Morecambe Bay, 455
                                                                                                                                 at Norwich against export of articles
    inflaminativo of the eyes, ibid.; death                                                                                      contraband of war, 457; fifty-second
   of Mrs      John Sedgwick, ibid.                                                                                             course of lectures, 458 ; sends Christ
In 1866 :       proposed American Lecture                                                                                    In m1as87g1r:eetwinegakntoessMuorcfhhisisone, y4e5s,9 459;
    ship, 419; inflammation of the eyes,
    420; death of Whewell, ibid.; of                                                                                             dictates his letters, 460 ; writes to
    Archdeacon Evans, James Sedgwick,                                                                                            his family with his own hand, ibid. ;

634 INDEX.

Sedgwick. Adam, continued:                                                   ofcompeted for Fellowship at St John's,

    resignation, 461 ; unable to attend                                      150 visited by his brother in Isle;a i. is
                                                                             Wight, 1820, 219; his second marriage,
    College chapel, ibid. ; deafness, ibid. ;                                    1838, ii. 6; his death, 422
    interest in passing events, 462 ; gene
    rosity to poor of Dent, ibid. ; want                                     Sedgwick--, Jo--hn(ofttahneneAr,moefriGcaibnshbarlla,nch3) 6                    .
    of visitors, ibid. ; Sir R. Griffith                                                      .,                         ;
                                                                             '                     :                           1                             r
                                                                                ,, ,
    visits him, ibid. ; dinner-party to                                      ii. 367, 368                                            i.
   Dean of Westminster, 463                                                                                       toii.A.37S0e. dgwick)
In 1872: enjoyment of walks marred                                                                  General   is :                   ;                       z
                                                                                                    (brother
   by deafness, 464 ; interest in Wood-                                      birth, 37; sketch of his life, 38; be
  wardian Museum, ibid. ; purchase of                                        comes magistrate at Dent, 29; epitaph
   Leckenby collection, 465 ; prepara                                        quoted, ibid, note; curate of Stowe
  tion of catalogues of contents of                                          in Lincolnshire, 226, note marriage
                                                                             ii.with Miss Davoren, 1822, 229, note
    Museum, 467 ; writes Preface to                                          death of his           daughter      Emma,         840,         his
    Salter's catalogue of Cambrian and                                       2; his death,             1858,    351; death       of
    Silurian fossils, 468, 469, 473 ;
    receives the Holy Communion, 470                                         wwiicdko,wL,Ae.1o8Sn6ea5dr,dg,4w1ci8ocuks'sinfattoheRr ev.deRa.lsSewditgH
In 1873 : meeting of Norwich Chapter
    is in his rooms, 471 ; death, 472;                                            ;, ,
    Miss   aSneddgdweaicthk,'s47a2cc--ou4n7t 7;oftehleisgralamst             City merchants           in lasti.
    days                                                                               Margaret       (sister          ;

                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                             account of her,                        toceAn.tuSreyd, gwi1c9k)

    from the Queen, 477 ; from the                                                                            37         her    marriage,
    Prince of Wales, ibid.; expressions                                                  serious      illness,      ii.    301      death,
                                                                             435"8--    3'7
    of condolence,                s4e7r8mo; nsfu, ne4r7a9l,--  ibid.  ;                                                    of,   1805, ii.
    Dean Stanley's
                                                               481                 - Prize foundation
                                                                                                  :
       Meeting            a4t81C--am4b8ri3d;ge     to promote                40H                    i.
    Memorial,                                   present state                                                                             i.

                                                                                                                                                            1
    of fund, 484 ; Memorial at Dent,                                         born       Richard       (father of A.      Sedgwick)                           a
    485; at Norwich, 589.                                                                                                to act as
                                                                                        1736,         36; refuses
                                                                             magistrate, 29; his early history, 36,
Recollections of                                                             37; reads mathematics with Dawson,
   his geological                 Sedgwick,     --48556--3;501his;           1756, 62; marries Catharine Bennet,
                                  work, 502
    life at Norwich, 564--590.                                               ibid.            made Vicar of Dent, ibid.
                                                                             ;;
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                     is

                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                            Ig a

                                                                                                                              ;
Sedgwick, Ann : her birth and marriage, i.                                   second marriage, ibid.; names                                 id ages
       her marriage alluded                                                  of his children, ibid. reminisce                              ices of,
37  ;  , Benj. :                                to, 1820,      220           by his son, 38 -- 43 by Miss Bri                              htwell,
                                                                             43 his blindness, ibid. closing                                years,
       ,                        367                                          44 becomes Master of the                                      jnmar-
                                                                             school, 48; recollections of                                  .5, 51;
                      ii.

                               :
           Cath. M. writes Sedgwick on
Preface to Livingstone's Lectures, ii.
339o/V; her family, 368; writes to                                          account of the Yorkshire elect! ., 1807,

Sedgwick, 370                                                                90; becomes gradually blind, 07,91;
           Ch. Fre. ii.
       ,   Emma (niece    2:         368
                                      to
       -,                                 A.    Sedgwick)                    still in good health and spii                                   1811.
                                                               :                                                         '

her death, ii.                                                               114; grief at death of his                     1, ,i          daughter
     -, Isabella (sister to A. Sedgwick):                                    Isabella, 1823, 260; threat                                       with
her birth, 37 her brother Adam's
                      i.  ;                                                  dropsy, 1826, 269; state of h<                                  1817,
fondness for her, 53; her death, 1823,
                                                                             306; death, 1822, 322; pr                                     lal ap

259--261                  (niece to A. Sedgwick):                            pearance, 323; monument                                       m, 3J4
her birth,              260; interest in her Italian                                                         of John                       Sedgwick):
            ; i.                                                             entered,, , , ,  at       (son  Coll., 18
                                                                                         :                               1                      115;
                                                                                                ,   Trin.                              , i.
tour, ii. 442 her account of her uncle's                                                           :
                                                                             serious illness, 129; marriage                                  232;
                                                                             elected vicar of Dent, 351
death, 472--477                                 to A. Sedg                              Rob. founder                                       lcricao
         James (great-uncle
wick) born 1716, 36; changes the                                             branch, ii. 367
family name from Sidgswick to Sedg:is i.                                               Susan Ridley (afi                                     Mm
             i.                                                                                                                 s
                    36
wick,                 33, 34;            schoolmaster at                     Norton) visits Cambri                                            369;
                                                                             her marriage, 389; visi                                       bridge
Horton,

       -, Ja. of Curry Rivell near Taunton                                   with her husband, 446
visited by Sedgwick, 1819,                      212.i.                                Theodore (the eld                         .
                                                        ;                             Theodore (the yo'                            67
                                                                   ; 3, : :
       -, (brother to A. Sedgwick)                                           his marriage and childr                                    ;
                                                                                      Tho., of Gibshall                                36;
birth,      37 sketch of life, 38 goes
           i.                                                                A. Sedgwick), b. 1705                       *herw
                     ;

to S. John's Coll. Camb. as sizar, 181
130; not disposed to work, 135, 141

                                                                    INDEX.                                                                6.35

Sedgwick, Tho. (brother to A. Sedg                                         portrait by Opie, 120, note; visits her
             : account of him,                   i. 37
wick)        Will. Dwight : ii.                   370,  note                  again, 1869,            123           Wollaston             medal
                                                                                                     receives
          ,                                                                Smith, Will.
                                                                                                 :

Seeley, H. G.: made assistant to Sedg                                      from Sedgwick,              : i.    367; personal ac
wick, ii. 356; accompanies on geo                                          quaintance with him, ii. 509
                       Isle of Wight, etc. 405                             Smyth, Joh. Hen. contests University,
logical tour to           describes Sedgwick's                          ;
to Kent, 414;
                                                                           1811,    ; i.      108:      dies, 1822, 256
                                                                                                    ;signs Declaration
Sellewcytunr,esW. i4ll8.9: speech at Sedgwick Me                                        Will.                                     in favour

   morial meeting, 482 gives -,oo for                                     of sitting members for University, 1831,
    statue, 483                                                               374 proofs of his Lectures on Modern
Serpentine origin of, discussed by Sedg
   wick, 288                                                               History revised by Sedgwick, 1840,
             i. i.                                                         i.
                 1:
                       i. :                                                22                                                     ii.
                                                                                                                                            ii.
Seymour, Lord Webb visits Joh. Daw::                                                  Admiral, ii. 415              390,                  514;
                               i. ii.                                      Snowdon: geology of,
                                         :                                                s
                                              ;
                                                                                                            i.
son at Sedbergh, 68                                                        Sedgwick section across, 517; struc
Shaler, Professor attends Sedgwick Me
   morial               ii. 482                                               ture of, 518
Sharpe,      Meeting,  visited                                             Somerville, Mary: visits Sedgwick                                at

             Will.                               by     Sedgwick,             Cambridge, 387 letter to, ii. 444
                                                                           Southey, Rob. his Terrible Knitters
1820, 216                                                                                           : i.
                                                                                                       i.
Sheepshanks, Ri. visits Dent with Sedg                                     Dent quoted,
   wick, 18 5, 135; Dr and Mrs Somer-                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                       e'
                                                                                                       25, note; Sedgwick's
                                                                           acquaintance with, 248; letter from,
ville occupy his rooms, 1832, 387;
opposes Dr Wordsworth in his action                                             1834, 427                                                 798,

                                                                           Sowerby, Tho. senior wrangler,
   against Thirlwall, 1834, 427 and note                                                I.                          i.
Shindy: Sedgwick's dog so called,                                                                                               1
                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                           i.
                                                                           and pupil of Joh. Dawson,                              65, note

                                                                    ii.    Spineto, Marquis: 456, note; his death,

    97                                                                     ii, 158        of: Sedgwick's address to
Shudy Camps Sedgwick presented to                                          Staffa,
             i.
vicarage, 1825,      : i.      265                                            excursionists at, ii. 303
                                                                           Staffordshire: Sedgwick visits, 1818,
                         :

                           i.
Sievier: sculptor of Joh. Dawson's bust,                                                                            ;
    1825, 69, note                                                         201                                             :

Sill, Miss: her death and bequest to                                                                                                      ; i.
                                                                           Stanley, Edw. Bp. of Norwich appoint
                                                                           ment 1837, 485 account of his family,
   Sedgwick, 442                                                           502; death, 1849, ii. 162 funeral, 164;
Simeon, Ch. death and funeral,                                                                   i.
                                                                                                            ;

criticism of Carus's Life, ii. 122                         1 i. i.468;

Sixteen: mysteries of this number,                                  ii.    Sedgwick's criticism on his Life, 198
                                                                           visit of Jenny Lind to his grave, 319;
                                                                           his chair given to Sedgwick, 387
     142                                                                           Art. Penrhyn: letter to Sedgwick

Skeat, Prof. discusses etymology of the
   name Sedgwick, 34

Skye, of: described by Sedgwick, 1827,
i.                                                                                  ,

    I.                                                                     on criticism of his Sermons, ii. 117; his
                     :                                                     Memoir of Bp. Stanley, 198 -- 200;
                              i.                                           congratulations on his marriage, 398;
    304                                                                    on being made Dean of Westminster,
slyped,  ii. 407
Smith,     Hen.     Geo.          Wakelyn               :  meets           399 visits Sedgwick, 403 reception
                                                                                ,;                                  ;
Sedgwick at Whittlesea, 1804,                                       ; ;76  in  Senate House,i. :               404    visits Sedgwicka;
service at Buenos Ayres, 1807, 92                                          at  Norwich, 415;     ;8             at  Cambridge, 463;
Sedgwick's interest in his victory at
Aliwal, 1846, ii. 102; his reception at                                    preaches before University when Sedg
Ely and Whittlesea, 1847, 124; visits                                      wick dies, 479

                                                                                     Miss: her work as nurse, ii.

Sedgwick at Cambridge, 125; receives                                           297
honorary degree, ibid. ii. 573; dines
in Trin. Coll. hall with Sedgwick, 26                                                 Mrs feelings on her death, ii. 387
                                                                    ;      Statesmen, of Dent, their manners de

receives address from Corporation of                                       scribed,                    use of the Christian

Cambridge, 127; story of his wife, ii.                                     name, 9; their houses and gardens,

         Ja. criticism of his Voyage and                                   12; education, 14; breeders of horses,

                                                                           15; dealers in wool, 16; statesman
             :                                                                                                      a

Shipwreck       of  St Paul, ii. 298; Sedg                                 works coal profitably, 18; ride to

wick's sermons on this, ii. 585                                            London         to deal with              cCusittyomms,er2c1h--an2ts8,;
             Ja. Edw. meets Sedgwick at                                    18--20;        manners and
                       :

Lowestoft,      i.     19                                                  scarlet cloaks, 22; hoops, ibid. litera
                                                                                        ;
                    1                                                                       a

-1 Lady, widow of Sir Ja. Edw.:                                            ture, 23                                                    ;
                                                                                                 statesman's house described,
Sedgwick meets her at Lowestoft, 1812,                                     24; a "sitting," ibid.; carved wood
    119; visits her, 1865, ibid.; her                                      work, ibid., note; customs at births,
i.

636 INDEX.

deaths, and funerals, 25 -- 27; their                     Thirnbeck, Ann : wife to Joh. Dawson,
appearance as they rode to church on                         i. 64

    Sundays, 32                                           Thompson, Hen. Yates: proposes to
stemples: crossbars of wood used in the
                                                          found       American Lectureship, ii.  419
   shafts of mines, i. 200                                         ,                             Whe-
                                                                      Will. Hepworth : succeeds
Stephen : Sir Ja. : his opinions criticised,              well as Master of Trinity, ii. 421 ; letter
   ii. 296                                                    to Sedgwick, 422 ; at Sedgwick's
Stevens, Rev.   Will.:  account  of  Sedbergh                funeral, 479; Memorial Meeting, 482
                                                          Thoresby, Ralph : remarks on Dr Wood
School under his management, i. 54;                           ward, i. 178
                                                          Thurtell, Alex.: married by Sedgwick,
of him and his family, 181 2, 114;

   subscription   for  phaipsefrasmoinly,Lu5n9ar  Theory     ii. 274
Stewart, Matth.     :                                     Tindal, Nic. Conyngham

by, i. 67, note                                                                      : elected   Univ.

Stowe, in Lincolnshire : Joh. Sedgwick                    Representative, 1827, i. 278; made
                                                             Chief Justice, 1829, 341
   curate of, i. 38     elected M.P. for          W.      Trafalgar, victory at : Sedgwick's excite
Strickland, Sir G. :
   Riding of Yorkshire, 1835, i. 441
Struve, Fried. Georg. Will. : visits Cam                  ment at news of, i. 78 ; ii. 238
                                                          Trap-dykes: Sedgwick's views on, i. 291
                       ,26                                Tremadoc Slates: ii. 513
bridge, 1847,                                             Trench, Mrs : letter on her Remains,
Suffolk crag: Sedgwick's visit to, 1819,                                                         ii.

i. 209 ; opinion respecting age of, 446                       379
Sussex, Sedgwick       explores coast of, 1825:           Trevelyan, Lady: visits Cambridge, 1831,
   i. 266
                                                          i. 282
Sussex, Duke of: makes Sedgwick one
   of his chaplains, 1819, i. 366; fondness               Trinity College : remonstrance against
   for Trin. Coll., ib1d. ; proposed for                  mode of election to Fellowships, 1786,
   President of Royal Society, 1830, 365 ;
   Sedgwick 's letter to, 366 ; his election,             i. 73 ; Sedgwick entered a sizar at,
   ibid. ; Sedgwick proposes health at                    1803, i. 60; commences residence at,

                                                          71 ; obtains first class in examination,

                                                          1805, 1. /6; do. 1806, 79; elected to
                                                          scholarship at, 1807, 91 ; to Fellowship,
   dinner to Herschel, 1.S38, 510                         1810, 100; account of society at High
Sutton, Manners: candidate to represent                   Table, 105 ; appointed sub-lecturer at,
   University, 1822, i. 257                               1812, 124; is made assistant-tutor, 138;
Switzerland: Sedgwick visits, 1816, i. 144                work in this capacity, 153; suggests
                                                          name for New Court, 1823, 263;
--148

Taconic System, ii. 555                                   preaches     Commemoration        Sermon,
Tatham, Rad. : supports Lord Hervey,                      1832, 399   -- 405; examination     in, de
                                                          scribed, 1840, ii. 9; preaches in chapel
    1822, i. 259       a satire on Dr Wood                on Christmas Day, 18 ; Whewell
Tauronomachia,

    ward : i. 175                                         elected Master, 1841, 35 ; revision of
Taylor, Sedley : describes Sedgwick's                     statutes, 1842, 39;  vt1ois8,i4t51,o84f39,t0h;e57aQ--rurie6vea4nl;
lectures, ii. 488                                         and Prince Albert
Teesdale: Sedgwick visits, 1821, i. 230;                  made Vice-Master,

    paper  on,  discussed,  291                   Sedg    of statues of Bacon and Byron, 93 ;
Terrot,    Ch.   Hughes:     entertains                   celebration of tercentenary, 1846, 108;
wick, 1850, ii. 183                                       celebration of last night of old year,
Tests, University : movement to abolish,
   1834, i. 417-- 425, ii. 173; renewed                   214; Sedgwick's interest in Fellowship
   in 1869, ii. 451
Tewkesbury: Sedgwick visits, i. 514                       examination, 264; statue offered by
Thames: survey of, i. 363                                 Lord Lansdowne, 1856, 329; Sedg
Thirlwall, Connop : entertains Macaulay                   wick preaches in, on Easter Day,

and sisters, 1831, i. 282 ; signs Decla                   '857, 333 ; new statutes suggested
ration in favour of sitting members for                   for, 336 ; Livingstone entertained in,
                                                          337 ; meetings in, to discuss new
University, 1831, 374; supports J. W.                     statutes, 1858, 346; arrival of the
                                                          new statutes, 1859, ibid.; Woolner's
Lubbock, 1832, 398 ; replies to Dr                        bust of Sedgwick for, 1862, 362 ;
Turton, 1834, 426; resigns assistant-                     Sedgwick     wishes to      resign      Vice-
tutorship, ibid.; presented to rectory                    Mastership,  381 -- 384 ;  visit of    Prince
in Yorkshire by Lord Brougham, 433 ;                      and Princess of Wales to, 1864, 402 ;
leaves College for Yorkshire, 436 ; is                    presides at Commemoration, 1867, 435
visited by Sedgwick, 1854, ii. 277                        Sedgwick's rooms in, 494

                                                                                                                            637

Turton, Th. : writes pamphlet against                                Wales, South: visited by Sedgwick and
   abolition of tests, 1834, i. 426                                  Murchison, 1834, i. 429; by Sedgwick
                                                                     alone, 1846, ii. 106; by Sedgwick and
Tynemouth : Sedgwick's speech at, 1838,                                 McCoy,
                                                                         of, 514,    1854, 276; general description
  i-5'5                                                              Wallace,
                                                                                   D5r2:4 physician of Sedbergh, i.
Uffenbach, Zach. Conrad von: describes
   his visit to Dr     Woodward, i.
Uglies, the three      : story of, ii.             99                229, and note
                                                   486               Walmisley, Tho. Atwood : plays for
Ulverston: slate-quarries at, visited by                                Jenny Lind at Norwich,
Sedgwick, 1814, i. 132                                                                                       ; ii.  152, 153
Unitarian :      Sedgwick's                answer to a, ii.          Walpole, S. H.: appointed
Ure, Andr.       : criticised                by Sedgwick,                                                           a Commis
                                                                     sioner, 1855, ii. 293; elected Univer
                                                             449        sity Representative,
                                                                 i.  Walsh, Benj. Darner:                1856, 318
                                                                                                        advocates establish
362

VanSittart, Aug. Art.: founds prize in                               ment of five new Triposes, 1837, ii.

   honour   oDf rSe: dvgiswitisck,Seiid. g4w0i8ck                    169
Vaughan,                                                             WWaalltsoinng-ohna-mth:e-SNeadzgew: ickSveidsgitws,ick1857v,is3it3s3,
   wich,                                            at     Nor
Vestiges
            ii.  t2h4e8;Navitsuitsraal gHaiins,to4ry15 of                1833, 406
            of                                                       WWaawrridbc,ukr'stRoipn.a, peHirnestnimc. raittiheciissewrdei,tdhuici.tSioe2n5d1gowficSke,dg
                                                           Crea                i.
tion: account of, ii. 81, 82 and note;                                             :

Sedgwick's letters                          on, to Lyell and                                     :                                                                                                                                                      i.
Agassiz, 83-- 87;                          Sedgwick's article
                                                                     81 elected Fellow of Trin. Coll. 1810,
against in Edinburgh Review, 87;                                     i.
    refers  to in his  lectures, 500                                      ;100
Victoria,    Queen :   Sedgwick presented
                                                                     Waring, Edw. visits Joh. Dawson at
                                                             to,     Sedbergh,     i.
i. 511; coronation, ibid.; Sedgwick's                                                 :

                                                                                        63
                                                                     WWaawtriewcrkilco,kos1,h8i3rb7ea,ttcleoa4l9foi0ef,l:d49n1evwissitebdrobuyghSt edbgy
aw1c8icc4ok3u,,ntii1.845o77f,--h16e24r7;;                                                               :

                                           visit to Cambridge,                         i.
                                           converses with Sedg
                                                                     Sedgwick to Dent,                       137; visit to
                                             invites him to Os                 1
borne, 131 -- 140; to Windsor, 198;                                               :
                                                                                                 i.

                                                                                                       i.
to Osborne, 221; to Windsor, 234;                                    Wafiteslodno, f,Ri.49ignorant of chemistry when
her portrait sent to Sedgwick, 374;
interview with Sedgwick, 1862, 382,                                  elected Professor,                 163; this prece
391 ; sends Speeches, etc. of Prince
Consort to Sedgwick, 388; her tele                                       dent  avowed  uforgreSs edHgewadicsk,to15n7ominate
                                                                     Webb,
                                                                               Will.
                                                                                   :

    grams    on  Sedgwick's death,                                   for Professorship of Mineralogy, 1822,
Vince,     Sam.   : his sermons at
                                           477               S.           236
                                            Great                    Webster, Geo. Edis: elected
                                                                                                                    Fellow                                                                                                                              of
Mary's, 1807, i. 86, and note                                        Trin. Coll. 1809,
                                                                               ;                        100
                                                                     Wellington, Duke of: speech
Waddington, Tho.: story of, i. 19                                    of                 i.                          in    favour
Wade, Art. Savage: Sedgwick's pupil at                               ii.                          ; i.                  i.
                                                                          Catholic Emancipation, 1829,                      337,
   Ditton, 1808, i. 98                                                    394 thoughts on his funeral,
Wales, Prince of: visits Cambridge with                              Wells: account of Cathedral at,                      237
                                                                                                                    i.   218

the Princess, 1864, ii. 402; telegram                                Werner: his lectures attended by Hail
                                                                     stone, 1788,      195 his Essay on Mine
   from, on Sedgwick's death, 477                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;;
Wales: general description of rocks in                               ral Collections   translated by same, ibid .

  N. and S. Wales, ii. 511 -- 516                                    his views held by Sedgwick, 251, 285;
                                                                     WehrDesiasmtawaglslrr,kaosdnWu,aoilnl1l,8.r:e13j7e5,c6ptaioinnt6s9o;fptovhireetmwras,it2o9of0f,D3Jeo5n7ht.,
           , North: Sedgwick's first tour in,
1831, i. 376--382, 533, ii. 517; second
tour in, 1832, i. 390-^396, ii. 518-- 521 ;
hasty visit to, 1834, i. 430; Sedgwick's                                       i.
classification of Welsh                     rocks,  1835 --          about 1820, 13, 15; house where
38, ii. 528 -- 531; work                   in with                   Sedgwick boarded near :
                                                    J. W.            marries Ann Sedgwick,      i.           Sedbergh, 57:
Salter, 1842, ii. 47; reads Outline                                  Ri. Sedgwick, 324                       37 portrait of

of Structure to Geol. Soc. Lond.,                                    Weymouth: Sedgwick's first visit to,
1843, 56, 53 1 ; visits again with Salter,
                                                                     WWhhIsa1neahg8dtows2eurte0tlcy,lDtl,v,iavisreWAiwtb2iSintp1locl.9,i.et,:on1csd82eeTe62snhd41dei,;ctsoaiSitg.pSeSeese4eoc0dtld5oagPggtwhowyiril,oiccskoko'f,sp, h31lye628t094te40r;,
56; with John Ruthven, 1846, 104,
533--536; again in 1851, 210; paper
on, to Geol. Soc. Lond., 1852, 215,
539; work in, with McCoy, 1853, 261 ;                                                                               ii.
visits with relatives, 1859, 352
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of

63R INDEX.

i. 1 ; called Rough Diamond, 1847,                gives statue of Bacon to Trin. Coll.,
                                                  '845, 93; writes letter to Sedgwick
4, note ; succeeds Sedgwick as assistant-                                          ; is angry at         his
tutor, 1818, 161 ; signs notice of meet           about his dog,             M9r8  Jerdan to hall,       99 ;
                                                  introduction of
ing to institute Philosophical Society,           thanked by Sedgwick as Vice-Master
1819, 206; visits I. of Wight with Sedg           for his gift of Bacon's statue, ibid. ; his
wick, 1821, 225, note; joins Committee            reply, 101 ; advises Sedgwick on his
in aid of Greeks, 1823, 235, note;
                     with  Sedgwick,              appointment as Royal Commissioner,
visits  Edinburgh    with  same, 1826  --182274,  1W85o0rl,ds1, 772; 69wr; iteosppoOsef stheproPpluosreadlityBiollf
-- 25,  264 ; Paris
270 ; friendship for Sedgwick discussed,
281 ; entertains Macaulay and sisters,            for reform      ojffiUnivfeorrsitcya,ses185f5o,r     293,
183 1, 282; testimony to charms of                294; gives                                              the

Hyde Hall, 283; Sedgwick's         lette--rs      Hawkins' Collection of Fossil Reptiles,
to, describing Scotch tour, 1827,  30w1 ith
305 ; geologises in Cornwall                      1856, 320,     321 ; 10               towards   purchase
                                                                 Collection,              ibid.;   death of
                                                  of Image
                                                  his wife (Lady Affleck), 1865, 412 ;
Sedgwick, 1828, 330; experiment at
Dolcoath mine, 331 ; entreats Sedg                Sedgwick's                       on his death,     1866,
wick to become President of Geological            420-- 422      feelings

Society, 333  ; spends Christmas       with       Whitby: described by Sedgwick in 1821,
Sedgwick at   Milton House, 335 ;      goes       i. 228; purchase of Plesiosaurus at, ii.

out hunting, ibid. ; opposes petition             Wh3i7te, Hen. Kirke: Sedgwick's recollec
against Catholic Emancipation, 1828,
                                                     tions of, i. 79
336 ; proposes to join Sedgwick and
Murchison in Germany, 1829, 348;                           , Joh.: fourth wrangler in 1808, i.
opposes Duke of Sussex as President
of Royal Society,                                 Whitehaven : visited by Sedgwick, 1833,
mitted ad eiindem     1830, 366  ; is ad             i. 409; revisited, 1838, 517
                                  Oxford,         Whittlesea: Sedgwick visits, 1804, i. 76;
                     gradum at
                                                     184 1, ii. 23; Sir H. Smith's reception
383, note; writes fly-sheet respecting
University petition against Reform                   at, 1847, 124
Bill, 1831, 374, note; signs Declaration          Wilberforce, Sam.: Sedgwick's letter to,
in favour of sitting members for Uni
versity, ibid. ; entertains Mrs Somer-                    ii.
ville, 1832, 388, 389; with Sedgwick              1848,        1W43ill.                    of his  election,
at Oxford, Stratford-on-Avon, etc., 391;                   ,
                                                                          :  story

at Charnwood Forest, 1833, 408;                   1784, i. 39; supports Lord Hen. Petty,
                                                  1806, 88; account of his election for
                                                  Yorkshire, 1807, 90; supports Duke of
invites Sedgwick's help in the matter             Gloucester, 181 1, 108; Sedgwick's
                                                  personal knowledge of, ii. 394
of Mr Thirlwall, 1834, 426 ; helps him            Williams, Rev. D.: paper on coal de
to entertain Miss Clarke at Cambridge,

1835, 456; is present at the opening              posits of N. Devon, 1835, i. 448
of one of the Bartlow Barrows, 1835,              Wilson, Joh.: entertains Sedgwick, 18 13,

506 ; his Eclogue on this occasion,               i. 130
ibid. ; is invited to become President
of the Geological Society, 1836, 462 ;
Sedgwick urges him to accept, 463 ;               Winch, Nath. Joh.: obligations                to,   ii. 503
                                                  Windsor, Dixie: executor to                        Wood
                                                                                               Dr

his success, 484 ; is present at the              ward, i. 181
opening of a second tumulus at Bartlow,
                                                  Wisbaden: Sedgwick visits, 1844,                       76ii.
1838, 507; his verses, 508; short tour            Wisbeach in of Ely: branch of                      Sedg     :
with Sedgwick,       1838, 514; with              wick family there, 33i. : I.
Sedgwick at Alnwick Castle, 516;                  Witham, Hen. sends fossil fish to Sedg; i. i.
                               of tumulus            wick, 1828,                      1
writes verses on     opening    President  at     Wodehouse, C.           N31.,7  Canon    of Norwich
Bartlow, 1840,       ii. 13 ;              of
Brit. Ass. at Plymouth, 1840, 26;                 remonstrates with Sedgwick on his
made Master of Trinity College, 1841,             Norwich sermons,
35 ; advocates general Tripos of In                                                      496; correspon
ductive Sciences, 169; visits Sedgwick            dence with      h2i0m--o2n2            difficulties of sub
at Norwich, 1842, 38; undertakes                  scription, ii.                          on offer of Arch
revision of statutes of Trinity College,                       of Norfolk, 14
                                                     deaconry  Tho. Hyde: history                    of his
                                                  Wollaston,

39 ; opposes invitation to Brit. Ass.,            gift to  Geological           Society, 366             first
1844, 71 ; Herschel's account of this,            medal    presented         by Sedgwick to
73 ; speech in Woodwardian lecture-                                                        i.          Will.
room, 74 ; answered by Sedgwick, ibid.;                                                               ;

                                                     Smith, 367  Will.:           brings   in      a Bill for
                                                  Wood, Geo.

                                                              INDEX.                                                           639

removal of tests, 1834, i. 422, and                                        room fitted up for them, ibid.;
                                                                       additions by Hailstone, 196; bene
                                                                       factions of Duke of Grafton and
                                                                       Mr Joh. Hawkins, ibid.; incon
                                                                       venience of the room admitted, 1818,
note                                                                   a
                                                                              ;
Wood. Ja. : his Principles of Mechanics                                            :
    referred to, i. 86, and note; joins Philo                                                           a

sophical Society, 1820, 208, note;
   supports Lord Hervey, 1812, 259
Woodcock, Eliz. : story of her entomb                                  197 insisted upon by Inspectors,
                                                                       1825, 262
                                                                       In 1819: specimens collected in Isle of
ment in the snow told by Sedgwick to
the Royal children,                                                                by Sedgwick, 205
is                                             137; to the                Wight     Henslow tries to
            ,                                                          In 1820
                   i.
                          :
                              :
                                        ii.
   Queen, 138; particulars of the accident,                                                                       buy          skele
   ibid, note; alteration in the site, 258
Woodhouse, Rob. presides at Sedgwick's                                 ton of Megaceros, 214; Sedgwick
                                                                       suggests outlay of Woodwardian sur
Act, 1807, 86
Woodward, Hen.: ii. 557                                                plus in building museum and rooms
                                                                          for the
      --      Joh. sketch                   of his life,         ; i.  In 1821:    lecturer, 223                     by Sedg
          181; birth and                   parentage, 166;                         specimens collected
                                                                       wick in Somersetshire, Gloucester
166
patronized by Dr Joh. Barwick, 167;
                                                                       shire, Dorsetshire,                   added, 222
                                                                                                                     ;
elected Professor of Physic at Gresham                                    simple minerals arranged by Hens-                        ;
College, 1692, 168; Fellow of Royal                                       low, ibid.
Society, ibid.; Doctor of Medicine,                                    In 1822 specimens collected by Sedg:
1695, ibid. Fellow of Coll. of Phy                                        wick in Isle of Wight, Hampshire,
sPihciyasnisc,k,1703,181, 69a;npdubqliushaerrselsThewiSthtateDorfof       and Oxfordshire, added, 233 fossils
Sloane, Dr Mead, and Dr Freind, ibid.                                     bought at an auction in Lichfield,
story his shield, ibid, and note; com1                                    ibid.; bones of Ichthyosaurus, etc.
                   7;                                                     from coast of Yorkshire added, ibid.;
                                                                          Mr Henslow's Anglesea collection
mencement of his geological studies,
170; publication of the Essay toward
a Natural History of the Earth, 1695,                                  presented, 234; suggestions for

                                                                       building                new and enlarged                 mu
                                                                          seum, ii.:
171;  ;     prevented from going abroad,                               In 1823:            a349, 350                           from
        is                                                                                  pakeontological                     cast
ibid. publishes Brief instructions for                                                                       series

making observations, ibid. analysis of                                 bone-caves of Yorkshire, 262
                                               ;                                                                     ;

the Essay, 172 his collections and their;                              of fossil from Museum of Jardin des               I. ;
value, 173 editions and translations of;                               Plantes, ibid.
the Essay, 174; criticised by Arbuthnot
                                                                       In 1827 geological series from neigh
and Ray, ibid.; ridiculed by Gay, 175;                                 bourhood                of   Paris,                  fossils
other satires, ibid.; quotations from                                  belonging                to  Mr          273  Parkinson
Tauronomachia, ibid.; Essays of Dr
                                                                                                            Ja.                of
                                                                       acquired, 280 shells from
                                                                                                    ;

Camerarius, 176; dedicates his Classi                                     Wight collected by Sedgwick, ibid.
            Fossils to Sir                                Newton,      In 1830: specimens from Eifel, Solen-
fication    of
                                                                          hofen, and other districts visited in
                           ;

                                    I.
177; his botanical experiments and
discoveries, ibid. his manners criticised                                 1829, 363 complaints of the Inspec
                                                                          tors of want of space, 428;
                                                                       In 1832: casts of Plesiosaurus and Ich
by Thoresby and Erndtel, 178; Uffen-
bach's visit to him, 1710, 179; his
death and burial in Westminster Abbey,
180; epitaph, 181 will and executors,                                     thyosaurus presented,              429     Divinity
ibid. provisions respecting his Lecturer,                                                                   end of
182 bequest of his collections and their                               In 1833: rooms at west
      ;;                                                               School added to, 428 collection
                       ;                                               formed by Dr S. D. Clarke, 429
                                                                       specimens collected in Wales
                                  ;                                                :
                                                       ;                                                    a
cabinets to Cambridge, 183 provisions
for their safe keeping, 184; annual                                                                                     ;
dinner, ibid. disposition of the surplus,                                                                                             by ;
                                                                           Sedgwick, ibid.
                                                                       In 1834: bust of Cuvier, 429; fossil
185; estimate of the value of his pub                                      fish from Leicestershire, 432
lished works, ibid.; unfinished MSS.                                   In    1835 scheme for                 new museum,
destroyed by his order, ibid, note; the                                In  440; skeleton of Irish
                                                                                                             Elk, 449 -- 451
cabinets sent to Cambridge, 186, and                                       1836: specimens from Devon and
note; purchase of the foreign fossils by                                   Cornwall, 472
the University, ibid.; room devised                                    In   1839: purchase              of Count     Miinster's
                                           ;a                                                          -- 20
for their reception, ibid. estate in Suf                                   collection, ii. 18
                                                                       In 1840: fittings of new museum con
   folk bought, 187                                                       sidered, ii. 18 Woodwardian surplus
                 S. P. ii. 556:                                                                ;
                                                                                                                            ;
Woodwardian Museum:                               arrival of               spent on these, 228, 350                            defects
                                                                           of lecture-room, 23
Woodward's cabinets, 1728,                                i.  186;

640 INDEX.

In 184 1 : removal of collection to new                              210, 1821, 224; to 500, 1865,
    rooms,   26, 350 ; work done                                     aii.nd40d8in;ndeer,scriiip. ti4o2n--o4f4a;udsiut,ggiensstpioencstionfo,r
             Ansted, ibid.; purchase            by                   the future in Reports of Commis
    D. T.                                       of                   sioners, 1852, 227 -- 229
                                                                  Woolner, Tho. : carves bust of Sedgwick,
In  Whitby   Plesiosaurus, 37
     1843:   visit of the               and   Prince
             to, 61 -- 63  Queen
    Albert
In    1847: work                                                  Woiir.d3s6w2orth, Chr.: solicits Sedgwick to
    113, 115; by      done   by Sedgwick,
                  J.        Salter, 118; by                       become Proctor, 1827, i. 308; action
                       W.
    Fred. McCoy, ibid.
In 1850: departure of Mc Coy, 193;                                against Thirl wall, 1834, 426; resigns
    report of Inspectors on his work,                                                 1841, ii. 35
    194 ; fossils from neighbourhood of                           mast,erWshiipll,.:  missed by Sedgwick,
                                                                                                           1817,

   Edinburgh added to,           1i9n5          of                i. 151; becomes his intimate friend,
In 1852 : suggestions                                             1822, 247; his dislike of geologists,
                                        Rtport                    ibid.; letters addressed by Sedgwick to,

    Commissioners for       its  --fut2u2r9e  position            ibid, note; Sedgwick's feelings towards,
    and management,        227
In                             of catalogue of                    as stated in his fifth letter, 248; letter
      1855 : publication
    British Palaeozoic fossils, 305                               from, 1834, 427; visited by Sedgwick,
In 1856 : acquisition of                                          431; his opinion on a level plain, ii.
   Hawkins collections,                 Image and
                                         320-- 322 ;              24; Sedgwick's first three Letters to, on
    work done by Lucas Barrett, 322,                              geology of Lake District, 1842, 39;
                                                                  writes two letters to Sedgwick, 40;
In  3l3      notice of Barrett's        work, 348
In   1858:                                                        Sedgwick's fourth Letter to, 1846, 102;
                                                                  meets Sedgwick at Bath, 1847, 122;
     1872:   --Se4d7g0wi;ckp'usrchcaosnetinoufedLecinkteenrebsyt  fifth Letter, 1853, 249; visit to his
    in, 464                                                       grave, 1855, 302; account of his
    collection, 465 ; preparation of cata
                                                                     friendship for Crabb Robinson, 427
        logues, 467                                               Workington : incursion of sea into collieries
Woodwardian Professorship : appoint                                  a'. ' 493
                                                                  Worsley, Tho. : signs Declaration in favour
   ment of Conyers Middleton, i. 188;                             of sitting members for University, 1831,
   account of him, 188 -- 189; appointment
   of Ch. Mason, 1734, 189; the executors

request that the salary be made depen                             i. 374; helps Sedgwick to entertain
dent on delivery of lectures, 1734, 190;                             Miss Clarke, 1835, 457
account of Mason, 190, 191; appoint                               Wright, Cha., a guide to Lake District:
        of Joh.    Michell, 1762,             191; of             i. 250, 25 1
ment  Ogden,     1764, 193; of                Thomas
                                                                  York: Sedgwick visits, 1814, i. 133;
Dr                                                                   British Association at, 1844, ii. 76
Green, 1778, 194; his bequest of books
for the use of the lecturer, 195; rumours                         Yorkshire, coast of: Sedgwick visits,
of vacancy, 1818, 152; new regulations                               1821, i. 226 -- 230; paper on, discussed,
for lecturer, 197 ; account of Sedgwick's
election, 152--165; salary raised to                                  293

Cambridge: -- printed by c. j. clay, m.a. and sons, at the university press.



