Charles Darwin; his life and work. By Charles Frederick Holder.

Holder, Charles Frederick, 1851-1915.
New York, G. P. Putnam's sons, 1891.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044107217598

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
hlifiesandCwDhaoarwrrlienks;

HCFrheodaledrrleicskr
Xeabers in Science
I
DARWIN AND THE SQUIRRELS.
   1

Xea&ers tn Science

GHARLES DARWIN

HIS LIFE                                          !A

CHARU'S FHhDI'Kirk HOLDER

N ',. A -                                         1V1 KI1V.:MCBONTH*IKst,kr.  /,i'''IN.'         MF»"iP*W    >F Tti-
nFKLLOiV O' l                    .  t-  "  S. :»                                          -
! INN,*. AN ' --.IF. ,'V,                    'I                                           i'
                           f ,*  -                                                            .
                                      '
        (,. P. IT"
                                                                                         ,''
'37 W>.sr rwuMV-Thih                                                                                     t1
                                                  ivu.Li^M .r., «1R.\N!>
/'
Xea&ers In Science

   CHARLES DARWIN

              HIS LIFE AND WORK

            CHARLES FREDERICK HOLDER

FELLOUWNNJEOLAFINGTHHSTEOSC/N'IE.TY"Y.T,AHCEETACDIV.E,OMARYUYTHOKOFINRGSOC,F"IE""NCAEELSSE,TMRCEAONNRTRGSEESOPCOFONZDMOINPOGALNOYG/'MY,E"EMT*B*CELIRVINOGF THE

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

         NEW YORK                         LONDON
                          27 KING WILLIAM ST., STRAND
27 WEST TWENTY-THIRD ST.

S{>t Juiickerbother |Jrts«

Am 1891
                   Copyright, i8qi
                                  BY

CHARLES FREDERICK HOLDER

ttbe fentcherbocber ptcset Hew pot*

         Electrotyped, Printed, and Bound by

               G. P. Putnam's Sons
                      HEN the publishers proposed to

                              me the subject of the present
                              volume, a life of Charles Darwin

                              for American and English read
                            ers, I was particularly gratified
                       with the suggestion that the work

                       should be adapted .o young readers

              as well as old. It has always seemed to

                 me that the life of Charles Darwin was

                 one eminently fitted to be held up as an
example to the youth of all lands. He stood as

the central figure in the field of natural science in
this century, and while it is yet too early to present
his life with any approximation of its results upon
the thought of the future, it is apparent to every
one that his influence upon the intellectual growth
of the country, and upon biological science in par

ticular, has been marked and epoch making.

   In the preparation of the work I have not at

tempted an analytical dissertation upon Darwin's

life-work, neither have I discussed his theories or

their possible effect upon the scientific world, but
vi Preface.

have simply presented the story of his life, that of

one of the greatest naturalists of the age ; a life of
singular purity ; the life of a man who, in loftiness of

purpose and the accomplishment of grand results,

was the centre of observation in his time ; revered

and honored, yet maligned and attacked as few

have been.

I have asked my readers to follow with me the

footsteps of the naturalist from school-days in Eng

land to foreign shores, seeking to interest them in

the pursuits which he loved and to enable them to

observe the things which he saw, believing that in

this way the remarkable traits of the man as an

observer and thinker can be best and most forcibly
shown. I have had an object beyond that of simply

telling his story, and one which I believe would com

mend itself to the great investigator were he living :

it by tracing and following his work and investiga
is,

   I

                              is
                                           is

                                  I
                                            I
tions, to encourage young men and women to emu

late his methods, become students in the great field

of nature, and enjoy the delights of actual contact

with the world of which he was an active worker.

That such a career ennobling trust the following

pages will demonstrate.

In the preparation of this volume am indebted

to Francis Darwin, Esq., of Cambridge, England,

whose life of his father  the only work extant

giving fully the life and letters of the naturalist. My

thanks are also due the Biological Society of Wash

ington for the extracts from the Darwin Memorial,

which conceive to be of especial interest to Eng

lish readers as an expression from the leading
                       Preface.    vii

naturalists of America on the English scientist. My

acknowledgments are also given to Professor True,

of the Smithsonian Institution, for the loan of a rare

and excellent likeness of Darwin, and important

papers ; and to my wife, whose aid and cooperation

have been invaluable.              C. F. H.

Pasadena, Cal., November i, 1890.
                CONTENTS.

                CHAPTER I.                                           PAGE

THE BOY DARWIN                                                          I

The First Paper-- Taste for Natural History --Birthplace --
Early School-Days -- Religious Nature -- Books Which Influ
enced Him-- Associates -- Introduction to Scientific Men --

Taste for Sport.

                CHAPTER II.

COLLEGE DAYS                                                         12

College Life -- Thoughts of Entering the Church -- A Poor
Mathematician '--' Beetle Collecting -- First Appearance in
Print --Associations with Eminent Men -- Scientific Reading
-- Favourite Authors -- Interest in Geology.

                CHAPTER III.

THE YOUNG NATURALIST                                                 19
      The Beagle -- An Offer of Importance -- The Young Natural
     ist -- The Voyage -- Powers of Observation --Cape Verd
      Islands-- Tours of Investigation -- Dust-Showers-- Wonderful
      Phenomena -- Geological Studies -- St. Paul's Rocks -- Fernan

      do de Noronha.

                                                     ix
X Contents.

                              CHAPTER IV.

IN SOUTHERN SEAS
      The Log-Book -- Bahia-- Singular Appearance of the Water
     -- The Vampire Bat --Slavery --Trips into the Country --
      Rare Collections -- In the Brazilian Forest -- Shooting Mon
     keys --The Click of a Butterfly --Jumping Spiders -- Electri
      cal Displays -- The Plata.

                               CHAPTER V.

.47IN THE LAND OF THE SACRED TREE . . .
     The Rio Negro --Trips into the Interior -- The Sacred Tree
     --Superstition of Natives-- Salt Lakes -- Bahia Blanca--A
      Tomb of Giants-- The Mylodon Darwinii -- The Armadillo
     -- Hibernation -- Careful Work--War-- General Rosas --Bru
      tal Natives --Skilled Equestrians.

CHAPTER VI.

AMONG THE FOSSILS                                                     58
      A Long Bullock Ride -- Santa Fe -- An Animal Collector --       72
     Large Fossils --Indian Superstitions -- Darwin 111-- A Native
     Doctor--Geology--Gigantic Armoured Animals -- Drought --

......The Parana --The Jaguar --Darwin a Prisoner --Swimming

     Horses--Shower of Butterflies-- Phosphorescence.

                              CHAPTER VII.

THE LAND OF GIANTS
      The Patagonians --Guanaco Hunting -- Singular Burial Cus
      toms -- A Horse with a Proboscis -- Extinction -- Up the Santa
      Cruz -- Puma Tracks --Catching the Condor -- Falkland Isl
     ands --Among the Glaciers-- The Fuegians -- Giant Sea-
       Weed and Its Work.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FOOT OF THE ANDES                                                 83
      At Valparaiso -- Andean Life -- An Old Schoolmate -- An
Contents.                                                           xi

Ocean Bottom--In the Mines -- Hot Springs-- Darwin Ex
cites Suspicion -- Volcanoes-- Tame Birds-- The Myopota-
mus-- Predaceous Gulls -- Birds Killed by Them.

CHAPTER IX.

IN THE EARTHQUAKE COUNTRY  . . . .89

At the Bay of San Carlos-- Earthquakes -- Destruction of
Concepcion--At Talcahuana --Tidal Waves-- Poverty of the
Victims -- Elevation of the Coast -- Darwin's Coolness in
Danger-- Narrow Escapes.

CHAPTER X.

IN THE RED SNOW COUNTRY                                             97
      Valparaiso -- The Portillo Pass-- Land of the Red Snow--
      Electrical Conditions -- A Swarm of Locusts-- Experiments
      with the Reduvius -- A Forest of Stone --Valley of the Copi-
      apo --Ruins at Old Callao-- Antiquity of Man.

CHAPTER XI.

AMONG THE OCEAN VOLCANOES  . . .. . T06

Galapagos Islands -- Number of Craters -- Gigantic Tor
toises-- Land and Marine Lizards -- New Marine Forms --
Flora -- Number of Cryptogamic Plants-- Variety of Forms
on the Different Islands -- Tameness of the Birds.

CHAPTER XII.

IN THE GARDENS OF THE SEA                                           1 13

Keeling Island -- Among the Corals-- Towed by a Turtle --
Sagacity of the Birgos-- Stinging Corals-- Coral-Eating Fish
--Theories Regarding Reef Structure -- Mauritius -- Extinc
tion of Animals at St. Helena -- Return to England.
xii Contents.

           CHAPTER XIII.                                      PAGE
                                                              1 23
DARWIN THE NATURALIST

Ambition of Darwin --Future Work Decided upon -- Scien
tific Friends -- Papers Read before Various Societies --
Experiments with Earthworms --Marriage of Darwin --
Methods of Work--Various Publications.

                      CHAPTER XIV.

HOME LIFE                                                     131

Appearance of Darwin -- Continued Ill-Health -- Daily
Habits -- Change in Musical and Literary Tastes --Affection
for His Children.

                      CHAPTER XV.

THE WORK OF A LIFE                                            1 37

Early Papers -- Publications by Scientific Societies -- "The
Formation of Mould"-- "The Cirripedia "-- The Wallace
Incident -- Collecting Material for the "Origin of Species"
--Success of the Work-- Time Spent in Authorship --Re
ligion -- Final Work and Death.

                      CHAPTER XVL

HONOURS OF A LIFETIME                                         149

Membership in Societies -- The Institute of France --Prises,

Medals, Degrees, Portraits, Gifts, etc.

           CHAPTER XVII.

THE DARWIN FAMILY                                             156

The First Known Darwin -- The Head of the Family --
Natural-History Tastes -- Poets, Doctors, and Military Men
-- Erasmus Darwin -- Carlyle's Description of Erasmus --

Evidences of Genius.
                     Contents.                                                     xiii

              CHAPTER XVIII.                                                       FAGl

DARWINISM                                                                          167

The Coining   of the Word --What    iFt itMteesatn"s----I"tsThReelSattriuogngleto
Evolution--"   The Survival of the
for Existence " --The Descent --Examples of Evolution.

              CHAPTER XIX.

DARWINISM CONTINUED                                                                183

How Change is Produced --Vast Eras of Time --The Age of
the Earth --Evidences of Evolution --Extinct Animals.

              CHAPTER XX.

THE DARWIN MEMORIAL                                                                195

Addresses by American Scientists : Dr. Theodore Gill --W.

H. Dall-- Major John W. Powell-- Richard Rathbun--
Charles V. Riley -- Lester F. Ward -- Frank Baker --Freder

ick W. True.

APPENDIX                                                                           263

List of Works by Charles Darwin -- List of Books containing
Contributions by Charles Darwin -- List of Scientific Papers,

including a Selection of Letters and Short Communications

to Scientific Journals --Works on Darwinism for Further

Reference.

INDEX
ILLUSTRATIONS.

J PAGR
  Darwin and the squirrels . . . Frontispiece

* st. Paul's rocks from the east -- From Spry's
" Voyage of the Challenger "
                              . . . 24
shark fishing at st. Paul' s rocks -- From Gosse' s
.26" Romance of Natural History "
                                       .

a Brazilian collecting-ground -- From Gosse's
.28" Romance of Natural History "
                                       .

PORCUPINE FISH (DIODON) FLOATING ON THE SUR

J FACE                                               30
      .                                              32
   DARWIN FINDING A VAMPIRE BAT BITING A HORSE,

BRAZILIAN HUNTERS AND ANIMAL COLLECTORS          . 36

S SOUTH AMERICAN NATIVE HUT OF LEAVES  .         . *8

   A PLANTER'S HOUSE IN BRAZIL                       40
V A HOME ON THE PARAHIBA RIVER, BRAZIL . .           42
                                                     44
J CAMP IN A BRAZILIAN FOREST
                                                     50
  SOUTH AMERICAN OSTRICH (rHEa) AND YOUNG --

 ...From Brehm's " Natural History "
SOUTH AMERICAN OSTRICHES FORDING A RIVER         . 52

NATIVE AUSTRALIANS HUNTING THE EMU --From
.54Figuier's " Birds " . . . . .

XV
xvi Illustrations.

DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING THE EVOLUTION OF THE

HORSE                                                 62

...the patagonian cavy --From Brehm's "Natural        74
      History"                                        76
the capybara--From Brehm 's " Natural History "       78

DARWIN SHOOTING AT A CONDOR .
CAPE FROWARD, STRAITS OF MAGELLAN            From

      Spry's " Voyage of the Challenger " .  . .80
MUD VOLCANOES, TURBACO, SOUTH AMERICA --From
-9°Figuier's " World before the Deluge "
                                             .

bark-gatherers' camp IN PERU -- From Figuier's
" Vegetable World"
                                                      102

ELEPHANT TORTOISE, GALAPAGOS ISLANDS --From
Brehm' s " Natural History " .
                                             . .106

DARWIN TESTING THE SPEED OF AN ELEPHANT

       TORTOISE (GALAPAGOS ISLANDS) .            ..   108

A coral island, or atoll--From Figuier's     " Ocean

World" . . . . . . . .112

BIRGOS, OR COCOA-NUT CRAB                             114
                                                      128
....darwin's study --From " The Century Magazine"
                                                      150
portrait of Charles darwin--From " The Cen
                                                      Ij6
       tury Magazine "
COLLECTING IN THE SARGASSO SEA
        CHARLES DARWIN.

                  CHAPTER I.

                          THE BOY DARWIN.

The First Paper -- Taste for Natural History -- Birthplace -- Early
      School Days-- Religious Nature -- Books Which Influenced Him
      --Associates -- Introduction to Scientific Men -- Taste for Sport.

                                NE evening, in the year

                                           1826, a tall, slender youth
                                              rose at a meeting of the
                                          Plinian Society of Edin
                                          burgh, and with some
                                              embarrassment and hes
                                          itation unfolded a paper
                                              and addressed the chair.

                                    The speaker was

                                          Charles Darwin, and this
                                          was his first public at
                                       tempt to convey to
others information which he had acquired regarding

natural objects. At this time Darwin was seventeen
2 Charles Darwin.

years of age ; yet his paper, which was on the com
mon Flustra, or sea-mat, attracted no little attention,

and was the first in an ever increasing series that
gave him in later years a world-wide reputation.

   While this was Darwin's first public appearance as

a naturalist, he had long been an ardent collector.
When but nine years of age he was the happy pos
sessor of a collection of seals, franks, coins, and
minerals which were the admiration of his young
friends and acquaintances.

   Our hero was born at Shrewsbury in 1809, and
began his school-boy life at a day-school, later, in
1818, attending the large establishment of Dr. Butler,
a mile from the old homestead. This school, like
many of the time, was a strictly classical institution,
where the young mind was regaled with ancient
geography and history almost exclusively. The
lessons, so he tells us, were " learned by heart," with
interminable verses, -- a feature much esteemed by
educators of the day, and were mastered in boyish
fashion by a combination of the talent of the school.
He was singularly deficient in language, yet pos
sessed, like other members of his family, a remarkable
memory, so that, as he writes in his quaint Autobi
ography : " Much attention was paid to learning by

heart the lessons of the previous day ; this I could

effect with great facility, learning forty or fifty lines

of Virgil or Homer whilst I was in morning chapel ;

but this exercise was utterly useless, for every verse
was forgotten in forty-eight hours."

   Our young hero, while manly and thoughtful, was
simple-hearted, and often a victim to the deceptions
School Days.  3

practised by boys upon each other. Among his
comrades was a boy named Garnett, who one day
invited young Darwin into a store and treated him
to cakes. Darwin noticed that his friend did not

pay for them, and the occurrence, so unusual, moved
him to ask for an explanation. Mischievous Garnett
eyed his young schoolmate a moment, much as Mr.
Jingle did Mr. Pickwick on their famous ride, and
replied : " Why, my uncle left a large sum to each
tradesman in the town with the understanding that
anyone who wore his old hat and moved it in a

peculiar way should obtain what he wished free."
Young Darwin was naturally seized with a burning
desire to exercise this wonderful power, which his

comrade was only too eager to grant ; so the next
store they came to Darwin took the hat, walked

bravely in, and ordered a supply of good things,
giving the old hat a move as directed. He was pass

ing out, when the storekeeper, who was at first
amazed, dashed over the counter after the singular
customer, who stood not upon the order of going,
but dropped hat and cakes and ran as if for his life

to the measure of the hearty laughter of his com

panion.

   While Darwin was fond of sport and a true boy
in his pranks and games, there was a vein of uncon
scious dignity in him that the average youth did not
possess. He tells us that in running to school he
prayed to the Lord to aid him in arriving before it
was too late, which would show a strong religious

nature ; and that he was humane and honourable to a

marked degree is well known. How many boys in
4 Charles Darwin.

collecting eggs think of the rights of the birds ?
Yet our young naturalist, while an indefatigable col
lector of birds' eggs and nests, was invariably careful
to take but one egg from each nest,-- recognising in
this the rights of the lower animals. His humani
tarian ideas were carried to what some would consider
extremes ; thus, hearing at his uncle Josiah Wedg
wood's, that it was cruel to spit living worms, he
killed them first by a bath of salt and water.

   As a boy he was fond of solitary walks, and often
rambled away by himself, loving the quiet seclusion
of the forests, the haunts and fishing-pools at Maer,

or the old fortifications about Shrewsbury. At such

times he frequently became lost in meditation, so
that in one instance, while deeply absorbed, he
walked over a parapet, falling a distance of seven or

eight feet. In referring to this, he naively remarks :
" The number of thoughts which passed through my

mind during this very short, but sudden and wholly
unexpected, fall was astonishing, and seem hardly

compatible with what physiologists have, I believe,

proved about each thought requiring quite an ap
preciable amount of time."

   The young naturalist early developed habits of
observation, and entered into investigations, espe
cially of difficult and complex subjects, with an
ardour and interest that was infectious. He expe

rienced intense pleasure in geometrical problems,
enjoying the reasoning that was involved, and
showed marked evidence of the care and patience
in attaining certain ends that produced such results
in his later career. The books which influenced his
                   His Books.    5

boyish mind were Horace, certain odes of which

appear to have been the one bright feature in his

school life ; many hours were spent poring over the
historical plays of Shakespeare, while the poetry of
Byron and Scott, and especially Thomson's " Sea

sons," seem to have given him pleasure and satisfac

tion. A book that had a strong influence upon him

was the " Wonders of the World," over whose varied

contents he often pored, discussing the strange facts

set forth with his companions. Small things often

have much to do in shaping our lives, and in this

volume we undoubtedly find the germ that excited

in his mind the love for travel and exploration

which ultimately resulted in the famous voyage

which he made around the world in the Beagle.

Darwin testifies to the correctness of this, and in

"Ilater years, in referring to the book, wrote to a
German publisher:  believe that this book first

gave me a wish to travel in remote countries, which

was ultimately fulfilled by the voyage of the Beagle."
   While we may trace the love of travel to hours

spent over this volume, his passion for natural
history was accelerated by White's " Selborne."
From its pages he obtained his fondness for birds,

learning to note their ways and habits, and be

coming an ardent ornithologist.

Darwin had a decided natural inclination to litera

ture of a scientific character. He read during these

days several books on chemistry, and worked with

his elder brother in his laboratory, making gases and

various other chemical compounds ; and that it was

an unusual taste among the boys of the time is
6 Charles Darwin.

shown by the fact that he was nicknamed " Gas " by
his fellows, while even the head-master rebuked him
for wasting his time upon subjects that could be of
no possible use to him in later life. The opinions of
this teacher seem to have been entertained by Dar
win the elder, who, concluding that our hero was
accomplishing little at the school, took him away in
October, 1825, and sent him to the University of
Edinburgh to study medicine. Unfortunately, Dar
win now discovered that his father was a wealthy
man, and, being of an argumentative mind, he failed
to see that it was necessary for him to make any
especial exertion when he was certain of coming

into a goodly heritage. It is interesting to note this

resolution -- notably, not an evidence of ambition or
lofty ideas-- appearing in a life whose history in later
years is marked by its high and lofty aims and fixity
of purpose.

   Darwin entered the University of Edinburgh,
where his brother was studying, without ambition,
and, like many boys, drifted with the current. He
found the lectures, with the exception of those on
his favourite chemistry, dull and uninteresting, while
those on materia medica by Dr. Duncan he describes
as something fearful to remember in their dullness.
The subjects were distasteful to him, causing him to
neglect dissection, which in later years he appears to

have greatly regretted, being an absolute necessity
in the elaborate and minute investigations that
formed his life-work. Despite his lack of interest

as a student he obtained patients, and, in all proba

bility, would have succeeded under the tutelage
His Friends.  7

of his father, an eminent physician, had not a pain

ful operation in the hospital at Edinburgh practically
ended his career in medicine, as he tells us that he

bore it as long as he could, and then rushed from the
room ; the scene, which was enacted before the days
of chloroform, haunting him for years. This is sug

gestive of the extremely sympathetic temperament
of the boy Darwin ; his entire nature was one of
tenderness, not only to his companions, but to all
living things. While his school days were not re
sulting in any apparent accumulation of knowledge
in the lines indicated by the curriculum, we find the

love of natural history steadily growing.
   He was an ardent collector of minerals ; and the

love for insect studies, which he developed when but
ten years of age, down by the sea-shore in Wales,

was one of the delightful memories in later life. At

Edinburgh he found congenial friends in young men

who were interested in natural science, and the asso

ciations and friendships then formed had no little
influence in shaping his future career. Here he met
Ainsworth, who afterwards became a famous geolo
gist, and wrote a book on Assyria ; Dr. Coldstream,
a writer on zoological subjects ; and Hardie, who
was a promising botanist. Of all the friends made
at this time, perhaps Dr. Grant exercised the great
est influence over him. With this zoologist he made

many trips to the sea-coast, became familiar with the
methods of current investigation, and it was during
these days that the observations regarding the Flus-
tra, mentioned in the beginning of this chapter, were
made. Dr. Grant referred to Darwin's investigations
8 Charles Darwin.

in his memoir on the Flustra, in which our young
naturalist saw his name for the first time in print.
Dr. Grant introduced him to many persons interested
in science, and invited him to the meetings of the
Royal Medical Society, where, according to Darwin,
" much rubbish was talked." Dr. Grant also took
him to the Wernerian Society, where he listened to
Audubon, who was then in Europe in the interests
of his great work on birds, and who read several
papers before the Society. These days were rich in
future promise for the young student, all his associa
tions being such as to increase his interest in science.
He enlarged his acquaintance on all sides, took les
sons in taxidermy, with a man who had travelled
with Waterton, and with Mr. Leonard Horner visited
the Royal Society of Edinburgh, where he listened
to Sir Walter Scott, who was at that time its presi
dent. The proceedings produced a profound im

pression, shown by his statement in later years : " If
I had been told at that time that I should one day
have been thus honoured (with membership), I

should have thought it as ridiculous and improb

able, as if I had been told that I should be elected

King of England."
   Darwin's taste for science was supplemented by a

course of studies, and in his second year he attended
a series of lectures on geology and zoology, those in
the former making a decided impression upon him,
as he says : " The sole effect they produced on me

was the determination never, as long as I lived, to

read a book on geology." In other words, the
lecturer had the unhappy faculty of making sub
Tour in Wales.  9

jects naturally of interest exceedingly dry. While
the lectures of this instructor were of no especial
advantage, they were the means of his meeting Mr.
Macgillivray, the curator of the local museum, who
in after years wrote a work on Scottish birds, and

was an enthusiastic naturalist.

   During the long-vacation period Darwin threw
aside his books, and with some congenial friend
took long walks over the country, enriching his
mind by personal contact with nature, thus building
up the taste for investigation which formed so promi
nent a feature in his after-life. These walks were

something more than would be attempted by the
average American school-boy. He thought nothing
of covering thirty miles in a day ; and, during the
summer of 1826, with two friends, with knapsack on
back, he travelled over a large part of Wales, later
going over the ground again with his sister, that she

might be a participant in his enjoyment.
   After the summer trips the autumn was gener

ally passed at Mr. Owen's, at Woodhouse, or at

his uncle Josiah Wedgwood's, at Maer, where he
found opportunity to indulge in shooting, which
was as much a passion with him as collecting
minerals or insects. Days were spent on the heath
and among the Scotch firs, following the game
keeper after black game, and no young American
trout fisherman kept a closer record than did our
sportsman naturalist. Every bird shot during the
season was carefully noted, --a fact which shows the
method, thoroughness, and detail that marked every
subject in which he was interested. His care to
IO Charles Darwin.

credit himself with the results of his skill was often
the subject of practical jokes on the part of his
friends, and he relates the following : " One day,
when shooting at Woodhouse with Captain Owen,
the eldest son, and Major Hill, his cousin, after

wards Lord Berwick, both of whom I liked very
much, I thought myself shamefully used, for every
time after I had fired, and thought that I had killed

a bird, one of the two acted as if loading his gun, and

cried out, ' You must not count that bird, for I fired

at the same time,' and the gamekeeper, perceiving

the joke, backed them up. After some hours they

told me the joke, but it was no joke to me, for I had

shot a large number of birds, but did not know how

many, and could not add them to my list, which I

used to do by making a knot in a piece of string
tied to a button-hole ; this my wicked friends had

perceived."

   As enthusiastic as he was, Darwin had some doubts
in his mind as to whether such excessive zeal was to
be commended, and we find he argued with himself
on the question, quieting his doubts at one time by
assuming and almost convincing himself that the
perfection to which he had attained was really an
evidence of high intelligence on his part. The fact
that he could find game when no one else could, and
manage the dogs with consummate skill, seemed to
his mind sufficient reason for pursuing the pastime.

  At Maer he met many distinguished people, and

in the home of the famous Wedgwood there was
an air of refinement and culture most valuable in
rounding and shaping the ideas of so thoughtful and
Sir J. Mackintosh.  11

clever a youth. Here he made the acquaintance of

Sir J. Mackintosh, whose well-known conversational

powers appear to have impressed the young natural
ist, and that the elder man foresaw something in his

young friend may be surmised from his remark,
long remembered by Darwin : " There is something
in you that interests me." In these boyhood days
we see many qualities that Darwin himself modestly

disclaims : a steadfastness of purpose, a perceptive
faculty, and demand for something beyond the limited

educational facilities of the day. His actual school

ing may be said to have been a failure, as he neglected

the dry classical studies or forgot them ; yet the les
sons he drew from the broad field of nature were well

learned and never forgotten.
                   CHAPTER II.

                              COLLEGE DAYS.

College Life -- Thoughts of Entering the Church -- A Poor Mathema
      tician -- Beetle Collecting -- First Appearance in Print -- Associa
      tions with Eminent Men -- Scientific Reading -- Favourite Authors
      -- Interest in Geology.

                                HE college life of Darwin

                                          constitutes one of the
                                          epochs of his career, as
                                          during these days, so
                                          happy in their memory,
                                          occurred many of the in
                                              cidents that shaped his
                                          future. He entered col- *
                                              lege in 1828, this move
                                              ment being the result of
                                              a decision on the part of
                                               his family, that as he had
failed as a doctor, he might possibly be induced to
enter the Church. This proposition was made to
the young man, who asked time in which to con
sider, during which deliberation he read attentively
several religious works, including " Pearson on the
Creed," and questioned himself thoroughly as to his

                                                                    12
Enters College.  13

beliefs and disbeliefs. He confesses to having some
scruples about accepting all the dogmas of the
Church, but as he believed in the Bible implicitly
and literally, he soon satisfied himself that he could
accept the creed without any reservation. In refer
ring to this interesting period in his life, Darwin
in his Autobiography says that years after a German
psychological society sent for his photograph, and
after much discussion reported that he had the bump
of reverence developed enough for ten priests ; so
that it might be assumed that he was well equipped
by nature for order taking.

   Darwin, however, was not destined for the Church,

though he entered Cambridge with this purpose in
view, and took up a course of studies which would
give him the desired degree. He found that he had
forgotten his Latin and Greek, which necessitated
work with a private tutor, so that he did not enter

college until Christmas of the year 1828.
   As far as academical studies were concerned we

learn that his three years' work here was almost a

perfect blank. Mathematics was never mastered
without extreme difficulty -- a fact which he empha

sised in a letter written to Dr. J. B. Holder, father

of the author, some years ago, when the two were
discussing the flight of birds. So difficult was it for
Darwin to master this study that he was almost dis

couraged, and in referring to it he says : " I do not
believe that I should ever have succeeded beyond a

very low grade." Though the young student may
have lacked application it is evident that he acquired
information very readily, as, while confessing what
14 Charles Darwin.                   *--

might seem unusual indifference, he took the degree of
      without apparent exertion. At
B.A.                                 this time he read
      works as Paley's " Evidences   of Christianity "
such
and " Moral Philosophy," and the thoroughness of

his reading may be judged from the fact that he

could have written out from memory almost the

entire former work. This course of reading, without

the demand for memorising, which was a part of the

educational methods in former years, he conceived

to be the only part of the academical course of any

actual advantage to him. There were several lectures

in the course, but those by Professor Henslow, on

botany, were the only ones he attended. The walks

and strolls with this naturalist in search of rare plants

and flowers were highly enjoyed, and what proved a

life-long friendship was begun. During the college
days his love for natural history was steadily in
creasing. He was now especially interested in the
study of beetles ; not to dissect them, but for the

simple delight of possessing great numbers and com
paring them one with another, and his collection was
a large and really valuable one. How enthusiastic
he was may be seen from the following incident : In

ripping down the bark from an old tree he saw two
rare beetles, which he captured, one in each hand.
Just then out ran a third, equally rare and beautiful;
but what was to be done ? There was no time for

deliberation, so he put one beetle in his mouth, thus
freeing a hand to seize the fleeing prize ; but the

second beetle, objecting to this unceremonious treat
ment, emitted a secretion so bitter that he was forced

to eject losing in the confusion of the attack twoit,
of the insects.
Intimacies Formed.  15

   Darwin was an indefatigable collector, and having
an ample allowance was enabled to give full bent to
his tastes and inclinations. He collected in a most

systematic manner, following methods of his own
devising. He employed a workman, who spent his

time during the winter in scraping the decayed moss

from trees and in collecting suitable material from

various sources, all of which was placed in a bag and

brought to the young naturalist, who in this way
found many rare and choice specimens.

   Of the delights of this study Darwin was fond of
talking, and in his Autobiography he wrote : " No
poet ever felt more delighted at seeing his first poem
published than I did at seeing, in Stephen's ' Illus
trations of British Insects,' the magic words, ' captured
by C. Darwin, Esq.' "

   Our hero had as a companion during his college
days a cousin, W. D. Fox, a Christ's-College man,
who encouraged him in his studies and introduced
him to a number of well-known naturalists. Here
he met Albert Way of Trinity, who in after years be
came a distinguished archaeologist. He was intimate
with Whitley, Senior Wrangler, afterwards Hon.
Canon of Durham, who, being a man of refined and
cultivated tastes, influenced the young man for the
best and inculcated in him a love for the beautiful

in art, as well as nature. Whitley became his guide

and censor to a certain extent, and trips were made
together to the various art galleries, where Darwin,
through observation and talks with his friend and
the curator, acquired a good knowledge of the
standard and various schools of art. This taste, he

tells us, was not a natural one, and was perhaps in
16 Charles Darwm.

accord with his fondness for music at this time,
though he was not a musician and could not dis
tinguish harmony from discord.

  I have said that the college life of Darwin con

stituted one of the important epochs in his career ;
this was mainly due to his acquaintance and ultimate
friendship with Professor Henslow, the naturalist.
He was presented to the latter by his cousin already
alluded to, and went weekly to his house, which was
the acknowledged centre of scientific interest. The
intimacy increased, and Darwin soon became his
constant companion during walks and strolls, when
we may naturally suppose that the conversation
turned on natural history. Professor Henslow was
one of the best-posted men of his time in geology,
botany, and the various branches of science. He
was also a close investigator and, according to Dar
win, extremely fond of drawing conclusions from
long-continued and minute observations.

   If there is one feature more than another in the

life of Darwin that impresses the reader it is the
time he spent in careful investigations, and the
thoroughness which characterised all his scientific
work, and that his methods, which were so eminently
successful and telling, were the result of this com
panionship to a great extent there can be no doubt.
Darwin himself says : " My intimacy with such a

man ought to have been, and I hope was, an in

estimable benefit."

   This intimacy with Henslow naturally enlarged the
young man's scientific acquaintance, among whom
were Dr. Whewell, a man of distinguished attain
Scientific Reading.                   17

ments, and a conversationalist ranked by Darwin

next to Sir John Mackintosh ; Leonard Jenyns, a
well-known zoologist, who in later years was associ

ated with Darwin in scientific work ; Mr. Ramsay, a

brother of Sir Alexander Ramsay, and many more

with whom he was thrown in more or less intimate

relationship, which must have had an effect upon his
character and tastes. The young man at this time

must have shown many evidences of the brilliant

future that was before him. Older men sought his

company and listened to his ideas and views, and he

was an acceptable companion in their walks and ex

cursions. His college mates must also have recog

nised his talents in the direction of science, as one

of his companions, after watching him at work at his

insect collection, volunteered the prophecy, which

seemed to Darwin preposterous, that one day he
would be a Fellow of the Royal Society. In his last

year at college the young naturalist took up a course

of scientific reading, which had no little influence
                            Humboldt's " Personal
in determining his career.
Narrative " was read and discussed, exciting in his
mind a desire to travel, while Herschel's " Introduc
tion to the Study of Natural Philosophy " created a

strong wish to indulge in original investigation and

to become one of the scientific workers of the world.

These works so interested him that he copied ex

tracts which he read to his friends while on their

expeditions, and Humboldt's description of the

beauties of Teneriffe excited so intense a desire to

see the island that he was about negotiating for a

passage when another plan prevented.
i8 Charles Darwin.

   Step by step Darwin advanced in scientific learn
ing. The vacation days were devoted to beetle-
collecting, while the shooting season in the autumn,
a sport to which he was passionately attached, as has
been shown, gave him an opportunity to study the
larger forms.

   In his last college days, or in 1831, Henslow had

so interested him in geology that he took up the
study and began a systematic investigation of the
local rocks. He examined sections, made maps, and
finally, in the summer of this year, undertook a
geological tour through North Wales with Professor
Sedgwick, which proved of inestimable value in later

years.

   In this period we see that the taste and love for

natural science are uppermost in our hero's mind

and steadily developing, --the natural preparation

which ultimately culminated in producing the great
est scientist of the age.
                CHAPTER III.

                    THE YOUNG NATURALIST.

The Beagle --An Offer of Importance --The Young Naturalist --The
      Voyage -- Powers of Observation--Cape Verd Islands--Tours
      of Investigation --Dust-Showers --Wonderful Phenomena -- Geo
      logical Studies -- St. Paul's Rocks --Fernando de Noronha.

                                     N 1831 the British Govern
                                          ment decided to send out
                                          a well - equipped vessel
                                          to complete the survey
                                          of the South American
                                          coast, begun by Captain

                                              Shaw some years pre
                                          vious. The vessel select
                                          ed for this work was the
                                          Beagle, a six - gun brig,

                                       and Captain Fitz - Roy
                                          of the Royal Navy was
given the important command. An enthusiast in
science, Fitz-Roy conceived the idea of taking a
naturalist with him to study the fauna and flora
of the different countries he might visit, and in his
search for a competent person he wrote to Professor
Henslow, who, in turn, made the offer to Charles

                                                                    19
20 Charles Darwin.

Darwin, who had just graduated from Cambridge.

The latter returned from a geological trip to find

the communication, and to say that he was de

lighted but faintly expresses it. He determined to

accept should his father not object, but, unfor

tunately, the latter looked with great disfavour upon
the plan. He finally said that he would give his

consent if his son could find a sensible person who

would encourage it.

Young Darwin very reluctantly gave up what

appeared to him a veritable dream of promise and

an opportunity to make for himself a scientific

career. As good-fortune would have it he men

tioned the matter to his uncle, Josiah Wedgwood,
who offered to undertake the role of one sensible

person, and as a result the elder Darwin relented
and the position was accepted. This step was the

beginning of a new epoch in the life of the young

naturalist. It was, as he says, by far the most im

portant event of his  life, and in a letter to  Captain
Fitz-Roy he wrote :   " What a glorious day     the 4th

of November will be to me ! My second life will

then commence, and it shall be as a birthday for the

rest of my life."

After many delays attendant upon fitting a large

ship for a long voyage, the Beagle put to sea, and the

expedition, which had so material an effect, not only

upon Darwin, but upon preconceived ideas of many

natural-history questions, began.

The Beagle was what we now term a barque, and

of two hundred and thirty-five tons burthen. She

represented a class facetiously known as coffins by
            Marvellous Perseverance.                 21

the men, from the fact that many of her type had

gone down in heavy gales. She was fairly well

equipped ; had a crew of thirty-five men, and was

fitted with all the conveniences that one might

expect to find at this time. Young Darwin went as

a volunteer ; he paid his own expenses, and was to

mess with the captain ; so that the voyage began

under pleasant auspices and with the promised

companionship of a man who was fully interested in

science and in complete sympathy with his aims and

ambitions.

    Darwin was at this time in the full flush of man

hood ; in every way a delightful companion, and

essentially a man to make friends and keep them.

His tender and lovable nature, consideration for

others, and evident desire to share with all the hard

ships which really could have been avoided, did not

fail to create for him the warmest friends not only

on shipboard, but wherever he went. An idea of
the ship life has been given by Admiral Lort Stokes

in  the London   Times of April 25, 1883  :
                 a corner for my feeble
    " May I beg                           testimony  to

the marvellous persevering endurance in the cause of

science of that great naturalist, my old and lost

friend, Mr. Charles Darwin, whose remains are so

very justly to be honoured with a resting-place in

Westminster Abbey ?
   " Perhaps no one can better testify to his early and

most trying labours than myself. We worked to

gether for several years at the same table in the

poop-cabin of the Beagle during her celebrated voy

age, he with his microscope and myself at the charts.
22 Charles Darwin.

It was often a very lively end of the little craft, and

distressingly so to my old friend, who suffered greatly
from sea-sickness. After perhaps an hour's work he

would say to me, ' Old fellow, I must take the hori

zontal for it,' that being the best relief position from
ship motion ; a stretch out on one side of the table
for some time would enable him to resume his
labours for a while, when he had again to lie down.

  " It was distressing to witness this early sacrifice

of Mr. Darwin's health, who ever afterwards seriously
felt the ill-effects of the Beagle s voyage."

   In following our hero on his long voyage the
reader cannot fail to be impressed with two things:
his remarkable powers of observation, and the care
and patience with which he made his investigations
and consequent deductions ; and when it is borne in
mind that the investigator was still a very young
man fresh from college, the nature of his observations
and the comprehensiveness of the ground covered
will appear more remarkable. Darwin, as we have
seen from the letter of Admiral Stokes, was a victim
to sea-sickness, and, curiously enough, it clung to him
with unrelenting pertinacity during the entire voy
age. After an uneventful trip the Cape Verd Islands
were reached, where the young naturalist for the first
time found himself in a tropical field. St. Jago, the
largest island of the group, was the first examined ;

here he saw actual volcanic effects, barren rocks,
a torrid sun, and deep groves of graceful bananas

and cocoa-nuts. The barren stretch of rocks and de
nuded portions of the island attracted his attention,
and investigation showed that it was due partly to
     Awakens the Interest of Scientific Men. 23

human intervention, the trees having been cut away
and destroyed, thus allowing the rains to wash down
quickly, leaving the island almost sterile in parts.

   Many expeditions were made over the island : one
to the town of Ribeira Grande, where a fine old
ruin, a cathedral and fort were found, the former
containing many objects of interest dating back to
the sixteenth century. The dignitaries of the church
were buried here, and Darwin noticed one tombstone

which bore the date 1497, five years after the discov
ery of America, and three after that of the islands.

   The atmosphere of St. Jago was, as a rule, hazy,
and here our young naturalist made some observa
tions which created much interest among scientific
men. Investigation showed him that the haze,
which often obscured the mountains, was occasioned
by a fall of dust so impalpable and fine that it
rested in the air as haze or a very light fog. Some
of this was collected and sent back to Professor
Ehrenberg for examination, and in 1845 Darwin

forwarded an elaborate paper on the subject to the

Royal Geographical Society. The dust in some
places was offensive, covering every thing and soil
ing the sails and clothing of the men.

   In the course of the voyage pieces larger than
the thousandth of an inch square were noticed.
Whence came this strange shower? was the ques
tion he wished to solve, and the problem could only
be answered by a determination of the elements
which composed it. This Professor Ehrenberg was
enabled to accomplish. He found that the dust-
shower did not come from the Cape Verd Islands
24 Charles Darwin.

but must have originated thousands of miles away.
The dust was made up to a certain extent of infus
oria --minute fossil forms that could be readily trans
ported by the wind, and Darwin, by the identification
of the fossils, was enabled to demonstrate that they
had been borne not from the adjacent coast of Africa,
but from South America, several thousand miles
distant. The shower referred to here was estimated
by the young naturalist to have a breadth of sixteen
hundred miles and an area equal to one million

square miles.
   These dust-showers produce what are known as

blood-rains in Europe, and Professor Ehrenberg esti
mated that in one shower over seven hundred and
twenty thousand pounds of matter fell, out of which
ninety thousand pounds consisted of the remains of
minute animal forms.

   The dust-shower had a greater significance to our
young naturalist than a mere phenomenon, and
here we see how his every discovery or observation
resulted in a deduction of value to the scientific

world. If dust, and such large particles, could be car

ried vast distances, why not seeds ? and he assumed
at once that the light and delicate sporules of

cryptogamic plants could be transported from con

tinent to continent, -- a thought which in later years
he elaborated with interesting and valuable results.

   Darwin made his first foreign geological examina
tions at Porto Praya, and his report on the ancient
volcanic activity of the island shows how close a
student he was. Here he first observed tropical
marine forms, and the large brown sea-slug, or Aply-
    New Discoveries Concerning the Octopus. 25

sia particularly, interested him. He found it feeding
 on the sea-weed, and when disturbed it emitted the
peculiar purple fluid for which it is noted. The

pools of water left by the outgoing tide formed
 aquaria of more than ordinary interest. The octo
 pus was the subject of many observations, numbers
 of which were seen clinging to the rocks by their
 eight sucker-lined arms, or dashing across the pool,
ejecting the cloud of ink which constitutes a part of
their defence.

   The young naturalist was quick to note their
power of mimicry, --a fact in this and other animals
that was dwelt upon in later years by himself and
Wallace. He noticed that they changed their tints
according to the ground over which they passed,
and a close examination showed that clouds of colour
were continually passing over them, varying from
hyacinth-red to chestnut-brown in tint.

   Darwin was probably the first to apply a galvanic
battery to these beautiful creatures, with the result
that the part touched became almost black. He
noticed that they changed colour under all circum
stances, whether swimming or resting, and was the
first to call attention to the fact that the ink was
used as a means of concealing the direction of re
treat. One cuttle-fish in this natural aquarium
ejected water above the surface from a hole in
which it lay concealed, and he suspected that it
could direct its aim by turning its tube or siphon in
a given direction. Whether this is true or not
would be difficult to ascertain, but the author has
seen a squid force its stream of ink a foot or more
26 Charles Darwin.

above the surface, striking an inquisitive observer
full in the face.

   Darwin was perhaps the first also to observe
that the octopus is luminous at times. One which
he kept in his cabin gleamed with a slight phospho
rescence, which we can imagine might be used as a
decoy, or perhaps to menace its foes.

   In February, 183 1, the Beagle sighted the famous
St. Paul's Rocks, one of the most desolate spots on
the globe, consisting of a few rocks five hundred
and forty miles from the American coast and three
hundred and fifty from Fernando de Noronha. The
rocks are somewhat difficult to find, as they rear
themselves but fifty feet above the sea and are
but little over three-quarters of a mile in circum
ference. From a distance they appear white, from
the constant presence of vast numbers of birds
which have made the location their roosting-place for

generations.

   The birds, principally the noddy and tern, were
so tame that any number could have been killed by
hand. They laid their eggs on the rocks where the

sun hatched the young. Desolate as the spot was,
warfare existed ; the parent birds provided the
young with small fish for food, the flying-fish being
considered an especial dainty ; but no sooner was
it placed by the nest than the young naturalist,
who was concealed behind some rock, saw a hand

somely mottled crab--the Grapsus-- come slowly

up, edging along in an innocent, disinterested fashion,
then suddenly when within reach seize the fish and

dash away.
SHARK-FISHING AT ST. PAUL'S ROCKS.
Inception of his Famous Theory.              27

In this island robber the observer must have found

a suggestion for his famous theory of the struggle

for existence and the survival of the fittest. The
author has watched a similar scene in the Gulf of

Mexico, where the Grapsus would attack even the

birds. Sir W. Symonds states that he has witnessed

the same at St. Paul's, the crab dragging young birds

away to devour them.

Darwin found little of interest here from a botani

cal standpoint, not even a single plant or lichen

appearing, though several spiders, flies, moths, and

beetles made the barren rock their home. If St.

Paul's was deficient in vegetation, it abounded in

marine forms of interest, the vast area of submerged

rock, with its sea-weed masses, affording ample

ground for fishes of infinite variety, while sharks were

so plentiful that it was a constant struggle between

them and the men. The moment an edible fish was

hooked a watchful shark rushed at
it
                                           it,
                                                          it
                                   carrying

away before could be taken in, this occurring so

frequently that one man was required to fight these

pirates of the sea while another hauled in the fish.

These days were marked by indefatigable energy

on the part of the young naturalist. When not in

vestigating or peering among the rocks with hammer

or collecting-glass in hand, he was at work in his

cabin studying the strange animals he had found,

and making notes in his log, as to the colour, habits,

and the thousand and one points of interest to the

lover of science.

From St. Paul's the Beagle bore away for Fernando

de Noronha, a desolate ancient volcanic rock upon
28 Charles Darwin.

which Darwin landed with great difficulty, owing to

the heavy sea, and found to be completely covered

with a dense jungle hard to cross or penetrate. It

was in this neighbourhood that the young naturalist

underwent the experience of crossing the line. Nep

tune came aboard, as usual, and claimed as a victim

every one who had not crossed the equator. Dar

win submitted with his accustomed good-humour ;

was lathered with soft-soap and tar, then shaved with

a saw, and finally dumped unceremoniously into a

sail full of water, having as a consolation the reflec

tion that he was but one of many predecessors.

On the last day of February the Beagle made

Bahia, where Darwin for the first time found himself

in a purely Southern country with a wealth of tropi

cal verdure on every hand. The ocean teemed with

animal life, new and striking to his eye, while it was

but a step into the tropical forest, where vegetation

ran wild and flourished with a rank exuberance that

he had never dreamed of.     In his Journal  he  penned
the following : " Delight                    is  a weak
                           itself, however,

term to express the feelings of a naturalist who, for

the first time, has wandered by himself in a Brazilian

forest. The elegance of the grasses, the novelty of

the parasitical plants, the beauty of the flowers, the

glossy green of the foliage, but, above all, the gen

eral luxuriance of the vegetation, filled me with ad

miration. A most paradoxical mixture of sound and

silence pervades the shady parts of the wood. The

noise from the insects is so loud that they may be

heard even in a vessel anchored several hundred

yards from the shore ; yet within the recesses of the
A BRAZILIAN COLLECTING-GROUND.
At Botofogo Bay.  29

forest a universal silence appears to reign. To a per
son fond of natural history, such a day as this brings
with it a deeper pleasure than he can ever hope to

experience again."
    Here Darwin divided his time equally with ani

mate and inanimate forms. We find him to-day at
Botofogo Bay among the treasures of undescribed
species, not merely novelties, but forms which had
never been seen by scientific eyes before. We can
imagine his joy as he compared these discoveries at
night with the authorities he had at hand, and real
ised that here was not one but hundreds of creatures
actually undescribed. He compares his geological
studies here to gambling in their excitement, and his
reflections upon the structure of the rocks were far-

reaching and valuable.

   It is difficult to determine which he enjoyed most,

geology, botany, or marine zoology, but to the last

he gave perhaps the most attention. Among the

curious fishes he noticed here was the Diodon anten-

natus, which has a peculiar habit of inflating itself.
Placing one in a boat, flabby and flat, it immediately
began drawing in air, all the while assuming a more
rotund appearance, until finally it rocked to and fro
a veritable ball covered with spines, and upon being
tossed over floated upon the surface like a balloon.
The author has often tried the same experiment
with the Diodon of the Gulf of Mexico, it invariably
ridding itself of air in a few moments.

   Darwin found that the expanding or blowing-up
process was produced in two ways. This little fish

when inflated could swim feebly, though drawing but
3° Charles Darwin.

little water, and would use its tail like a propeller.
Its short spines were like those of a hedgehog, and
it would hardly be supposed to have enemies, yet
our naturalist was told by a Dr. Allan, that sharks
would swallow them alive, and that in one instance
the Diodon, objecting to this Jonah-like programme,
actually ate its way out through the side of the
shark, killing it with its sharp, bony, ivory-like teeth.

A peculiarity of this fish is that from the lower por

tion a rich crimson dye exudes which is almost in

delible.

   For two weeks the Beagle lingered at Bahia, during
which time the young naturalist made some re
markable collections, which added materially to the
existing knowledge of science, then she bore away
to the south.
                 CHAPTER IV.

                  IN SOUTHERN SEAS.

The Log-Book --Bahia -- Singular Appearance of the Water --The
     Vampire Bat-- Slavery--Trips into the Country -- Rare Col
     lections--In the Brazilian Forest -- Shooting Monkeys -- The
      Click of a Butterfly --Jumping Spiders-- Electrical Displays --

       The Plata.

                                HE sea life of our young

                                          hero was a time of con
                                          tinued activity. Every
                                              moment when not com
                                          pletely incapacitated by
                                              sea-sickness was devoted
                                          to his studies, and to the
                                          natural history log-book
                                          which he was keeping.
                                          From the stern of the
                                              vessel he swung various
                                         kinds of nets to entrap the
smaller forms of floating or pelagic animal life, while
fishing-lines were employed to capture rare and un

known members of the finny tribe. A few miles from

Bahia, Darwin's attention was called to the strange

                                                                                31
32 Charles Darwin.

appearance of the water through which the Beagle
was sailing. From a rich opalescent-blue, it had
changed to a reddish-brown, so that the entire ocean
seemed to reflect a copper-bronze hue, weird and
uncanny in its aspect. Some of the water, upon
being placed under the microscope, appeared to
contain large masses of chopped hay, which proved
to be conferva of a reddish tint. Some of the
patches covered several miles in extent, entirely
changing the tint of the ocean. Darwin comments
on the fact as remarkable, that these minute forms

could keep together in the lines and bands that
extended so many miles over the sea.

   The colour of the ocean, from this and similar

causes, seems to have engaged his interest at various
times. On the coast of Chili he noticed that the

water was a dull-red hue, that might have come
from some muddy river. This was due, he found,
to some minute animal which was, to use his term,
continually exploding or throwing out a mass of
dark-brown granular matter, probably eggs. He
noticed, in one instance, a patch of these animals
that covered several square miles, and comments
upon the vast numbers of individuals which must
have made up the concourse. Later, at Tierra del
Fuego, he found the ocean coloured a deep red
by the presence of innumerable crustaceans, while
near Galapagos the ship forged through water of a
rich yellow, due to another source. These are among
the causes which give the names yellow, white, and
red to the various seas.

   The objective point of the Beagle, after leaving
Intense Disapproval of Slavery.  33

Bahia, was Rio de Janeiro, and while here Darwin
went on an extended trip into the interior, going
over ground which no naturalist of his attainments
had passed before. The country was rich in promise,
and, being made up of forest and clearing and

abounding in lakes and streams, specimens were
everywhere found. The birds engaged his attention,
especially the white cranes and egrets, while in the

forests he was particularly attracted by the luxuriant
vegetation and the wonderful and beautiful flowering

parasites.

   It was during this trip that Darwin was enabled to

give the world definite information regarding the
vampire bat. In England and other countries this
creature was popularly considered a monster of
enormous size that sucked the blood of its victims,
often destroying them. While this belief did not
prevail among scientific men, the latter doubted that
the vampire fed upon blood at all.

   The party had arrived at Engenhodo, and the
worn and exhausted animals had been tied out,

when one of the men noticed a small bat resting
upon the withers of one of the horses. Darwin
secured it while in the act of sucking blood from
the animal, so determining the question. The bat
was the one known to science as the vampire or
Desmodus d 'orbignyi.

   Darwin, as might have been expected from one of
his nature, had views upon slavery from which no

extenuating circumstances could swerve him. He
was radically and utterly opposed to it in any form,

and his indignation was continually aroused by the

         3
34 Charles Darwin.

evidences, which were ever apparent during this trip,

of its existence. On a large estate to which he was

invited, some trouble occurred which nearly resulted

in the sale of all the women and children in the

public auction at Rio. He refers to the fact that

self-interest, not compassion, was the sole preventive

"Ito what he considered the grossest of crimes. In
deed, he says :  do not believe the inhumanity

of separating thirty families who had lived together

for many years ever occurred to the owner, yet I

pledge myself that in good-feeling and humanity he

was the superior to the common run of men. It

may be said there exists no limit to the blindness of

interest and selfish habit."

So outspoken was our hero upon this subject that

it was the cause, later, of an open rupture between

himself and his friend Fitz-Roy. Fitz-Roy not only

defended slavery, but praised  which led to so
                               it,
                                                                a
indignant a response from the young man that what

may be said to be the entire future of Darwin as

scientist hung in the balance. Fitz-Roy apologised,

and requested Darwin to overlook his offensive re

marks, and the breach was healed, but our hero

never overcame his repugnance for the institut

ion, and would, in America, have been a rigid

Abolitionist.

During the trip in the country back of Rio, he

made many observations, which may be found in his

later works on botanical subjects. He noted the

prodigious growth, the binding together of the forest

trees by a maze of lianes, and here he made his

first important studies with the sensitive plants,
An Interesting Experiment.  35

noting the strange effects occasioned in the mi-
mosae, as they drooped their sensitive petioles
when disturbed. From the forest he returned to
the shores of Botofogo Bay, where he devoted him
self to a study of the invertebrate animals which
abounded there. The Planarian worms were a con

stant source of interest, specimens found near here

possessing a singular tenacity to life even when the

body appeared dead or lifeless, the mouth parts pro
truding as he touched them with his forceps, showing
a high state of irritation and vitality. Darwin dis
covered twelve species of these interesting creatures,
which he fully describes in the " Annals of Natural

History." One of his experiments was to cut a

planarian in two parts and devote a certain amount
of time to an examination of the several members.

For nearly a month he watched a marvellous trans
formation, namely, the formation of two separate
individuals out of the single worm.

   The forest in which these worms were found

abounded in game, and with an old priest and a
native Darwin often wandered far from the ocean.
Here he first witnessed the skill with which the
natives employed the knife to cut vines and creeping
plants. So clever had they become that it was used
as the American Indians do the tomahawk, the blade
being thrown a long distance with unerring skill.

   Ring-tailed or prehensile monkeys were common,
and two of the bearded variety occasioned them no
little trouble to capture. Though shot dead, they
still clung to the limbs of a lofty tree, and the latter
had to be cut down to obtain them -- an arduous and
36 Charles Darwin.

laborious operation. The forest afforded constant
opportunities for observing the wonders of phospho

rescent insects, the brilliant fire-fly (Lampyris occiden-
talis) illumining the darkest recesses with its light.

Darwin's investigations with these insects showed
that the light was most intense when they were irri
tated ; where the skin was injured the light was
bright, while other portions gave no evidence of
phosphorescence. Decapitating one he found that
the light was still uninterrupted though not as bril
liant, and in a specimen which he killed the strange
light gleamed for an entire day.

   He collected the various forms of these insects, the
larvae and adults, and made a series of experiments
that have ever been of value to those who have made

them a study. The larvae he kept alive by feeding
them upon raw meat, and while watching them, he
learned that they used their tails as suckingorgans,and
that the latter contained saliva glands which were
employed in a singular manner. Thus when the larva
felt the pangs of hunger, it reached its tail over and
deposited upon its mouth, or the food it was prepar
ing to eat, a drop of saliva.

   The elater, or Pyrophorus luminosus, was the most
conspicuous luminous insect here, abounding in vast

numbers and dashing through the gloomy recesses of
the forest, often followed by an apparent blaze of light.

   Darwin discovered during this expedition the true
explanation of the leaping powers of the elater,
finding that it was due to the elasticity of the spine,
which threw the insect whirling into the air like a

veritable spring.
Rare Collection of Insects.           37

That these woods and their immediate sum und-

ings impressed our young hero deeply, we can readily

see, as he frequently refers to the beauties and wealth

of the tropical   foliage,   and in   one instance he com
pares the effect  to the              scenery of the opera-
                            " gayest

house or the great theatres."
   While in Brazil, Darwin formed the finest collec

tion of insects ever made in this country, and

remembering his youthful fondness for beetle col

lecting, his pleasure and enthusiasm can be appreci

ated. In his notes on this work, we see evidences of

the theories that he formulated in later life. He was

impressed with the fact that the large butterflies

seemed highly coloured to conform with the gorgeous

foliage and flowers of their home.

   The beautiful Papilio feronia attracted his especial
attention, and he made a careful study of its pecul

iarities, which might well be an example to young

naturalists. He noticed that it invariably alighted

with its head downward, with wings extended in a

horizontal plane, instead of being folded vertically.

When it moved, instead of edging off it ran, using its

legs nimbly for the purpose, surprising the young

naturalist with its agility.

While watching this interesting creature, Darwin

discovered that it made a noise, and thus was the

first to listen, if not to the voice of the butterfly, to a

sound that is used for a similar purpose. He no

ticed the noise when two butterflies were chasing

each other, a slight resonant clicking coming to his

ear, distinctly audible       tawe" nttoyothyeadrdwsheaewl ayp.assiHnge
describes it as resembling
3« Charles Darwin.

under a spring catch." Later, when examined, the
butterfly was found to possess a drum, the organ
being found, according to Mr. Doubleday, at the base
of the fore wings, between the costal nervure and
the sub-costal. With the beetles Darwin was disap
pointed : there were not so many large and attractive
forms as he had expected, though small ones existed
in vast numbers, and we find him expressing sur
prise at the absence of carnivorous beetles when the
hot tropical country is the home of the carnivora or
flesh-eaters among larger animals. Bees and wasps
were so abundant that the thought was suggested
that perhaps they supplied the place of carnivorous

insects.

   Many hours were spent in watching the ant armies
traversing the wood, and experimenting to test their
intelligence and bravery. The habits of the wasp

were a constant source of pleasure to him. In the

corner of a veranda a certain species had made cell
like homes of clay ; these they stuffed full of insects
of various kinds, which had been paralysed by the
sting of the wasp, and while helpless the eggs of the
latter were deposited in them, where they ultimately
hatched out, the grub obtaining its food from the
comatose victim.

   The habits of the larger wasps were also closely
studied, and the bull-dog- or bloodhound-like tenacity
of the creatures, now so familiar, observed carefully
for the first time.

    Darwin noticed that the number of spiders here
was greater, in proportion to other insects, than in
England. The jumping spiders particularly inter-
Examination of the Spider.  39

ested him ; their leaps upon their prey reminding
him of the tiger in pursuit of its victim. Over
every pathway in the forest he found a strong elastic
yellow web of a spider, allied to the Epeira clavipes,
and note how carefully he examined them ! In
every web was found a small parasitic form, which
lived here undisturbed by its giant ally, feeding upon
the minute insects entrapped, -- the crumbs from the
big spider's table. The young naturalist here ob
served a remarkable instance of defence on the part
of a spider. As he approached, the little insect
imparted to its web a swinging movement, which
increased so rapidly that in a few moments the

cunning insect was invisible, or nearly so, from the
rapidity of its motions. This spider had a most
skilful method of disposing of its victims. The

moment a wasp or fly became entangled, the Epeira
held it at arm's length, and, in some miraculous way,
whirled it over and over, winding it up in a broad
band of threads, taken from its spinners, so that in a

few moments the captive appeared to be encased in
a cocoon, and then helpless was killed by the deadly
jaws of the monster.

   To show the virulence of the poison, Darwin
found that half a minute was sufficient to kill a large

wasp.

  On July 5, 1832, the Beagle left Rio, sailing
for the Plata. In the mouth of the latter he studied

the porpoise, watching its movements across the
bow as the vessel rushed along at full speed. Seals

and penguins were present in great numbers, and
were so demonstrative at night that the officer of
4o Charles Darwin.

the deck thought the noises proceeded from the
shore.

   The Plata is somewhat noted for its electrical dis

plays, and the young naturalist was witness to some
remarkable phenomena. The tip of the masts and
ends of the booms became illuminated with balls of
fire, while the vane upon the topmast looked as
though it had been rubbed with phosphorus. The
ocean itself seemed to vie with the atmosphere here
in its phosphorescent displays, and gleamed with
lights so brilliant that Darwin could trace every
where the movements of seals and penguins, and
even distinguish the forms as they were outlined by
the mysterious phosphorescent light. Accompany
ing these displays was an electrical storm, which
caused vivid flashes of lightning to play about the ship.

   The Beagle had now reached the first point of her
projected work, which was to survey the coast of
South America from the Plata south, an undertaking
which it was estimated would take two years to

accomplish.
   Darwin went ashore, and made his headquarters at

Maldonado, -- a rich collecting district from a zoologi
cal standpoint. Collecting had its drawbacks here,

as, a few days previous, a man had been found
murdered, hard by a cross which formed the record

of a similar crime. A guard, then, seemed necessary,

and perhaps no naturalist ever went forth after bugs,
birds, and reptiles with so singular an escort. To
see the cavalcade approaching, one might well have
supposed that men, not simple specimens, were the
object. The troop consisted of a dozen or more
Extreme Ignorance of the Natives. 41

horses, the men in charge being armed with long

sabres and pistols. The equipment was unusual but

effective, as a fine and representative collection of

the fauna of the locality was made by the inde

fatigable naturalist.

The human inhabitants of this region possessed an

interest to our hero, due to their extreme ignorance.

They looked upon him as a necromancer, and his

fame spread far and near. The rich who could not

visit him sent for him, and begged that he would

exhibit the compass by which he made his way over

their country. They could not understand
                       a                                                and
                                                                   it,
their ignorance was continual surprise to the visi
tor. He found that they did not know the shape of

the earth, or anything of geography, while the

matches which he carried and ignited by biting

excited the liveliest curiosity. Upon one occasion

an entire family, with a number of friends, gathered

to witness this performance, which Darwin good-

naturedly repeated. Indeed he was a mystery to

the entire people. Why he washed his face in the

morning, allowed his beard to grow aboard ship and

removed when ashore, his handling snakes, and
a
apparent knowledge of those which were venomous,
           itwere all features that caused him to be looked upon

with suspicion and wonder.

  At Maldonado Darwin first met the Gauchos, the

men who correspond to the cowboys of America,

-- wild, daring race that, with their enormous

clanking spurs, sharp daggers, and picturesque cos

tumes, presented a striking spectacle as they dashed

away upon their wild horses. It was here that the
are42 Charles Darwin.

                                                      anaturalist first encountered the rhea, the great bird
that is the ostrich of South America. They were so
tame that he approached within a few yards of a
flock, when they turned, spread their great wings,
and sped along like the wind. Putting his horse to
its greatest speed to keep up with them, Darwin en
joyed the novelty of a race with thirty or more of
the huge birds, but even then they left him far
behind, with an ease that was surprising.

   The Gauchos employed a weapon that so aroused
the particular attention of our hero that he en
deavoured to learn its use, finally succeeding after a
varied experience. The weapon was called the
bolas, and consisted of two or three balls of stone
bound in leather and connected to a common
centre by thongs of the same. In using it the
natives held one ball in the hand and whirled the

others about in a rotary motion, then let go, the
victim being completely wound up in the tangle that
ensued and falling helpless to the ground. The
bolas of different sizes and material, according to
the game, large balls being used for the ostrich and
small ones for lesser forms.

   Darwin soon became an expert thrower of the
bolas on foot, but one day, in essaying a throw on
horseback, by some accident he hurled one of the
balls about the leg of his own horse, which jerked
the other balls from his hand, which went whirling
about his charger, who stood for moment com
pletely wound up. The Gauchos found much amuse
ment in this, and laughed heartily at his discomfiture,
having never before seen a bolas thrower catch himself.
Studies at Maldonado.  43

   Among the birds of this locality the South Ameri

can quail (Nothura major) attracted his notice by
its numbers. He found that the natives were in the

habit of catching them by walking around them in a
circle, gradually drawing nearer and nearer, the birds
becoming confused and huddling together, until
finally they could be knocked over with the hand.

   Another method was employed by the children,

and consisted in walking around them on a slow
horse and throwing a small lasso over them. In this
simple manner, says Darwin, a child would take
thirty or forty birds a day.

   Darwin's studies at Maldonado were carefully
made, and as a result he had a large collection
representing the fauna of the place. He took eighty
species of birds here, nine species of snakes, and
many of the large mammals. In hunting the deer
he found that it was easily approached on foot, but
fled like the wind before a horse. This was due to

the fact that every one rode here, and the animals

did not recognise an enemy in the unmounted hun
ter. Darwin took advantage of this, and assuming
strange positions so aroused the curiosity of the deer
that he could pick them off with ease.

   His collection included eight kinds of gnawers,
but, best of all, the king of the tribe, the great capy-
bara or Hydrochcerus. This singular animal he found
in the Maldonado streams in large numbers, which
offered him ample opportunities to observe its ways
and habits. One, which he shot at Monte Video,

weighed nearly one hundred pounds. They were
extremely tame, allowing him to approach within
44 Charles Darwin.

several yards, when they would run into the water
and dive, coming up to utter their singular bark.

Their tameness he ascribed to the fact that the

jaguar had almost disappeared from that locality,

and the Gauchos rarely hunted them.

   In the woods of Maldonado Darwin often heard

curious noises, arising apparently from the ground,

and resembling a bark or grunt. Investigation re

sulted in finding a curious little subterranean and

nocturnal animal, the Tucutuco. Many of them

were blind or partly so, and we find the naturalist
speculating on the subject. " Lamarck," he says,
" would have been delighted with this fact had he

known  is it,  when speculating (probably with more

truth than usual with him) on the gradually acquired
blindness of the Aspalax, a gnawer living under

ground, and of the proteus, a reptile living in dark

caverns filled with water in both of which animals
                         is ;
the eye in an almost rudimentary state, and    it
covered by tendinous membrane and skin. In the
               a                                   is is
common mole the eye extraordinarily small, but
                 it
perfect, though many anatomists doubt whether

connected with the true optic nerve its vision must
                               ;
certainly be imperfect, though probably useful to the;
animal when leaves its burrow. In the Tucutuco,
                                        is
which believe never comes to the surface of the
I

ground, the eye rather larger, but often renderedis
blind and useless, though without apparently causing
any inconvenience to the animal no doubt Lamarck

would have said that the tucutuco            now passing

into the state of the Aspalax and Proteus."

We observe here that the young naturalist had
Singular Birds of Maldonado.  45

already begun to think seriously of the great prob
lems to which he devoted his life in later years.

   Among the birds at Maldonado Darwin noticed
one resembling a starling, which had a peculiar habit
of sitting upon the backs of horses or cattle and

pluming its feathers. It was interesting to him for

another reason : Azara had ascribed to it the cuckoo

like habit of depositing its eggs in the nests of other
birds. Darwin found that the same was true of the

South American ostrich, which laid its eggs in the
nests of others indiscriminately.

   Of all the singular birds seen here the Polyborus

chamango was perhaps the most interesting. It was

a carrion feeder, and Darwin often saw several within
the ribs of the skeleton of a horse. They were ex

tremely savage, pouncing upon dogs, seizing rabbits
as they came from their holes, and even tearing the
leather from the rigging of the ship in what appeared

mere destructiveness. One was seen to carry off a
heavy bolas, while another seized a large glazed hat
belonging to a sailor and bore it nearly a mile from

the ship ; a small compass in a red morocco case

shared the same fate, and was not recovered.

   As we have seen, Darwin found the mouth of the
Plata famous for its electrical disturbances, and in the

sand-banks here he discovered some curious evidences

of the frequency of the bolts. Protruding from the
sand heaps were numerous vitrified and siliceous tubes

formed as the lightning entered the loose sand.
The sand was continually being blown about by the
wind, thus exposing the tubes ; similar ones in other
places have been traced for thirty feet.
46 Charles Darwin.

   Darwin found that the internal surface was smooth
and completely vitrified. The walls of the tube
were about the twentieth of an inch in thickness.
The most remarkable feature about this was the
number of tubes in so restricted an area. The en
tire region bore a bad name. In a single electrical
storm thirty-seven places were struck in the city of
Buenos Ayres and nineteen persons killed.

   In referring to this Darwin says : " I am inclined

to suspect that thunder-storms are very common
near the mouths of great rivers. Is it not possible
that the mixture of large bodies of fresh and salt
water may disturb the electrical equilibrium ? Even
during our occasional visits to this part of South
America, we heard of a ship, two churches, and a
house having been struck. Both the church and the

house I saw shortly afterwards : the house belonged

to Mr. Hood, the consul-general at Monte Video.
Some of the effects were curious: the paper, for
nearly a foot on each side of the line where the bell-
wires had run, was blackened. The metal had been

fused, and although the room was about fifteen feet
high, the globules, dropping on the chairs and furni
ture, had drilled in them a chain of minute holes.

A part of the wall was shattered as if by gunpowder,

and the fragments had been blown off with force suf
ficient to dent the wall on the opposite side of the
room. The frame of a looking-glass was blackened,
and the gilding must have been volatilised, for a
smelling-bottle, which stood on the chimney-piece,
was coated with bright metallic particles, which ad
hered as firmly as if they had been enamelled."
                  CHAPTER V.

          IN THE LAND OF THE SACRED TREE.

The Rio Negro -- Trips into the Interior -- The Sacred Tree -- Super
      stition of Natives-- Salt Lakes --Bahia Blanca -- A Tomb of
       Giants-- The Mylodon Darwinii -- The Armadillo -- Hibernation
      -- Careful Work--War-- General Rosas -- Brutal Natives -- Skilled

       Equestrians.

                                   ROM Maldonado the Bea

                                           gle sailed south, arriving
                                        at the mouth of the Rio
                                            Negro in August, 1833.
                                            Here Darwin found a
                                                newer and more interest
                                            ing field for work, and
                                            applied himself assidu
                                                ously to the investigation
                                            of the local fauna and
                                            flora. Nothing escaped
                                            his watchful eye, and he
not only collected but made careful observations
regarding the habits of the various animals, all of
which were recorded in the growing log-book, which
was to prove such a treasure-house of zoological facts
in the future.

                                                           47
48 Charles Darwin.

   He made his headquarters for his land expedi
tions at El Carmen, about eighteen miles up the
river, a town built on the face of a high cliff, some of
the houses or homes of the natives being excavated
in its face. One of the first objects of interest to at
tract his attention was a famous salt lake. During
the rainy season it was a basin of the strongest brine,
but when the dry time came, and the hot summer

sun poured down, the water evaporated, leaving a
pure white patch of gleaming salt, in remarkable
contrast to the surrounding verdure.

   This lake was found to be two miles in length,
with a layer of salt ranging in thickness from several

inches at the border to as many feet in the centre.
The interest of the explorer naturally centred in
the life of the lake, and he was repaid by the discov
ery of a worm that existed in sufficient quantities to

attract flamingoes here to feed. " Well may we
affirm," writes Darwin in his log-book, " that every
part of the world is habitable ! Whether lakes of
brine, or those subterranean ones hidden beneath
volcanic mountains -- warm mineral springs -- the wide
expanse and depths of the ocean -- the upper regions
of the atmosphere, and even the surface of perpetual
snow -- all support organic beings."

   During a trip to the Colorado River with a band
of Gauchos Darwin came upon the sacred tree, about
which so much has been said and written, it having

been described as taking up foreign objects upon its
branches. The tree is a low thorny variety, not com
mon, yet conspicuous on the plains by its peculiar
appearance. As the party approached, the tree was
A Tomb of Giants.  49

seen to be leafless, the branches being covered by
hundreds of objects, the offerings of the Indians,
who reverenced it as the altar of Walleechu, such as
cigars, pieces of cloth, bits of meat, strings, fruit,

and a variety of singular articles. Around the tree
was a circle of bones, the sacrifices of horses, which
the Indians had made. The Gauchos, though igno
rant, as we have seen, looked with contempt upon

the tree, and said that they had often witnessed the
ceremonies of the Indians, waiting until the latter

had disappeared, to help themselves to such articles

as possessed any value.
   The young naturalist here first encountered the

agouti, and he notes it as a singular fact that, while
in 1670 the animal was found much farther to the
south, it now occupied a restricted area.

   From Bahia Blanca, which was reached in the

latter part of August, Darwin travelled overland to
Buenos Ayres. The former was one of the most in

teresting localities he had visited, as here he discov
ered a veritable tomb of the lost races of a former

age. Upon the beach, within an area of two hun
dred yards, he took out, after no little labour, the re
mains of nine large quadrupeds. They included the

megatherium -- a sloth-like animal, the megalonyx --
an allied form, the scelidotherium-- an animal as large

as a rhinoceros, with a head, according to Professor

Owen, who described the remains, resembling that
of the Cape ant-eater, or the armadillos. Besides
these, he found another giant, which when described

was named after him, Mylodon Darwinii ; also a

gigantic armadillo, with a colossal armour, separated

       4
5° Charles Darwin.

into rings ; and finally a toxodon -- a creature as large
as an elephant, but related to the rats and mice and

other gnawers.
   These gigantic remains aroused the greatest en

thusiasm in the young naturalist, and he had the
satisfaction of being the first to present to English
scientists specimens from this locality. He pictured
the appearance of the huge animals when alive, and
with Professor Owen later gave graphic descriptions
of them. He says : " The great size of the bones of
the megatheroid animals, including the megatherium,
megalonyx, scelidotherium, and mylodon, is truly
wonderful. The habits of life of these animals were
a complete puzzle to naturalists, until Professor
Owen lately solved the problem with remarkable
ingenuity. The teeth indicate, by their simple
structure, that these megatheroid animals lived on

vegetable food, and probably on the leaves and
small twigs of trees ; their ponderous forms, and
great, strong, curved claws seem so little adapted
for locomotion, that some eminent naturalists have
actually believed that, like the sloths, to which they
are intimately related, they subsisted by climbing

back downwards on trees, and feeding on the leaves.

It was a bold, not to say preposterous, idea to con

ceive even antediluvian trees with branches strong
enough to bear animals as large as elephants. Pro
fessor Owen, with far more probability, believes that,
instead of climbing on the trees, they pulled the
branches down to them, and tore up the smaller
ones by the roots, and so fed on the leaves. The
colossal breadth and weight of their hinder quarters,
The South American Ostrich.  51

which can hardly be imagined without having been
seen, become, on this view, of obvious service, instead

of being an incumbrance ; their apparent clumsiness
disappears. With their great tails and their huge
heels firmly fixed like a tripod on the ground, they
could freely exert the full force of their most power

ful arms and great claws. Strongly rooted, indeed,
must that tree have been which could have resisted

such force ! The mylodon, however, was furnished
with a long extensile tongue like that of the giraffe,
which, by one of those beautiful provisions of nature,
thus reaches, with the aid of its long neck, its leafy

food. I may remark, that in Abyssinia the elephant,

according to Bruce, when it cannot reach with its

proboscis the branches, deeply scores with its tusks
the trunk of the tree, up and down and all around,
till it is sufficiently weakened to be broken down."

   Darwin was particularly interested in the rhea or
South American ostrich, and was the first to give a
careful account of its habits. As we have seen in a

previous chapter, he followed it on horseback, racing
with the huge bird in sport, watching it at once
with the eye of a naturalist and sportsman. The

rhea he found, though living upon grasses and tender
roots, by no means confined itself to this diet, as one
day while lying in concealment at Bahia Blanca he
saw a number come down to the mud flats and feed

there, obtaining, according to the Gauchos, small fish ;
and that they take to the water readily he was con

vinced on a later occasion by observing several swim
the Santa Cruz River, which was at least four hun
dred yards wide, with a rapid current. In swimming,
52 Charles Darwin.

the body of the bird was almost entirely concealed
from view, the head and neck alone appearing above
the surface, presenting a most comical appearance as
they moved slowly along. The cock rhea is the

larger, darker coloured, and can be distinguished by
the natives from the female at a long distance.
While standing in the brush one day the young
naturalist heard a deep-toned hissing sound, which
he at first thought proceeded from some large wild
beast, but soon discovered that it was the cry of the

cock ostrich.
   Darwin found bird-nesting for ostrich eggs an easy

task, the nests being very plentiful everywhere at
Bahia Blanca in the months of September and Oc
tober. Four nests were found to contain twenty-
two eggs, while another bore twenty-seven. The
egg-hunting was followed on horseback, and one day
Darwin almost ran over a cock sitting on a nest.
The Gauchos informed him that at times the males

were exceedingly fierce, attacking all intruders, leaping
at them much after the fashion of an African ostrich.

   While observing the ostrich the Gauchos told our
hero of another kind which they called the Avestruz
Petise, which they said was smaller and more easily
captured. But one of these was taken, and not
until it had been skinned and cut up for the table
did the young naturalist learn that it was the un
known species. The principal parts were preserved,
and from these Mr. Gould described the new species,
naming it after Darwin, Struthio Darwinii. The
specimen is now in the museum of the Zoological
Society. The rhea proper, according to Darwin,
Hibernation of Animals.  53

is confined to the La Plata country, while his species

takes its place in Patagonia.

   Among the strange animals observed here were
the armadillos, four species being found ; some were

day travellers, while others only appeared at night,
wandering over the plains. When approached the
little creatures would roll up into a ball-like shape,
and were then safe from all but human attack. In

riding over the country they were frequently seen,
but so rapidly did they dig and burrow that it was

necessary to leap from the horse immediately, as
their hind quarters would almost disappear before

one could alight.

   In the woods Darwin discovered a singular snake,
Cophias, which, while without rattles, produced a
warning almost similar to the rattlesnake. The tip
of the tail was slightly enlarged, and as the snake
moved through the brush it vibrated, and, striking
against the reeds and grasses, produced a rattling
noise distinctly audible six or seven feet distant.
Here was also found a toad, with black upon the
upper surface and the brightest vermilion below,
living not in damp spots, but crawling about in the

sunlight. A remarkable mimic among the lizards

(Proctotretus) was noticed on the sea-shore, living
on the open rocks, where its close resemblance to its
surroundings protected it from various enemies,
when attacked or alarmed. Darwin was astonished

to see it stretch out its legs, stiffen its limbs, and

feign death, even closing its eyes.
   The interesting phase of life, hibernation, did not

escape the observant eye of the young naturalist,
54 Charles Darwin.

and his notes on this one point were voluminous.

When frost came at Bahia Blanca, few small animals

were to be found except by digging, the lizards and

insects having taken to the earth. Later they re

appeared, and we here have an interesting example

of the care and thoroughness which Darwin gave
to all his work. In his log-book he writes : " During

the first eleven days, whilst nature was dormant, the

mean temperature, taken from observations made

every two hours on board the Beagle, was 5 1° ; and in
the middle of the day the thermometer seldom ranged

above 55°. On the eleven succeeding days, in which all
living things became so animated, the mean was 58°,

and the range in the middle of the day between

60-70 0. Here, then, an increase of seven de
grees in mean temperature, but a greater one of

extreme heat, was sufficient to awaken the functions

of life. At Monte Video, from which we had just

before sailed, in the twenty-three days included

between the 26th of July and the 19th of August,

the mean temperature from 276 observations was

58°.4 ; the mean hottest day being 65°.s, and the

coldest 46°. The lowest point to which the ther

mometer fell was 4i°.S, and occasionally in the
                                       °
middle  of  the  day it  rose  to  69     or  70°.  Yet with

this high temperature, almost every beetle, several

genera of spiders, snails and land-shells, toads and

lizards, were all lying torpid beneath stones. But

we have seen that at Bahia Blanca, which is four de

grees southward, and therefore a climate only a very

little colder, this same temperature, with a rather

less extreme heat, was sufficient to awake all orders
        " Tame Indians " at Bahia Blanca.                 55

of animated beings. This shows how nicely the

stimulus required to arouse hibernating animals is

governed by the usual climate of the district, and

not by the absolute heat. It is well known that

within the tropics, the hibernation, or more properly

aestivation, of animals, is determined, not by the

temperature, but by the times of drought. Near

Rio de Janeiro, I was at first surprised to observe,

that, a few days after some little depressions had

been filled with water, they were peopled by nu

merous full-grown shells and beetles, which must

have been lying dormant. Humboldt has related

the strange accident of a hovel having been erected

over a spot where a young crocodile lay buried in the
hardened mud. He adds, ' The Indians often find

enormous boas, which they call Uji, or water ser

pents,   in the same lethargic state.     To reanimate
them,   they must be irritated or wetted  with water.' "

While waiting for the Beagle at Bahia Blanca,

Darwin witnessed some of the incidents of a war

which was then in progress with the natives. The

troops of the famous South American dictator and

general, Rosas, had declared war against the In

dians, and proposed to exterminate them if possible.

A report received, that a squad of men had been

murdered, occasioned no little excitement, and as

a result a troop of three hundred men came in from

the Colorado.   They   were not  "Spoafnitahreds,tribase  Darwin
expected, but  " tame   Indians                            of the

Cacique Bernantio, and they afforded him as inter

esting material for study and observation as so many

wild beasts. They were wild, reckless, even brutal,
56 Charles Darwin.

in the extreme. Many, crazed with intoxication,
threw themselves upon the cattle slaughtered for
them, and drank the streaming blood like so many
brutes. The following day they started on the trail
of the Indians, but the latter had made good their

escape on the great pampas.
   Darwin gives these Indians no little credit for

skill and intelligence in obtaining results from what
would be unintelligible to a white man. Thus they
could examine the tracks of a thousand horses and
tell how many were mounted by men, how many
bore loads, whether they were fresh or fatigued, and
whether they were going fast or slowly. For this
they did not not need a fresh trail, one ten days old
being read with equal ease. The Indians exhibited
in their warfare a ferocity that would do credit to

some of the red men of America. To show their

nature, Darwin found that a man struck down seized
his assailant by the thumb with his teeth and clung
to it like a bull-dog while his eyes were torn out.
Another feigned death, hoping an enemy might
approach within reach of his knife, so that he might
die red-handed. Another fled crying for mercy,
and was seen trying to clear his bolas all the time.
Darwin's informant nonchalantly said that he squared
accounts with this fellow by striking him down with
a sabre, then, dismounting, cut his throat with his

knife--a horrible picture, and seemingly impossible

in a civilised land.

   That the Indians are disappearing before the
Spaniards, as they have in North America, is a well-
known fact, and their extermination is only a matter
Equestrian Skill of the Indians.  57

of time. Darwin learned that in 1535 there were
villages which contained two or three thousand
people, while at the time of his visit the remnants
were wanderers upon the face of the earth.

   To show the remarkable equestrian skill of these

Indians, Darwin cites an incident of the escape of a

chief. Pursued by the Spaniards and closely pressed,
he sprang upon a fresh white horse, which had
neither saddle nor bridle, drew his little son up
behind him, and dashed away at full speed. When
fired at he threw an arm about the horse's neck and

fell to one side, and though the follower changed
horses three times, the Indian made good his escape.
                   CHAPTER VI.

                        AMONG THE FOSSILS.

A Long Bullock Ride -- Santa Fe -- An Animal Collector -- Large
      Fossils --Indian Superstitions-- Darwin 111--A Native Doctor --
       Geology-- Gigantic Armoured Animals -- Drought -- The Parana --
       The Jaguar -- Darwin a Prisoner -- Swimming Horses-- Shower of
       Butterflies-- Phosphorescence.

                               NE of the most interest

                                          ing expeditions made by
                                          Darwin was from Buenos
                                         Ayres to Santa Fe, a dis
                                             tance of about three hun
                                         dred miles. The conven
                                         iences for travelling were
                                         limited, the trip being
                                         made in bullock waggons
                                         -- a tedious operation at
                                         best, but which had at
                                             least one commendable
feature : it afforded the naturalist ample opportunities
to collect en route without the danger of being left
behind should he stray from the road. This country

was the home of the biscacha (Lagostomus tricho-
dactylus ), a little rodent somewhat resembling a rab

                                                          58
An Animal Collector.  59

bit, but with a longer tail. Its ways and habits were
of the greatest interest to the explorer, who made
voluminous notes upon it. He cites as a singular
circumstance that it was never seen east of the Uru
guay, the great river forming a barrier to its prog
ress, and that it was a very conspicuous feature in
the zoology of the pampas region.

   The biscacha attracted his attention particularly
on account of its peculiar habit of collecting. Its

holes were common about the pampas, and were
conspicuous for the variety of curious articles found

around them, gathered from far and near by the
biscacha. The objects included stones, bones, lumps
of earth, pieces of wood, thistle stalks, and various

things. So confirmed is this habit that when the

natives lose any thing along the road they immedi
ately go to the holes of the biscacha, generally
finding the missing articles in the heap. Thus Dar
win was informed that spurs, whips, and even a gold
watch which had been lost were recovered in this

manner.

   On October 1st the exploring party arrived at Rio
Tercero, famous as the burying-ground for many
large fossil animals. Among other specimens our

young naturalist discovered two enormous skeletons,
standing out in relief against the cliff-like sides of
the Parana. They were in the last stages of decay,

and the teeth only could be preserved.

  It is interesting to note that the Indians believed

the animals to be subterranean like the biscacha,

from the fact that the skeletons were found under

ground, a supposition entertained by the Chinese
6o Charles Darwin.

and Siberians regarding the mammoth. At Santa

Fe Darwin was much impressed with the great cli
matic differences which resulted from a change of
merely three degrees of latitude. Everything sug
gested it : the costumes of the people, the cacti, and
the superior size of certain trees.

   At this place the naturalist was taken ill, and was

attended by an old woman, who, if she did not
succeed in curing him, added largely to his store of
information on native remedies. He was troubled

with severe headache, to cure which his nurse sug
gested that he bind an orange leaf on his temple, or
split a bean and place one half on each side of the
head. He also found that it was the custom to
allow these medicines to cling upon the skin until
they dropped off ; so that if a man or woman was
seen with a bit of plaster or a leaf adhering to the
temple, the inference was that they either were suf
fering with a headache or had had one a few days
previous. Another curative was to kill two small
dogs and bind them to an injured limb, while the
common little hairless dogs he found were in no
little demand to warm the feet of invalids-- an ani

mated plaster.
   Darwin included the Governor of Santa Fe, one

Lopez, among the natural curiosities of the place.
He learned that his favourite sport was hunting In
dians, he having recently destroyed forty or more,
the adults being killed outright, while the children
were sold at a rate of ten or twelve dollars apiece !

   Across the Parana River, at Santa Fe Bajada,
Darwin found one of the richest geological collect
   Gigantic A rmour of an Extinct A nimal. 6 1

ing fields of his entire voyage, and nearly a week
was spent in working over what appeared to be the
graves of innumerable monsters of the olden time.
He discovered at the base of the lofty cliff a stratum
containing sea-shells and sharks' teeth, while higher
up came a red clay earth, which contained the re

mains of some remarkable forms.

   Darwin read the explored section as the pages of
a book, assuming that here was once a large bay of
salt water, which had gradually been encroached
upon, and into which the bodies of huge animals
had been swept and buried. Out on the pampas be
yond Bajada he came upon a wonderful deposit, in
which he unearthed the gigantic armour of an extinct
armadillo-like animal, which he compared to a huge
caldron, large enough for several men to find protec
tion in. In the vicinity were the remains of a mas

todon, showing that the elephant once roamed the
plains. With these was a horse's tooth, of which
Darwin wrote in his note-book : " This latter tooth

greatly interested me, and I took scrupulous care in

ascertaining that it had been embedded contempora

neously with the other remains, for I was not then

aware that amongst the fossils from Bahia Blanca
there was a horse's tooth hidden in the matrix, nor
was it then known with certainty that the remains of
horses are common in South America. Mr. Lyell
has lately brought from the United States a tooth of
a horse, and it is an interesting fact that Professor
Owen could find, in no species, either fossil or recent,
a slight but peculiar curvature characterising until
he thought of comparing with my specimen found
it
                                  it,
62 Charles Darwin.

here. He had named this American Equus curvi-

dens. Certainly it is a marvellous fact in the history

of the mammalia, that in South America a native

horse should have lived and disappeared, to be suc

ceeded in after ages by the countless herds descended
                                                       "
from the few introduced  with the Spanish  colonists
                                                      !

In later years, Professor Marsh has shown that a

long line of horses once lived in America, this being

one of the most interesting and perfect links of

evidence in the geological chain.

These remains suggested to the mind of Darwin

many questions pregnant with interest, not the least

of which was the geographical distribution of ani
mals. He divided North and South America at the

lofty table-land of Mexico, which would naturally

affect migration, and saw in the separation two im

portant and strongly contrasted zoological fields.
" Some few species," he writes, " alone have passed

the barrier, and may be considered as wanderers

from the south, such as the puma, opossum, kinka-

jou, and peccary. South America is characterised by

possessing many peculiar gnawers, a family of mon

keys, the llama, peccary, tapir, opossums, and, espe

cially, several genera of Edentata, the order which

includes the sloths, ant-eaters, and armadillos. North

America, on the other hand, is characterised (putting

on one side a few wandering species) by numerous

peculiar gnawers, and by four genera of hollow-

horned ruminants, of which great division South

America is not known to possess a single species.

Formerly, but within the period when most of the

now existing shells were living, North America
fThroughout a. is fore-foot ; b, hind-foot ; c, fore-arm j d, shank ;
       e, molar on side-view ; and gt grinding surface of
               upper and lower molars. (After Marsh.)
Geological Speculations.  63

possessed, besides hollow-horned ruminants, the ele
phant, mastodon, horse, and three genera of Edentata.
Within nearly this same period (as proved by the
shells at Bahia Blanca) South America possessed a
mastodon, horse, hollow-horned ruminant, and the

same three genera of Edentata. Hence it is evident
that North and South America, in having within

a late geological period these several genera in com

mon, were much more closely related in the character

of their terrestrial inhabitants than they are now. The

more I reflect on this case, the more interesting it
appears : I know of no other instance where we can

almost mark the period and manner of the splitting
up of one great region into two well-characterised
zoological provinces. The geologist, who is fully
impressed with the vast oscillations of level which

have affected the earth's crust within late periods,
will not fear to speculate on the recent elevation of

the Mexican platform, or, more probably, on the
recent submergence of land in the West Indian

Archipelago, as the cause of the present zoological
separation of North and South America. The South

American character of the West Indian mammals,

seems to indicate that this archipelago was formerly
united to the southern continent, and that it has

subsequently been an area of subsidence.
   " When America, and especially North America,

possessed its elephants, mastodons, horse, and hol

low-horned ruminants, it was much more closely

related in its zoological characters to the temperate

parts of Europe and Asia than it now is. As the

remains of these genera are found on both sides of
64 Charles Darwin.

Behring's Straits and on the plains of Siberia, we are
led to look to the north-western side of North Amer
ica as the former point of communication between
the Old and so-called New World. And as so many
species, both living and extinct, of these same genera
inhabit and have inhabited the Old World, it seems
most probable that the North American elephants,
mastodons, horse, and hollow-horned ruminants mi

grated, on land since submerged near Behring's

Straits, from Siberia into North America, and
thence, on land since submerged in the West Indies,
into South America, where for a time they mingled
with the forms characteristic of that southern conti
nent, and have since become extinct."

   While travelling through this region, Darwin
learned that between the years 1827-30, a terrible
drought had occurred, during which myriads of
animals had perished. He was told that wild
deer became so thirsty that, devoid of fear, they
came into the yards of native houses and endeav
oured to obtain water from the wells ; while game

birds could be caught by the hand. It was esti

mated that one million head of cattle were lost
during this time.

  A most interesting deduction from facts obtained

here was made by Darwin. He learned that many
animals frenzied with thirst rushed down the banks
of streams in herds, and were often so weak that
they were unable to climb up again. Then followed
the flood, and their bodies were washed away and
buried. He concluded that several hundred thou

sand creatures may easily have been destroyed at
        Warnings of Danger.                                             65

certain points, and he quotes Azara as having seen
the carcasses of a thousand wild horses in one place.

   Darwin noticed that several of the small streams

of the  pam" Wpahs aatp,"pehaereadsksto,  be paved with a breccia       of
bones.                                    " would be the opinion        of

a geologist, viewing such an enormous collection of
bones, of all kinds of animals and of all ages, thus
embedded in one thick earthy mass? Would he not
attribute it to a flood having swept over the surface

of the land, rather than to the common order of
things? "

   His discerning eye immediately connected these
modern fatalities with those that had occurred ages
in the past, and saw a possible explanation of the
great deposits of fossil bones found to-day mingled

in such an inexplicable confusion.

   In coming down the Parana, our young naturalist,
who was inclined to wander ashore and visit the

many islands which abounded, was warned to be on

his guard against the jaguar, which was common

here. The canebrakes of the river were the favourite

haunts of the American tiger, and its tracks were

found everywhere. When their natural food is

scarce they do not hesitate to attack man. A sailor

fought with one on the deck of a vessel, losing his

aDramrwiinn'sthveisict,onate"stm;awn-heialetera"  few years   previous   to
                                                  found its  way into   the

church at Santa Fe and killed two padres, one after

the other, as they entered, and badly wounding a
third. The naturalist was shown certain trees which

had been scratched by the tiger, the marks being so
frequent that the natives were in the habit of look

5
66 Charles Darwin.

ing at the trees to see if a jaguar was near. The
common cat has a similar habit, as well as the black
bear, especially in the Gulf States of North America,
and Darwin believed the same was true of the puma
from marks he had seen, and suggested that it was
done to tear off the ragged points of their claws, and
not to sharpen them as the Gauchos thought.

   The sail down the Rio Parana was enlivened by
one incident not on the programme. Upon reaching
the mouth of the river, Darwin landed at the little
town of Las Conchas, hoping to reach Buenos Ayres

sooner, and there was made a prisoner. A revolu

tion had suddenly broken out, and no one was
allowed to leave the place, so that he could not even
return to the vessel. After many disappointments,
and much red tape, an audience was obtained with
the commanding officer, when, upon mentioning that
he had received courtesies from Rosas, he was al

lowed to pass the line, and escorted to the city,
where he took passage in a small vessel for Monte
Video.

   Between this city and Colonia del Sacramiento an
opportunity was afforded of observing the skill with
which horses swam streams. Darwin's own animal
readily passed over rivers a quarter of a mile wide,
while an instance was related of a native horse
which swam from a wreck a distance of nearly

seven miles.
   Darwin observed a Gaucho swimming a stream

with his horse, holding the animal by his tail, and
refers to the fact that he himself was towed across a
river with three others in a boat in the same manner.
Description of the Niata.  67

   On an estancia at the Arroyo de San Juan, Darwin
met with a curious breed of cattle, which aroused his

interest and curiosity to a high degree. They were
called nata, or niata, and seemed to him to bear the

same relation to their tribe in general that the bull

dog does to its fellows of the canine race. "The

forehead," he says, " is very short and broad, with
the nasal end turned up, and the upper lip much
drawn back ; their lower jaws project beyond the

upper, and have a corresponding upward curve :

hence their teeth are always exposed. Their nos
trils are seated high up, and are very open ; their
eyes project outwards. When walking they carry
their heads low, on a short neck; and their hinder

legs are rather longer, compared with the front legs,
than is usual. Their bare teeth, their short heads,

and up-turned nostrils give them the most ludicrous,
self-confident air of defiance imaginable."

   Darwin secured the skull of one of these oxen,

which is now in the museum of the College of Sur
geons, London, and upon investigation learned that
the singular breed originated among the Indians
south of the Plata. He remarks that it is a curious

fact that an almost similar structure to this abnormal

one of the niata is found in the fossil sivatherium.
   Our young naturalist was always on the look-out

for good collecting fields, and was in constant
receipt of reports from the natives of wonders of
various kinds, which in many instances amounted to
nothing. Hearing of some gigantic bones, he visited
a ranch on the Sarandis, a small tributary of the Rio
Negro, where he found a fine head of the toxodon,
68 Charles Darwin.

which he purchased for twenty-five cents, and ulti
mately conveyed safely to England. He judged
from the specimens found here that the huge animal
was common at one time. With it he discovered
more specimens of the gigantic armadillo-like animal,
and the massive skull of a mylodon ; and, more re
markable still, he found that the bones of the latter
were so fresh that they retained seven per cent, of

animal matter.
   Darwin was impressed by the vastness of the

deposit here, and he estimated that it would be
impossible to draw a line through the pampas in
any direction without striking a skeleton of some
kind. The natives were familiar with the remains,
and often named places for them : thus an elevation
was called " the hill of the giant," and a river " the
stream of the animal." The investigations of the

naturalist were not confined to the inanimate and
the lower animals alone ; while constantly at work
in the departments of his choice, he made extensive
studies of the social life of the people, giving a
graphic description of their life and habits.

   He found the Gauchos obliging and polite to
strangers, but among themselves belligerent, and
with little or no regard for life. Every man carried
a knife, and murders and affrays were common
occurrences. At one town he asked two men why
they did not work ; one replied that he was too
poor, while the other gave as an excuse that the
days were too long. This was characteristic of a
country, where justice was a mockery and the grossest
crimes went unpunished if the offender was rich.
A Shower of Butterflies.  69

   On December 6th, Darwin again set sail in the

Beagle, after a most successful trip through the
country, and carried aboard collections that well
represented the fauna of the locality. Being at sea,
he found, did not entirely prevent the collection
of shore animals. Thus one evening, when ten
miles off shore, near the bay of San Bias, the Beagle
was fairly surrounded by a shower of butterflies,
which extended as far as the eye could reach.
Even with a telescope no spot could be discovered
free from them, so their numbers can be imagined.
The sight was so marvellous that the men remarked
that it was snowing butterflies.

   Darwin found it difficult to explain the presence

of the insects off shore, as there was no storm or

squall which could have driven them out to sea.
   Upon various occasions insects were taken while

at sea, some in the nets which were dragged astern.
The most remarkable case recorded is of a grass
hopper, which flew aboard the Beagle when she was
three hundred and seventy miles from land, off the
African coast. Spiders were captured sixty miles
from shore, all sailing on little balloons made of their
own silk. When they came aboard it was found that
they were extremely thirsty, and eagerly drank from
drops of water.

   These spiders were, according to Darwin, the
aeronauts of the tribe, and he devoted many hours
to them. When wishing to rise, the abdomen was
elevated and several skeins of silk ejected, which
passed up into the air for several yards in the ascend
ing current, and then, releasing its hold, the spider
7o Charles Darwin.

was carried away. During the passage south num
bers of interesting marine animals were added to the
collections, among which were singular crabs with
suckers for clinging to other animals. The phospho
rescent forms were particularly numerous, of which
he writes :

   " While sailing a little south of the Plata on one
very dark night the sea presented a most wonderful
and beautiful spectacle. There was a fresh breeze,
and every part of the surface, which during the day
is seen as foam, now glowed with a pale light. The
vessel drove before her bows two billows of liquid
phosphorus, and in her wake she was followed by a
milky train. As far as the eye reached the crest of
every wave was bright, and the sky above the hori
zon, from the reflected glare of these livid flames,
was not so utterly obscure as over the vault of the

heavens.

   " As we proceed further southward the sea is sel

dom phosphorescent ; and off Cape Horn I do not

recollect more than once having seen it so, and then
it was far from being brilliant. This circumstance
probably has a close connexion with the scarcity of
organic beings in that part of the ocean. After the
elaborate paper by Ehrenberg on the phospho
rescence of the sea, it is almost superfluous on my

part to make any observations on the subject. I

may, however, add that the same torn and irregular
particles of gelatinous matter, described by Ehren
berg, seem, in the southern as well as in the northern
hemisphere, to be the common cause of this phe
nomenon. The particles were so minute as easily to
Phosphorescent Animals.  71

pass through fine gauze ; yet many were distinctly
visible by the naked eye. The water, when placed
in a tumbler and agitated, gave out sparks, but a
small portion in a watch-glass scarcely ever was

luminous. Ehrenberg states that these particles all
retain a certain degree of irritability. My observa
tions, some of which were made directly after taking

up the water, gave a different result. I may also

mention that, having used the net during one night,

I allowed it to become partially dry, and having

occasion twelve hours afterwards to employ it again,

I found the whole surface sparkled as brightly as
when first taken out of the water. It does not

appear probable, in this case, that the particles could
have remained" so long alive. On one occasion,

having kept a jelly-fish of the genus Diancza till it
was dead, the water in which it was placed became
luminous."

   Since Darwin made his famous trip scores of ani
mals have been added to the list of those which emit

light, yet the true secret of the illumination has not

yet been determined.
                 CHAPTER VII.

                       THE LAND OF GIANTS.

The Patagonians-- Guanaco Hunting -- Singular Burial Customs -- A
      Horse with a Proboscis -- Extinction -- Up the Santa Cruz -- Puma
      Tracks-- Catching the Condor -- Falkland Islands -- Among the
      Glaciers -- The Fuegians -- Giant Sea- Weed and Its Work.

                               ATAGONIA was looked

                                          forward to by Darwin
                                          with no little pleasure,
                                              and on December 22d the
                                              Beagle cast anchor in the
                                          harbor of Port Desire, near
                                          the ruin of an old Spanish
                                       settlement. The animal
                                          life here was somewhat
                                          limited, as was the flora,
                                              the most characteristic
                                              animal being the curious
little wild llama or guanaco, which was found in large
herds on the plains. They were shy, but Darwin took
advantage of their curiosity by making various mo
tions and assuming strange postures, and succeeded in
shooting a number. When discovered several miles
off they immediately took fright and ran, while one,

                                                                    72
        The Fossils of Patagonia.  73

surprised near at hand, moved away slowly. Another

which Darwin met with on the mountains squealed,

snorted, and pranced about when he approached, de

fying him, as it were.

The guanaco is altogether a curious creature, and

our naturalist found that they actually had certain

places in which to die. In one spot he counted the

remains of at least twenty of these animals in a re

"Istricted area. Referring to this in his note-book he
says :  do not at all understand the reason of
this, but I may observe that the wounded guanacos

at the Santa Cruz invariably walked towards the

river. At St. Jago, in the Cape Verd Islands, I

remember having seen in a ravine a retired corner

covered with bones of the goat ; we at the time ex
claimed that it was the burial-ground of all the goats

in the island. I mention these trifling circumstances

because in certain cases they might explain the

occurrence of a number of uninjured bones in a

cave, or buried under alluvial accumulations ; and

likewise the cause why certain animals are more

commonly embedded than others in sedimentary

deposits."
   Among the interesting fossils found in Patagonia

was the skeleton of the macrauchenia -- an animal

equalling a camel in size, having a long neck and,

according to Bermeister, a South American geologist,
a short trunk like that of an elephant. These singular

discoveries were of great import to Darwin. We

find him reflecting upon the causes which produced

their extinction, and it is interesting to note how

correct were his deductions. He was impressed
74 Charles Darwin.

with the evidences of change that were apparent on
every hand. The remains which he found showed

that in the past the country was peopled with a race

of giants which had given way to pigmies. The land

which once trembled under the tread of the huge

sloth, and saw the monster armadillo, was now

roamed by the little guanaco. Darwin proved that

the huge forms were contemporaneous with the

shells which then flourished in the ocean, conse

quently were of comparatively recent date. What,

then, was the cause of their extinction ? Darwin's

first thought, and a most natural one, was that some

great cataclysm had taken place which destroyed

entire races in Patagonia and Brazil. He argued

from the results of his investigations that all the

physical features were the result of gradual changes,

consequently it could not have been a change of

temperature at once sudden and death-dealing. Many

of the animals which passed away so mysteriously

existed after the ice age, which has been supposed to

have been the exterminator. What, then, could

have been the cause of such widespread destruction ?
That early man might have been the destroyer

evidently passed through the mind of the young
naturalist, as he says : " Did man, after his first in

road into South America, destroy, as has been

suggested,  t"he  unwieldy  Megatherium  and  the  other
Edentata ?

Yet he believed the extinction of the smaller

forms, as the little tucutuco, could not have been

effected in this way. He considered an extreme

drought and reflected upon its possibilities, also
Extinction of Species.  75

upon the failure of a food supply. " Did those
plains fail of pasture, which have since been overrun
by thousands and hundreds of thousands of the
descendants of the stock introduced by the Span
iards? Have the subsequently introduced species
consumed the food of the great antecedent races ?

Can we believe that the Capybara has taken the food
of the Toxodon, the Guanaco of the Macrauchenia,

the existing small Edentata of their numerous gigan

tic prototypes ? Certainly no fact in the long history
of the world is so startling as the wide and repeated
exterminations of its inhabitants."

   In these thoughts and conclusions of the young

naturalist we see the germs of the genius that re
sulted long after his trip in the greatest of his works,
the " Origin of Species." He did not assign any
direct cause for their disappearance, but concluded
that the laws of nature regulated the increase and
decrease of forms. For some the conditions were

favourable for perpetuation ; for others they were
not, so that in one direction we might find rapid

multiplication, and in another a tendency to extinc
tion or running out.

   The reasoning of Darwin at this time is so pro
phetic of his later work that it will add to the inter
est to quote his words as given in his note-book : " In
the cases where we can trace the extinction of a
species through man, either wholly or in one limited
district, we know that it becomes rarer and rarer,

and is then lost ; it would be difficult to point out

any just distinction between a species destroyed by
man or by the increase of its natural enemies. The
;6 Charles Darwin.

evidence of rarity preceding extinction is more strik

ing in the successive tertiary strata, as remarked by

several able observers ; it has often been found that

a shell very common in a tertiary stratum is now

most rare, and has even long been thought to be

extinct. If, then, as appears probable, species first
become rare and then extinct-- if the too rapid

increase of every species, even the most favoured, is

steadily checked, as we must admit, though how and
when it is hard to say-- and if we see, without the

smallest surprise, though unable to assign the pre

cise reason, one species abundant and another closely

allied species rare in the same district, why should

we feel such great astonishment at the rarity being

carried a step further to extinction ? An action going

on on every side of us, and yet barely appreciable,

might surely be carried a little further without ex

citing our observation. Who would feel any great

surprise at hearing that the Megalonyx was formerly

rare compared with the Megatherium, or that one of

the fossil monkeys was few in number compared

with one of the now living monkeys? and yet in

this comparative rarity we should have the plainest

evidence of less favourable conditions for their exist

ence. To admit that species generally become rare
before they become extinct--to feel no surprise at

the comparative rarity of one species with another,

and yet to call in some extraordinary agent and to

marvel greatly when a species ceases to exist, ap

pears to me   much the    same   as to admit that sick
ness in the  individual  is the
                                 prelude to death --to
feel no surprise at sickness -- but when the sick man
Trip up the Santa Cruz River.  77

dies, to wonder, and to believe that he died through

violence."

   An interesting trip made in this country was up
the Santa Cruz River, concerning which very little
was known, Europeans having gone but thirty miles
from the mouth in previous voyages. The expedi
tion into the unknown land was composed of three
whale-boats provisioned for three weeks and manned

by Darwin, an officer, and twenty-five men as a
guard against Indians. The river was about one
third of a mile wide, seventeen feet deep, and very

rapid, terraces rising on either side, forming a valley

nearly ten miles in width. It was hard and tedious

work, as canal tactics had to be adopted ; the boats

were fastened together, the men walking along the

banks and hauling them by a rope. A few days out

they saw smoke, and found evidences of a camp.
Puma tracks were seen everywhere, and an occasional
guanaco with its neck broken told of the power of this
great cat. The geology of the region was carefully
studied by the naturalist and was of no little inter
est. He found deposits of lava one hundred and

twenty feet in thickness, and later two hundred feet

thicker, showing that a mighty volcanic eruption had

taken place at some early time.
   When well up the river our hero shot his first

condor, the bird measuring from tip to tip of wings
eight and a half feet. Near the river, among the
basaltic cliffs, he discovered a rookery of the noble
birds, and as he approached the edge of the preci
pice he saw thirty or more fly away at once, present
ing a magnificent spectacle. He was particularly
78 Charles Darwin.

observant of their flight, and in a letter, written to

the late Dr. J. B. Holder, expressed his astonish

ment that these birds could circle about, moving up
and down, covering great distances without appar
ently vibrating the wings.

   While the condors live upon carrion, they often
attack young animals; hence the natives trained
their dogs to dash out and bark as they approached.

   The Indians caught them in an ingenious way:
they surrounded a dead animal with a fence of sharp
sticks, and when the condor became gorged with
food, rushed in on horseback and shut the enclosure

before the bird could escape. Another method wit
nessed by Darwin consisted in creeping up to where
the birds roosted and dropping a noose over their
heads while they were asleep.

   In March, 1833, the party arrived at East Falk
land Island, in Berkeley Sound, where wild-cattle
hunting formed one of the exciting incidents. Many
hard and fatiguing rides were taken, on one of which
Darwin states that his horse fell no less than six

times, and frequently all the animals ridden by the
party were floundering in the mud. In Berkeley
Sound Darwin found a curious geological feature,
nothing less than a river of stones, the valley being
made up of rocks thrown together in the wildest
manner possible and apparently flowing down to the
sea. The width of the stream varied from a few
hundred feet to a mile, and was of unknown depth,
water being distinctly heard trickling far below the
surface. In one valley south of Berkeley Sound one
of these stone rivers was seen, where for a quarter
Natives of Tierra del Fuego.  79

of a mile the observer crossed without stepping
from the rocks, some of which were so large that
protection from the rain was found beneath them.
The native inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego were
looked for with interest, and the first view of them

was had at the Bay of Good Success, a group appear
ing on the shore waving their tattered garments at
the voyagers. These were the popularly called
giants, as the natives of the land were supposed to

be much larger than any others, and are so to a cer

tain extent. A boat was sent ashore and communi

cation held with them. They were fine lusty fel
lows fully six feet in height, and giants when com
pared to the natives previously seen. They were of

a dirty copper color, and, though the climate was
rigorous, clothed in a simple guanaco skin thrown

over the shoulders.

   Darwin presented an old man with some slight
gift, at which he patted the donor's breast, uttering
a sound like that of calling chickens, then bared his
breast for a return of what was considered a courtesy.
Darwin noticed that they were skilful mimics, as
every action of his, even a yawn, was repeated, and,

more remarkable yet, they repeated the words and
sentences spoken to them with exactness.

   The visit to these people had a significance, as
aboard the Beagle were several Fuegians, who had

been taken to England on a previous trip to be edu
cated and civilised, -- a philanthropic act of Captain
Fitz-Roy, who was now bringing them back with a
missionary, who proposed to live with their people
and undertake the work of elevating them to a
8o Charles Darwin.

higher plane. The result was that the educated
natives were robbed of all their property by their
relatives, and when visited some years later were
found to have lapsed again into savages.

   At Beagle Inlet Darwin had an adventure with a

glacier. Wishing to examine it the boat was hauled
upon the beach, and the masses of ice watched as
they fell away. Finally a large berg became detached
and fell with a thundering crash, sending an immense
wave in upon the beach. Darwin and party rushed
for the boats to save them if possible, reaching them
just as the wave came crashing in, knocking one of
the men over and lifting their boat high in air,
fortunately doing no damage, as they were over
one hundred miles from the Beagle.

   At Cape Gregory some fine types of the giant na

tives were seen, though Darwin says they appeared
larger than they really were from their style of dress.
They averaged six feet in height, some of the men
being taller, and as Darwin describes them as being
the tallest people he met on the entire voyage around
the world, they may be considered the tribal giants

of the human race.

   In referring to them he says : " I believe, in this

extreme part of South America, man exists in a
lower state of improvement than in any part of the
world. The South Sea Islanders of the two races

inhabiting the Pacific are comparatively civilised.
The Esquimau, in his subterranean hut, enjoys
some of the comforts of life, and in his canoe, when
fully equipped, manifests much skill. Some of the
tribes of Southern Africa, prowling about in search
CAPE FROWARD, STRAITS OF MAGELLAN,
The Giant Sea-Weed.                                                                                                                              81

of roots, and living concealed on the wild and arid
plains, are sufficiently wretched. The Australian, in
the simplicity of the arts of life, comes nearest the
Fuegian ; he can, however, boast of his boomerang,
his spear, and throwing-stick, his method of climbing
trees, of tracking animals, and of hunting. Although
the Australian may be superior in acquirements, it by
no means follows that he is likewise superior in men

tal capacity ; indeed, from what I saw of the Fuegians
when on board, and from what I have read of the
Australians, I should think the case was exactly the

reverse."

   Darwin found the zoology of this region more or

less disappointing, though the ocean and rocky
shores gave protection to numbers of interesting
animals, which he added to his collection. He ob

served that the giant sea-weed, Macrocystis pyrifera,
flourished off shore in the midst of a terrific sea, and

he at once recognised in it an important factor in the
preservation of animal life. He found it growing in

water three hundred and sixty feet deep, reaching to
the surface, and proved that it formed a natural

breakwater, and gave shelter in its leaves and branches

to innumerable animals, from delicate shells and

crustaceans up to fishes. Indeed he considered that
the actual existence of the natives depended upon

     as he says " Amidst the leaves of this plant
numerous species of fish live, which nowhere else
could find food or shelter with their destruction the
many cormorants and other fishing-birds, the otters,
seals, and porpoises, would soon perish also and
lastly, the Fuegian savage, the miserable lord of this
it,

          6

                                          :
                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                              ;
82 Charles Darwin.

miserable land, would redouble his cannibal feast,
decrease in numbers, and perhaps cease to exist."

   Tierra del Fuego was found to be the land of the
glacier, and numerous opportunities were afforded to
study them, many valleys being filled with these
moving rivers of ice which formed in the low ranges
of mountains. Some of them gave their icebergs to
the sea with blasts and roars like the broadside of a
ship of war. In Eyre's Sound Darwin saw fifty ice
bergs of large size floating about at once, borne from
the adjacent glaciers. One of the largest observed,
and the farthest from the Pole, was in the Gulf of
Penas, where the ice river was fifteen miles in length
and seven broad. Darwin's studies on these glaciers,
and the laws which govern them, were of no little
value to scientists, and many of the theories regarding
their action which have found place as facts originated
with him.
                CHAPTER VIII.

                   THE FOOT OF THE ANDES.

At Valparaiso --Andean Life -- An Old School-mate -- An Ocean Bot
      tom -- In the Mines -- Hot Springs -- Darwin Excites Suspicion--
      Volcanoes -- Tame Birds -- The Myopotamus -- Predaceous Gulls
       --Birds Killed by Them.

                                  ROM the barren, desolate
                                       shores of Tierra del Fu-

                                          ego and Patagonia the
                                          Beagle sailed for Valpa
                                          raiso, where Darwin was
                                          to study the features of
                                          life along the base of the
                                       Andes. He was enthu
                                              siastic over the change,
                                          finding in the dry, bra
                                              cing air and clear blue
                                          skies entirely new condi
tions. The general aspects of the country reminded
him of Santa Cruz in Teneriffe, and from the bay he
had his first glimpse of the Andes proper, and gazed
upon the great volcano of Aconcagua, with an alti
tude estimated by his fellow-officers at 23,000 feet.

                                                                    83
84 Charles Darwin.

   At Valparaiso Darwin found an old school-mate,

with whom he took up his residence, making daily
trips into the surrounding country, ever showing that
care and earnest research that forms so prominent a
feature in all his work. One of the rides which he
took along the base of the Andes was to the hacienda
of Quintero, for the purpose of examining an ancient
section of ocean bottom, portions of which were
burned for the lime its shells contained. The mass

was almost entirely composed of shells, while the
mould which covered them was found, under micro

scopical examination, to be marine mud, made up of
minute portions of organic matter. In this deposit
the young naturalist saw further evidence of the vast
upheaval which had taken place here, and the pres
ence of this ancient beaeh thirteen hundred feet

above the present ocean level was viewed by him
with no little interest and wonder.

   Many mines were visited in the neighbouring
country, there being at that time a mining craze for
gold and copper. The life of the miners was one to
be commiserated. They began work at daylight,
continuing until dark, with scarcely any intermission.
They received for their labour five dollars per month,
and food which consisted of the following : For
breakfast, sixteen figs and two small loaves of bread ;
dinner, boiled beans ; for supper, roasted wheat
grain. They rarely tasted meat.

  A visit was made by Darwin to the hot springs of

Cauquenes, where mineral water of some little me
dicinal value bursts forth from the rocks. In 1822
an earthquake stopped the flow, which did not re
Floating Islands.  85

commence until the following year. The temperature

was said to change according to the season ; thus in
summer it was hotter than in winter, a condition

which the young naturalist found difficult to ex
plain. On his way to the Yaquil mines Darwin
passed by the famous Lake Tagua-tagua, in the sur
face of which are several islands which float about,

carrying various animals with them. The wind
governs their position entirely ; sometimes they are
upon one side of the lake, sometimes upon the
other. The Yaquil miners were found to be in
even a worse condition than those previously re
ferred to. The men, often very young, were obliged
to descend four hundred and fifty feet, and bring
up two hundred pounds of the mineral. Their
food consisted of boiled beans and bread, and their

pay was about twenty-eight shillings per month.
Stealing was prevented by deducting from the pay
of all the men the value of the ore taken.

   Near these mines Darwin discovered some ancient

Indian ruins, and secured some of the perforated

stones now so common in collections from these

countries. During his stay here an old German col

lector of natural objects called upon him. A Span

iard happening in at the same time, asked the former
in the native language if he did not consider it very
singular that the King of England should send a man
to their country to pick up lizards and beetles. The
German, after some consideration, replied : " No

man is so rich as to send out people to pick up

such rubbish. I do not like it. If one of us were

to go to England and do such things, do you not
86 Charles Darwin.

think the  "  king  would  very  soon  send us  out  of  his
country ?

This conversation, which was repeated to the

young English collector, amused him not a little.
The Spaniard was evidently much interested in the

same work as Darwin, as some time after he collected

some caterpillars, which he left in charge of a young

girl to feed that he might observe them when they
came out. This fact becoming rumoured through the

town, the governour and padres met, and concluding

that there was something heretical about the unfor

tunate would-be naturalist, he was thrown into jail,

which probably put a stop to all enthusiasm in the

direction of natural history research.

Here Darwin had many opportunities to observe

and study the habits of the puma. He learned that

it ranged over the entire continent, and he saw its

foot-prints 10,000 feet up in the Cordillera of Chili.

Its food in La Plata was the ostrich, deer, and
various small animals. In Chili it frequently killed

horses and cattle, and occasionally man. Its method

of attack was to spring upon the shoulders of it prey ;
then drawing the head back until the neck of the

animal was broken. When its meal was finished the

big cat would lie by the body, and thus was often

discovered, as the condors flew down to share the

feast, and were in turn observed by the hunters, who

unloosed their dogs and attacked the big game.

In the open country the puma was lassoed, and

dragged by the horses until it was helpless, while in

other cases it was driven into trees and shot.

The puma was famous here for its cunning in
            In the Chonos Archipelago.                  87

avoiding enemies. Often to throw dogs from its

trail it would leap suddenly to one side, and run

backward on the trail, effectually evading them.

  A portion of the work of the Beagle was the sur

vey of the islands of the Chonos Archipelago, which

gave the young naturalist an opportunity to examine
what was a rich zoological region. He made his first

excursion over the island of Chiloe on horseback,

which was made fairly possible by the log-roads

which were found everywhere. The natives were

astonished at the boats and men, and thought it an

attempt to capture the island. From the village of

Chacao the volcano of Osorno was seen belching

smoke and cinders, which, in contrast to the snow

which covered
   a                          presented a magnificent spectacle.
                         it,
Near this was the volcano of Corcovado, emitting

jets of steam and smoke. Near by was still another,

so that three active volcanoes of large size were seen

at glance.

   The principal quadruped noticed in the Chonos

Archipelago was the Myopotamus, so valued for its

fur. When swimming in salt water the young were

often seen sitting upon the mother's back. A small

otter was occasionally taken here, while in the forests

a  number of interesting birds made melody. One

little red-breasted songster was an especial favourite,

and when Darwin stood still they would often ap

proach so near that he could almost touch them.

   This little bird he found was much respected by

the natives, its singular cries having to them pecu
                              a
                                                     ;
                                                a
liar significance thus one was a good sign another
               :

the reverse, while another still had third meaning.
88 Charles Darwin.

   Another bird observed here was termed the barker,
on account of the similarity of its note to the bark
of a dog. Along the shore were various petrels and
gulls. The larger of the latter Darwin observed
preying upon small sea-birds, striking them down

while on the wing, --a veritable sea-hawk.
                  CHAPTER IX.

              IN THE EARTHQUAKE COUNTRY.

At the Bay of San Carlos-- Earthquakes-- Destruction of Concepcion
      -- At Talcahuana -- Tidal Waves -- Poverty of the Victims --
      Elevation of the Coast -- Darwin's Coolness in Danger-- Narrow

        Escapes.

                               HE volcanoes, which reared

                                        their white crests high in
                                        air, were ever an attraction
                                        to the young naturalist,
                                            and one night, when at
                                        San Carlos Bay, an oppor
                                        tunity was offered for ob
                                           serving one in active play.
                                        The sentry on guard first
                                        noticed it as a star, but it
                                        gradually increased until
                                           early in the morning, when
                                        Darwin with a glass could
distinctly see black masses of matter thrown up
against the red glaring reflection of the subterranean
fires. He learned that Aconcagua was active on this
night, and that a wonderful eruption had occurred
at Coseguina, two thousand seven hundred miles

                                                                   89
90 Charles Darwin.

distant. The phenomenon was accompanied by an

earthquake, which was felt over an area covering one

thousand miles. This same night Vesuvius, Etna,

and even Hecla in Iceland burst out with unwonted

splendours, --a fact which when known to Darwin

was pregnant with suggestions as to the cause of the

phenomena.

   Our hero was fortunate, if so we may term
       ;a                                                                                          in

                                         it
                                                                             it,

                                                                                                  a
being  witness to one of the most disastrous of

South American earthquakes in many years, or

within the memory of the oldest inhabitant. He

was on shore at the time, and, wearied from a long

tramp after specimens, was lying in the shade with

companion, when suddenly he experienced a dizzy

feeling the ground rocked, and apparently moved

with undulations, which he judged passed from east
to west. He sprang to his feet and had no difficulty

in standing, though he states that the motion made

him giddy, and he describes as resembling that of
the movement of a vessel in a cross ripple. There

seemed to be a breeze, the trees swaying and the

branches moving to and fro. In the town of Valdivia
and upon the sea-shore the scene was different. In

the former the inhabitants rushed from the houses

into the streets terror stricken, while the wooden

buildings creaked and groaned. It was low tide at

the time, and the ocean rose almost immediately to

high-water mark, then returned again. After the

principal shocks smaller ones occurred of lesser

strength.

  At the time Darwin little dreamed of the destruc

tion this earthquake caused a few miles away, but
Destruction of Concepcion.  91

when the Beagle sailed into Concepcion harbour a few
days later he landed at the island of Quinquina,
where he was told that the destruction of Concep

cion was complete, and that seventy villages were

destroyed.
   The moment he stepped upon the beach he saw

evidences of this, the sands being covered with
wreckage of all kinds : furniture, casks, pieces of
houses, and objects of a most varied character, which
had been brought from the land by the tidal wave of
February 20th. Great rocks were found high above

the water, that had a few days before been sub
merged, and huge fissures crossed the island in vari
ous directions, while masses of high land had fallen
to the beach ; this was on so large a scale that Dar
win estimated that the destruction caused a reduc

tion in the size of the island more than equal to the
natural wear and tear of a century.

   The day following his examination of the island
Darwin landed at Talcahuana and rode to the site

of Concepcion. What had been a prosperous and
substantial city was an unrecognisable ruin -- a mass
of broken stone thrown this way and that, heaped
in inexplicable confusion. The first shock was felt
at 11:30, identical with the one experienced by the

naturalist as he lay in the woods. At the first quiver

the people rushed into the streets, as they had
done many a time before, and thinking there would
be no more, turned to go back when another shock
came, and every house crumbled and fell with a
crash. The shrieks of dead and dying rent the air,
while a white suffocating cloud rose and hung like a
92 Charles Darwin.

pall over the dreadful spectacle. Fires added to
the horrors of the scene, while thieves, ghoul-like,
stole among the ruins, beating their breasts, pretend
ing to cry for mercy, while robbing the dead and
dying. The earthquake left not a single building
standing in the town. The wreck was complete.
The English consul informed Darwin that he was at
breakfast when the shock came ; he rushed out of
the house, reached the middle of the court-yard just
in time to escape the side of the house, which thun
dered down behind him. He had sufficient presence
of mind to crawl upon this heap, and thus narrowly

escaped the other wall. It was some time before con

fidence was restored and the people could realise the
completeness of the ruin which had come upon them.

  At the town of Talcahuana, near by, the horrors

of a tidal wave were added to those of the earth
quake. The people were slowly crawling out of the
ruins, gasping for breath and vainly peering through
the white dust, when some one uttered cries of fear
and pointed to the bay three or four miles away,
where a strange greenish wall was seen moving land
ward. The terrified natives knew not which way to
turn. Some rushed for their boats and pulled out
to sea, hoping to ride over it ; others fell upon their
knees in fright, while many more fled to the hills.
That in some cases they succeeded in reaching a
place of safety shows the deliberation with which

the wave came in. It rose twenty feet above the

water line, sweeping inland, carrying away houses

and every thing in its path. At the head of the bay

it broke, the mightiest wave ever seen by mortal
Tidal Waves at Talcahuana.  93

man, and with a hissing, seething roar rushed upon
the town, crushing down the crumbling walls, level
ing them like chaff, and in many instances utterly

removing all evidence of human habitation. As the

wave swept by the fort it caught a cannon weighing

four tons and threw it one side. A large schooner

was carried six hundred feet from the beach and left

amid the ruins.

   This wave was followed by two others that car

ried off a large amount of wreckage. A large ship

was lifted high and dry upon the shore, then borne

off by a second wave, to be again forced up and car
ried off by the third wave. Another vessel anchored
in thirty-six feet of water was suddenly left aground,
whiie another was whirled around so that her anchor-
chain became twisted about that of a vessel anchored

near by ; these being but a few of the singular fea
tures of the catastrophe.

   To illustrate the utter destitution of the people,
Darwin states that Mr. Rouse, the English consul,
took a party under his care for a week, the protec
tion being simply an apple-tree in his garden. At
the end of that time it began to rain, and even then

the people could find no shelter, so complete had

been the ruin.

   In his inquiries Darwin learned that the natives
laid all the trouble to an old Indian woman, who,

two years previous, was supposed to have stopped
up the volcano of Antuco in a fit of rage, and as
this particular volcano did not burst forth with the
others at this time, it was all the more difficult to

convince them that they were in the wrong.
94 Charles Dai'win.

   The young naturalist made a careful examination
of Concepcion. He found that one set of walls in
the city extended south-west by west, another north
west by north, and that the former stood the shock

by far the best, showing in his estimation that the
undulations came from the north-west, from which

direction subterranean noises and rumblings were
heard. The fissures in the earth generally extended
south-east by north-west, corresponding to some de
gree with the undulations. The disturbance in the
ocean was found to be of a varied nature. With the

first shock the water moved up gently, then with
drew to the former position ; almost immediately it
began to retreat seaward, as if to collect itself, and
then came in again with a rush upon the shore.
The first movement Darwin judged to be the im
mediate result of the earthquake affecting differently
a fluid and a solid, the levels being disarranged.
He considered the permanent elevation of the land

perhaps the most remarkable phenomenon, as about

Concepcion it was elevated two or three feet. At

the island of Santa Maria Captain Fitz-Roy found
beds of putrid mussels ten feet above high water,
projected there by the earthquake ; and as Darwin
came across beds of shells at an elevation of a thou

sand feet, he assumed that it had been effected by a
series of small risings. To give a realistic idea of
the area of this disturbance, Darwin says :

   " It will give a better idea of the scale of these

phenomena if (as in the case of the glaciers) we sup
pose them to have taken place at corresponding dis
tances in Europe : then would the land from the
     Realistic Description of the Disturbance. 95

North Sea to the Mediterranean have been violently
shaken, and at the same instant of time a large tract
of the eastern coast of England would have been
permanently elevated, together with some outlying
islands ; a train of volcanoes on the coast of Holland
would have burst forth in action, and an eruption
taken place at the bottom of the sea, near the north
ern extremity of Ireland ; and, lastly, the ancient
vents of Auvergne, Cantal, and Mont d'Or would
each have sent up to the sky a dark column of
smoke, and have long remained in fierce action.
Two years and three-quarters afterwards, France,
from its centre to the English Channel, would have
been again desolated by an earthquake, and an
island permanently upraised in the Mediterranean."

   The naturalist's last experience with the earth
quake was in Copiapd, a town of eight thousand in
habitants. He was invited, with Captain Fitz-Roy,
to dine with a Mr. Edwards, an English resident,
and the dinner was partly over when a shock came,
quick, sharp, and decisive. Darwin heard the rumble
in advance, and remained quiet, watching the effect.
He naively says : " But from the screams of the
ladies, the running of the servants, and the rush of

several gentlemen to the doorway, I could not dis

tinguish the motion."
   This was characteristic of Darwin, and his im

perturbability must have amazed some of the others.
   The earthquake was a severe one. Some of the

ladies cried with terror, while the gentlemen were
badly demoralised. The father of one of the guests
had recently experienced the earthquake at Talca
96 Charles Darwin.

huana, and one of the gentlemen had nearly lost
his life in 1822 at Valparaiso, just escaping a falling
roof. That they were easily startled and understood
the danger may well be imagined.

   Darwin relates a singular incident told by one of
these gentlemen. He was playing cards with a party
when a German, one of the players, started up say
ing that he would not sit in a room in an earthquake
country with the door closed, as he had nearly lost
his life at Copiap6, whereupon he opened the
door. As he did so the rumble of the great earth
quake was heard, and the entire party sprang
through, just in time to escape.
                   CHAPTER X.

                IN THE RED SNOW COUNTRY.

Valparaiso -- The Portillo Pass -- Land of the Red Snow-- Electrical
     Conditions --A Swarm of Locusts -- Experiments with the Redu-
      vius -- A Forest of Stone --Valley of the Copiapo -- Ruins at Old
     Callao--Antiquity of Man.

                              1 HE Beagle reached Val
                                   paraiso on March nth,

                                         from which place Darwin
                                         started on a trip across
                                         the Cordillera Mountains.
                                         The party went by the
                                         Portillo, a lofty and dan
                                         gerous pass which led
                                         across the Andes to Men-
                                         doza. The scenery was
                                            grand in the extreme, and
                                             offered a wide and varied
field for geological investigation. As they ascended
the flora changed, and the gradual replacement of
tropical forms by those of an alpine character was
observed. The vast mountains spread away on all
sides, offering every inducement to the geological
hammer of the naturalist ; and that a well-defined idea

         7 97
98

of the geological structure of the entire region was
obtained by him is evident. He found shells, that
formerly lived in the ocean, in beds fourteen thousand
feet above the sea. Here was a bed which he sur
mised was of the age of the chalk cliff of England.

   The altitude affected Darwin not a little, especially
in walking rapidly, but he entirely forgot it in the
delight of collecting fossils, with which the region
abounded. The natives called shortness of breath
" puna," and suggested various remedies, having
singular and original ideas of the cause.

   The upper peaks here have been called the land
of the red snow, and Darwin was constantly on the
lookout for its appearance. One day as he was
walking behind the mules he noticed in the track of
one a reddish line, and then another, until finally
the tint was very distinct, and the famous red snow
was discovered -- a very common phenomenon in

this lofty altitude. At first Darwin thought the

pale red hue came from the dust, blown from neigh
bouring mountains, of red porphyry. The colour
was most distinct when the snow was thawing, and
if some of the latter was rubbed on a paper a faint
red hue was seen, while under the microscope were
found groups of minute spheres in colourless cases,
each about a thousandth part of an inch in diameter.
The red snow was, in reality, a microscopic plant,
Protococcus nivalis, and in the Arctic regions espe
cially it often produces wonderful displays.

   Crossing the mountains the party descended on
the other side into a deep valley between the two
ranges, and into the republic of Mendoza. The
Electrical Conditions of the Atmosphere. 99

altitude was still over two miles, and vegetation

extremely scant. Here the night was passed, in

a locality that, from the possibility of a heavy snow,

was extremely dangerous, a cave being the only re

treat in case of a storm. There was scarcity of fuel,

and, owing to the altitude, it required four or five

hours to boil potatoes ; indeed, Darwin boiled his

two days, and found them as hard as at first.

The electrical condition of the atmosphere was

very noticeable, as well as its transparency. In re

ferring to this, he says : " The increased brilliancy

of the moon and stars at this elevation, owing to

the perfect transparency of the atmosphere, was

very remarkable. Travellers having observed the

difficulty of judging heights and distances amidst

lofty mountains, have generally attributed it to the

absence of objects of comparison. It appears to me

that it is fully as much owing to the transparency of

the air confounding objects at different distances,

and likewise partly to the novelty of an unusual de

gree of fatigue arising from a little exertion, habit

Ibeing thus opposed to the evidence of the senses.

am sure that this extreme clearness of the air gives

a peculiar character to the landscape, all objects ap

pearing to be brought nearly into one plane, as in a

drawing or panorama. The transparency
;                                                                                      pre

                            I
                                 iIs,

                                                                                      ;
sume, owing to the equable and high state of atmos

pheric dryness. This dryness was shown by the

manner in which woodwork shrank (as soon found
by the trouble my geological hammer gave me) by
articles of food, such as bread and sugar, becoming

extremely hard and by the preservation of the skin
IOO Charles Darwin.

and parts of the flesh of the beasts which had perished

on the road. To the same cause we must attribute

the singular facility with which electricity is excited.

My flannel waistcoat, when rubbed in the dark, ap

peared as if it had been washed with phosphorus ;

every hair on a dog's back crackled ; even the linen

sheets, and leathern straps of the saddle, when

handled, emitted sparks."

The descent was made on the east side of the

Cordilleras, where a magnificent view of the pampas

was obtained. An immediate difference between

the vegetation was apparent, though the soil and

climate were materially like that of the country re

cently passed. The same was true of the fauna,

many Patagonian forms being seen, among them

the Agouti, Biscacha, three species of armadillo, and

ostrich.

As they descended into the valley Darwin had his

first experience with the locust. He was near the

village of Luxan, when he noticed a large ragged

cloud, reddish brown in colour. It was at first sup

posed to be smoke from a pampas fire, but soon

developed into a swarm of locusts. The vast con

gregation was moving to the north at a rate of

fifteen miles an hour. They completely filled the

air from a height of twenty feet from the ground to

nearly half a mile above and made a noise as they
          it,
                       it
                                     it
flew like the rustling of a mighty wind, or, as Dar

win said, of a breeze through the rigging of a ship.

Where they were the thickest the sky was wholly

obscured. They occasionally alighted upon the

ground, so completely covering  that changed
        A Forest of Stone.                   101

before the observer's eye from green to brown. The

locusts were a common pest here, and often threat

ened the crops of the natives, their only salvation

being to wage a war of fire against them.

Crossing the Luxan, the village of that name was

reached, where the night was spent in repelling the
attacks of the reduvius-- a black bug that is a most

courageous blood-sucker. To test the pugnacity of

this creature Darwin placed one upon a table, where,
if a finger was pointed at the blood-thirsty insect
        :
would protrude its sucker and charge at it.
                     : it,
Of the people of Mendoza Darwin quotes the
description of Sir F. Head " They eat their dinners,
"Iand so very hot they go to sleep--and could
it
    is

they do better?" Darwin adds:       quite agree

with Sir F. Head the happy doom of the Mendo-

zinos to eat, sleep, and be idle."
is

Darwin returned to Chili by the Pass of Uspallata,

and here also he made careful geological studies.

To show his prescience, upon discovering a layer of

tertiary beds resembling some in which he had

found fossil trees, he began to search for them here

with most satisfactory results, as in the central por

tion of the range, a mile above the sea, he noticed

numbers of snow-white columns projecting from  a

cliff. Here was forest of stone, one of the most
        a

interesting finds he made, the trees extending in

every direction, some silicified, and others coarsely

crystallised white calcareous spar. Nearly all were

broken off near the ground, and were from four to

five feet in circumference. Darwin took sections of

them as specimens, and found that they were firs, or
102 Charles Darwin.

allied to that family. In the following graphic
terms he describes the wondrous changes that re
sulted in producing this group of trees : " It required
little geological practice to interpret the marvellous

story which this scene at once unfolded ; though, I
confess, I was at first so much astonished that I
could scarcely believe the plainest evidence. I saw

the spot where a cluster of fine trees once waved
their branches on the shores of the Atlantic, when
that ocean (now driven back seven hundred miles')

came to the foot of the Andes. I saw that they had

sprung from a volcanic soil which had been raised
above the level of the sea, and that subsequently
this dry land with its upright trees had been let
down into the depths of the ocean. In these depths
the formerly dry land was covered by sedimentary
beds, and these again by enormous streams of sub

marine lava --one such mass attaining the thickness
of a thousand feet, -- and these deluges of molten

stone and aqueous deposits five times alternately
had been spread out. The ocean which received
such thick masses must have been profoundly deep ;
but again the subterranean forces exerted them

selves, and I now beheld the bed of that ocean

forming a chain of mountains more than seven thou
sand feet in height."

   Darwin completed this trip, collecting all the way,
and from Valparaiso rode on to Copiapd, where

Captain Fitz-Roy proposed to pick him up. It was

an excursion to his liking. Travelling on horseback,
camping at night, the day spent in collecting and
investigating every interesting feature, while at even-
                In Peru.                   103

ing the treasures of birds, insects, and fossils were

cared for and packed upon the mules.

On these expeditions he was a constant source of

wonderment to the natives. Some thought him

mad or simple, for who, they argued, would spend

time and money in killing birds one could not eat,

and picking up the most worthless rocks and leaving
the minerals. As he paid well for services, they

were content, but he was ever a mystery.
   The valley of the Copiapd was a delightful region,

and among its   interesting features  was  a hill the
natives called                        the
                " El Bramador," or         roarer, as

when persons attempted to climb its sides it emitted

an audible warning sound, especially if sand was

sent whirling down its sides. From Copiapd Dar

win rode to the port where the Beagle was lying,

and which at once set sail for Iquique, on the coast

of Peru, a small town at the base of a rocky cliff,

so barren that even water had to be brought in

boats forty miles to supply the inhabitants. Dar

win bought a bottle of water here, paying three

pence for it. Almost every article had to be im

ported, yet the town was important for its nitrate

of soda works, which the naturalist visited, finding

the deposit to consist of a stratum near the surface

which had been traced for one hundred and fifty

miles, and represented, he assumed, an ancient arm

of the ocean, though now elevated thirty-three hun

dred feet above the sea. From here the Beagle sailed

for Callao, where though a stay of six weeks was

made, Darwin saw little of the country, as it was

not safe to venture into the open on account of
io4 Charles Darwin.

a war that was impending. Near Lima he exam
ined the burial mounds, or huacas, and the ruins
of some ancient Indian villages ; but the ruins which
most impressed him were those of old Callao, all
that remained after a most destructive tidal wave in
1746. His trip to the island of San Lorenzo in
Callao Bay was pregnant with results, the field be
ing rich, geologically. In one terrace eighty-five feet
up, his quick eye discovered some bits of cotton
thread and plaited rushes embedded with shells and
other rubbish from the ocean, the former comparing
with material he took from the old Peruvian tombs.

   This discovery gave him many new ideas concern
ing the antiquity of man, and he writes in his note
book : " The antiquity of the Indo-human race here,
judging by the eighty-five feet rise of the land since

the relics were embedded, is the more remarkable,
as on the coast of Patagonia, when the land stood
about the same number of feet lower, the Macrau-
chenia was a living beast ; but as the'Patagonian coast
is some way distant from the Cordillera, the rising

there may have been slower than here. At Bahia

Blanca, the elevation has been only a few feet since
the numerous gigantic quadrupeds were there en
tombed ; and, according to the generally received
opinion, when these extinct animals were living man
did not exist. But the rising of that part of the
coast of Patagonia is perhaps noways connected
with the Cordillera, but rather with a line of old
volcanic rocks in Banda Oriental, so that it may
have been infinitely slower than on the shores of

Peru. All these speculations, however, must be
Antiquity of Man. '  105

vague ; for who will pretend to say that there may
not have been several periods of subsidence inter
calated between the movements of elevation ? for

we know that along the whole coast of Patagonia
there have certainly been many and long pauses in
the upward action of the elevatory forces."
                  CHAPTER XI.

               AMONG THE OCEAN VOLCANOES.

Galapagos Islands -- Number of Craters -- Gigantic Tortoises -- Land
      and Marine Lizards -- New Marine Forms -- Flora -- Number of
      Cryptogamic Plants -- Variety of Forms on the Different Islands
      -- Tameness of the Birds.

                                    N the month of September
                                         the Beagle crossed the line
                                         again, this time on the Pa
                                         cific side, and cast anchor
                                         among the islands of the
                                         Galapagos Archipelago,
                                         that are simply a group
                                         of oceanic craters that
                                         have forced their way up
                                         through the ocean here,
                                         and in the course of time
                                         attained a somewhat lim

                                             ited fauna and flora.

   The islands Darwin found were all volcanic rock,
some of the craters which he visited being of vast
dimensions, rising three or four thousand feet, their
sides pierced with small but ancient orifices from

which in the olden time lava had flowed. A some

                                                                   106
ELEPHANT TORTOISE, GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
             Gigantic Tortoises.

what careful estimate made by him resulted in

showing that in the entire archipelago there were

probably not less than two thousand craters. On

Chatham Island Darwin camped, surrounded by

black truncated cones, which were so numerous that

he counted sixty from one spot.

As the name suggests, the islands are called after

the large tortoises which abound there, and it was

not long before several were found by Darwin, who

estimated their weight at two hundred pounds each.

One was feeding upon some cactus and hardly no

ticed him. Some of the tortoises attained to large

size, specimens being heard of which required eight

men to lift and afforded two hundred pounds of

meat alone.

One of the first peculiarities on Chatham Island

noticed by the naturalist was the lanes and paths

which led in every direction. These were the trails

worn by the island giants. The springs to which

the animals were obliged to crawl for water were

situated in the interior, and here he had an opportu

nity to watch them wallowing about and covering

themselves up in the mud.

To test the speed of the turtles, Darwin watched

one for some time, and found that it walked at the

rate of one hundred and eighty feet in ten minutes,

or 1,080 feet in an hour, or at a rate of four miles per

day. To show the strength of the animal, he states

that he frequently stood upon the back of one and

struck  it,                        would move away, generally
                               it
        whereupon

throwing him off.

Chatham Island and its life had a peculiar interest
io8 Charles Darwin.

to the naturalist, as he found that the animals were

unlike those of other lands, there being even a dif
ference in the forms living upon the various islands.
He says : " The archipelago is a little world within
itself, or rather a satellite attached to America,

whence it has derived a few stray colonists, and has
received the general character of its indigenous pro
ductions. Considering the small size of these islands,
we feel the more astonished at the number of their
aboriginal beings, and at their confined range. See
ing every height crowned with its crater, and the
boundaries of most of the lava-streams still distinct,
we are led to believe that within a period geologi
cally recent the unbroken ocean was here spread out.
Hence, both in space and time, we seem to be

brought somewhat near to that great fact -- that
mystery of mysteries --the first appearance of new

beings on this earth."
   Darwin was indefatigable in his collecting, and

succeeded in finding twenty-six species of birds, all
with one exception peculiar to the group.

   The most striking objects, next to the tortoises,
were the lizards, which, especially the one known to

science as Amblyrhynchus --a most singular creature,
--were indigenous to the spot. Two species were

found, one being a land-loving form, while the
other took to the water readily and lived on sea
weed. The lizards ranged from four to five feet in
length, and weighed about twenty pounds, and were
extremely disagreeable creatures in every way.
Their tails were flat and used as paddles, and num
bers had been seen swimming out in the water in
         Features of the Galapagos Islands. 109

droves or herds. It might be assumed that they

lived upon fish, but Darwin opened the stomach of
several and found their food to consist of sea-weed,
which he found they obtained by diving. When
approached, they lazily crawled away, squirting a
drop of fluid from the nostrils when suddenly

alarmed.

   In examining the land species Darwin found that
it had a round tail, and feet without webs, and so
plentiful were they on James Island that it was dif
ficult to find a place to pitch the tent free from
their burrows. Like the turtles, they lived upon

the cactus.
   The islands proved a rich collecting ground for

marine forms, fifteen fish being found here new to
science ; also sixteen new land-shells. The insects
proved a disappointment to Darwin, who remarks
that he never saw so poor a country in this respect,
though twenty-five species of beetles were collected,
among which were several new genera. Of flower
ing plants he discovered one hundred and eighty-five
species, and forty-eight cryptogamic forms, one hun
dred of the former being new to science and indi

genous to the archipelago.
   The fact that seemed to have made the most im

pression upon the naturalist's mind was that the
various islands, all in a group by themselves, should
possess different inhabitants. " My attention," he
says, " was first called to this fact by the vice-gov-
ernour declaring that the tortoises differed from the
different islands, and that he could with certainty

tell from which island any one was brought. I did
I IO Charles Darwin.

not for some time pay sufficient attention to this

statement, and I had already partially mingled to
gether the collections from two of the islands. I

never dreamed that islands about fifty or sixty miles
apart, and most of them in sight of each other,
formed of precisely the same rocks, placed under a
quite similar climate, rising to a nearly equal height,

would have been differently tenanted. It is the fate

of most voyagers no sooner to discover what is most
interesting in any locality than they are hurried from

it ; but I ought, perhaps, to be thankful that I ob

tained sufficient materials to establish this most
remarkable fact in the distribution of organic

beings."
   Even the birds varied in the different islands, and

in an examination of the insects collected by Darwin
Mr. Waterhouse states that none were common to
any two of the islands. The same was to a certain
extent true with the plants. As to the reason for

this Darwin says : " The only light which I can

throw on this remarkable difference in the inhabi
tants of the different islands is, that very strong
currents of the sea, running in a westerly and west-
north-westerly direction, must separate, as far as
transportation by the sea is concerned, the southern
islands from the northern ones ; and between these

northern islands a strong north-west current was ob
served, which must effectually separate James and

Albemarle Islands. As the archipelago is free to a
remarkable degree from gales of wind, neither the
birds, insects, nor lighter seeds would be blown from
island to island. And lastly, the profound depth of
Tameness of the Birds.  111

the ocean between the islands, and their apparently

recent (in a geological sense) volcanic origin, render
it highly unlikely that they were ever united ; and

this, probably, is a far more important consideration
than any other, with respect to the geographical
distribution of their inhabitants. Reviewing the
facts here given, one is astonished at the amount of
creative force, if such an expression may be used,

displayed on these small, barren, and rocky islands,
and still more so at its diverse yet analogous action

on points so near each other. I have said that the

Galapagos Archipelago might be called a satellite
attached to America, but it should rather be called

a group of satellites, physically similar, organically
distinct, yet intimately related to each other, and

all related in a marked though much lesser degree,
to the great American continent."

   One of the most singular, indeed remarkable, feat
ures of life here was the tameness of the birds.

They did not appear to know what a man was, and
could be picked up by the hand or killed with a
switch. Darwin frequently caught them in his hat,
and actually pushed a hawk from a limb on which it
was perched. While lying upon a rock, a mocking
bird alighted upon a pitcher by his side, and began
to sip the water, allowing him to take the vessel
from the ground while upon it. On Charles Island
he saw a boy sitting by a well with a bunch of dead
birds which he had killed with a switch as they came
there to drink.

   From these observations the naturalist concluded
that " the wildness of birds with regard to man is a
112 Charles Darwin.

particular instinct directed against him, and not de
pendent on any general degree of caution arising
from other sources of danger ; secondly, that it is
not acquired by individual birds in a short time,
even when much persecuted, but that in the course
of successive generations it becomes hereditary.
With domesticated animals we are accustomed to
see new mental habits or instincts acquired and
rendered hereditary, but with animals in a state of
nature it must always be most difficult to discover
instances of acquired hereditary knowledge. In
regard to the wildness of birds towards man there
is no way of accounting for it except as an in
herited habit : comparatively few young birds, in
any one year, have been injured by man in Eng
land, yet almost all, even nestlings, are afraid of
him ; many individuals, on the other hand, both at
the Galapagos and Falklands, have been pursued
and injured by man, but yet have not learned a
salutary dread of him. We may infer from these
facts what havoc the introduction of any new beast
of prey must cause in a country before the instincts
of the indigenous inhabitants have become adapted
to the stranger's craft or power."
                 CHAPTER XII.

               IN THE GARDENS OF THE SEA.

Keeling Island --Among the Corals-- Towed by a Turtle -- Sagacity of
      the Birgos -- Stinging Corals-- Coral-Eating Fish --Theories Re
      garding Reef Structure -- Mauritius -- Extinction of Animals at St.
      Helena -- Return to England.

                                  ROM the Galapagos Is

                                         lands Darwin sailed to
                                         Tahiti, thirty-two hun
                                             dred miles, and then to
                                      New Zealand and Aus
                                         tralia, reaching Keeling
                                         Island in the month of
                                      April. Here he found
                                         one of the richest fields
                                         for operation of the en
                                         tire voyage, vast beds of
                                         growing coral extending
                                         in every direction, con
cealing myriads of forms new to his eyes, and of

striking beauty. It was here that he formed some

of his theories regarding the nature and origin of
coral reefs, that created so much discussion in later
years.

   Collecting on shore he found disappointing, the

         8 113
ii4 Charles Darwin.

list of animals and plants being very restricted, but

when he turned to the ocean, here indeed was a
field in which months might be expended without

exhausting its treasures. Hardly a day passed but
the young naturalist went out on the great reef and
wandered among the coral groves, often combining
no little sport with the more aesthetic pleasures of
collecting. Thus one day, with Captain Fitz-Roy,
he was pulled up a lagoon, which abounded in

turtles. A man was stationed in the bow, and as

one was sighted asleep on the bottom, he dived
over, caught it by the neck, and was borne away at
a high rate of speed, much to the amusement of the
lookers on. Here, buried in the mud, was found the

giant clam, that is so powerful that natives have
been caught and held until the shell was dug out and
the animal killed.

   Keeling, as well as the other islands of the group,
was an atoll, a narrow reef, surrounding a shallow
lagoon, the former bearing cocoa-nut trees and other

plants, the seeds of which had washed ashore. To

show the divining mind of Darwin, a green stone
rock was found in the conglomerate of one of the
outer islands that was so entirely foreign to the sur
roundings that it was evident that it must have
been brought there. Darwin assumed that it must
have come in the grasp of a tree root, and his theory
was shown to be plausible later, when he learned
from Chamisso, the naturalist, that the natives of the
Radack Archipelago obtained stones for various pur
poses by hunting in the roots of trees that washed

ashore.
DIRGOS OR COCOA-NUT CRAB.
             Sagacity of the Birgos.                                                                                                                     115

In wandering over Keeling Island the naturalist's

attention was immediately attracted by the giant

land-crab, Birgos, which lived here, feeding upon

cocoa-nuts. The crab in reality, close ally ofis,
                                           a
                                             a
the hermit variety, having, instead of shell, an ab

domen protected by an armor. That such a creature

can open cocoa-nut, which man finds difficult, even
a
       a
with hatchet, seems incredible, yet        it       a very

                                                is

simple matter for the big crustacean. It begins by

tearing away the husk, bit by bit, fibre by fibre, and,

what remarkable, always at the end bearing the
is

two eye-holes. When the husk has been removed,

the crab hammers away at the holes with its large

claw until an opening made. But then one may
                 is

                                        ?
ask, how can obtain the meat The crab solves
             it

this by turning around and inserting its long slender

fifth claw into the orifice, which, being armed with
pincers, takes out the meat bit by bit. " think," says
Darwin, " this as curious a case of instinct as ever
I

                     it
                           is is

                                          is

                                             I

                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                                      ;
heard of, and likewise of adaptation in structure

between two objects apparently so remote from each

other in the scheme of nature as a crab and cocoa-

nut tree. The Birgos diurnal in its habits but

every night      said to pay a visit to the sea, no

doubt for the purpose of moistening its branchiae.

The young are likewise hatched, and live for some

time on the coast. These crabs inhabit deep bur

rows, which they hollow out beneath the roots of

trees, and where they accumulate surprising quanti

ties of the picked fibres of the cocoa-nut husk, on

which they rest, as in bed. The Malays some
                 a

times take advantage of this, and collect the fibrous
n6 Charles Darwin.

mass to use as junk. It has been stated by some

authors that the Birgos crawls up the cocoa-nut trees

for the purpose of stealing the nuts ; I very much
doubt the possibility of this. I was told by Mr.

Liesk that on these islands the Birgos lives only on
the nuts which have fallen to the ground. To show
the wonderful strength of the front pair of pincers,

I may mention that Captain Moresby confined one

in a strong tin box, which had held biscuits, the lid
being secured with wire ; but the crab turned down
the edges and escaped. In turning down the edges
ittheacttinual!ly" punched many small holes quite through

   Among the discomforts of the reef were the sting
ing corals, millepora, the big black echini, whose long
slender spines projected everywhere above the sur

face. Among the coral were many fish of resplen-
dant colouring, the parrot-fish, or Scarus, attracting
Darwin's attention for the reason that it was a coral
eater, the jaws being provided with bony ivory-like
teeth well adapted for this purpose. Darwin saw in
these coral-eating fish, the holothurians that ate mud
and ground it up, the worms and shells, the agents
which were at work here in lagoon-making, the white

deposit of mud being mainly due to them --a sug

gestion that has been shown to contain much truth.
   The dredging about Keeling Island was suggestive

to Darwin of interesting theories regarding the struc
ture of reefs. Thus he found that at a distance of

twenty-two hundred yards from the shore the water
suddenly deepened, so that a line over a mile in
length found no bottom ; hence he assumed that the
Interesting Study of Coral Reefs.  117

atoll was a submerged and lofty mountain, with a

summit ten miles across, and sides more precipitous
than any peak on land. " Every single atom," he
says, " from the least particle to the largest fragment
of rock in this great pile, which, however, is small
compared with very many other lagoon-islands, bears
the stamp of having being subjected to organic
arrangement. We feel surprise when travellers tell
us of the vast dimensions of the Pyramids and other
great ruins, but how utterly insignificant when com
pared to these mountains of stone, accumulated by
the agency of various minute and tender animals !
This is a wonder which does not at first strike the

eye of the body, but, after reflection, the eye of

reason."

   Much time and attention was devoted to the study
of coral reefs while here, and later was given to the
world the results of the naturalist's investigations on
the theory of subsidence, which caused no little con
troversy between Darwin, Semper, and several others.

   Darwin found three classes of reefs : atolls, barrier,

and fringing reefs, and by a careful system of dred
ging from the Beagle became convinced that reef coral
does not grow in a greater depth than one hundred
and eighty feet. From this he assumed that there
must have been an original base for all the coral
islands at a depth greater than that given. He saw
banks and shoals in the ocean miles in length, and in
one case fifteen hundred miles long where it would
seem impossible for the deposit to have been made
by currents or winds. How, then, was the base of
the coral island deposited ? An elevation of beds of
n8 Charles Darwin.

sediment he considered impossible, as had this been
the case the atolls would have shown lofty pinnacles
and rocks elevated above the surface.

   From a consideration of this he formulated a
theory of subsidence, which he says " at once solves
the difficulty." He assumed that these islands were
formed in areas of subsidence, that mountains and
plateaux were sinking or subsiding, and that the
coral was, in brief, forming at a sufficiently rapid

rate to keep it at the surface, --a belief in which

Dana, the American naturalist, joined and which
was generally accepted. Professor Semper was one
of the first to suggest another theory, and the follow
ing letter from Darwin, written many years later,
may be read with interest in this connection as illus
trating the extreme courtesy with which he met
those who differed with him, and the evident desire
to cooperate with others in bringing out the great
truths of nature at whatever cost :

                                                         " October 2, 1879.

  " My dear Professor Semper :-- I thank you for your

extremely kind letter of the 19th and for the proof-

sheets. I believe that I understand all, excepting

one or two sentences where my imperfect knowledge
of German has interfered. This is my sole excuse

for the mistake which I made in the second edition

of my Coral-book. Your account of the Pelew
Islands is a fine addition to our knowledge on coral

reefs. I have very little to say on the subject ; even
if I had formerly read your account and seen your

maps, but had known nothing of the proofs of recent
Theories Regarding Reef Structure. 1 1 9

elevation, and of your belief that the islands have

not since subsided, I have no doubt that I should

have considered them as formed during subsidence.

But I should have been much troubled in my mind

by the sea not being so deep as it usually is round

atolls, and by the reef on one side sloping so grad

ually beneath the sea ; for this latter fact, as far

as my memory serves me, is a very unusual and al

most unparalleled case. I always foresaw that a bank

at the proper depth beneath the surface would give

rise to a reef which could not be distinguished from

an atoll formed during subsidence. I must still ad

here to my opinion that the atolls and barrier- reefs

in the middle of the Pacific and Indian Oceans indi

cate subsidence ; but I fully agree with you that

such cases as that of the Pelew Islands, if of at all

frequent occurrence, would make my general conclu

sions of very little value. Future observers must de

cide between us. It will be a strange fact if there

has not been subsidence of the bed of the great

oceans, and if this has not affected the forms of the

coral reefs.   " Yours very sincerely,

                        " Charles Darwin."

Darwin's descriptions of the three classes of coral

reefs are too well known to require especial mention,

and have been presented by him to the world in a
work entitled " Structure and Distribution of Coral

Reefs," which   if read in connection with   Semper's
"Animal Life   " and other works on corals  of to-day,

will show the remarkable care and reasoning which
120 Charles Dartvin.

the young naturalist gave to a subject with which he
was then totally unfamiliar.

    His investigations at Keeling Island were not con
fined to corals alone ; the natives, their ways and
customs, styles of dress, religious ideas, the atmos
pheric conditions, the currents of the ocean, the
flora -- in fact, every thing received attention. Dar
win was in no sense a specialist ; every feature of
life, every page in the book of nature, was studied
with care and interest, and the amount of material
collected and the variety of facts obtained at every
place were astonishing.

   From these attractive coral islands the Beagle
sailed for Mauritius, where Darwin studied every
feature of life from the habits of the simplest insect
to what he considered the crime of slavery. Stop
ping at St. Helena he noted the extinction of several

animals, and the cause --the denudation of vegeta
tion. In his note-book he writes : " The history of the

changes which the elevated plains of Longwood and
Deadwood have undergone, is extremely curious.
Both plains, it is said, in former times were covered
with wood, and were therefore called the Great
Wood. So late as the year 1716 there were many
trees, but in 1724 the old trees had mostly fallen ;
and as goats and hogs had been suffered to range

about, all the young trees had been killed. It

appears also from the official records that the trees

were unexpectedly, some years afterwards, succeeded
by a wire grass, which spread over the whole surface.
The extent of surface, probably covered by wood at
a former period, is estimated at no less than two
      Extinction of Animals at St. Helena. 1 2 1

thousand acres ; at the present day scarcely a single

tree can be found there. It is also said that in 1709

there were quantities of dead trees in Sandy Bay ;
this place is now so utterly desert, that nothing but
so well tested an account could have made me be
lieve that they could ever have grown there. The
fact that the goats and hogs destroyed all the young
trees as they sprang up, and that in the course of
time the old ones, which were safe from their at

tacks, perished from age, seems clearly made out.
Goats were introduced in the year 1 502 ; eighty-six
years afterwards, it is known that they were exceed
ingly numerous ; more than a century afterwards, in

1 73 1, when the evil was complete and irretrievable,
an order was issued that all stray animals should be

destroyed. It is very interesting thus to find that

the arrival of animals at St. Helena in 1501 did not
change the whole aspect of the island until a period
of two hundred and twenty years had elapsed, for
the goats were introduced in 1502, and in 1724 it is
said the old trees had mostly fallen. There can be
but little doubt that this great change in the vegeta
tion affected not only the land-shells, causing eight
species to become extinct, but likewise a multitude
of insects."

   From St. Helena the Beagle made Ascencion, a
volcanic island, where was found an interesting geo
logical field, and from here bore away for Bahia
again, to complete the chronometrical measurement
of the world, around which she had passed. On the
way up the coast the ship stopped at Pernambuco
until about the middle of August. In his note-book
122 Charles Darwin.

Darwin says : " I thank God I shall never again visit
a slave-country. To this day, if I hear a scream, it

recalls with painful vividness my feelings, when,

passing a house near Pernambuco, I heard the most

pitiable moans, and could not but suspect some poor
slave was being tortured." The Cape Verd Isl
ands were next visited, from there sailing to the
Azores, and on the 2d of October the Beagle cast
anchor at Falmouth after an absence of nearly five

years.
               CHAPTER XIII.

                  DARWIN THE NATURALIST.

Ambition of Darwin -- Future Work Decided upon -- Scientific
      Friends -- Papers Read before Various Societies -- Experiments
      with Earthworms -- Marriage of Darwin -- Methods of Work --
       Various Publications.

                               ARWIN left England a

                                          young man without ex
                                          perience, but with a lofty
                                          ambition to attain by
                                          hard, earnest work a po
                                              sition among the scien
                                          tists of the day. He
                                              returned after an absence
                                              of five years, possessed of
                                          information on so great a
                                          variety of subjects, that
                                              he may be said to have
been at the early age of twenty-eight one of the
best-equipped naturalists of the age. Having fol
lowed him around the world and watched the ear
nestness with which he carried on his investigations
and his indefatigable industry, we may accord him at
once a position, not simply as a successful collector,

                                                                   123
124 Charles Darwin.

but as a thorough and conscientious worker in almost

every branch of science.

There was but one drawback to his pleasure and

delight at returning to his native land : this was his

failing health. Sea-sickness, which had troubled him

from the first, followed him through the entire voy

age, and this and the hardships through which he

passed undoubtedly undermined his vigorous con

stitution. His physical condition determined his

future career. At the suggestion of Sir Charles

Lyell he gave up all thought of professional life,

and at once devoted himself to the work of his
choice -- the study of natural science, and the elab

oration of theories and ideas conceived during his

life on the Beagle.

Darwin's success had preceded him, and while on

the return voyage he received a letter which stated

that Sedgwick, the naturalist, had called upon his

father and expressed the opinion that his son would

take a position among the leading scientific men of

the country--an opinion based upon some papers or

letters read in 1835 before the Philosophical Society
of Cambridge. Darwin had sent some of his fossils

to Professor Henslow, so that the attention of palae

ontologists was also directed to his work.

After a few days spent in the enjoyment of the
wenthome-circle -- days of delight, after so protracted an
absence, -- he       to Greenwich and began the

arduous labour of unpacking and arranging the vast

collections he had made. That he was to some ex

tent disappointed in the interest exhibited in the

result of his work among eminent men is evident,
Scientific Friends.  125

but this was more than compensated by the atten
tion bestowed upon him by Sir Charles Lyell, Profes
sor Owen, Dr. Grant, and others. He soon found
that the major part of the work would devolve upon
himself, and that it was a labour of years. Professor
Owen desired to dissect some of his alcoholic speci
mens, and Professor Bell, of King's College, expressed

an interest in his crustaceans and reptiles ; Professor

Broderip offered to undertake the classification of
his collection of shells ; Gould proposed to arrange
the birds, and Jenyns the fish,-- all of which delighted

and cheered the young naturalist, whose enthusiasm
was so great that it was imparted to those about

him.

   The College of Physicians and Surgeons offered

to take his fossils, describe and classify them, while
during a three months' stay at Cambridge Professor

Miller aided him in examining the rocks and minerals.
   Once having his collections disposed of or in good

hands, Darwin began work upon his " Journal of
Travels," and in March, 1837, moved up to London,

taking apartments in Great Marlborough Street.
This period was one of constant activity ; he was now
well before the scientific world, and apparently upon
the threshold of a distinguished career. His sci

entific friends aided him in every way, especially Sir
Charles Lyell, whom Darwin found to be extremely
sympathetic, and to take a great interest in all that

he did.

    He was now proposed as a fellow of the Geo
graphical Society, and a short time after Sir Charles
Lyell proposed him as a member of the Royal
1 26 Charles Darwin.

Academy, and so the prophecy of his schoolmate,

who was impressed by his devotion to beetle col
lecting, came true sooner than either expected. He

read several papers before both societies, one espe

cially on the Rhea Americanus attracting attention.

Another paper, read before the Geological Society,

was on the "Connection of Volcanic Phenomena

with the Elevation of Mountain Chains," of which
Lyell says : "
                  H"--e tohpeenveedteruapnosnofDtehelascBieencchee--, P"hhiils
lips, and others

whole battery of the earthquakes and volcanoes of

the Andes."

Darwin was now contemplating the production of

the important results of his trip, the zoology of the

voyage of the Beagle, and, aided by other naturalists,

he endeavoured to obtain Government cooperation

in the illustration and making of plates. To the

petition he secured the names of nearly all the

prominent naturalists, including that of the Duke of

Somerset, who was then president of the Linnaean
Society -- also Lord Derby, -- and a month later

received a Government grant of $5,000.

Darwin's geological notes had attracted wide-spread

notice, especially the fact that he had brought back

many undescribed species, and in 1837 he was ten
dered the honourable position of secretary of the

Geological Society, which he accepted with some

little reluctance, owing to the demands upon his

time that the duties would entail.

Darwin occasionally found leisure to go into so

ciety, and some of the most delightful hours were

spent at the house of his friend Professor Henslow,
                 Marriage of Darwin.  127

   where he always met congenial acquaintances. He

   also varied his work with readings of the poets,

.  Wordsworth and      C"oPlearriaddgiseedeLloigshtt"ingwahsi,maspfaorrtmiceurllayr,-
   ly, while Milton's

   a favourite.

   In January, 1839, Darwin married his cousin,

   Emma Wedgwood, daughter of Josiah Wedgwood,
   and began wedded life at 12 Upper Gower Street,

   London.

   His principal work now was upon coral reefs,

   upon which he devoted twenty months of hard, un

   remitting labour. He took an active interest in

   the societies, read a paper before the Geological
   Society on the " Erratic Boulders of South Amer
   ica," another on " Earthquakes," and still another on
   the " Formation by the Agency of Earth-Worms

   of Mould." The zoology of the Beagle was in

   progress now, and received a portion of his time as

   well.

   Ill-health continued to follow him, and he tells us

   that scarcely twenty-four hours went over his head
   without some suffering. Yet this did not deter

   him from work ; on the contrary, it seemed to spur
   him on to greater exertion. With Sir Charles Lyell

   he became intimately associated, and no man outside

   of his own family saw so much of him or knew him

   so well. Darwin entertained the highest respect for

   his friend's intelligence, considering him the leading

   geological thinker of the age. Lyell was remarkable

   for his sound judgment and caution, exhausting

   every subject he entered into, and doubtless Darwin

   imbibed some of this spirit.
128 Charles Darwin.

   Among the men whose acquaintance he made at
this time was Robert Brown, who had similar char-

acterists, showing the greatest care for detail in all

his work. Darwin met Sir John Herschel at the Cape
of Good Hope, and afterwards often in London.
Humboldt, who had delighted him by his works,
was a disappointment personally, and he refers to him
simply as a good talker. Sydney Smith, Macaulay,
Motley, and Grote were other distinguished men
whom he met during these years. Comparatively
little time was passed from home ; his work was the
magnet that prevented him from straying far away,
and holidays and excursions were rare.

   As a working naturalist Darwin was a model of

exactness, patience, and perseverance ; he rarely lost
a moment, and while not a rapid worker, he com
pensated for this by the attention he gave the

subject. His study was adapted for work, his

appliances being essentially simple. A dissecting

board, with a low, revolving stool, was a principal
feature, while a table bore his tools, and various

drawers containing the various articles he was likely
to use.

   Darwin's library was a curiosity, as he considered
books simply as a part of his working material, and
had not the reverence for them that we find in the
bibliophile. They were marked with memoranda,
and divided if too large. He often laughed with Sir
Charles Lyell over the fact that he had made him
bring out an edition of his book in two volumes by
informing him that he was obliged to cut the book in
halves for use. Pamphlets he cut up, often throwing
His Method of Working.  129

away all the leaves which did not relate to his work.
When books were filled with notes he frequently
added an index at the end with the number of the

pages marked, and thus had a list of the subjects in

which he was interested, so at short notice he could

command all the material bearing on a certain point
in his possession. Fortunately Darwin had ample
means, which enabled him to devote his entire time

to scientific work without the distraction which

would naturally have come from an attempt to
make his labour pay a yearly dividend or income.
His habits were simple and methodical, and within
a short distance of the hum and bustle of the great
city of London he carried on his experiments for

forty years, happy in the companionship of such
men as Huxley, Hooker, Owen, Lubbock, and
others, producing results that will place him among
the leaders of science as long as time endures.

   One of Darwin's experiments will illustrate his

method of work, and the consideration and labour

which he gave to it. While on a visit to his uncle
the latter suggested that the supposed sinking of

stones on the surface was really due to the castings
of earth-worms. The idea made so strong an impres
sion upon the mind of the naturalist, that he read the

paper previously referred to on the subject before
the Geological Society. When the farm at Down
was secured, in 1842, he set apart some of the ground
for his experiment, which was to cover a part of the
field with broken chalk, and note, among other things,
the disappearance of the layer through the agency of
the worm castings. The plat was covered in De

        9
                      Charles Darwin.

cember, 1842, Darwin, waiting twenty-nine years,
or until November, 1871, before noting the results ;
a trench was then dug across the field exposing a
series of white dots or nodules ; the original deposit
of chalk being found on both sides of the trench at
a depth of seven inches from the surface. Another
portion of this field was spread with cinders in 1842,
and twenty-nine years later the stratum was also
found seven inches below the surface, so that Dar
win assumed that the mould, exclusive of the turf,
had been thrown up at an average rate of .22 inches
per year.

   These and other experiments resulted in the
work, " Formation of Vegetable Mould," published

in 1882. All experiments were carried on in the

same methodical manner, exactness, conclusiveness,
and simplicity being the characteristics of all the
work of the great naturalist.
                 CHAPTER XIV.

                               HOME LIFE.

Appearance of Darwin -- Continued Ill-Health -- Daily Habits --
            Change in Musical and Literary Tastes -- Affection
                                   for His Children.

                                NE of the most speaking

                                          descriptions, or rather im
                                          pressions, of Darwin, as he
                                              appeared late in life in his
                                              own home, has been given
                                          by Professor Haeckel, of
                                       Jena. He writes : " In
                                          Darwin's own carriage,
                                          which he had thought
                                          fully sent for my conve
                                          nience to the railway sta

                                    tion, I drove one sunny
morning in October through the graceful hilly land

scape of Kent, that with the chequered foliage of its
woods, with its stretches of purple heath, yellow
broom, and evergreen oaks, was arrayed in its fairest
autumnal dress. As the carriage drew up in front of
Darwin's pleasant country-house, clad in a vesture of

                                                                  131
132 Charles Darwin.

ivy and embowered in elms, there stepped out to meet

me from the shady porch, overgrown with creeping

plants, the great naturalist himself, a tall and ven

erable figure, with the shoulders of an Atlas support

ing a world of thoughts, his Jupiter-like forehead

highly and broadly arched, as in the case of Goethe,

and deeply furrowed by the mental plough of labour ;

his kindly mild eyes looking forth under the shadow

of prominent brows ; his amiable mouth surrounded

by a copious silver-white beard. The cordial, pre

possessing expression of the whole face, the gentle

mild voice, the slow, deliberate utterance, the natural

and naive train of ideas which marked his conversa

tion, captivated my whole heart in the first hour of

our meeting, just as his great work had formerly, on

I

              it,
my first reading   taken my whole understanding

by storm. fancied a lofty world sage out of Hellenic
antiquity -- a Socrates or Aristotle stood before me."

While Darwin was an invalid in every sense, and  a

great sufferer, he did not receive credit for it. His

herculean form and ruddy countenance conveyed

the impression of perfect health. In letter to Dr.

Hooker he says " Every one tells me look quite
:                         IIa

         a

                       ;

                       a
blooming and beautiful and most think am sham

ming, but you have never been one of those."

Generally Darwin wore large black cloak and

slouch hat, when indoors throwing shawl around
                          a

his shoulders and drawing over his shoes fur-lined

slippers. His habits of work and a desire to econo

mise time made him an early riser, and after a short

walk he breakfasted about quarter of eight, then
                   a

retiring to his study, considering the hours previous
Daily Habits.  *33

to half-past nine the most productive of the day.
When the mail arrived, usually about ten o'clock,

the letters were read to him, sometimes as he lay

stretched upon the sofa, and often an unfinished

novel was taken up and perused -- a rest which he
particularly enjoyed. After this diversion he would

retire to his study again, refreshed and ready for

work. At mid-day he usually went out for a stroll,

either to see some friend in connection with his

work or to the green-house where some of his ex

periments were being conducted. A favourite spot

was the " Sand-walk," -- a path about a group of
trees of his own planting. It was his custom to
walk around this and kick aside a piece of flint from

a heap at every turn, thus recording the distance
covered. In his walks he almost always had an object.
On one occasion he was seen standing like a statue
for some time, fixed and immovable. He had

stopped to watch a family of squirrels, the young of

which urged by intense curiosity left the tree, and not
withstanding the chirping protests of their mother,
ran up his legs and back. Early in the afternoon he

generally attended to his correspondence, then rested
upon the sofa smoking a cigarette, a habit which he
contracted in South America among the Gauchos.
He was also addicted to snuff-taking, which he dep
recated and in a mild way endeavoured to keep in

check. He once attempted to break up the habit,
and resolved not to indulge in it at home, which one
of his friends, a clergyman, called " a most satisfac
tory arrangement," as the latter kept a box in his
study and Darwin often strolled in that direction.
134 Charles Darwin.

   After four o'clock he would take another walk,
then work from half-past four till half-past five. In
the evening he played backgammon with his wife,
then usually reading some scientific work until the
hour for retiring. He enjoyed good music though
his ear was not correct, and in this respect and in his

literary tastes he considered himself to be deficient,
judging from the popular standard. Darwin tells us
that he underwent a singular change in this connec
tion as he advanced in years. We have seen that in
his youth he was enthusiastically fond of the poets,
Milton, Shakespeare, Shelley, Gray, and others, but
soon after attaining the age of thirty, his desire for
literature of this kind began to cease, until finally he
could not endure poetry, while the historical plays of
Shakespeare were found " intolerably dull." His
taste for a certain class of music and art also failed,
while his pleasure in novels, where the imagination
was called into play, increased. Darwin considered
it a loss of the higher aesthetic tastes, and an atrophy
of that portion of the brain upon which they de
pended, and the fact that he still enjoyed histories,
biographies, travels, and various abstruse works puz
zled him not a little. In all probability, the five
years of active association in so varied a field had
blunted his sensibilities for the artificial unless it was
of a highly exciting or imaginative character.

   One might expect to find in a man whose daily
life was a constant fight against suffering, and who
worked with a regularity that was almost unparal
leled, a break or flaw at times in the evenness of dis
position, but Darwin's life was wonderful in its
Affection for his Children.                 135

patience and example of loving-kindness to all, in its

exhibition of gentleness. His married life was perfect

in its tender realisation of all that can come from the

mingling of well-adapted natures. To his children

Darwin was indulgent and kind, tender and sympa

thetic ; he early gained their full love and confidence,

and always retained it. That he made them the

objects of his   scientific investigations  is shown  b"y
his great work,  " The Expression of the    Emotions        ;

yet that he had all the love and affection of the un

scientific parent is seen in the following extract
from a letter written to a friend : " He (i.e., the baby)
is so charming that I cannot pretend to any mod
...esty. I defy anybody to flatter us on our baby,
for I defy anyone to say anything in its praise of
                                            I had not
which we are not fully conscious.

the smallest conception there was so much in a

five-months baby. You will perceive by this that

I have a fine degree of paternal fervour." His son

Francis states that he does not remember ever hear

ing his father speak an angry word, yet the children

never thought of disobeying him. " I well remem

ber," says his son, " one occasion when my father

reproved me for a piece of carelessness ; and I can

still recall the feeling of depression which came over

me, and the care which he took to disperse it by

speaking to me soon afterwards with especial kind

ness. He kept up his delightful, affectionate man

ner towards us all his life. I sometimes wonder

that he could do so, with such an undemonstrative

race as we are ; but I hope he knew how much we

delighted in his loving words and manner. How
'36 Charles Darwin.

often, when a man, I have wished when my father

was behind my chair, that he would pass his hand

over my hair, as he used to do when I was a boy.

He allowed his grown-up children to laugh with and
at him, and was, generally speaking, on terms of
perfect equality with us."
                CHAPTER XV.

                      THE WORK OF A LIFE.

Early Papers -- Publications by Scientific Societies -- " The Formation
     of Mould" -- "The Cirripedia" -- The Wallace Incident -- Col
     lecting Material for the "Origin of Species" -- Success of the
      Work-- Time Spent in Authorship -- Religion -- Final Work and
       Death.

                               ARWIN'S life-work can

                                          only be realised and ap
                                          preciated by an examina
                                          tion of the papers, mon
                                          ographs, and books which
                                              he produced between the
                                              years 1835 and 1882, and
                                          with a full understanding
                                          of the years of labour en
                                              tailed in the material and
                                          fact-storing process. The
                                              voyage of the Beagle was
the preparatory time, the season during which he
stored his mind with truths bearing upon every pos
sible branch of natural science. He was not simply a
biologist ; his attention was not given to life alone,

but to nature in its broadest sense, and that his re

                                                                  137
138 Charles Darwin.

ceptive mind was well equipped to retain the enor

mous fund of information he acquired, is shown by

the elaborate works he has handed down to pos

terity. We have seen him as a youth reading his

paper on the Flustra to the Solons of the Plinian

Society ; a few years later, when still a young man,
we find him a leading and central figure among all

the naturalists of Europe, a leader of science in all

the term implies.

   In 1837 Henslow caused to be published some
extracts from his private letters which he considered

of public scientific value, and during the same year
several important papers appeared in the " Proceed

ings of the Royal Zoological Society of London."

In 1838  :  papers and monographs  followed each other
rapidly                            Mould," " Observa
              " The Formation of

tions on the Recent Elevation of the Coast of Chili,"

"A Sketch of the Extinct Mammalia of the Pampas,"

" Elevation and Subsidence in the Pacific," and
" Volcanic Phenomena," produced in this year, all

attracted attention in the scientific world. Up to

the time of his death Darwin published twenty-three

works, each of which is a record of indefatigable re

search, and an exhaustive treatise on the subject in

hand. Besides these he produced eighty-one or

eighty-two papers, which were read and published

by the various scientific societies of Europe.
   The " log-book," which we have followed in the

trip around the world, was carefully written during

the voyage, and afterwards revised and published in

1839 as a Part °f Captain Fitz-Roy's report. In
1845 it was published separately, proving an imme
" The Cirripedia!'                      139

diate success ; and Darwin tells us that " the success

of this, my first literary child, always tickles my

vanity more than that of any of my other books."

The book had a large sale ; the direct and simple

method of treatment, so unlike the abstruse and tech

nical scientific works of the day, finding ready

acceptance among the great masses of the people.

The first edition was soon exhausted ; foreign pub

lishers translated it into French, German, and other

languages, and even to-day it commands a large and

constant sale. A second edition was brought out,

to be followed by others, and it is estimated that

fifteen or twenty thousand copies of the book have

been sold. This work may be said to have occupied

five years in its production.            his " Geological Ob
                                        ; this and two others,
   In 1846 Darwin    Apmubelirsichaed"  representing four and

servations on South
including the " Coral Reefs,"

a half years of continued and steady labour. Darwin

modestly disclaims any merit for them, but they

were essentially epoch-making, and in many ways

revolutionised existing thought and theory. While

in Chili he discovered a new and singular barnacle

burrowing in a shell. To understand its affinities

necessitated a study of the entire Cirripedes, which
resulted in the grand work " Cirripedia," which was

published in 1846. The study and investigations,
which resulted in this monograph, required eight

years of constant attention, about two of which he

considered lost on account of illness, though it is

known that he laboured even when ill. The book

was, when published, a complete history of these
140 Charles Darwin.

forms, both recent and fossil, comprising two thick

volumes, and Darwin humorously remarks that he

does not doubt that Sir Edward Lytton Bulwer had

him in mind when he introduced a Professor Long,

a character in one of his novels, as a person who had

written two huge volumes on limpets.

This work contained, not only the life-histories of

well-known forms, but chronicled many new discov

eries. Thus he explained the cementing appara

tus, and made the remarkable discovery of minute

complementary males.

In all his work, and in every effort of his life,

Darwin underestimated his services to science. His

modesty was proverbial, and even on subjects of

which he was the acknowledged master, he would,

with a rare and delightful sense of justice, express

the opinion that some one else might have produced

greater results with the matter at command. This

"Iwas so with his master-piece, as he says, in referring
to the time he had spent upon it :    doubt whether

the work was worth the consumption of so much

time." The great work of our hero's life was his
" Origin of Species," and the voyage of the Beagle

was the time during which he was insensibly storing

up facts which were destined, under his skilful treat

ment, to make him a leader in the scientific world.

That the theory of the great conception entered his

thoughts and left an indifferent impression long

before he realised its true import, there can be but

little doubt. The incidents which focussed his mind

on the great idea were the discovery of the huge

fossil animals on the South American pampas. He
     Development of his Great Theory. 141

was also impressed with the manner " in which

closely allied animals replaced each other in proceed

ing southwards over the continent ; and thirdly, by

the South American character of most of the produc

tions of the Galapagos archipelago, and more espe

cially by the manner in which they differ slightly on

each island of the group ; none of the islands appear

ing to be very ancient in a geological sense."
   The conclusions which he deduced from these

facts were that species became modified ; in other

words, their environment or conditions of life pro
duced changes and modifications. This idea created

a profound and lasting impression ; as he says, the

subject haunted him, and he naturally began to look

for other facts bearing upon the same line of thought.

Upon his return to England he commenced a sys

tematic collection of data referring to this subject.
He read with great care monographs, papers, and

reports. He interviewed people of all grades and

professions, sent out printed slips with questions and

answers, and rapidly accumulated a mass of facts that

would have appalled one less enthusiastic. The idea

was  not yet fully  developed ;  he was still  "gfreolpl iinnghiins
the  dark when "    Malthus on   Population

way, and was read simply as a recreation. This was

in 1838, fifteen months after he began his collection

of facts, and from this source he obtained the idea

that in the struggle for existence between various
forms, " favourable variations tend to be preserved,

and unfavourable ones to be destroyed. The result

of this would be the formation of a new species."

The idea must have come to him like a sudden
142

flash of light that was, indeed, to illumine the scien
tific world. Yet so cautious was he, so fearful of

being prejudiced, that it was not until 1842 that he
gave himself the pleasure of even writing out his
theory in tangible shape. This copy embraced, he
tells us, about thirty-five pages, which was elaborated
in 1844 to two hundred and thirty pages. Year
after year facts were accumulated and added, and
discussions indulged in with his friends, until, in
1856, eighteen years later, Sir Charles Lyell advised
him to elaborate his previous work and prepare it
for publication. This suggestion was acted upon,
and the work was about half completed when a

singular incident occurred which, more than anything

else, shows the complete and thorough unselfishness
of Darwin's nature. He was at work one day when
a letter was received from Alfred Russel Wallace, a
young English naturalist, who was then travelling in
the Malay country. To his amazement, it contained
an article embodying the exact theory upon which
he had been labouring for so many years in com
parative secret. The paper was accompanied by a
letter in which the young naturalist requested that
Darwin, if he thought the paper deserving, should
send it to Sir Charles Lyell for consideration at the
Linnsean Society. Never had a man greater temp
tation, and the result shows the full measure of

Darwin's greatness and the breadth and scope of his
sense of justice. He sent the article to Sir Charles
Lyell, as Wallace had suggested, but Lyell and Sir
Joseph Hooker immediately saw the injustice to
Darwin which would ensue, and protested against
His Great Work Published.     143

the publication of the Wallace article without a

statement from Darwin, who, they well knew, had

been working on the same subject for years. Darwin

was at first not willing to take any action in the

matter to protect himself, fearing that he would do

an injustice to Wallace ; but the difficulty was
finally arranged through the mediation of friends, so

that the rights of both naturalists, who had almost

simultaneously conceived the same idea, were pro

tected, and not for a moment were the relations

between them strained. Both were preeminently

great, and possessed of natures above the suspicion
of jealousy. The result was that the paper of Wal

lace, accompanied by a letter from Professor Asa

Gray, and an abstract of Darwin's work, was pub

lished in the transactions of the Linnaean Society,

July, 1858, being, in reality, the first gun in what

became one of the greatest discursive scientific war

fares of the age.
   This publication did not arouse any especial com

ment, as one might have supposed what was really

the birth of modern evolutionism would have done,

yet the interest came later on. Sir Charles Lyell

and Sir Joseph Hooker now urged Darwin to pro

duce his work, and, after thirteen months and ten

days of hard labour, he brought out the now famous
work, " The Origin of Species," which immortalised

him. Darwin considered this the chief object of his

life, and it was a constant delight that the book

always had a good sale, though by no means a work

for popular reading.          that so " stiff " a book
   The publishers, supposing
144 Charles Darwin.

would have a limited sale, published an edition of
twelve hundred and fifty, but no popular novel went
off faster. The entire edition was taken up the first
day, and, soon after, an edition of three thousand
was exhausted. Up to date, about twenty-five
thousand copies have been sold in almost every
land, the work being translated into many tongues.

   We have noticed in this review of Darwin's life
that there were, at intervals, incidents which seemed
to bring him continually into a brighter light, and

the publication of this book was one. It not merely

marked an epoch in his life, but, in the language of
his friend, Professor Huxley, " the boldness and
originality of his speculations, or the profound and
universal interest which the book awakened, must
be looked upon as marking an era in the progress of
science."

   The direct result of the publication of this work
was to bring the author prominently before the world
at large. Darwinism was born, and Darwin's theory
was upon every tongue. He was attacked upon all
sides, the principal abuse coming from churchmen,
who claimed that the theory was an encouragement

to infidelity and atheism. It is not my intention to

give the details of Darwin's work and ideas here ; it
is sufficient to say that evolution--which means the
coming out, the unfolding of one species from a
preceding -- did not originate with Darwin, but the
latter's theory was his explanation of the methods
by which evolution was accomplished. He saw that
man, by care in breeding animals, by carefully select
ing individuals, could produce strange and singular
               Botanical Researches.  H5

results. He substituted nature for man in the case

of wild animals, and saw, in the conditions of life, the

climate, the lack or even supply of food, etc., elements

which would produce varieties, then species, in long
eras of time. So bold a theory could but shake the

scientific world to its very centre, and a Darwinian
war waged for years. In the end the quiet, unas

suming naturalist won the battle, one opponent after
another laying down his arms, until, to-day, scientists,

almost to a man, accept his grand idea as the

embodiment of truth.

   About the year 1839, when collecting facts relating
to the preceding work, Darwin was attracted to the
cross-fertilisation of flowers by insects, and for many

succeeding summers he made careful observations
and studies, which, in 1862, resulted in a work
entitled " The Fertilisation of Orchids," the actual

labour on which, he tells us, cost him ten months of

close application. This is one of his most delightful

books, leading the reader into what has aptly been

termed the fairy-land of science, and telling a
wondrous story of the devices of nature to secure

perpetuation.

"  In 1864    Darwin sent an elaborate paper on
   Climbing  Plants " to the Linnaean Society, which

represented the labour of four months, during which

time he was often seriously ill. This was published

in book form in 1875, and received a hearty recogni

tion from the scientific world. It contained many

original observations, and created active interest in
botanical studies. Another work on the " Varia
tion of Animals and Plants under Domestication "

   10
146 Charles Darwin.

was begun in i860, and published eight years later.
The facts collected for this covered many years, while

the actual time in the preparation of the volume

represented over four years. A second edition, re

vised and corrected, followed in     1875.   While col
lecting material for his great work  on the  " Origin of

Species," 1837, Darwin became convinced that man

in his present form was the outcome of the evolu

tionary law, and as a result of his speculations on
the question we have the " Descent of Man," pub

lished in 1871, to which he gave three years of his life
--years of intense application, broken only by the
inroads of ill-health. This production added fuel to

the flame of criticism, and was the sensation of the

day, resulting in an almost endless controversy,

which extended from the pulpit to the workshop.
   In all these works we see that Darwin had con

ceived the ideas years before, had been collecting
data and working them out through a quarter of a
century, and his next publication, the " Expressions

of the Emotions of Animals," was the result of simi

lar methods.

   In 1839 his first child was born, and its expres
sions and emotions excited not only the intense

paternal love that was dominant in his nature, but a

desire to observe carefully the gradual development

of the human intellect. Almost daily notes were

made which will be found in the work given to the

world in 1872. This, too, was an immediate success,
5,227 copies being sold on the day of publication, and

the book, like all the others, is still in active demand.

   One of the most charming of Darwin's works, to
either layman or scientist, is his " Insectivorous
               Religious Reticence.         147

Plants." Early in i860, while on one of his rare

vacation trips at Hartfield, he observed the insects

which had been caught by the leaves of the little

Drosera. The subject so interested and attracted

him that he carried some of the plants home, hoping

to learn more of them. The idea which he con

ceived was that possibly the insects were caught for

some special purpose. For a period covering six

teen years he studied these and other plants, making

a series of experiments wonderful in their detail.

The plants were fed with food of various kinds and

facts elicited of a most surprising nature, not the

least of which was that a plant could secrete, when

properly excited, a fluid containing an acid and fer

ment closely analogous to the digestive fluid of an

animal.

   In   1876   "The Effect of Cross-   and   Self-Fertilisa
tion   in the                         was   published, and
               Vegetable Kingdom "
in 1880 "The Different Forms of Flowers on Plants

of the Same Species." This was followed by a life

of Erasmus Darwin, a translation from the German
of Krause, in 1879, " The Power of Movement in
Plants," and finally, in 1 881, he published the work
previously referred to, " The Formation of Vegeta

ble Mould through the Action of Worms," that was

the outcome of the paper read forty years previous

before the Linnsean Society, comprising, as we have

seen, experiments which entailed a wait of twenty

years before the exact result desired could be deter

mined. This was the last great work of the naturalist.
   In Darwin's works there is rarely any reference to

religion ; this was due to several reasons, one being

that he desired not to hurt the feelings of any reader
1 48 Charles Darwin.

by giving publicity to views which might differ from
theirs, while another was that he held a man's reli
gious belief should not be paraded in public print.
He has been called an infidel and atheist so often

that there is a wide-spread belief to this effect, but
nothing could be further from the truth. Darwin
was a firm believer in a First Cause. He was in
theory an agnostic, in practice an orthodox Christian
of the broadest type. Honourable in the smallest
things in life, thoughtful of others, doing as he would
be done by, sensitive for others to an extreme that
was often injustice to himself, kind, lovable, ready to
help the young, charitable, and possessed of extreme
modesty, -- such was the greatest naturalist of the
age, a hero of heroes, a model for all men ; and
when we remember that for forty years of this life
there was not one day without its physical suffering,
we can understand the true greatness of his nature.

   In February of the year 1882 Darwin was seized
with severe heart trouble, which continued, with
some intermission, until the 19th of April of this

year, when he passed away.

  It was the desire of the family to have him rest at

Down, but in response to a general request from
nearly all the eminent men of the day they con
sented to his interment in Westminster Abbey,
where he lies within a few feet of the tomb of Sir
Isaac Newton. The inscription upon the stone is as
follows :

              Charles Robert Darwin,

                     Born 12 February, 1809,
                       Died 19 April, 1882.
                CHAPTER XVI.

                   HONOURS OF A LIFETIME.

Membership in Societies -- The Institute of France--Prizes--Medals
                      -- Degrees -- Portraits --Gifts, etc.

                               T may be said that Darwin

                                             was a member of nearly
                                         every scientific society of

                                   any prominence. In 183 1

                                             he was elected a member
                                         of the London Zoological
                                         Society, first being a cor
                                             responding member, later
                                         becoming a fellow for dis
                                             tinguished services in the

                                      cause of science. In 1833

                                             he was elected to the
Entomological Society, being an original member,
and in 1836 he became a member and secretary of

the Geological Society. In 1838 he joined the Royal
Geographical Society, the following year the Royal
Society, the Linnaean in 1851, and the Ethnological
in 1861. Every year new honours poured in upon
him in elections to societies or in the form of medals

                                                                  149
                 Charles Darwin.

or degrees, so that at the end of his ripe and well-

rounded life he had received seven or eight degrees,

three from Cambridge, and one each from Breslau,

Bonn, and Leyden. He was a member of nine

London scientific societies, nine in the Provinces,

thirteen in America, four in Austria-Hungary, three

in Belgium, four in France, ten in Germany, three in

Holland, six in Italy, and eight in Portugal, Spain,

Sweden, and Switzerland. While he cared little for

honours of this kind, they must have impressed him

with the fact that his great work was appreciated by

the world at large. In 1877 he received the much-

treasured LL.D. of Cambridge. This called to mind

the fact that the university had no memorial of

Darwin, and forthwith ,£400 were subscribed and

Darwin asked to sit for his portrait, which he did

in 1879, Mr. W. Richmond making an excellent

likeness, which now hangs in the library of the
Philosophical Society at Cambridge. The picture

represents him in his doctor's gown, with head facing

the observer.

This was followed by a request from the Linnsean

Society for a sitting, which was given in 1881, Mr.

John Collier being the artist. This shows him stand
ing, in the clothes he habitually wore. Neither of

these pictures is perfectly satisfactory to his son

Francis Darwin.

of Inthe187F8reDnacrhwiInnswtiatsuteele. cteAd  corresponding member
                                                previous attempt had

been made to elect him, in 1872, to the Zoological

Section, but he received but fifteen votes out of

forty-eight, -- a fact that Sir Charles Lyell refers to
                 A Birthday Gift.

as " a great scandal." The reason for it will appear
amusing to-day, and is as follows, if we may believe
an eminent member of the Academy :

   " What has closed the doors of the Academy to
Mr. Darwin is that the science of those of his books
which have made his chief title to fame, the ' Origin
of Species,' and still more the ' Descent of Man,' is
not science, but a mass of assertions and absolutely

gratuitous hypotheses, often evidently fallacious.
This kind of publication and these theories are a
bad example, which a body that respects itself

cannot encourage."

   In 1879 he was honoured with the corresponding
membership of the Berlin Academy of Sciences, the
seconders to the nomination being Helmholtz, Peters,
Ewald, Pringsheim, and Virchow.

   In 1879 he was presented with the Baly Medal of
the Royal College of Physicians, and the same year
the Royal Academy of Turin gave him the Bressa
Prize for the years 1875-78, equalling twelve thou
sand francs, a sum which he in turn presented to

the zoological station at Naples to enable them to

purchase some needed apparatus.
   On every birthday he received gifts from his many

friends; one which he appreciated highly being
a set of albums from Holland and Germany, pre
sented on his birthday in 1877. The idea originated
in the mind of Herr Emil Rade, of Miinster, and
the gift was tendered by one hundred and fifty
scientific men. The album, which contained the

photographs of these gentlemen, was magnificently
bound and illuminated in the highest style of art.
       Charles Darwin.

This Darwin considered one of the highest compli

ments ever paid him.

   In 1880 he was much gratified upon receiving an
address presented by members of the Council of the
Birmingham Philosophical Society.

   The following is a partial list of the societies which
honoured him and which he honoured by member

ship :

       HONOURS, DEGREES, SOCIETIES, ETC.

Order. -- Prussian Order, " Pour le Merite," 1867.               1862.
Office. -- County Magistrate, 1857.

                                ( B.A., 1831 [1832].
Degrees-- Cambridge '< M.A., 1837.

                             ( Hon. LL.D., 1877.

                 Breslau . Hon. Doctor in Medicine and Surgery,

       Bonn . . Hon. Doctor in Medicine and Surgery, 1868.

               Leyden . Hon. M.D., 1875.
Societies. -- London . Zoological. Corresp. Member, 1831.

       Entomological. 1833. Orig. Member.

       Geological. 1836. Wollaston Medal, 1859.

       Royal Geographical. 1838.

       Royal. 1839. Royal Medal, 1853. Copley

       Medal. 1864.

       Linnaean. 1854.

       Ethnological. 1861.

       Medico-Chirurgical. Hon. Member. 1868.

       Baly Medal of the Royal College of Physi

       cians, 1879.

Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1865.               Member,          1861.
Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, 1826. Hon.
Royal Irish Academy. Hon. Member, 1866.

Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester. Hon. Member,

1868.

Watford Nat. Hist. Society. Hon. Member, 1877.
Asiatic Society of Bengal. Hon. Member, 1871.
Royal Society of New South Wales. Hon. Member, 1879.
            Honours, Degrees, Societies, Etc.                153

Philosophical Institute of Canterbury, New Zealand. Hon. Mem

ber, 1863.

New Zealand Institute. Hon. Member, 1872.

Sociedad Cientifica Argentina. Hon. Member, 1877.

Academia Nacional de Ciencias, Argentine Republic. Hon.

Member, 1878.

Sociedad Zoolojica Arjentina. Hon. Member, 1874.

Boston Society of Natural History. Hon. Member, 1873.

   American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Boston).     Foreign Hon.
Member, 1874.

California Academy of Sciences. Hon. Member, 1872.

California State Geological Society. Corresp. Member, 1877.
Franklin Literary Society, Indiana. Hon. Member, 1878.

Sociedad de Naturalistas Neo-Granadinos. Hon. Member, i860.

New York Academy of Sciences. Hon. Member, 1879.
Gabinete Portuguez de Leitura em Pernambuco. Corresp. Member,

1879.

   Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Correspondent, i860.

   American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia. Member, 1869.

               Austria-Hungary.

   Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna. Foreign Corresponding
Member, 1871 ; Hon. Foreign Member, 1875.

   Anthropologische Gesellschaft in Wien. Hon. Member, 1872.

  K. k. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft in Wien. Member, 1867.

   Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, Pest, 1872.

                                         Belgium.

Societe Royale des Sciences Medicales et Naturelles de Bruxelles.

Hon. Member, 1878.                             " Membre Associe,"
   Societe Royale de Botanique de Belgique.

1881.                             etc. , de Belgique.  ' ' Associe de la

   Academie Royale des Sciences,
Classe des Sciences," 1870.

                                     Denmark.
Royal Society of Copenhagen. Fellow, 1879.
154 Charles Darwin.

                           France.

Societe d' Anthropologic de Paris. Foreign Member, 1871.

Societe Entomologique de France. Hon. Member, 1874.

Societe   Geologique  de"  France (Life Member), 1837.          1878.
Institut  de France.       Correspondant," Section of Botany,

                           Germany.

   Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences (Berlin).   Corresponding
Member, 1863 ; Fellow, 1878.                      Corresponding

   Berliner Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, etc.

Member, 1877.
   Schlesische Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Cultur (Breslau). Hon.

Member, 1878.
   Coesarea Leopoldino-Carolina Academia Naturae Curiosorum (Dres

den), 1857.                                                     am
   Senkenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Frankfurt

Main. Corresponding Member, 1873.
   Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle. Member, 1879.

   Siebenbtirgische Verein fur Naturwissenschaften (Hermannstadt).
Hon. Member, 1877.

   Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft zu Jena. Hon.
Member, 1878.

   Royal Bavarian Academy of Literature and Science (Munich).
Foreign Member, 1878.

                           Holland.

Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indie

(Batavia). Corresponding Member, 1880.         Foreign Member,
   Societe Hollandaise des Sciences a Harlem.

1877.                      der Wetenschappen  te Middleburg.    For
    Zeeuwsch Genootschap

eign Member, 1877.

                           Italy.

   Society Geografica Italiana (Florence), 1870.                Hon.
   Societa Italiana di Antropologia e di Etnologia (Florence).
Member, 1872.
Honours, Degrees, Societies, Etc.                        155

Societa dei Naturalisti in Modena. Hon. Member, 1875.

Academia de' Lincei di Roma. Foreign Member, 1875.

(RoLma eS).cuo"laPrIetsaildiceant,e  Academia   Pitagorica, Reale ed Imp. Societa
                                      Onoraria  degli Anzianl Pitagorici," 1880.

Royal Academy of Turin. 1873. Bressa Prize, 1879.

                                     Portugal.

   Sociedade de Geographia de Lisboa (Lisbon).           Corresponding
Member, 1877.

                                                Russia.

   Society of Naturalists of the Imperial Kazan University. Hon.

Member, 1875.
   Societas Caesarea Naturae Curiosorum (Moscow). Hon. Member,

1870.                                                    Corresponding

   Imperial Academy of Sciences (St. Petersburg).
Member, 1867.

                                     Spain.

Institucion Libre de Ensefianza (Madrid). Hon. Professor, 1877.

                                               Sweden.

   Royal Swedish Acad, of Sciences (Stockholm). Foreign Member

1865.

   Royal Society of Sciences (Upsala). Fellow, i860.

                                     Switzerland.

   Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel.         Corresponding
Member, 1863.
                CHAPTER XVII.

                       THE DARWIN FAMILY.

The First Known Darwin --The Head of the Family -- Natural-His
      tory Tastes -- Poets, Doctors, and Military Men -- Erasmus Dar
      win -- Carlyle's Description of Erasmus-- Evidences of Genius.

                                     E have seen that Darwin

                                             possessed all the elements
                                         of greatness ; that he was
                                             not merely a hero of sci
                                         ence in name, but by vir
                                         tue of his attainments rose
                                             to the highest eminence
                                             among scientific men, and
                                         in the broad field of natu
                                         ral history was the recog
                                             nised head and leader.

   The ancestry of such a man has a peculiar interest,
especially after a review of the salient features of his
life.

   The name has been traced back to the year 1500,
when in Lincolnshire and some other counties it was
spelled Derwent, Darwen, and Darwynne.

                                                                   156
            The First Known Darwin.       157

The first known ancestor of the present Darwin

family was, in 1500, a resident of the village of Mar-
ton, near Gainsborough. His name was William, and

the records show that his great-grandson Richard

became heir to property in Marton. A clause in the

latter's will shows that he " bequeathed the sum of

3.y. 4d. towards the settynge up of the Queen's
Majestie's armes over the quearie (choir) doore in the
parishe churche of Marton." Richard's son, named
William, was a successful man, and a " gentleman."

He retained the ancestral land at Marton, and in

creased his possessions through marriage, adding an

estate at Cleatham, where he settled, the property

remaining in the family until the year 1760. To-day
all that remains of the place is a thick-walled cottage,

an old fish-pond, some large trees, and a field still
called " Darwin Charity," from the fact that it was

subject to a charge in favour of the poor of Marton
parish. In 161 3 William Darwin was appointed to
the post of Yeoman of the Royal Armoury at Green

wich by King James the First. The office was one
of honour rather than profit, and he appears to have

held it until his death.

The son of this William, called also William, when

very young  entered the King's service,   receiving a
commission  as " Captain-Lieutenant " in
                                          Sir William

Pelham's mounted troop. During the troubles of

the times, when the royal armies were almost dis

persed and driven to Scotland, his estates were

seized, but finally returned upon his signing the

Solemn League and Covenant and paying a heavy

fine, which almost ruined him. Later he became a
i5« Charles Darwin.

barrister at Lincoln's Inn, and finally married the
daughter of Erasmus Earle, from whom Erasmus
Darwin the poet received his name. In the course
of time he was made Recorder of the city of Lincoln.

   In 1655 a son was born to him, also named
William, who married a Miss Waring, a lady of
good family and heritage, who ultimately inherited
from the Lassells the manor and hall of Elston, near
Newark -- property which is still in the family.

   The sons of this William were William and Robert ;
the latter a lawyer, who finally became heir to the
property at Cleatham, there being no male child in
his brother's family.

   Robert, on the death of his mother, retired from
the practice of his profession, and resided at Elston
Hall.

   In this member of the Darwin family the first
evidence of a taste for science is observed. Robert
was a member of the Spalding Club, and Dr. Stuke-
ley, a well-known antiquary of the time, in " An
Account of the Almost Entire Sceleton of a Large
Animal," etc., published in the " Philosophical Trans
actions," April and May, 1719, says : " Hearing an
account from my friend Robert Darwin, Esq., of
Lincoln's Inn, a person of curiosity, of a human
sceleton impressed in stone, found lately by the
rector of Elston," etc.

   The eldest son of this Darwin was Robert Waring,
who came into the estate of Elston and died a bache
lor at the advanced age of ninety-two. He developed
a decided taste for poetry, and acquired a local

reputation as a rhyme-maker,
Family Histories.  1 59

   He had a strong liking for botany, and when ad
vanced in years published the results of his studies
and observations in a work entitled " Principia Bo-
tanica." He was the second of the Darwins to show
an inclination for natural history pursuits, and the
first to write a scientific work. The book, like those

of his illustrious descendant, was a success, passing

through several editions.

  A brother of Robert Waring, William Alvey

Darwin, inherited the Elston homestead, and from
him it passed to his granddaughter. His brother
John was rector of Elston, while a fourth son was
Erasmus Darwin, grandfather of the subject of this

sketch.

   Erasmus was a tall, striking man, and his stature
and love for nature are among the many characteris

tics he appears to have bequeathed to his grandson.
Both had a charm of manner that was irresistible,

strong feelings of sympathy, and a love for theoris
ing. Erasmus possessed an inventive faculty, was
fond of mechanics, and also had a decided literary

and philosophical tendency.
   We have seen that Charles Darwin was remark

able for his modesty --the absence of over-appreci
ation of his own talents, -- and it is interesting to see
how he resembled his grandfather in this respect.
In his " Life of Erasmus Darwin," Charles writes :

" Throughout his letters I have been struck with his

indifference to fame, and the complete absence of all
signs of any over-estimation of his own abilities, or
of the success of his works."

   The principal works of Erasmus Darwin were:
i6o Charles Darwin.

"Zoonomia"     (1794-6) and "  Botanic   Garden," while
               The Temple of   Nature ;   or, The Origin
others were "

of Society, a Poem, with Philosophical Notes," and
" The
" The  Shrine of Nature," a posthumous   ppaurtbloicfa"tiTohne;
       Loves of the Plants," the second

Botanic Garden," was published anonymously in

1789, the entire poem appearing in 1791. This pro
duction showed more scientific than poetic genius,

being especially remarkable for the grandiloquent

phraseology and high-sounding words and sentences

employed. It was caricatured by Canning in his

" Loves of the Triangles." The poem to-day is well

deserving a place among the curiosities of literature,

and while its decasyllabic rhymed couplets may not

be admired, they evidently emanated from no ordi

nary mind.

   An interesting feature in his life is the fact that,
to quote his grandson, he undoubtedly " anticipated

the views and erroneous grounds of opinions of

Lamarck," the fundamental principle of the theory

of evolution being traced in his writings. Thus he
says " that one and the same kind of living filaments
is and has been the cause of all organic life " :

   " Would it be too bold to imagine that, in the

great length of time since the earth began to exist,

perhaps millions of ages before the commencement
of the history of mankind, --would it be too bold to

imagine that all warm-blooded animals have arisen
from one living filament, which the great First Cause

endued with animality, with the power of acquiring

new parts, attended with new propensities, directed

by irritations, sensations, volitions, and associations,
Family Histories.  161

and thus possessing the faculty of continuing to
improve by its own inherent activity, and of deliver

ing down these improvements by generation to its
posterity, world without end ? "

   Erasmus Darwin also published a paper on " Fe
male Education in Boarding-Schools." His work,
"Zoonomia," was reviewed in 1799 by Thomas
Brown, the psychologist, and in 1804 Anna Seward

published an account of his life.

   The sons of Erasmus inherited their father's intel
lectual ability --Charles, who was born in 1758 and
died when just of age, giving promise of high scien
tific attainments. He was engaged in dissecting the
brain of a child when he received the wound which
caused his death. He was a writer of verse, and the

possessor of a rich collection of natural objects,
which he made during extensive travels on the con
tinent. He studied medicine at Edinburgh, and
received the first gold medal of the ^Esculapian
Society for a paper on a medical subject.

   Erasmus, a second son, was also a poet. He was

especially interested in coins and statistics, and, when

a boy, made a complete and accurate census of the

city of Lichfield. Robert Waring Darwin, born

May 30, 1766, inherited his father's taste for the

medical profession, and went to the University of
Leyden, taking his degree of M.D. in February,
1785. He proved a very successful physician, secur
ing a large practice even in the very beginning of his

career.

   In 1796 he married Susannah Wedgwood, of
Etruria, a woman of rare intelligence and great force

           11
         Charles Darwin.

of character. They lived at the " Crescent," and
later at the " Mount," in Shrewsbury, where all but

one of their children were born. The old house, a

large red-brick building, is now owned by Mr.

Spencer Phillips. It stands on the banks of the

Severn, commanding a fine view, and supplied with

all the acceptable features of an English country

home.

Dr. Darwin was something of a botanist, though

not in a scientific sense. He was tall, like his son

Charles, standing six feet two inches, and very large

and fleshy. His mental characteristics were similar

to those of his son, having a broad, tender nature,

with great sympathy for others. He was a man of

remarkable memory, and could recall the names of

so many persons and the date of their birth, mar

riage, and death, that it was absolutely painful to

him. He was extremely skilful in prognosticating

disease, and was so prophetic in many of his sayings

that he was considered a wonder by the ignorant.

Dr. Darwin became the father of six children--

Marianne, Caroline, Erasmus Alvey, Susan, Charles,

and Catherine, of whom Charles and Erasmus are

the best known. The latter studied medicine, taking

a degree at Cambridge, but never practised, living a

retired  ainndhissin"glReemlifienisinceLnocensdo"n.:  Carlyle thus refers
to him
" Erasmus Darwin, a most diverse kind of mortal,

came to seek us out very soon (' had heard of Car
lyle in Germany, etc.'), and continues ever since to

be a quiet house-friend, honestly attached, though

his visits latterly have been rarer and rarer, health
Erasmus Darwin.  163

so poor, I so occupied, etc., etc. He had something

of original and sarcastically ingenious in him, one
of the sincerest, naturally truest, and most modest of
men ; elder brother of Charles Darwin (the famed

Darwin on Species of these days), to whom I rather

prefer him for intellect, had not his health quite
doomed him to silence and patient idleness. . . .
My dear one had a great furor for this honest Dar
win always ; many a road, to shops and the like, he

(drove her in his cab Darwingium Cabbum compara

ble to Georgium Sidus) in those early days when
even the charge of omnibuses was a consideration,

and his sparse utterances, sardonic often, were a

great amusement to her. ' A perfect gentleman,' she

at once discerned him to be, and of sound worth

and kindliness in the most unaffected form."
   This description failed to convey an idea of the

truly lovable nature of Erasmus, and brought out
the following letter, which was published by Miss

Julia Wedgwood, in the Spectator, September 3, 1881,
giving a true pen picture of the genial and much
beloved brother of Charles Darwin the naturalist :

  " A portrait from Mr. Carlyle's portfolio, not re

gretted by any one who loved the original, surely
confers sufficient distinction to warrant a few words

of notice, when the character it depicts is drawn
from mortal gaze. Erasmus, the only brother of
Charles Darwin, and the faithful and affectionate

old friend of both the Carlyles, has left a circle of
mourners who need no tribute from illustrious pen
to embalm the memory so dear to their hearts ; but
a wider circle must have felt some interest excited
164 Charles Darwin.

by that tribute, and may receive with a certain at

tention the record of a unique and indelible impres

sion, even though it be made only on the hearts of

                           and with whom,
those who cannot bequeath  ;

therefore,a it it  must speedily pass away. They reit it,

                                       a
member           with the same distinctness as they re

member creation of genius  has in like manner

enriched and sweetened life, formed common meet

ing-point for those who had no other and, in its
                                          ;

strong fragrance of individuality, enforced that re

spect for the idiosyncrasies of human character,

without which moral judgment always hard andis

shallow, and often unjust. Carlyle was one to find a

peculiar enjoyment in the combination of liveliness

and repose which gave his friend's society an in

fluence at once stimulating and soothing, and the

warmth of his appreciation was not made known

first in its expression his letters of anxiety nearly
'
               '

                         ;

                 a
                                                   ;

                                   a
                                                                 !
                                         a
                                                                a
                                              'I
thirty years ago, when the frail life which has been

prolonged to old age was threatened by serious ill
ness, are still fresh in my memory. The friendship

was equally warm with both husband and wife. re

member well a pathetic little remonstrance from her,

elicited by an avowal from Erasmus Darwin, that he

preferred cats to dogs, which she felt slur on her

little Nero and the tones in which she said, Oh,

but you are fond of dogs you are too kind not to

be,' spoke of long vista of small gracious kind

nesses, remembered with tender gratitude. He

was intimate also with person whose friends, like

those of Mr. Carlyle, have not always had cause to

congratulate themselves on their place in her gal
        Erasmus Compared to Charles Lamb. 165

lery -- Harriet Martineau. I have heard him more

than once call her a faithful friend, and it always
seemed to me a curious tribute to something in the
friendship that he alone supplied ; but if she had

written of him at all, I believe the mention, in its

heartiness of appreciation, would have afforded a
rare and curious meeting-point with the other ' Remi

niscences,' so like and yet so unlike. It is not possible

to transfer the impression of a character; we can
only suggest it by means of some resemblance ;
and it is a singular illustration of that irony which
checks or directs our sympathies, that in trying to
give some notion of the man whom, among those
who were not his kindred, Carlyle appears to have

most loved, I can say nothing more descriptive than

that he seems to me to have had something in com
mon with the man whom Carlyle least appreciated.
The society of Erasmus Darwin had, to my mind,
much the same charm as the writings of Charles
Lamb. There was the same kind of playfulness,
the same lightness of touch, the same tenderness,
perhaps the same limitations. On another side of

his nature, I have often been reminded of him by

the quaint, delicate humour, the superficial intoler
ance, the deep springs of pity, the peculiar mixture
of something pathetic with a sort of gay scorn, en
tirely remote from contempt, which distinguish the
Ellesmere of Sir Arthur Helps' earlier dialogues.
Perhaps we recall such natures most distinctly, when
such a resemblance is all that is left of them. The

character is not merged in the creation ; and what
we lose in the power to communicate our impres
                      Charles Darwin.

sion, we seem to gain in its vividness. Erasmus
Darwin has passed away in old age, yet his memory
retains something of a youthful fragrance; his in
fluence gave much happiness, of a kind usually
associated with youth, to many lives besides the
illustrious one whose records justify, though cer
tainly they do not inspire, the wish to place this
fading chaplet on his grave."

   From such an ancestry, distinguished for its liter
ary and scientific traits, our hero sprang, the bright
light in a long line of men and women eminent for
their intellectual superiority.
                    CHAPTER XVIII.

                                  DARWINISM.

The  C--o"iniTnhge  of the Word   -- What it   "M--ea"nsT--heItSstrRueglgaletiofnortoExEivsoteluntcioen"
                     Survival of  the Fittest
     -- The Descent -- Examples of Evolution.

                                HE scientific labours ofit,

                                         Darwin have resulted in
                                         the addition of a new

                                 word -- Darwinism -- to

                                         the English language, --
                                             indeed, to that of the
                                         world. Literally, Darwin
                                         ism is Charles Darwin's
                                         explanation of the law
                                             or method of evolution.

                                         To enable the reader to

                                             obtain a clear understand
ing of what was, in reality, the life-work of the great
naturalist, we may refer briefly to the theory and
history of evolution. We first hear of the word, or
find in scientific literature in the early part of the
eighteenth century. Previous to this, or in the
seventeenth century, the popular idea of the genera
tion of life was that promulgated by Aristotle, his

                                                                  167
                      Charles Darwin.

theory finding at this time a brilliant advocate in
Harvey, who is better known as the discoverer of
the circulation of the blood. In the early part of the
eighteenth century many naturalists combated Har
vey and the theory of his day, and the term evolu
tion was adopted as defining the belief of such
naturalists as Bonnet, who claimed that in life

nothing really new was created, but that there was
an expansion or growth from the invisible to the
visible ; an unfolding, as in the growth of a chicken,
from the faint germ within the egg. The term evo
lution, from the Latin e, out, and volvo, to roll,
literally to unfold, implies this. The idea opposes
direct creation, and evidences of it are found among
the very ancient myths. Thus an old Egyptian
belief was that all life sprang successively from an
egg> and that there had been repeated destructions
of the world. The doctrine of Thales was that every
thing was originally in a fluid state, and had " pro
gressed " to more substantial forms. Anaxagoras
believed and taught that in the beginning every thing
was atomic, out of which order and arrangement
were brought by some infinite power. In later times
(1693) Leibnitz first propounded the belief in in
organic evolution, stating that the world first existed
in a fluid state. De Maillet, Wright, Lambert, and
Kaul voiced the idea, while Herschel, La Place, and
others gave it further and more lucid elaboration.
In 1749 Buff on published a natural history, in which
he evinced a belief in the transmutation of species.

    Buffon was the naturalist of the day in the time of

Louis XV. and Louis XVI. -- a period somewhat
                   Buffons Theories.                 169

famous for the restrictions which were placed upon

men, and the denunciations with which new and

advanced ideas were received. Thus advanced

thinkers found that their theories in many instances,

instead of leading them on to fame, but opened the

doors of the Bastile.

It is not improbable that Buffon was in accord

with the feeling of the time, as while his great
                   --" Histoire
discursive work                  Naturelle," of   1  749-1 788
-- fully outlines    the theory    of evolution,     in which

he was a believer, it is done in an ironical, partly

satirical manner, so that he could, if attacked, retreat

by claiming that it was a satire on the advanced

scientific thought of the time.

Buffon refers to the fact that animals and plants

are not bound to the limitation of certain fixed

species, and expresses the belief that, affected by

various influences, species may vary from a fixed

standard. Even man might have sprung from some

original stock, being merely a divergent form or
branch. In other words, Buffon claimed that by

simply following out the laws of nature the con

sequent variation would result in new species ; and

having arrived at this point, he was ready to believe

that from a single unit in the beginning might have

descended all the various forms of existing animal

and plant life.

   It is curious to note that this pioneer evolutionist

suddenly corrects himself, and says : " But no ; it is

certain from revelation that every species was di

rectly created by a separate fiat." We may suspect

that this secession from a position so broadly taken
1 70 Charles Darwin.

was forced upon the evolutionist. Perhaps the clergy

gave him close and suggestive attention, and he was

offered the choice between the Bastile, the Sorbonne,

and apology to offended orthodoxy. Be this as it

may, Buffon was one of the early delineators of the

modern theory of evolution, and despite his peculiar

attitude history accords him this recognition.
   Following Buffon came Wolff and his works in

1759-1764, in which the idea was still further elab
orated. He emphasised the fact that the parts of

plants and animals underwent transmutations of

structure, so that from seeds, on the one hand, and

eggs   on the other, came the many complex and di
verse
       organisms. In 1790 Goethe, in his work, " The

Metamorphosis of Plants," worked out indepen

dently the same result, showing another instance as

singular as that of Darwin and Wallace, previously

alluded to in these pages. In 1795 Geoffroy St.
Hilaire, a French naturalist, announced his belief

that all animals were the modified forms of previous

existing types. Then came Oken (1803), Pander

(1817), and Von Baer (1819), all adding many facts
of value and interest bearing upon the subject. In

1838 Schleiden and Schwann proved that the cell-
form was alike in animals and plants ; and in 1850-61
Von Mohl and Max Schultze showed that the pro

toplasm of animals was similar to that of plants.

   To go back again, we find that in 1774 Lord
Monboddo announced that the descent of man from

an ape was a possibility.  hIenro,17p95ubDlisrh. eEdrashmisus"  Dar
win, grandfather of our                                         Z06-

nomia," which contained the germ of the theory
Lamarck's Crusades.  171

of evolution. He accepted the idea of Buff on, that
species were the results of modifications in the slow
generation of life, and added that these modifica
tions arose from the actions and requirements of the

animals themselves.

   This work produced little or no immediate effect,

but it undoubtedly influenced many naturalists who
followed, including Lamarck, Lyell, Spencer, and,
chief of all, the grandson of Erasmus, Charles Dar

win, who in the present age stood as the leading
apostle of the theory.

   In 1801 Lamarck began his series of crusades
against the opponents of evolution. Bold, frank,

imperious in his mental sovereignty, he had neither
the caution of Buffon nor the deference to the

Church and public opinion shown by many of his
predecessors. What he thought, he wrote, and what
he believed in, he announced to the world, fortifying
it with proofs from the abundant resources of his
mind, stored with the results of a lifetime of research.
Of this giant of science Charles Darwin writes : " He

first did the eminent service of arousing attention to
the probability of all change, in the organic as well
as in the inorganic world, being the result of law and
not of miraculous interposition. Lamarck seems to
have been chiefly led to his conclusion on the grad
ual change of species by the difficulty of distinguish

ing species and varieties, by the almost perfect

gradation of forms in certain groups, and by the

analogy of domestic productions. With respect to
the means of modification, he attributed something
to the direct action of the physical conditions of
172 Charles Darwin.

life, something to the crossing of already existing
forms, and much to use and disuse--that
              :                                                      to the

                                 a
                                                                is,
effects of habit. To this latter agency he seems to
attribute all the beautiful adaptations in nature --

such as the long neck of the giraffe for browsing on

the branches of trees." Lamarck's theory may be

expressed briefly he avowed that all life, including

man, had descended by various modifications from

one or more primordial forms, and he believed that

the various animals had to greater or less extent

been developed by their habits, their efforts to live,

and the conditions which surrounded them.

   No writer  of the day produced the    effect of La
marck. His     " Philosophic Zoologique  " influenced

the scientific sentiment of all Europe, and the writ

ings of the men of his time and ever since are tinc

tured with his philosophy.

   In the year 1844 renewed interest was created in
the subject by the appearance of work entitled
" Vestiges of Creation," supposed to be written by
              it

                                   a

                                    it

                                                        a
                                                                   a

                                                                                                          ;

                                                                         is
Robert Chambers. Humboldt now affirmed his be

lief that species are not immutable, and following

came Owen, Asa Gray, Herbert Spencer, Youmans,

and many more who had thought upon evolution

and believed in in some form.

It will be seen, then, that evolution as theory

not of recent origin, but was discussed pro and con

until the time described in previous chapter, when

Charles Darwin and Alfred Wallace came out simul

taneously with their views on the subject then

Darwinism was born, and in we find our hero's

explanation of the method of evolution.
Darwin s Theories.  173

   This leads us to a review of Darwin's theories,
which were, as we have seen, the result of years of
thought and research, and which have conquered or
won nearly the entire scientific world of thought.
We have seen that his observations in South Amer

ica and elsewhere created the germ which itself, by
a series of evolutions, assumed the well-defined
and philosophical form of the theory of Darwin of

to-day.
   The evolutionists taught that the various species

were the simple result of an unfolding, a develop
ment, a growth with constant occurring change ;
but they did not tell us how the change was created.
Darwin did, and this is how he accomplished it.
Probably every reader of this work has, at some time

in his life, been the owner of pets--rabbits, dogs, or

cats, and has from experience obtained certain well-
defined ideas of the results which can be produced

by careful breeding and intelligent selection. It is

known that the race-horse is one result of carefully

selecting horses generation after generation which
have shown similar characteristics. Trotters with a

record are mated ; so with running horses, those
adapted for the carriage, or the plough, and the
result is existing varieties of the domestic horse.
Man began with the original blue-rock pigeon,

and has produced all the famous varieties --the

tumblers, pouters, carriers, and others, this being
accomplished by careful and intelligent selection.

In dogs, the original companion of early man was
a wild animal allied to the wolf. To produce the

many varieties (which some naturalists call species).
174 Charles Darwin.

man has acted with careful discrimination. A dog

with especially long hair has been selected and bred
with another showing like characteristics. Among
the progeny of these all the long-haired dogs were
selected and as carefully mated, until finally a well-
defined long-haired variety was the result, so that in
looking at it the observer, familiar with none but the
wild, wolf-like dogs, would have said : " Yes, it seems
to be a dog, but it differs from the others ; it is a
new variety of dog."

   So the original jungle fowl, under the supervision
of the breeder, has been made to produce the many
curious varieties of fowl ; and so we could go on in
definitely, citing cases where man has shown his
power of producing certain singular results in the
shape and form of living beings. The greyhound,
with its enormous chest, its narrow, pointed nose, its
slender legs, every feature denoting speed, is a marked
contrast to the Dachhound, with its short bow-legs
and ungainly form ; yet each can be traced back to
a common stock. Man has produced this marvellous
transformation by making a study of dogs, selecting
those with certain peculiarities and mating them,
which has resulted in a form which, when compared

to the original, is called a variety.

   That similar conditions also hold in the human

race, and could be carried out indefinitely, is shown
by a well-known instance cited by Professor Huxley.
He says : " Gratio Kelleia, a Maltese with six fingers
and six toes, married when he was twenty-two years

of age, and, as I suppose there were no six-fingered

ladies in Malta, he married an ordinary five-fingered
Heredity.  175

person. The result of that marriage was four chil
dren ; the first, who was christened Salvator, had

six fingers and six toes, like his father ; the second

was George, who had five fingers and toes, but one
of them was deformed, showing a tendency to varia
tion ; the third was Andre ; he had five fingers and
five toes, quite perfect ; the fourth was a girl, Marie ;

she had five fingers and five toes, but her thumbs

were deformed, showing a tendency towards the
sixth.

   " These children grew up, and when they came to
adult years, they all married, and of course it hap

pened that they all married five-fingered and five-
toed persons. Now let us see what were the results.
Salvator had four children ; they were two boys, a
girl, and another boy : the first two boys and the
girl were six-fingered and six-toed like their grand
father ; the fourth boy had only five fingers and five
toes. George had only four children ; they were
two girls with six fingers and five toes on the right
side, and five fingers and five toes on the left side,
so that she was half and half. The last, a boy, had
five fingers and five toes. The third, Andre, you
will recollect, was perfectly well formed, and he had

many children whose hands and feet were all regu
larly developed. Marie, the last, who, of course,
married a man who had only five fingers, had four
children : the first, a boy, was born with six toes,

but the other three were normal."

   The appearance of the sixth finger in this man
illustrates the fact that all life, from the lowest forms

to man inclusive, is liable to variation ; some peculi
176 Charles Darwiti.

arity may appear. We may call it a monstrosity, a

freak, or an accident, but if the conditions are nor

mal, the chances are that it will be perpetuated to

some extent, while if they are extremely favourable

it may be transmitted indefinitely. There is no con

troverting this ; it is a simple fact understood by

everyone. Darwin recognised
Ia a                         and accumulated
                                                           ;
                                                                                          ;
                                                         it,
                                                    I;
vast amount of testimony showing its possibilities

in all ranks of life and seeing that varieties could

be produced in domestic animals and plants, he laid

down the theory that almost the same selection and

discrimination are taking place in nature the ten

dency being to perpetuate certain features, which in

time become so prominent that they assume the

dignity of varieties. As an illustration cite an

instance of my own observation. We have seen that

man produces the trotter by weeding out those

which vary from this type now let us glance at

nature and note how animals may gradually assume

like appearance by selection. Several years ago

was drifting along on the edge of the Sargasso

Sea, when my attention was attracted to the re

markable fauna of the weed. Here was the curious

fish, Antennarius, lying prone upon the weed near its
nest-- ball of sargassum. Had not been familiar
;a
                     :
                            it
                                I

                                                                     if
with the little creature  would have escaped my

notice, as its colouring was identical with that of its

surroundings not a fanciful resemblance but one

in fact the very tints and hues being imitated as

the fronds and leaves of the sargassum had been

photographed on the sides of this curious mimic.

The crabs all partook of the same protective favour,
COLLECTING IN THE SARGASSO SEA.
Crabs, Worms, and Fishes.  1 77

and could only be detected by the most careful ob
servation. The worms were of deep tints of olive

and yellow, and so on all through this floating city ;
the same brush, the same colours, the same artist had

been employed, each and every living creature being
in colour a mimic of the vast weed bed that consti

tuted their floating home.

  The fact that I could not find the crabs and other

forms without difficulty, though they were floating
upon the surface, often in full view, suggested at
once that here nature had provided a wondrous pro
tection, and that the inhabitants of the sargassum
were safe from their many enemies in their mimicry.

   But how was this condition obtained ? The crabs,

worms, and fishes of this mass of weed were not

always thus protected. We know that long ago or
in the past they lived elsewhere, and came as immi
grants to the floating home, and were then in strik
ing contrast to it. How then could this great change
have been produced ? Assuming that the crabs and
other forms have recently taken up their residence
here, we notice that they are not all alike in colour;
there is a disposition to vary. Some are darker than

others, some lighter, some are spotted, and a few
perhaps resemble the colour of the weed. The latter
are accidents, freaks, just as in the case of the dogs
where perhaps one or two showed an abnormal de

velopment of hair. In this instance man did the
selecting ; but in the case of the crabs it is a gull, or

many that are soaring over the weed in search of
food. The freaks or varieties which happen to re

semble the weed, being inconspicuous, are not

          13
i78 Charles Darwin.

noticed, while the others, presenting a marked con
trast are seen, and devoured. This continues year in
and year out ; crabs which are conspicuous are eaten,

and the tendency is to weed them out, leaving those
which bear a resemblance to their surroundings.
These breed and produce others ; some of which

mimic the weed, and some do not. The latter are
soon picked up by their enemies, the others being
preserved to perpetuate their kind through the
agency of the bird that acts in the place of the
intelligent breeder.

   We see, then, as Darwin believed, that nature is

doing almost exactly what man does in producing
varieties.

   In the life of these animals there is a strife or
struggle for existence with the conditions that work
against them. Some survive, and only those which
are the fittest to carry on the work of perpetuation.
The struggle, the silent combats or tendencies to
survive, are what Darwin calls natural selection, while
Herbert Spencer styles it the survival of the fittest
--terms which have become bywords in their famili
arity to the readers of the present century.

   An instance in plant life may still further illustrate
the point that accident, a peculiarity, a series of con
ditions-- climate, food, etc., may act in time in evolv
ing from one form a variety of the same. We will
assume, taking an adapted example of Darwin's,
that the earth in a certain field on Staten Island pos
sesses accidentally certain ingredients or qualities
which impart to the plant growing in it peculiar
strength to certain tissues, or such nourishment that
               Development of Plants.               1 79

certain parts of the plant develop to a greater extent

than others. Assume that this abnormal growth

finds expression in an unusual development of the

hairs that are found on the plants, especially those

on the seeds. It is entirely an accident we will say,

just as in the case of the sixth finger of the Maltese,

and it would perhaps at a casual glance appear a very

insignificant feature ; yet the contrary holds. We

know that the past history of this plant has been

that the seeds dropped about the parent became

fixed, threatening to chokeis             fairly covering the
                                     it,
ground, so that many were killed, while only the

strong and hardy survived. These seeds are carry

ing on a silent struggle for existence, and the sur

vival of the fittest  expressed by the one that

outlives the rest. Now when this accidental long

haired seed drops from the seed-pod       it        at once
                                             is is
subject to a new condition. The hairs like sails offer

a greater resistance to the wind that               blowing

over the field than the hairs on the seeds of former

generations, and the result  is           that having more

sail in the aerial flight the seed attains a longer

distance, outstripping all its short-haired or short-

sailed companions, and instead of falling to the earth

with score of others, to grow up in bunch and
       it a                               a
contend and struggle for the food elements in theisa

soil,          hurled into the air, as you have seen the

wonderful seed of the thistle, and goes bounding

along, to fall perhaps half mile away in new field
                      a

where there more room and liberty. When the
               is

seeds sprout and grow, the resultant plants will be

hardier than their immediate parent. Now assume
18o Charles Darwin.

that a seed has found in its new home the same nu

trition that gave rise to the original abnormal growth,
what will be the result ? The long-haired seeds will
not only be perpetuated, but will, owing to the

absence of a struggle with others, be more pro

nounced, and the seeds presenting the most sail, to
use the expression, will still lead in the race, and go

sailing away to new fields where the competition and

struggle are less. Suppose these conditions prevail

generation after generation, and the seeds have been

carried by the wind over the Narrows, down on to
Long Island, and into Connecticut, and if after many

years, ages perhaps, we could compare a seed with
one that fell on the original field on Staten Island,

we should note that the wanderer had deviated from

the original ; that while it resembled
;                                       was now

                 it
                                       it,
                                       it

                                                                    a
variety, and had taken what we might term a step in
the march of evolution. Now suppose that other

seeds from this plant where they had fallen had be

come affected or influenced by some other nutritious

element that tended to give them a thicker coating

or harder case in others produced a greater secre

tion of some essential oil, and so on. By following

up their histories and finally in after ages comparing

all the wanderers with the primitive stock, we should

find that we had not one but several varieties. The

latter are the result of accidental conditions existing

throughout long or short eras of time, and this, in

brief, Darwin's idea of how the diversities of life
is
                                  a
have been produced.

   It will at once occur to the reader that the condi

tions that might create variation are almost endless.
                  Darwinism.

Heat, cold, food supply, geographical distribution,

winds, water supply, prevalence of certain birds or
other animals, -- all these are the factors which must

be taken into consideration when studying this

problem and in trying to trace out definite results.

    Huxley, in defining Darwin's hypothesis, says:
" As I apprehend
                  it,  it  is  that all the phenomena of

organic nature, past and present, result from, or are

caused by, the interaction of those properties of

organic matter, which we have called Atavism and

Variability, with the Conditions of Existence or, in
other words-- given the existence of organic matter,
its tendency to transmit its properties, and its ten
                                  if
dency occasionally to vary and, lastly, given the            ;
                               ;

conditions of existence by which organic matteris:
    surrounded -- that these put together are the;

causes of the Present and of the Past conditions of

Organic Nature."
   Darwin himself says " No one ought to feel sur

prise at much remaining as yet unexplained in regard

to the origin of species and varieties, he makes due

allowance for our profound ignorance in regard to

the mutual relations of all the beings which live

around us. Who can explain why one species ranges

widely and very numerous, and why another allieda is
species has narrow range and rare Yet these

relations are of the highest importance, for they
                                  is

                                        I?
determine the present welfare, and, as believe, the

future success and modification of every inhabitant

of this world. Still less do we know of the mutual

relations of the innumerable inhabitants of the world

during the many past geological epochs in its his
182 Charles Darwin.

tory. Although much remains obscure, I can enter

tain no doubt, after the most deliberate study and

dispassionate judgment of which I am capable, that

the view which most naturalists entertain, and which

I formerly entertained --namely, that each species
has been independently created -- is erroneous. I

am fully convinced that species are not immutable ;
but that those belonging to what are called the same
genera are lineal descendants of some other and gen
erally extinct species, in the same manner as the
acknowledged varieties of any one species are the

descendants of that species. Furthermore, I am

convinced that natural selection has been the main
but not exclusive means of modification."

   It will be seen, then, that the various forms of na

ture, animal or vegetable, are continually changing,
affected by the conditions or circumstances which
surround them, and that evolution is the term ap

plied to the change.
                 CHAPTER XIX.

                      DARWINISM CONTINUED.

How Change is Produced --Vast Eras of Time -- The Age of the
           Earth -- Evidences of Evolution --Extinct Animals.

                                    N the previous chapter we
                                          have seen that Darwin

                                             claims that in nature there
                                             is a tendency to varia
                                          bility, certain conditions
                                          producing and that all
                                          the diverse forms of ani
                                             mal life are to-day the
                                              result of this process.
                                          Without an adequate idea
                                             of geological time this
                                          cannot be realized but
   we imagine that these changes have gradually been
going on for unknown ages, periods which the mind
of man cannot grasp, we begin to see the light ahead
that Darwin saw.

   In the present age geology and palaeontology, or
the history of extinct animals, through the investiga
tions of Professors Cope, Marsh, Leidy in this country,

                                                                   183
if

                                                                        it,

                                                                                                                                                  ;
                      Charles Darwin.

and others in Germany and England, have become
remarkably well understood. Though there is still a
vast area unexplored, we know enough of the ancient
earth and its history to enable us to view it compre

hensively. If we could make a section of the crust

we should find the rocks arranged layer by layer.

At a certain depth would be what is known as the

Eozoic rocks, which if they have contained life do
not show evidences of it. Above this we find a
layer containing shells and low forms, and so on up,
layer after layer, for thirteen thousand feet in New
York State, or nearly two miles of solid rock, nearly
all the strata being characterised by peculiar forms

of life. If we examine these, one after another, up

through the crust, we notice that there appears to
be an elaboration of structure the higher up we
proceed. Thus in the Devonian, or just below it,
we first find back-boned animals -- fishes ; then in a

succeeding age reptiles ; then milk-giving animals,
and finally man. In other words, there has been an
apparent evolutionary movement here, so that view
ing the results we can easily imagine that one who
had studied the rocks as did Darwin might arrive at
the conclusion that he was looking at the different
steps in the evolution of life.

   How long was the thirteen thousand feet in New
York forming ? The mind fails to grasp the figures,
nor can we realise it without taking up instances that
are well defined and familiar. In one of the West
ern States there is an elevation, known as Amethyst
Mountain, a mile or more high. One side has been

worn away by the elements, so that it appears to
Growth of Forests.  185

have been cut down as with a knife, leaving a more
or less sheer precipice. On the face of this can be
counted twenty or thirty distinct forest levels. Thus
at the base a forest is visible of trees standing up
right ; the trunks of large size but broken off about
ten feet from the ground and completely silicified or
turned into stone. The roots, like stone snakes, can

be readily traced, while the trees and sections of
trunks are so true to life that they might have been
buried but yesterday. On top of these trees is seen
a stratum of rock, which has given growth to another
forest, which attained maturity and died down to
form the birthplace of still another. So one after

another these forests are piled up to the height of a
mile. The reader is familiar with the time entailed

in the growth of a forest of to-day, from saplings to
trees of the largest size, hence can form some idea of
the time which must have elapsed while these forests

were dying and growing one upon another.
   Those who have visited England and are familiar

with the chalk cliffs of Dover have interesting testi
mony of the duration of time. This vast deposit is
simply an ancient ocean bottom almost exactly iden
tical with that being formed in the Atlantic to-day.
By some convulsion of nature it has been elevated,

and stands as a monument to the vast results attained

in nature by the agency of minute organisms through
long eras of time.

   When the Atlantic cable was taken up for repair,
it was found covered with a mud almost entirely

made up of minute shells of rhizopods ; and later
investigations into the ocean bottom showed that
                      Charles Darwin.

everywhere, at a depth not greater than fifteen hun
dred fathoms, it was composed of these organisms.
They filled the water, floating about, and in such
numbers that it has been estimated that if they are
as numerous, down to a depth of six hundred feet,
as they are near the surface, there would be more
than sixteen tons of calcareous shells or carbonate
of lime in the uppermost one hundred fathoms of
every square mile.

   These little creatures are continually dying, and
the result is that a constant shower of their shells is
dropping upon the bed of the ocean, and slowly
tending to fill it up ; how slowly can be understood
from the minuteness of the animals. Yet we know
that the enormous deposits of chalk, represented by
the Dover cliffs, were formed by this silent rain.

   The pyramids of Egypt are deposits of a small
shell -- nummulite ; their accumulations on some

ancient sea-bed forming the stone which was cut
and piled up by the ingenuity of man. We wonder
at these monuments, but how much more wonderful

is the age they represent in the history of nature.
   In England the Paleozoic strata is 57,154 feet in

depth; the Secondary strata 13,190 feet; and the
Tertiary strata 2,240, according to Professor Ramsey ;
in all, 72,584, or about thirteen miles of rock which
has been piled up by animal deposits inch by inch.

   Those who are careful observers, and who return

to localities after an absence of many years, rarely
notice any difference in a landscape. America has
been inhabited by the white race for six hundred
years, yet there has been little or no change in the
Missing Links.  187

appearance of the country. In England records
show for centuries the measurements and limitations
of estates upon which old oaks have been growing.
The land looks the same ; there is no apparent
change ; so that we may assume that the change of
a thousand years would be scarcely noticeable, while
in the matter of wear and tear a cliff five hundred
feet in height would suffer a denudation of perhaps
one inch per century for its whole length. Darwin
estimates that the denudation of the wold in Great
Britain must have required 306,662,400 years, or say

three hundred million years. A million, then, is but

a drop in the bucket in the time since life began, and
when endeavouring to imagine species as the result
of Darwin's explanation, we must remember that
periods beyond our power of appreciation are neces
sary to the result, and are an essential factor in

evolution.

   Having looked so far into Darwinism, having seen
that the great naturalist outlines a theory and fully
defines its scope, the question naturally arises,
" Are there no proofs, no evidences to substantiate
the belief?" And to this might be said, that the

majority of leading biologists of to-day accept the
Darwin hypothesis. The modern palaeontologists
have added to the information he accumulated,

and many interesting evidences have been presented
which are popularly called " missing links." Darwin

says : " I am fully convinced that species are not

immutable, but that those belonging to what are

called the same genera are lineal descendants of
some other and generally extinct species."
                       Charles Darwin.

   This leads us to an examination of some of these
extinct species which have been brought to the
attention of science, and which we may consider the
stepping-stones from the forms of to-day to an
ancestor in the remote past. One of the most
interesting examples is that of the horse. When
white men first came to this country, the horse was
not found here ; indeed, there appeared to be no
tradition of such an animal, and the Spaniard relied
almost as much upon the terror these animals
created in the land of the Incas, as they did upon
their arms, the natives believing that horse and rider
were one. Some of the horses of these adventurers
and others escaped, and from them descended what
are known as the wild horses of North and South
America.

   That horses were not found here by the white
discoverers is to some extent singular, as it is now
well known that these animals existed here in great
numbers in the Quaternary and Tertiary times of
geology ; some climatic or other change producing
their complete extirpation. Some idea of the
extent of the distribution of horses in these early
days can be realised when it is known that twelve
species have been discovered in the Quaternary
deposits, and more than thirty in the Tertiary ; so
that scientists have a remarkably complete chain of
evolutionary evidence in their remains. The small
est of these, the Hipparion of the Eocene, was

about as large as a fox. It had large canine teeth,

three toes upon its hind feet, and four perfect toes
and a splint on the forefeet. In this horse the head
   Extinct Species.

and neck were elongated, and the place for the bit

or diastema was well defined, and develops materi

ally as we follow the line down. Compare this form

with the horse of the Lower Miocene (the Mesohip-
pus), and we find that the latter was larger, being

now about the size of a sheep. It has three toes

behind and in front, while the fourth toe, which we

saw in the previous form, is reduced to a mere

splint. Following in the Miocene proper, was the
   it,
                                  is

                                                a
Miohippus, in which the toes are about the same,

though the fourth one, or splint,                hardly dis

tinguishable. Now, the animals, though small, had

well-defined horse-like shapes. Passing to the next

form in the Lower Pliocene, we find skeleton

about as large as that of the present donkey.

The splint has entirely disappeared, and there are

three toes, the two outer ones being short, there

being very evident disposition to rely upon the

middle one, which was larger and stouter than in

previous forms. Moving upward to the Pliocene, we

come to horse which scientists call Pliohippus, anda
which was very similar to the horse of to-day. The

middle toe was now the hoof, while the other toes

were useless splints. Another step brings us to the

Quaternary and present horse, in which the middle

toe has become the hoof, upon which the genus

Equus stands, while the two toes are still represented

by the disappearing side splints.                                 shown in
   The striking nature of this evidence
:

                                                              is
the accompanying diagram.

   In referring to these animals Professor Marsh
says " The most marked changes undergone by
190

these successive genera are the following: 1st, in
crease in size, from Orohippus, as large as a fox, to
the modern horse; 2d, increase in speed through
concentration of the limb-bones ; 3d, elongation of
the head and neck and modification of the skull.
The increase of speed was a direct result of a gradual
and striking modification of the limbs. These were
slowly concentrated by the reduction of their lateral
elements and enlargement of the axial one, until the
force exerted by each limb came to act directly
through its axis in the line of motion. This concen
tration is well shown in the fore-limb. There was,

1st, a change in the scapula and humerus, especially
in the latter, which facilitated motion in one plane
only ; 2d, an expansion of the radius and reduction
of the ulna, until the former alone remained entire

and effective ; 3d, a shortening of all the carpal
bones and enlargement of the median ones, ensuring
a firm wrist; 4th, an increase in size of the third
digit at the expense of those on each side, until the
former alone supported the limb. The latter change
is clearly seen in the accompanying diagram, which
represents the forefeet of four typical genera in the
equine series, taken in succession from each of the
geological periods in which this group of mammals
is known to have lived. The line of descent ap
pears to have been direct, and the remains now
known supply every important intermediate form.
Considering the remarkable development of the group
throughout the entire Tertiary period, and its exist
ence even later, it seems very strange that none of
the species should have survived, and that we are
indebted for our present horse to the Old World."
Connecting Links.  191

   These changes were produced only after successive
ages representing vast eras of time.

   From this brief review it will be seen that Darwin

ism assumes that the side splints so familiar in the
horse of to-day indicate an ancestry in which the

splints were more fully developed. In other words,

the splints are the remains of organs which in the
course of the development of the animal have dis

appeared.

   Adopting this line of argument Darwin would
point to the teeth in the embryo of the whalebone
whale, which do not appear as the animal grows, as

evidence that the giant animal in the remote past

possessed teeth, so the rudimentary pelvis, hip-bone,
thigh, and leg bones suggest that at one time this
huge creature possessed hind legs. In the Greenland
whale especially, the hip- and knee-joint, with some
of their muscles, are well defined beneath the skin,

so that we can imagine that at one time in the

remote past the whale was a shore-loving creature,
which finally became more aquatic in its habits, and
the hind legs, like the many toes of the horse, disap

peared.
   Among the early birds of this country the wonder

ful Odontornithes, or birds with teeth, discovered by
Professor Marsh, we have examples of connecting
links striking in the extreme, and pointing to an

ancestry so remote that the imagination almost fails
to grasp the reality, and the mind is bewildered by
the testimony that shows conclusively that by fol
lowing back the history of our feathered friends we
should be led imperceptibly but surely into the
domain of the reptiles.
192 Charles Darwin.

   One of the most interesting events of the scientific
world of America in the past twenty years was the
announcement by Professor Marsh that he had dis
covered in the ancient sea-bed or shore of the West

the remains of birds which possessed reptilian teeth
and were evidently descendants of reptiles. This
announcement was received with incredulity by the
scientists of Europe ; but their doubts were silenced
when the remains of not one but scores of specimens
were deposited in the Yale museum at New Haven,
showing fully the remarkable nature of the discovery.
Professor Marsh states that the remains found by
him represent birds which had remarkable reptilian
affinities and were undoubtedly descended from

some remote reptilian ancestor.
   The most striking form discovered was the one

called by him Hesperornis regalis. It represented a

bird about six feet in length, resembling to some

extent the loon of to-day. It was an aquatic bird,
but flightless, being without a vestige of wings. Its

neck was long, its feet extremely large, and its
pointed bill, armed with sharp recurved teeth, ad
mirably adapted for securing and holding prey. The
size of the latter was not material, as the lower jaw

was united in front by a cartilage, as in the snakes,
giving them the power of swallowing a fish of large
size. That a bird should be provided with teeth is
extraordinary ; but in this case they were almost
identical with those of reptiles.

   In referring to this bird Professor Marsh says :

" Having thus shown what the skeleton of Hesperor
nis is, and what its mode of life must have been, it
Remarkable Birds.  193

remains to consider the more important question of
how the peculiar combination of general and spe

cialised characters manifested in its structure origi
nated. The two most striking features of Hesperornh
are the teeth and the limbs, and an inquiry in regard
to them first suggests itself. The teeth of Hes-
perornis may be regarded as a character inherited
from a reptilian ancestry. Their strong resemblance

to the teeth of reptiles, in form, structure, and
succession, is evidence of this, and their method of

implantation, in a common alveolar groove (Holco-
dont), conforms strictly to what we have in one
well-known group of reptiles, exemplified by Ichthy
osaurus. This method of insertion in the jaw is a

primitive dental character, quite different from what
we should naturally expect as an accompaniment of
the modern style of vertebra, and is a much lower
grade than the implantation of the teeth in distinct
sockets (Thecodont), a feature characteristic of an
other group of Odontothores, of which Ichthyornis
 is the type. These teeth indicate unmistakably that

 Hesperornis was carnivorous in habit, and doubtless
was descended from a long line of rapacious ances

 tors."

    Equally remarkable was the Archceopteryx -- a bird
discovered in Germany. Here it is supposed was a
 bird but partly feathered, representing the time
 when feathers were developing. Its beaks were
 armed with teeth, while its tail was an elongation of
 the vertebrae, like the tail of a cat, from the sides of

 which grew feathers, so that when the reptilian bird
 flew, its tail constituted a rudder or guide. These

           13
i94 Charles Darwin.

wsienrgeulalirnkscreinatuthrees,wownitdhrouthsechgaiignanotficearPlyterlaifneo--doenvsi
dences of a remarkable ancestry. A volume could

be filled in describing the many recent discoveries
which naturalists of to-day consider as evidences of

the correctness of the deductions of Darwin. To

him the story of nature was plain and simple ; the
Giver of all things created life ; this, acted upon by
the natural conditions of its environment, produced
the varieties, which, in turn, in the long eras of time,
became species ; from these genera were evolved ;
and so the change went on, populating the world.

   The story of this evolution is told in the " Origin
of Species," " The Descent of Man," and other works
of the great naturalist, which mark epochs in the
history of scientific thought.
             CHAPTER XVIII.

            THE DARWIN MEMORIAL.

Addresses by American Scientists : Dr. Theodore Gill--W. H. Dall
--                    Powell --Richard Rathbun  -- Charles
--  Major   John W.  -- Frank Baker--Frederick  W. True.    V.  Riley
    Lester  F. Ward

                                HE death of Charles Dar

                                          win, which occurred in

                            April, 1882, created a

                                          world-wide sensation, and

                                              in every scientific society
                                          in the world resolutions
                                          of respect were passed
                                          to his memory, many of
                                          which have been collect
                                              ed, making in themselves

                                              a large, even ponderous,
                                              volume.
   The American societies were unanimous in their
appreciation of his greatness, and the memorial of
the Biological Society of Washington was particu
larly interesting. The announcement of the death
of the distinguished scientist was officially made to

the society at its meeting of April 28, 1882, at which

                                                                   »95
196 Charles Darwin.

it was voted that the next meeting of the society
should be a Darwin memorial. The following com
mittee was appointed to carry it out ; Messrs. Goode,
Riley, Ward, Rathbun, and Gill. The result of their
action appears in the memorial of the society, which
consists of a series of papers, read by distinguished
leaders of scientific thought in America, on the
various branches of science with which Darwin was
identified.

   These papers give the most comprehensive view
of Darwin's scientific attainments from a purely
American standpoint, ever published.

   The meeting of the Biological Society was called
for the 1 2th of May, a little over a month after the
death of the great naturalist, and in the presence of
a large and distinguished audience, among which
were representatives of many of the leading scientific
societies of the day, the following papers which will
always remain permanent additions to Darwinian
literature, were read :

                   THE DOCTRINE OF DARWIN.

             BY THEODORE GILL, A.M., M.D., PH.D..M.N.A.S.,

                                           Smithsonian Institution.

   The chief for many years of the leaders in science
knows no longer the world he erstwhile knew so
well. Charles Darwin has closed a life illustrious in
the annals of biology, scarce full of years but very
full of honours.

   How fruitful was that life and how potent its
influence on philosophy and on sociology the united
                     Natural Selection.  197

voice of the civilised world proclaims-- how grievous

the loss the lamentations of mankind testify. Less

than a quarter of a century has elapsed since the
publication of " The Origin of Species by Means of
Natural Selection." How great is the contrast be

tween the beliefs and practice of naturalists before

its appearance and those of their present successors !

He would, indeed, have been a bold man who would

have predicted that, in two decades after its appear

ance, the views therein promulgated would be uni

versally accepted and be taken as the recognised

platform of biologists. But the incredible has actually

happened : all the students of nature, and in every

land ; zoologists and botanists, palaeontologists and

geologists ; in America and Europe, at the confines
of Asia, the extreme of Africa, and in distant Aus
tralia, -- all meet on common ground as evolutionists ;
all recognise to a greater or less extent the operation
of natural selection in the survival of the fittest. To

appreciate the cause of the profound impression

produced by the deceased naturalist's greatest work,

some reference to the antecedent and succeeding

conditions is fitting.

   It had been, from time immemorial, a generally

accepted idea that the living beings which people the

g" locrbeeatehdad",  in some mysterious manner, been each
                     separately ; but how, few ventured to

express in words, for the mere attempt to do so con

jured up such strange fancies that the intelligent

mind drew back in revolt and refused to consider

them. Now, it is a recognised scientific creed that

the animals and plants which have successively in
198 Charles Darwin.

habited the earth were the descendants, with modi

fication, from previous inhabitants since the dawn of

life. A glimmer of the truth had now and then

occurred to contemplative students. Philosophers

had ventured to think that living forms like ancient

ones might have descended from them. The inves

tigators in various departments of biology had

gradually deduced generalisations which all tended

in a similar direction. The taxologists, in their very

nomenclature, compared the animal kingdom to a
tree of which the principal types were " branches "

diverging from a common trunk, while the minor

groups were successive offshoots ; and the idea of

genetic relationship suggested by the various degrees

of likeness was expressed in the names conferred on

other groups --" tribe," " family," etc. The embry-

ologists had recognised  a coincidence between the
stages of development    of the " superior " animals

and the adults of animals inferior in the system.

The palaeontologists had discovered an approximate

coincidence between the successive inhabitants of

the earth and the successive stages in the develop
ment of the living animals of the same types. The

series of facts thus obtained had even, to some

extent, been co-ordinated.

  All these series of facts were such as would have

been the result of the derivation of existing types

from previous ones. But the possibility that the

seeming was the real did not commend itself to the

consideration of naturalists. Instead thereof, it was
assumed that the facts were " in accordance with a
plan of the Creator " ; that the Deity had conceived
                A Puerile Conception.  199

a few patterns, and that by those he constructed the

animals which successively appeared on the globe, to

be in time swept off and replaced by others. If

answer was made that such was a puerile conception

of creation and that it limited the power of Deity, ex

cessive anger was displayed, and its opponents called

infidels and atheists. But even those who doubted

whether the accepted views of creation were tenable,

hesitated to take the alternative view. An efficient

factor in variation remained to be discovered, and a

full presentation of the data had yet to be made.
ustNiunoapdnIttpeul"rrwieawnadlasatsSuiinnerceloe.1m""c8tpT5ia9ohTrneeht.dh"eaOta"ringst"dhtirVneucagordgoniealtferstaiiSdosfpentoeerradcteiuaexnswidsiinettbedrhnyicc"daeMotveme"adarewinsawsthticiiecoarohnef

is the  result  of the progressive  niantcurreaalseseolef ctliivoinng"
beings   was    considered, and "

was designated as  the factor  aws h"icshpedceietesr"mionfedfortmhse
development and    existence

which had descended, with modifications, from count

less antecedent generations. With the successive

changes in temperature and other conditions ensuing
in the ever-changing world, the animals and plants
which peopled it were compelled to keep pace by
corresponding changes in structure, or to give place

to others who could adapt themselves to the new

conditions.

So much were the views thus enunciated opposed

to the current ideas that a brief period of astonished

silence ensued, and men felt about before they could

realise their full purport, or that such opinions were
200 Charles Darwin.

broached in sober earnest. Then followed on every

hand torrents of detraction and abuse. The natural

ists of the old school and the priests of revelation

met on common ground, and loud and bitter was

the denunciation. Numerous were the arguments

against the new theory.

But why this great turmoil and uproar ? Darwin

was not the first to believe that species had been

derived and not created. So had philosophers be

lieved before ; the grandfather of Darwin believed

and urged the belief ; a great naturalist at the com
mencement of the century -- Lamarck -- boldly and
                        theory of evolution ; the " Ves
wisely   formulated  a  took up the view, and gained
tiges   of Creation
                     "

marked attention in Britain. Even a clergyman of

the English Church, the Savilian professor in ortho

dox Oxford, the Rev. Baden      Powell, in   1855,   had
considered the " Philosophy of  Creation "          mas
                                            in a "

terly manner," and Darwin bore testimony that noth

ing can be more striking than the manner in which

the enlightened priest showed that the introduction

of new species is a regular phenomenon in con

tradistinction to a miraculous process. Darwin was

not the first even to conceive of the principle of natu

ral selection. An American resident in England, Dr.

W. C. Wells, as early as 181 3, had recognised the

operation of the principle in the distribution of the
human race. In 1831, Patrick Matthew also appre

ciated the principle of natural selection ; so Darwin

himself witnesses.

  It was not, then, the mere enunciation of the

theory of evolution, nor of the principle of natural
                  Want of Evidence.          201

selection, that characterised the " Origin of Species,"

and drew the attention of mankind to it. It was

the recognition of the incessant and universal opera
tion of the factors, the masterly co-ordination of the

facts of biology --zoology, botany, anatomy, general

morphology, physiology, embryology, palaeontology
--and geology, the marshalling in orderly array and
concentration in one direction of all natural knowl

edge, the force of the logic, the clearness of the

exposition, the judicial candour of the argument,
that arrested men's attention, and provoked serious

consideration of what before had been ignored as

being beyond the domain or possibilities of investi
gation. In the time of Lamarck the world was not

ready for a consideration of the question. Lamarck's

was the prophecy of intuitive genius --genius the

greater in  that  the facts   that had been     garnered
were few.   The   " Vestiges  of Creation "  was so re

plete with errors of fact and misconceptions as to
attract more attention to the fault of its details that
to the logic of its argument. The principle of natu

ral selection had been applied to very special fields
by Wells and Matthews ; no evidence had been fur

nished of its wide extension, and it even occupied a
subordinate position in the thoughts of those investi

gators.                        of  Species " was a dif
   The author of the " Origin

ferent man from his predecessors, and lived in a hap
pier time. The facts had been accumulated and co

ordinated ; men were ready to consider the reason
why facts were such, and none was better fitted than

Darwin -- I should rather say none was so well fitted
202 Charles Darwin.

-- to arrange and present the facts and to draw the
deductions therefrom. Ever a close observer, prac
tised in many lands, student of all nature-- especially
skilled as a geologist, a botanist, and a zoologist--
endowed with a severely judicial mind, honest above
all, none like him had ever grappled with the mys
tery of creation. For more than twenty years he
had pondered on the subject ; with impartial severity
he had weighed the evidence. He was, perforce,
led to the conclusion that all the living had been
derived from past forms, with modifications incident
to individuality ; the sums of the divergences, small

in themselves, became large in the aggregate, be

came enormous in time. The increasing beings,
crowding upon each other, invading each other's
domains, struggled for the life into which they were
born. Happy were those possessing some slight
advantage --strength, swiftness, dexterity, or adapt
ability resulting from modification of structure --
for they could procure place or food at the expense
of their competitors, and the characters that gave
them victory secured, likewise, the temporary as
cendancy of their kind. How great is this variability
our domesticated animals attest ; how ancient is our

globe geology teaches ; that the race is to the strong
or the cunning observation of inferior nature as

sures. With known variability, time, and space,
what could not result ? Which, then, was the more
probable, that Nature --or, if you will, the Creator
-- had always operated under law, or that there had

been constant interference ?
   Thus were the issues fairly joined. On the one
              Evolution.                                               203

hand, Creation was the rallying cry ; on the other,
Evolution and Darwin. But what meant the opposed

terms ? It is surely but reasonable to ask the ques

tion. The evolutionists conceded the reasonable

ness, and gladly accepted the ordeal. Could less be
required of the creationists ? In reverential mood

would I submit the alternatives. If they repel,
blame not me. I have long and fruitlessly searched

for better.

   Creation implies the actual fashioning of forms in
full panoply, and with all the characteristics of their
kind. But when it was asked how this had been

effected the  ataonmsws efrlaswhasintvoagluiveinagndtisseuveassi?ve".   Did
" elemental                                                            Was

there vacant space one moment and an elephant ap

parent the next ? Or did a laborious God mould out

of gathered earth a body to then endue with life ?
The questions are surely pertinent, for only by such

means can we conceive of creation. But passionate
disclaimers and angry denunciations greeted him who
would frame such conceptions in exact language.
Metaphysical jargon and rhetoric about divine pur

poses might sophisticate, but could not answer.
   Evolution denotes the derivation of living beings

from preceding in endless succession. Variation in

progeny, limited heredity, and time are its correla
tives. These being conceded, the peopling of the

globe with its life, past and present, is conceivable.

What was the evidence to support the conflicting

conceptions ?

   For creation it was urged that the universal con

sensus of mankind supported it ; that divine revela
204 Charles Darwin.

tion taught it ; and that the diversities and special
isation of organic forms forbade the idea of their
derivation from a common parentage.

   The universal consensus of mankind maintained
till the sixteenth century the doctrine that the earth
was flat ; that the sun and other planets circled
round the earth ; and that the earth was the great
centre of the universe. The universal consensus of
mankind for thousands of years is not the universal
consenus of the enlightened man, nor of the present

century.
   The teachers of revelation have been often mis

taken. Many are they who once were contemned
and denounced because their utterances were not in
accordance with the opinions of their day, who are
now accepted as the champions of a purer religion.
One of the wisest priests of England has said that
" with a certain class of religionists every invention
and discovery is considered impious and unscriptural
as long as it is new. Not only the discoveries of
astronomy and geology, but steam, gas, electricity,
political economy, have all in their turn been de
nounced ; and not least chloroform. Its use in par
turition has been anathematized as an infraction of

the penalty pronounced on Eve ! " * It is not I,

but a great clergyman, who expresses such senti
ments.

   The objection that the differentiation and special
isation of organic beings gainsay their derivation
from a common source is a most weighty one. In

  * Rev. Baden Powell's " Essay on the Spirit of the Inductive Phi

losophy," etc., p. 455.
Evidences of Evolution.  205

the infancy of our own knowledge it was unanswer
able, and the less we know of nature the more we

are impressed with these diversities. It is not, how

ever, simply a question of whether evolution is true ;
but which is the more probable of two alternatives --
that all the phenomena which point in one direction
and which could have occurred in natural sequence,
have taken place in such sequence; or that direct
creative intervention has ensued again and again,
when the same ends could have been produced with
out such intervention.

   Nature was true to her disciple, and herself fur

nished the replies.

   It was contended that if evolution were true, the

evidence should be forthcoming in the existence in
previous geological epochs of forms of a generalised
character intermediate between still earlier ones and
later widely separated forms ; and that of such there

were very few.
   The graves of the distant past gave up their dead,

and the ossuaries of our own far West yielded most
cogent testimony to the truth. Forms from the
Eocene and later beds, resurrected by the wand of

the anatomist, rising in successive lines behind the
wide gaps in the living files, proclaimed that all were
of one blood, and showed the genealogy of the con
temporaries of man.

    Many were the forms thus connected. Few are
those that may be mentioned on this occasion.
The horse-like animals, the rhinoceroses, and tapirs,
are so unlike, that proof of their derivation from
one source might be thought to be impossible. But
206 Charles Darwin.

as we go back into the ages we find equines with
lateral digits and hooflets becoming larger and
longer, teeth shorter and more generalised, skel
etons less characteristic ; rhinoceroses with cutting
teeth, and more slender forms ; tapir-like animals
without the peculiar tapirine teeth, with rhinocero-
toid skulls, and with otherwise modified structure ;
all these, accompanied by innumerable other modi
fications, till finally we are almost at a loss to tell
whether it is a horse-like, a rhinocerotoid, or a tapir-
oid animal that is before us, and they become lost in
earlier forms with special characters of their own.
And as we go still further back we are confronted
with still other forms that are connected by series
projected backward from the ruminants and from
the elephantids. We do, in fine, know the geneal

ogy of our own contemporaries --imperfectly, it is

true, but still we know it.

   It was objected that animals were segregated by

such very wide intervals that they must be isolated
in different branches, and that there could be no
community of structure between such branches ;
they expressed fundamentally different plans of

structure.

   One by one zoology, anatomy, and embryology
supplied the links between the old branches ; the
branches were at length completely uprooted, and
it has even become a matter of simple convention
what should be considered major groups. Plans of
structure can no longer be claimed to be peculiar to
different types.

   That branch of which man is the primate --the
Obstacles Raised.  207

vertebrates --was supposed to be perfectly unassail

able and isolated ; but zoology and anatomy have

revealed to us amphioxus, and embryology the
earlier stages of the tunicates. The evidence is now
conclusive that these forms which once appeared to

be among the most distant, are now the most closely

related. The affinities of the tunicates with inver
tebrates are evident, and thus we may look far back
to that time when vertebrates did not exist, but

when the common ancestors, from which they and

the related invertebrates should diverge, held sway.

   It was even pretended that the evidence was in

sufficient to show that variation was possible or could

be propagated.
   From every hand testimony was forthcoming.

The breeder could point to every domesticated ani

mal--the horticulturist and pomologist to all culti
vated plants -- the systematist and zoogeographer to

the limits of species which varied with knowledge of
their distribution -- the palaeontologist to the grada
tion between the extinct forms and widely separated
living species, as well as to that between forms which

lived in successive earlier epochs.

   It was urged that the Darwinian theory was op

posed to revelation, and subversive of Christianity.
   As students of nature and seekers after truth

alone --so far as nature is concerned --we only ask

whether the views of Darwin are true or not. But
now, from many a pulpit, and from the most en
lightened of the clergy, we hear the claim that evo
lution is in perfect accordance with revelation, and is a
witness to the power, prescience, and goodness of God.
208 Charles Darwin.

   It was contended that acceptance of the teachings

of Darwin would have a pernicious tendency, and
entail riot, lawlessness, and crime in the world.

  A long life of singular purity and blamelessness

in the person of Darwin was an answer. An unsul
lied heritage from an ancestor entertaining like
views has been transmitted to heirs of his body
without flaw. Sons of the great philosopher con
tinue the studies of their great sire, and worthily
wear the heavy mantle left to them.

   One after another the scientific opponents of evo
lution became convinced of its verity, or died out.
aTchceepntaetdur"alDisatsrwoinf isamne"wags eanesratatirotningw-pitohinotneforactchoerdir
more profound studies. The methods and aims of
biology became changed. Biology became exalted
from empiricism into a science. Long before " The
Origin of Species " had even " come of age," accept
ance of its teachings had become an essential of
scientific creed, and Darwin was acknowledged to
have effected a greater revolution in science than
any Englishman since the time of Newton. Most
meet was it then that he should rest by the side of
his great predecessor, whose rival he will ever be in

fame.

                       BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

                               BY WILLIAM H. DALL,

             Honorary Curator, Dept. of Mollusks, U. S. National Museum.

   Charles Robert Darwin, son of Dr. Robert War
ing Darwin, F.R.S., and Susannah Wedgwood, grand
son of Dr. Erasmus Darwin and Josiah Wedgwood,
was born at Shrewsbury, England, February 12,
Dall's Sketch.  209

1809. He died of disease of the heart at his resi
dence, Down House, Beckenham, Kent, at 4 P.M.,
April 19, 1882, and consequently had attained
the age of seventy-three years, two months, and
seven days. At Shrewsbury his childhood was

passed and his education was obtained at the once
famous Shrewsbury Grammar School, presided over
by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Butler, afterward Bishop of

Lichfield and Coventry.
   At the age of sixteen he entered the University

of Edinburgh (1825) where he remained two years.
Even at this early period he had become a student
of natural history, and read his first scientific paper

before the Plinian Society. It was "On the Move

ment of the Ova of Flustra," one of the incrusting

marine corallines.

   In 1827 he entered Christ's College, Cambridge,
where he graduated as a Bachelor of Arts four years
later. Here he fell under the influence of the teach

ings of Prof. John Stevens Henslow, an excellent
botanist, whose instruction doubtless did much to

determine the field of study subsequently occupied

by his pupil.
   In 183 1 Captain Fitz-Roy, R.N., offered to share

his cabin with any competent naturalist who would
accompany him on his prospecting voyage to South
America in H. M. S. Beagle, detailed for surveys in
that region. Mr. Darwin, then only twenty-two

years of age, offered his services, with the stipulation

that he should control the collections made, and was

accepted. The Beagle sailed November 27, 1831,

from Plymouth, and returned to England on the 2d

of October, 1 836. During a large part of the voyage
2 IO Charles Darwin.

Mr. Darwin suffered greatly from sea-sickness, or

some difficulty which simulated                                    and which, in
is
                                        aasome form, returned at intervals throughout his

                                                            a it,whole life, as sudden fits of illness which prostrated

him for days together, and which were followed by

long periods of wakeful convalescence. Under the

circumstances, the amount of keen and patient ob

servation, the vast accumulation of facts, and the

extensive collections obtained by Mr. Darwin during

his voyage, appear more marvellous than ever.

After his return his health was much shattered,

and his studies more or less interrupted for some

years. He took his Master's degree in course, and
shortly after his return was elected Fellow of the

Royal Society (of which his father and grandfather
were previously Fellows), and of the Geological

Society, of which last he was made secretary.

  "AIn 1839 he published his epoch-making work

Journal of Researches into the Geology and Natural
History of the Various Countries Visited by H. M.

S. Beagle "'; the first of that long series of investiga

tions to which his life was devoted, and the publica

tion of which revolutionised the study of biology,

and gave to Darwin position as a naturalist un

paralleled in the history of science.

In the same year, 1839, Mr. Darwin married his

cousin, Emma Wedgwood, and retired to the se

cluded and beautiful district of Kent, where, in his

country-house of Down House, near Orpington, more

than forty years of his life were spent. The district

purely agricultural, plateau of chalk, some four

hundred feet above the sea, interrupted by the wavy
Doll's Sketch.  211

hollows characteristic of the English chalk country,
with beech woods here and there on the slopes. His

dwelling is one of the old square-built, red-brick
mansions of the last century, to which has been

added in more recent times a gable-fronted wing,
with another square-built wing and pillared portico
on the corresponding side. Shut in and almost hid
den from the roadway by a high wall and belt of
trees, it offers ideal seclusion for a quiet student.
On the southern side the walled garden opens into a
secluded meadow bounded by a tract of underwood
through which there is a lovely view of the narrow
valley which descends toward Westerham.

   Here, and in the by-paths of adjacent woods and
meadows, Mr. Darwin was accustomed to take daily
exercise with a characteristic regularity. Up to ten
or twelve years ago, his tall figure, mounted on a
favorite old black horse, was a familiar object in the
country lanes. This animal fell and died suddenly
one day, after which it was noted that Mr. Darwin
rode no more. His invariable hours for walking, in

these later years, were seven in the morning, noon,
and four o'clock in the afternoon, usually accom
panied by one or more of his sons ; one of whom,
Mr. Francis Darwin, has long been established as a

surgeon in the hamlet of Down. His habits were
extremely regular. He rose at six, took a cold

plunge bath (which was repeated in the evening),
breakfasted alone, and after his first morning walk

was usually in his library by 8 A.M. At nine he

would spend a little time in the dining-room opening
his mail, and in the evening would linger an hour or
212 Charles Darwin.

two in the society of his family, or that of some of his
scientific friends who occasionally visited him ; but
the greater part of his time was spent in his library,

his garden, and the adjacent grounds. A few friends,

among whom were Sir John Lubbock and Dr. Farr,
near residents, were often with him, and with such

he was social, frank, and ever ready to enjoy a joke
or frolic ; with all men he was unpretentious, kind,
and devoid of any artificiality of manner ; but his
life was essentially a secluded one, as may be judged
from the fact that the news of his death did not
reach London until noon of the following day.

   Nevertheless, his life was far from solitary, for
his family formed quite a colony in itself until the
children reached maturity. Two children, a boy and
a girl, were lost in infancy, one dying in 1842 and the
other in 1858, and are buried in the village church
yard of Down, near by some of the Wedgwoods.

   In the family who lived Mr. Darwin was fortunate.
His eldest son, William, is a banker at Southampton ;
the second, George, took high honours at Cambridge,
and is now a Fellow of Trinity College and a dis
tinguished mathematician ; the third, Frank, having
inherited his father's delicate constitution, acted as
his secretary ; the fourth, Leonard, an officer of
artillery, has distinguished himself in the direction of

astronomy ; the fifth, Horace, is an excellent mathe

matician. One married and one unmarried daughter
complete a family whose constant care has been
to relieve its head from any trouble and anxiety.

    Mr. Darwin has always been in easy circumstances,
financially, so that he could use his time as he chose,
                  Dall's Sketch.  213

without care. When young he pursued field-sports,

with the combined interest of the hunter and the

naturalist ; in later years he found his chief relaxa
tion in reading popular novels. His work was taken

up with great method, and he never wrote for more

than two hours at a time.

In 1853 he received the gold medal of the Royal

Society for his various works ; in 1859 that known
as the Wollaston medal from the Geological Society ;

hinoo1d87"1  he   received   the   Prussian Order of Knight
                  Merit,"   and   was elected a corresponding
             For

member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences ; and

in 1878, foreign associate of the French Academy.
He received honorary degrees from Leyden and

Cambridge, and other scientific honours almost

without number.

His death was unexpected. He had been slightly

unwell for several weeks, and the weakness of the

heart's action was such that he was not permitted to

ascend the stairs, but, in the main, he was still able

to pursue his ordinary routine. On Tuesday morn

ing Sir John Lubbock found him apparently about
as usual. That he was seriously ill, was first known

in the village Wednesday afternoon by the arrival

of his groom on horseback, horse and man reeking

with foam, having galloped for ice six miles and

back from the nearest point where it could be pro

cured ; but in vain, the relief arrived too late, Charles
Darwin had already passed away, surrounded by his

family, including several of his sons, Mrs. Darwin, and

a married daughter. On the 26th his mortal remains

were laid in Westminster Abbey, near by the ashes of
2 14 Charles Darwin.

Isaac Newton, and were followed to the tomb, not
only by dignitaries of Church and State, but by the
universal reverence of the scientific world.*

       DARWIN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PHILOSOPHY.

              BY JOHN W. POWELL, PH.D., LL.D., M.N.A.S.,

Director of U. S. Geological Survey, Director Bureau of Ethnology, Smithsonian
                                                    Institution.

Many are the definitions of philosophy. If we

wish not to define what is true philosophy, but

simply to define the term in all its uses when refer

ring to all times and all men, this definition will do :

Philosophy is the explanation of the phenomena of the

universe.

Now, the phenomena of the universe are em

braced in many vast categories.

First, we have the constitution of the heavenly

bodies, and their real and apparent motions to be

explained. What are they, and how came they to

be what they are ?

Then we have the earth itself ; its forms, its lands

and seas, its mountains and valleys, its rivers and

lakes, the winds which blow about
*                                                                                                            the storms
        is

                         it,
                                                               it,

                                                                                          is
                                                                                                            a
which fall upon the lightnings that flash athwart

the sky, the thunders that roll among the clouds.

What are all these things, and whence came they,

and why are they? Again, in the constitution of

the earth we find rocks with their minerals, and geo-

It hardly necessary to state that this sketch                                                                  compilation

from all the different sources which happened to be available at the

time.
The Phenomena of the Universe.  2 15

logic formations with their fossils. What are rocks
and minerals, formations and fossils, and whence
came they?

   Look at the innumerable forms of plants covering
the earth with verdure -- the whole vegetable king

dom on the land and on the sea ; forests, mosses, and
confervae. Who shall explain the meaning of the
phenomena of the vegetable kingdom ?

   The oceans teem with animal life ; reptiles crawl
over all the land ; the hills and the valleys, the moun
tains and the plains, are all inhabited by beasts ;
and the air itself is populated. Who shall tell us of
all the living things, and then explain life itself?

   Turn to the contemplation of man, organised into
tribes and nations ; man possessed of innumerable

languages ; man engaged in arts and industries ; man
endowed with reason and will ; man in search of

moral principles to guide his conduct. Whence
came this man, and whither does he go.

   Among all tribes and nations of the globe, and in
all times, men have sought to discover the whence,

the how, and the why of all things --the phenomena

of the universe.

   The explanation of the universe is philosophy.
   The philosophies of the world may be classified
as--

                   I. Mythologic.

              II. Metaphysic.
            III. Scientific.

   Mythology and science constitute the two grand
systems of philosophy, but between them stands
2l6 Charles Darwin.

metaphysic philosophy as a stepping-stone from
the former to the latter.

   In the lower stages of society, philosophy is purely
mythologic. All savage and barbaric peoples explain
the phenomena of the universe by a system of

myths. A mythology is always a growth, and

among every people there grows up by the employ
ment of diverse and superficial analogies -- curious
suggestions -- a body of mythic explanations which
constitute its philosophy.

   Among the Wintuns of California the world is
three-storied. There is a world -- a great chamber --
above, and there is this world, and a world below.
The waters fall from the world above because the
sky, the floor of that upper world, leaks ; and the
waters come from the world below through the
springs that issue from the flanks of the dead volca
noes of that land ; so the waters from above and

the waters from below meet and flow down the great
Sacramento to the sea, where again they divide ; the
waters from above taking their way to their upper
home, and the waters from below taking their way
to the lower world.

   The mountains were formed by the great mole-
god, who crawled under the land and upheaved the
mountain ranges that stand on either side of the
Sacramento Valley. And so they explain all of the
phenomena of the universe with which they are ac
quainted, in a system of myths which constitutes the
philosophy of the Wintuns.

   Now such a system of philosophy, a mythology, is
found in every savage and barbaric tribe of the world.
Metaphysic Philosophy.  2 17

   But there came a time in the history of mankind
when some of the peoples changed their philosophy
-- their explanation of the phenomena of the uni
verse -- by changing their methods of reasoning.

               Origin of Metaphysic Philosophy.

   From three to two thousand years ago, Europe,
Asia, and Africa established a commerce in ideas--

an exchange in philosophies --carried on by the

navigation of the Mediterranean. During that and
some previous time there were built on the shores
of this sea many cities. Through the building of
these cities, and through the industries and arts
which sprang up therewith, society was reorganised
and placed upon a new basis-- tribal society devel
oped into national society -- barbarism into civilisa
tion.

   The peoples of these cities spoke diverse lan
guages, and entertained diverse mythologic philoso
phies. Through the intercourse which sprang up
between them, each learned of the philosophy of
the other, and the scholars of that day attempted
to discover in all of these diverse mythologies a
common body of truth upon the theory then widely
accepted, that they had all sprung from a common
source -- a primitive philosophy itself the truth,-- and
that all the philosophies then existing were degen
erations therefrom. This line of investigation led
to a curious result.

  All of the mythologies of the cities of the Medi

terranean were found to be baseless -- each a fabric
2l8 Charles Darwin.

of poetic but superficial analogies. In the mental

activity of that time many new philosophies were

proposed, diverse   a"nHdocwonsthraadll icwtoerykn;owandthethetruwtihs?est"
philosophers said,

And they endeavoured to discover some criterion by

which truth should be known. This resulted in the

development of formal logic as a testing machine
into which opinions were put for the purpose of sift

ing truth from error.

Now the machine called logic, the tool of the

metaphysician, is curiously constructed. Its chief

hypothesis is that man was primitively endowed

with fundamental principles as a basis of reasoning,

and that these principles can be formulated. These

fundamental principles are supposed to be universal,

and to be everywhere accepted by mankind as self-

evident propositions of the highest order and of the

broadest generalisation. These fundamental propo

sitions were called major propositions. The machine,

in formal logic, was a verbal juxtaposition of propo

sitions with the major propositions at the head,

followed by the minor propositions, and from this

truth was supposed to flow.

This formal logic of the Aristotelian epoch has

lived from that period to the period of science.

Logic is the instrument of metaphysics, and meta-

physic philosophy, in its multifarious forms, is the

product of logic. But during all that time --2,000
years -- no truth has been discovered, no error has

been detected by the use of the logical machine.

Its fundamental assumption is false.

  It has been discovered that man is not endowed
Scientific Philosophy.  219

with a body of major propositions. It is found that

in the course of the evolution of mind minor propo

sitions are discovered first, and major propositions
are reached only by the combination of minor propo
sitions ; that always in the search for truth the minor
proposition comes first, and that no major proposition
can ever be accepted until the minor propositions

included therein have been demonstrated.
   The error in the metaphysic philosophy was the

assumption that the great truths were already known
by mankind, and that by the proper use of the logical
machine all minor truths could be discovered, and all
errors eliminated from philosophy. As metaphysic

methods of reasoning were wrong, metaphysic phi
losophies were false ; the body of metaphysic phi

losophy is a phantasmagoria.

             The Origin of Scientific Philosophy.

   While metaphysic philosophers have been playing
with their logical kaleidoscopes, another body of
philosophers have been at work gathering the ma
terials for the philosophy of science. Their method
is to collect facts and to discover their relations, and

they accept no conclusions that are not reached by

this method. All other conclusions they hold as

undetermined or indeterminate.
   And now must be given a definition of science.

Science is the discernment, discrimination, and classifi

cation of facts, and the discovery of their relations of
sequence. This is a simple statement, but for its full

comprehension a little illustration may be necessary.
220 Charles Darwin.

  A savage hears the voice of his fellow-man, he

hears the voice of the beast, and of the bird ; he
also hears the noise of the thunder, and he supposes
that the noise is a voice. In these cases he discerns

noises, but he does not discriminate one noise from
the other, and supposes them all to be voices, and
that the noise of the thunder is the voice of the
Thunder Bird. To understand facts we must not
only discern, but discriminate.

   The next step in the progress of science is classifi
cation. Having discerned and discriminated facts,
they must be classified -- all those of like nature

thrown together. All noises made by living beings

for conveying intelligence may be grouped into one
class and called voices ; all noises made by explosions

grouped in another class ; and so, as we go on dis
cerning, discriminating, and classifying, we collect
the materials of philosophy.

   But this is not all of philosophy. Facts have

genetic relations. If one thing is done something

else will follow, and the highest function of scientific
philosophy is to discover the order of succession of
phenomena--how phenomena follow phenomena in
endless procession, how every fact has had its ante

cedent fact, and every fact must have its consequent

fact. This part of science is called evolution, and by
this expression scientific men mean to be understood
that phenomena go on in endless consequences, and
that every act has been preceded by some other act,
and that every act will be followed by some other
act ; that the causes of all of the phenomena of the
universe that we wish to explain in a system of phil
                    Evolution.                                         221

osophy run back into the infinite past ; that the con
sequences of all of the phenomena which we may
now observe in the universe will run on into the in

finite future. This is evolution.

The statement now given of the three great sys

tems of philosophy  is,perhaps, sufficient for our
                            it
purposes this evening, and remains for us to point
out the part contributed to scientific philosophy by

Darwin, whom we mourn to-night.

When Darwin rose as a light in the scientific

world, scientific philosophers had already discovered

that the philosophic method of research should in

clude the discernment, discrimination, and classifica

tion of facts. At that time the scientific men of the

world were engaged chiefly in the collection and
arrangement of facts. To some extent they were

engaged in discovering their relations of sequence.

Important and interesting sequences had been dis

covered in the vast realm of astronomy other inter
;
                                                                ;

                                                                    ;
esting sequences of facts had been discovered in the

realm of geology some interesting sequences of

facts had been discovered in the realm of human

history. In the realm of biology, in plant and ani

mal life, the order of succession of facts, the method

of evolution, had not been discovered yet many

men were thinking on the subject, many men search

ing for the method and course of biologic evolution.

The facts relating thereto were partly known, and

the course and laws of biologic evolution were dimly

discerned.

   It remained for Darwin to demonstrate the laws

of biologic evolution, and the course of the progress
222 Charles Darwin.

of life upon the globe. This he has done in a man
ner so masterly that there lives not in the world a

working biologist, a scientific man engaged in this
field of research, who has not, directly or indirectly,
accepted his great conclusions, and the larger body
of biologists have accepted them directly.

   Let us now go back to the statement that, prior to
the time of Darwin, scientific men engaged in re
searches relating to vegetal and animal life were
occupied chiefly in the discernment, discrimination,

and classification of facts.

    Botanists and zoologists were engaged in describ
ing species, and classifying species, and this did not
always enlist the highest talent ; and naturalists had
become wearied with discussions over minute differ
ences and obscure resemblances, the origin and
meaning of which were not understood.

   The discovery, largely made by Darwin, of the
laws of succession, or genesis, gave to this depart
ment of scientific research a wonderful impetus, and
since that day thousands of men have sprung up
throughout the civilised world to take part in
biologic research.

   In this field the greatest talent of the latest time
is absorbed. The philosophy of biology satisfies
the reason. In the universe of life, system is dis
covered, and biologists see visions of the origin of
living beings, and dream dreams of the destiny of
living beings.

   Had philosophers discovered that the generations
of living beings were degenerating, they would have
discovered despair. Had they discovered that life
                 Biologic Evolution.         223

moves by steps of generations in endless circles --

is
            is
               a

                                     is,
                                                   is
                                                           : is

                                                                                                                                                                ;
that what has been and what shall be, and there

no progress, the gift of science to man would have

been worthless.

The revelation of science this Every generation

in life  step in progress to a higher and fuller life

science has discovered hope.
   Darwin demonstrated what others vaguely be

lieved or dimly saw-- the course and methods of

biologic evolution. Darwin gave hope to philosophy.
   The universe of phenomena may be classed in

three great categories
         I.
                                          :
                Physical.

         II. Biologic.
         III. Anthropologic.

Physical phenomena may be thrown into three

categories: 1. Molar or mechanical physics; 2.

Stellar or astronomical physics              Molecular physics.
;
                       ;
                                                                       ;

                                                     3.

                                                                                    ;

                                                            3.

                                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                              :
Biologic phenomena may be classed as . Vege

tal 2. Animal.
   Anthropologic phenomena may be classed as I.

Sociologic 2. Philologic                     Philosophic 4, Psy

chologic.

   To the discovery of the methods and course of

physical evolution i.e. the order of succession in

physical phenomena, many great men have con
tributed. Among these, Newton stands pre-eminent.

   The discovery of biologic evolution, i.e., the suc

cession of phenomena in vegetal and animal life,                                                                                                 is

in like manner due to the researches of many men,
but among these Darwin stands pre-eminent. By

his discoveries the discoveries of all other biologists
224 Charles Darwin.

have been correlated and woven into systematic
philosophy. The methods and course of anthropo
logic evolution have yet to be systematised. Import
ant discoveries have been made, but this portion of
philosophy is yet inchoate.

                            Working Hypotheses.

   But Darwin's investigations have not ended re
search or completed philosophy. He brought scien
tific men to the frontiers of truth, and showed them
a path across the border. Yet more than this he
did. He pointed out one of the fundamental meth
ods of research. Before his time philosophers talked
about deductive methods and inductive methods.
Darwin has taught us that both are fruitless.

   Deductive methods are the logical or metaphysical
methods which have been already described, by
which men arrive at conclusions from general prin
ciples supposed to be innate in the human mind.
The vanity of these methods has already been char
acterised.

   Inductive methods have found their best expres
sion in the Baconian philosophy. By inductive
methods men are to collect facts, unbiased by opin
ions or preconceived theories. They are to gather
the facts, put them together, arrange and combine
them to find higher and still higher generalisations.

   But there are facts and facts-- facts with value, and
facts without value. The indiscriminate gathering
of facts leads to no important discoveries. Men
might devote themselves to counting the leaves on
the trees, the blades of grass in the meadows, the
Working Hypotheses.                  225

grains of sand on the sea-shore ;--they might weigh

each one, and measure each one, and go on collecting
such facts until libraries were filled, and the minds
of men buried under their weight, and no addition
would be made to philosophy thereby. There must
be some method of selecting, some method of de
termining what facts are valuable and what facts are
trivial. The fool collects facts ; the wise man selects

them.

   Amid the multiplicity of facts in the universe, how
does the wise man choose for his use? The true

scientific man walks not at random through the
world, making notes of what he sees ; he chooses
some narrow field of investigation. Within this field

he reviews what is already known, and becomes con

versant with the conclusions already reached. He
then seeks to discern more facts in this field, and to

make more careful discriminations therein, and then

to make more homologic classifications ; and, finally,
more thoroughly to discover the complexity of

sequences.

   If he attain to success in doing all this his investi

gations are always suggested by some hypothesis--
some supposition of what he may discover. He may
find that his hypothesis is wrong, and discover some
thing else ; but without an hypothesis he discovers

nothing. A scientific man taking up a subject re

views the facts that are known, and imagines that they
lead to conclusions that have not yet been reached
by others. His imagination may lead him quite
astray, yet he follows and says " Now this be
true, then there must be certain yet undiscovered

               15
it,

                                  :

                                if
226 Charles Darwin.

facts," and he seeks for them. He may find that

which he seeks, or he may find something quite

other. If he be an honest thinker, a true philoso

pher, it matters not to him. He substantiates his

hypothesis or constructs a new one. If such hy

pothesis leads to many new discoveries scientific

if
   it

                     it,
                                    it
men accept and call a working hypothesis, and

still leads on to discovery scientific men call a
                                        it
theory; and so working hypotheses are developed   it

into theories, and these theories become the funda

mental principles, the major propositions of science,

the widest generalisations of philosophy.
   Sometimes the inductive method-- the Baconian

method -- said to have been modified or improved
is

by the addition of the method by working hypothe

ses, and then modern scientific methods are said to

be inductive. With this understanding,  may be

said that the deductive methods of metaphysics have

been supplanted by the inductive methods of science.

It would, perhaps, be better to say that deductive

and inductive methods have been superseded by the

method of working hypotheses.

Working hypotheses are the instruments with

which scientific men select facts. By them, reason

and imagination are conjoined, and all the powers of

the mind employed in research.

Darwin, more than any other man, has taught the

use of working hypotheses. Newton and Darwin
are the two great lights of science -- the Gemini in

the heavens of philosophy stars whose glory the
                                        ;

                                                                          is

brightest of all.

There be good folk in the world who love mytho
The Red Mans Philosophy.  227

logic and metaphysic philosophy -- one or both. In
the ears of such the praise of Darwin is not sweet
music. Let me beg of such who may be here to

consider that we come to-night to praise our dead,
and to tell of our love for the man who gave us hope.

You and I cannot contend over an open grave, and
in my soul I find no cause for angry contention

elsewhere. Every man's opinions are honest opin
ions --his opinions are the children of his own reason

ing, and he loves his offspring.

   When I stand before the sacred fire in an Indian

village and listen to the red man's philosophy, no

anger stirs my blood. I love him as one of my
kind. He has a philosophy not unlike that of my

forefathers, though widely separated from my own,

and I love him as one near akin.
   Among civilised men I find no one who has not a

philosophy in part common with my own ; and of
those smaller portions of our philosophies which

are not alike, I see no cause why anger should
be kindled between us thereby. They and I are

bound together by the same cord of honesty in

opinion.

   In Darwin's writings I find no word of reproach.

Denunciation and ridicule, greater than any other
man has endured, never kindled a spark of hatred in
his breast. Wrapped in the mantle of his philosophy
he received no wounds, but lived with and loved

mankind.

   Let us not gird science to our loins as the warrior
buckles on his sword. Let us raise science aloft as
the olive branch of peace and the emblem of hope.
228 Charles Darwin.

             DARWIN'S WORK IN ENTOMOLOGY.

                          BY CHARLES V. RILEY, PH.D.,

Hon. Curator of Entomology, National Museum ; Entomologist of the Agricultural
                                                          Department.

   Charles Robert Darwin was one of the original
members of the London Entomological Society, of
whom only six are yet living. He always took the
keenest interest in the science of entomology, and
drew largely from insects for illustrations in support
of the theory with which his name will forever be

associated. Indeed, I have the authority of my late

associate editor of the American Entomologist, Ben
jamin Dann Walsh, who was a classmate of Darwin's,
at Cambridge, that the latter's love of natural history
was chiefly manifested, while there, in a fine collec
tion of insects ; so that, as has been the case with so
many noted naturalists, Darwin probably acquired
from the study of insects that love of nature which
first forever afterward inspired him in his endeavours
to win her secrets and interpret aright her ways !

   Though he has left no descriptive or systematic
work of an entomological character, yet his writings
abound in important facts and observations anent
insects, and no branch of natural science has more
fully felt the beneficial impulse and stimulus of his
labors than entomology. Indeed, the varying condi
tions of life in the same individual or species ; the
remarkable metamorphoses ; the rapid development ;
the phenomena of dimorphism and heteromorphism ;
of phytophagic and sexual variation ; the ready
adaptation to changed conditions, and consequent
             Entomological Works.  229

rapid modification ; the great prolificacy and im

mense number of individuals ; the three distinctive

states of larva, pupa, and imago, susceptible to

modification, as well as other characteristics in in
sects -- render them particularly attractive and useful

to the evolutionist, and the changed aspect which

natural history in general   has assumed since the
publication of the " Origin  of Species " is perhaps

more marked in entomology than in any other

branch, for its author helped to replace ridicule

by reason. During his voyage on the Beagle he col

lected a very large number of interesting species,

especially in Coleoptera, and they formed the basis

of many memoirs by Walker, Newman, and White,

and particularly by G. R. Waterhouse, who named

Odontoscelis Darwinii after him. These memoirs

were published either in the Annals and Magazine

of Natural History, and in the Transactions of the
London Entomological Society, or in various entomo

logical periodicals, and I append a list, which, in this

connection, it is not necessary to read.

  Scattered through his memorable works, a " Jour
nal of Researches into the Natural History and

Geology of   tBthheeeagCloepuunbrotlirusihenesdr'VtshiseittWeitdloe,rdldu"r"iAn(gwhtNhiacethuVriosaylibasegt'sest
of H. M. S.

known by
Voyage round the World "), and " The Origin of

Species by Means of Natural Selection," are many

interesting entomological facts, and in almost every

instance they are illumined by his masterly genius

and his keen, penetrating mind. These are so nu

merous, so varied, and withal so widely dispersed,
230 Charles Darwin.

that I can only make reference, at this time, to a few

of the most important and striking of them.
   He pointed out the great preponderance of phy

tophagous over predaceous species in the tropics as
exemplifying the relation of the insect and plant
worlds, both of which attain their maximum in those

zones. Carabidce are few ; Scavengers and Brachely-
tra very common ; Rhynchophora and Chrysomelidce

astonishingly numerous. (" Journal of Researches,"

etc., p. 34.)

   He showed by minute observations that the insect
faunas of Tierra del Fuego, separated from Patago
nia only by the Straits of Magellan, have nothing in
common, and he discussed the influence of primary
barriers on the distribution of species, as shown in
the marked divergence of the faunas on the eastern
and western slopes of the Cordillera. " We ought
not," he remarks, " to expect any closer similarity
between the organic beings on the opposite sides of
great mountain ranges than on the opposite shores of
the ocean, except for species which have been able to
cross the barrier, whether of rock or salt water."
(Ibid., pp. 326, 327.)

   I believe he was the first to draw attention to the

paucity of insects on islands, and to establish the
principle that the smaller the area, the less favourable
it is for the development of insect life. (Ibid., p. 391.)

   It is a fact of observation that islands predispose

to the apterous condition among insects, a fact that
is especially noticeable in Kerguelen's Land, as ob
served by Dr. Hooker, and particularly by our fellow
member, Dr. Kidder. Darwin (" Origin of Species,"
Reasons for Belief.  231

etc., p. 109) first suggested the most plausible reason,
viz. : that the indiscriminate use of wings might
prove injurious to an insular species by tempting it
out to sea and to destruction, so that the loss of the

power of flight is a positive advantage to the species.
The argument against this explanation, viz.: that
insular species should be gifted with strong powers
of flight to fortify themselves against being blown to
sea in heavy gales, has little force, because either
requirement may be fulfilled ; and, in reality, where
flight is absolutely necessary, as in the majority of

Lepidoptera, and flower-frequenting Coleoptera, the

wing capacity, in insular species, is actually increased,
or correlated with a diminution of bulk ; whereas, in

those less dependent on aerial progression, natural
selection would decrease wing-power, and there
would be just such a correlated increase of bulk as is

generally the case.
   The principle he laid down, that the accidental

introduction of organic beings amongst others to
whose interest they are hostile, may be a powerful
means of keeping the latter in check, and of finally
destroying them, finds vivid exemplification in in

sects, as I have shown in discussing those imported

into this country.*
   He gave reasons for the belief (now generally

accepted) that the usual gaudy colouring of inter
tropical insects is not related either to the heat or
light of those zones, but rather to the conditions of

existence being generally favourable to life. (" Jour

  * " Second Annual Report on the Insects of Missouri," 1879, pp.

8-13.
232 Charles Darwin.

nal of Researches," etc., p. 381.) He has written
on the phosphorescence of fire-flies, and on the
habits of the larva of one of them --Lamphyris occi-
dentalis. {Ibid., pp. 29, 30.) He discussed the food-
habits of stercovorous beetles, with reference to the
origination of a new habit and the power of adapta
tion to new conditions. {Ibid., p. 490, note.)

  At Port St. Julian, Patagonia, he found a species

of Tabanus extremely common, and remarks : " We
here have the puzzle that so frequently occurs in
the case of mosquitoes --on the blood of what do
these insects commonly feed ? The guanaco is
nearly the only warm-blooded quadruped, and is
found in quite inconsiderable numbers compared
with the multitude of flies." He has discussed the
question of hibernation of insects, and shown that it
is governed by the usual climate of a district, and
not by absolute temperature. {Ibid., pp. 98, 99.) He
gave the first true explanation of the springing
power of the Elatcridcz when laid on their backs,
showing how much depended on the elasticity of

the sternal spine. {Ibid., p. 31.) He was the first, I

believe, to record the exceptional powers of running
and of making sound, in a butterfly, viz., Ageronia
feronia of Brazil.

   In his most famous work he lays stress particu

larly on the following facts and generalisations, for
which he draws from insects : the individual differ
ences in important characters ; the remarkable man
ner in which individuals of the same brood often
differ, dimorphism and trimorphism being only the
extreme exaggeration of this fact ; the difficulty of
Insect Life.  233

distinguishing between species and varieties ; that

geographical races are local forms completely fixed
and isolated ; that representative species are better
distinguished from each other than local forms and
sub-species ; that the species of large genera vary
more frequently than those of small genera, and

that specific differences in the former are often ex

ceedingly small ; that fecundity does not determine
the rate of increase ; that the struggle for life is
most severe between species of the same genus ;
that secondary sexual characters are generally dis
played in the same parts of the organisation in
which the species of the same genus differ from
each other ; that distinct species present analogous
variations ; that similar structures are often inde

pendently developed ; the varying importance for
classification of the same important organ in the
same group of beings ; that analogical or adaptive
resemblances are misleading for classification ; that

the great frequency of mimicry among insects is
associated with their small size and general defence-
lessness, as no species furnished with a sting, or
other defensive property, is known to mimic other
species ; the importance of relative position or

connection in homologous parts ; the remarkable
changes of structure effected during development ;
that adaptation to the conditions of life in the in
sect larva is just as perfect and beautiful as in the
adult animal, and that, consequently, larvae of dif

ferent orders are often similar, and larvae belonging
to the same order often very dissimilar ; that larval

and pupal stages are acquired through adaptation,
234 Charles Darwin.

and not through inheritance ; that rudimentary or
gans plainly declare their origin and meaning.

   Finally he brought together a large body of
interesting facts in entomology, bearing on the de
velopment and perpetuation of mimicry, and of
secondary sexual characters --all more or less ex
plicable by, and furnishing convincing argument for,
the general theory of natural selection ; while he
freely acknowledged that he found among insects
facts that seemed to be most fatal to the theory.
This is especially the case in social insects where the
colony contains neuters and sterile females which
often differ widely in instinct and in structure from
the sexual forms, and yet cannot propagate their
kind. This is not the place to enter into a discus

sion of the subject, and I will simply remark that

there are reasons for the belief that, in his candour,
he has been led to exaggerate the difficulties in this

case.

   But Darwin's chief investigations into insect life
were in its relations to plant life, and his work " On
the Various Contrivances by Which British and For
eign Orchids are Fertilized by Insects, and on the
Good Effect of Crossing," as also that on " Insecti
vorous Plants," are monuments of skill, industry,
and lucid exposition.

   Entomologists had often noticed the pollen masses
of orchids attached to the proboscis of various moths,
and in commenting upon the fact had pronounced
it " curious." Darwin in this, as in so many other
cases, gave meaning to the curious, and brought
light out of darkness.
PaUzontobgy.  235

    Before his time we find frequent reference to the

injury caused to plants by insects, and Sprengel,
Gaertner, Herbert, and others had shown that in

sects were also, in many cases, beneficial and even
necessary to plants ; the color, form, odor, secretions,

and general structure of which have reference to
their necessary insect pollinisers.

   Yet their writings had produced but slight im
pression outside of a limited circle. It remained for
Darwin to impress the world with a broader sense
of the actual interrelation between the two, and to
inspire a number of observers in this field in all
parts of the globe, who are now constantly adding

to the rich store of facts we already possess on the

subject. I need only refer to the work of Hooker,
Bennet, Axell, Delpino, Hildebrand, H. Miiller, and

others abroad, and to that of Dr. Gray and Mr.
Wm. Trelease at home.

   The importance of insects as agents in cross-fertil
isation, was never properly appreciated till after
Darwin's remarkable work on Primula and his re

searches on Orchids, Linum, Lythrum, etc.
   He established the principle that " nature abhors

close fertilization," and though some less careful
observers in this country -- exaggerating the import
ance of their isolated and often inaccurate observa
tions ---have opposed his views, the scientific world
has been convinced alike by the force of his logic as
by the eloquence of his innumerable facts.

   We all know how palaeontology has verified many
of his anticipations as to missing links being supplied
with increased knowledge of the geological record,
236 Charles Darwin.

and in connection with his work on the fertilisation

of orchids we have a remarkable instance of similar

verification. The nectaries of Angrcecum sesquipedale

were found by him to sometimes reach \ \\ inches in
length,  with  only   the lowest   \\ inches  filled    with
nectar.   He   said  " there must              with     pro-
                                    be moths

bosces capable of extension to a length of between

10 and 11 inches." In Nature for July 17, 1873, or
some years later, Fritz Muller recorded through his

brother, Herman Muller, the finding of a Brazilian

Sphingid having a length of proboscis of 0.25 metres,

or between 10 and 1 1 inches.                work on "
                                              to which
  I cannot do    j"ustwiciethitno  Darwin's             Insec
                                   the time             these
tivorous Plants

remarks have been limited, nor without trenching

on the ground to be covered by Professor Ward. I

must be content to remark, therefore, that he dem

onstrated the new and wonderful fact in physiology

that many plants are capable of absorbing soluble

matter from captured insects, and that they have

special contrivances and sensibilities that facilitate

the capture of their prey : in other words, that

plants actually capture and digest animal food ; for

the secretion of Drosera, and other insectivorous

plants, with its ferment-acid belonging to the acetic

series, resembles the gastric juice of animals with its

pepsin and hydrochloric acid. The fact of absorp

tion demonstrated, it follows that the process would

prove serviceable to plants growing in very poor

soil, and that it would tend to be perfected by

natural selection.

The pleasure Darwin took in observing the hab
Observations of Insects.  237

its and ways of insects and the simple and lucid
manner in which he recorded his observations are fre
quently exemplified in his " Journal of Researches,"
and his account of sundry Brazilian species on page
35, and following, may be consulted as an example.

   In the same way that he has influenced all lines of

thought and investigation, he has influenced ento
mology. We find everywhere in his treatment of

insects the same acute perception, the same candour
and impartiality, the same clearness of expression,
the same aptitude to get at the significance and
bearing of facts observed, as well as the same readi
ness to deduce a theory, which is only equalled by
the devotion with which he clings to the truth,
whether favourable or unfavourable to the theory.

   In the light of Darwinism, insect structure and

habit have come to possess a new significance and

a deeper meaning. It has, in short, proved a new

power to the working entomologist who, for all
time, will hold in reverence the name of him who,

more than any other man, helped to replace scholas
ticism by induction, and who gave to the philosophic
study of insects as great an impetus as did Linnaeus
to their systematic study.

   In his private life Darwin has given us a lesson of
patience, courtesy, and consideration, that will be best
appreciated by those who have the misfortune to be
endowed with more irritable and aggressive natures.

   As the above account of Darwin's entomological
work is doubtless rather uninteresting to most of

those gathered here, I will close, by request, with a

few personal impressions.
2 38

   I have had the pleasure, on two occasions, of visit

ing Darwin at his invitation. On the first occasion,

in the summer of 1 87 1 , I was accompanied by Mr. J.

Jenner Wier, one of his life-long friends and admir
ers. From Mr. Wier I first learned that Darwin was,
in one sense, virtually a confirmed invalid, and that
his work had been done under physical difficulties
which would have rendered most men of indepen
dent means vapid, self-indulgent, and useless members
of society.

  It is eloquent of the indomitable will and perse

verance of the man that, during the long voyage on
the Beagle, he suffered so from sea-sickness that he
never fully recovered from the shock to his system,
and could not again venture on the ocean. He had,
in fact, on his return from the voyage, to go through
a long course of hydropathic treatment. We also
now know that though he had suffered much for
some months past from weakness and recurring fits
of faintness, and had been confined to the house, yet
as late as Tuesday evening before the day of his
death, at 4 P.M., Wednesday, he was in his study
examining a plant which he had had brought to him,
and that he read that night before retiring, while as
late as the 16th of March, he read two papers on
special botanical subjects before the Linnaean Society.

   The village of Down is fifteen miles south-east of
London, four miles from Orpington station on the
South-Eastern Railway. The country is among the
most beautiful agricultural suburbs of London, and

I shall never forget the impression of peaceful, quiet

seclusion experienced, as we drove from the station
His Appearance.                                239

and finally through one of those characteristic Eng

lish lanes, just wide enough for one vehicle, and
worn down several feet below the general level -- the

sense of confinement being enhanced by the lux

uriant hedge on either side. This lane skirts the

orchard wall for one hundred yards and then goes in

front of the house, from which it is separated by a

grass plot and flint wall overgrown with ivy.

The Darwin residence is a plain, but spacious, old-

fashioned house of the style so common in England,

and which, with the surrounding well-kept grounds

and conservatory, conveys that impression of ease

and comfort that belong to the average home of the
                            A noticeable feature
English country-gentleman.

is a bow window extending through three stories

and covered with trellis and creepers. In Darwinian

phrase, the environment was favourable for just such

calm study and concentration as he found necessary

to his health and his researches.

  Upon introduction I was at once struck with his
stature (which was much above the average, and I

should say fully six feet), his ponderous brow, and
long white beard -- the moustache being cut on a line

with the lips and slightly brown from the habit of

snuff-taking. His deep-set eyes were light blue-gray.

He made the impression of a powerful man re

duced somewhat by sickness. The massive brow

and forehead show in his later photographs, but not

so conspicuously as in a life-size head of him when

younger, which hung in the parlour.

   In the brief hours I then spent at Down the pro

verbial modesty and singular simplicity and sweet
240 Charles Darwin.

ness of his character were apparent, while the delight
he manifested in stating facts of interest was excelled
only by the eagerness with which he sought them from
others, whether while strolling through the green
house or sitting round the generously spread table.

   Going to him as a young entomologist with no
claim on his favour, he seemed to take delight in

manifesting appreciation. I had occasion, in my
"Third Report on the Insects of Missouri," pub

lished in the spring of that year, to discuss the ques
tion of natural selection in its bearings on mimicry,
as exemplified in two of our North American but
terflies (Danais archippus and Limenitis disippus).

This report I found in his study with many leaves

turned down, and he appeared to take especial
pleasure in conveying a sense of his appreciation of
particular parts.

  The few letters which I received from Darwin were

in his own handwriting, which was rapid and better

calculated to save time than to facilitate the reading.

I take the liberty of reproducing here the first and

last as indicating his attitude toward all workers in
the field of natural science, however humble or how

ever undeserving of his praise they may have been ;
and this generous trait in his character will explain,
in some measure, the stimulus and encouragement
which he gave to investigators :

                     Down,

June i, [1871.]      Beckenham, Kent.

  My Dear Sir : I received some little time ago

your " Report on Noxious Insects," and have now

read the whole with the greatest interest. There is

a vast number of facts and generalisations of value
       Letters to Mr. Riley.                            241

to me, and I am struck with admiration at your

power of observation. The discussion on mimetic

insects seems to me particularly good and original.
Pray accept my cordial thanks for the instruction

and interest which I have received.

   What a loss to natural science our poor mutual
friend, Walsh, has been : it is a loss ever to be

deplored.

   Pray believe me, with much respect,
                                 Yours, very faithfully,

                                                 Ch. Darwin.

                                                Down,

September 28, 1881.                Beckenham, Kent.

My Dear Mr. Riley : I must write half-a-dozen
                                                I have
lines  "toFusratyhehrowNotmeusc"h   interested           been by
your                               on Pronuba,  which   you were

so kind as to send me. I had read the various
criticisms, and though I did not know what answer
would be made, yet I felt full of confidence in the
result, and now I see I was right. . . .

  If you make any further observation on Pronuba
it would, I think, be well worth while for you to ob

serve whether the moth can or does occasionally

bring pollen from one plant to the stigma of a

distinct one ; for I have shown that the cross-fertili

sation of the flowers on the same plant does very

little good, and, if I am not mistaken, you believe

that the Pronuba gathers pollen from the same

flower which she fertilises.*

   * This is a misapprehension. Pronuba is an effectual cross-fertiliser,
running from flower to flower, and often flying from raceme to raceme
with one and the same load of pollen. The omitted passages in this
letter refer to the work of a gentleman still living.

         16
242 Charles Darwin.

   What interesting and beautiful observations you

have made on the metamorphoses of the grasshopper-

destroying insects !

                       Believe me, my dear sir,
                                          Yours sincerely,

                                                Ch. Darwin.

   My own experience in this regard is the common
experience, for an interest in natural science was an
open sesame to his generous soul. His considera

tion, without aggression, was the secret of the grati

tude and respect which all felt who had the honour

to know him, either personally or through corre

spondence.

   His approval of the work of others was coupled

with a depreciation of his own, which was very
marked on the occasion of my second visit to Eu

rope, in 1875, when I crossed the ocean with his son

Leonard    on his way from    PthlaentTsra" nwsaits  of Venus ex
pedition.    " Insectivorous                         just finished,

and Darwin was worn and in feeble health, staying, in
fact, at Abinger Hall for rest. He was quite dis

gusted with the book, to use his son's expression,

and doubted whether it could prove of sufficient

interest, with its long and dry records of experiments,

to be read by anyone.

                      DARWIN AS A BOTANIST.

                      By LESTER F. WARD, A.M., LL.D.,

    Hon. Curator Department of Fossil Plants, U. S. National Museum ; Paleo-
                                    botanist U. S. Geological Survey.

   Appointed by the committee to furnish a brief
sketch on this occasion of the contributions of
             As a Botanist.                                         243

Charles Darwin to the science of plants, I have pur

posely chosen the title, " Darwin as a Botanist," in

order to emphasise the contrast which may be

drawn between different classes of botanists, and to

do what I can to accustom the public mind to asso

ciate with the terms botanist and botany certain great

fields of investigation which are now rarely sug

gested by these words.

  If I had entitled my paper : Darwin's researches
into the phenomena of the vegetable kingdom, I

fear it might not have occurred to some of you that

this great investigator was a botanist, as he is not

generally known as such. Yet I fail to see why the

science of botany is not fully entitled to receive its

share of the dignity and the lustre which Darwin's

investigations have reflected upon biology in general.

The popular idea of botany, however, is very dif

ferent from this. Not ignorant people alone, but

scientific men as    well,  fieplldacbeotaanllistbsot"anainsdts  "  under
two general classes      "                                          closet

                       :

botanists."

The field botanist is one who, being passionately

fond of plants, and having mastered the rudiments

of botany and become familiar with the names and

classification of plants, searches the country for new

and rare species, and for new localities for old ones,

and makes large collections. Success in these ob

jects is his triumph, and occasionally becoming the

proud discoverer of hitherto unknown forms of

vegetable life, he finds the scientific world quick

and generous in awarding him due credit.

The closet botanist is one who, disdaining the
244 Charles Darwin.

boyish pursuit of flowers, devotes himself to the
study of the characters of plants as revealed by the
herbarium specimens which the field botanist so
copiously furnishes, and by which method he, too,
can discover " new species," and obtain prompt rec
ousgenfiutlionse. rviTceheocflo"seret vbisointagn"istintpreicrafotermsfatmhieliefsurtahnedr
genera of plants, unravelling the entanglements of
previous authors, and making such changes in the
classification and names as are best suited to secure
the maximum personal credit.

  I need not tell this audience that Charles Darwin
belonged to neither of these classes of botanists. A

lover of nature, he yet never wasted precious time
in the idle pursuit of rarities. Thoroughly familiar
with the distinctive characters upon which botanical
classification rests, he yet never pursued to any
marked extent the investigation of specimens from

the hortus siccus. I doubt whether a single species

of plant was ever named after him by reason of his
having either discovered it in a wild state or de
tected its specific distinctness by the examination of

its characters. I even doubt whether he possessed

an herbarium in the accepted sense of the word.
   And yet this man has probably contributed more

to our real knowledge of plants than any other single

botanist.

   In what, then, have Darwin's botanical investiga

tions consisted ?
   There is a little French book entitled "Voyage

d'un Botaniste dans sa Maison," a title which, allow
ing for the characteristic hyperbole of the French
Study of Plants.  245

tongue, suggests the general nature of Darwin's
botanical studies. His researches were conducted in

his laboratory, in pots of plants at his window, in
his aquarium, in his greenhouse, in his garden. He
worked with instruments of precision, recorded his
observations with exactness, and employed every
mechanical device for making his results reveal im
portant truths of which the genius of man would

seem to be capable.

   Darwin looked upon plants as living things. He
did not study their forms so much as their actions.
He interrogated them to learn what they were doing.

   The central truth, towards which his botanical in

vestigations constantly tended, was that of the uni
versal activity of the vegetable kingdom -- that all
plants move and act. He has, so to speak, animated
the vegetable world. He has shown that whichever
kingdom of organic nature we contemplate, to live
is to move.

   He blandly rebukes the vulgar notion that "plants

are distinguished from animals by not having the
power of movement," and still more modestly says
that " plants acquire and display this power only
when it is of some advantage to them." But is
this the whole ? Do animals display this power
except when it is of some advantage to them ?

Certainly not.
   Darwin shows us that certain parts of all plants

are at all times in motion ; not merely the molecu
lar activities of their tissues and of the living pro
toplasm in their cells, but organised movement of
parts. Every leaf, every tendril, every rootlet, pos
246 Charles Darwin.

sesses the power of spontaneous movement, and
under nearly all circumstances actually exercises

that power.
    There are a great many distinct kinds of move

ment, depending in all cases upon the special ad
vantages thereby gained to the plant. The laws
under which these movements take place have re
ceived from him an admirable terminology. Most
of them are conditioned either by light, by gravity,
by radiation, or by insect agency.

    We thus have of the first class : heliotropism, or
movement towards the light ; apheliotropism, or
movement from the light ; diaheliotropism, or move
ment at right angles to the source of light ; and
paraheliotropism, embracing such movements as
screen the plant from excess of light.

   To the second class belong : geotropism, or move
ment towards the earth or into the soil ; apogeo-
tropism, or movement contrary to the force of
gravity ; and diageotropism, or movement at right
angles to the force of gravity.

    The third class embraces the so-called nyctotropic
movements of plants by which they appear to sleep,
and which prove to be devices for the prevention of
excessive radiation of the plants' heat.

    Under the fourth class fall all those wonderful
movements which aid the plant in preventing self-
and securing cross-fertilisation, a subject of the most
absorbing interest, and of which you have already
listened to so able a presentation by Professor Riley
from the point of view of the entomologist.

    But Darwin's great service has been to show that
Circumnutation.  247

these varieties of activity are simply modes in
which inherent and spontaneous activities manifest

themselves under these varying external influences.
   His preliminary investigations into the nature of

these innate powers of movement were directed to
that large class of plants known as twiners and
climbers, whose revolving motions were so thor
oughly described in his work on " Climbing Plants."

It was here that he laid the foundation for those

later studies which eventually resulted in that great
work, almost his last, on the " Power of Movement
in Plants." In this work he demonstrates by an
enormous induction that the ample sweeps of the

twining plant are but the most obvious manifesta
tions of a class of phenomena which are common to

the entire vegetable kingdom.
   Amid the varied forms of movement which plants

present, Darwin has succeeded in finding one funda
mental and generic one to which every other may
be referred. To this universal form of plant activity
he gives the name "circumnutation." Not only
twining stems and tendrils, but parts of flowers, tips
of growing shoots, caps of penetrating roots and

rootlets, radicles, epicotyls, cotyledons, and even

full-grown leaves, are incessantly describing circles,
ellipses, and other more or less regular geometrical
figures ; and he conclusively shows that it is out of
this primary form of activity that all the more

specialised forms already mentioned have been de

veloped. All movements of the parts of plants are

thus to be interpreted as modified forms of this
innate periodic circumnutation which is common to
248 Charles Darwin.

all plant life. Such modifications are always in the

direction of the plant's advantage, and may be so

great as to become difficult of recognition as forms

of circumnutation.

   I need not labour to convince you that any modi

fication which is an advantage to the plant will be

secured by the process of natural selection. It is the

glory of the great genius whose labours we are here

to commemorate to have demonstrated this truth to

the entire satisfaction of the united scientific world.

Darwin has actually solved the great problem of

phytology, so long supposed to be incapable of solu

tion, viz.: Why does the root grow downward and

the stem upward ? Briefly and roughly stated, the

answer to this question is that, as the bursting seed

pushes out its two germinal points these circumnu-

tate from the first, and thus explore their surround
                                                       To
ings for the means of benefiting  "thpeercpeliavnet."
employ Darwin's own word, they                         the

advantage that would result from the penetration of

the soil on the one hand, and from the ascent into

the free air and sunlight on the other, and through
the pre-Darwinian law of the " physiological division

of labour," the one becomes geotropic and the other
heliotropic -- the one develops into a radicle and

then into a root, while the other develops into an

epicotyl and then into a stem.

  I will only add to the thoughts already presented,

that Darwin's discovery of the existence in all plants

of an innate and spontaneous mobility belonging to

them as forms of organic life possesses an important

ulterior significance.
Tendency to Vary.  249

   The law of natural selection, as a fundamental

process, has long since passed the stage of discussion.
But there has always remained one unsettled ques
tion lying at its very base, which Darwin himself
admitted to be an open one. That question con

cerns the cause itself of variation. It is granted

that, admitting the tendency to vary, all the results
claimed for natural selection must follow ; but many

declare that, in this very tendency to vary, there is a
mystery as great as the mystery of life itself.

   It is only in this work on the " Power of Move

ment in Plants " that Darwin has really assailed this
last fortress of supernaturalism. Not that he has
avowed any such purpose, for of this he would have

been incapable, but so skilfully and so powerfully
has he marshalled the facts that the conclusion fol

lows without being stated. No one can doubt that
he perceived this, and I, for one, am convinced that
he saw it from afar, and that it was the great end of
his labours ; but with his characteristic wisdom he has

declined to invoke the odium theologicum, correctly
judging that the truth must ultimately assert itself.

    The tendency to vary, then, is a mechanical result
of the proved fact of universal movement coupled
with the admitted law of natural selection. By

means of the former all plants and growing parts of
plants are perpetually exploring their immediate
surroundings in search, as it were, for conditions
favourable to development. By means of the latter
they are able to avail themselves of such favourable
conditions when found. Nothing further than this
is required to complete the natural explanation of all
                       Charles Darwin.

the phenomena presented by the organic world, and
thus, at last, the whole domain of biology is eman
cipated from teleological fetters, and placed on the
high plane of rational investigation.

   In conclusion, let me simply say that, while we
can but deeply mourn the irreparable loss which
science has sustained in the death of Charles Dar
win, we have still the highest grounds for congratu
lation in the fact that he lived to complete that
great work which, next to the " Origin of Species,"

will, I firmly believe, be awarded by posterity the

highest place, viz. : " The Power of Movement in
Plants " ; for, while the former auspiciously opened
the great debate by stating the profoundest of all
biological problems, the latter has fittingly closed the
argument by answering the last objection.

 DARWIN ON THE EXPRESSION OF THE EMOTIONS.

                               By FRANK BAKER, M.D.

   From the tendency of the imagination to magnify
the unknown and remote, arises a popular error that
to attain eminence a man of science must be able to
gather facts from great distances -- from the sources
of the Nile, and from polar snows. But the near and
commonplace are subject to the same laws as the
atoms of interstellar space, and true scientific insight
may discover in the very dust under our feet secrets
hitherto concealed.
tlaiorDngsearr"waiisnnd'csobnwettoitnrekur-okuunpsoownwnitthhterae"natdEisxespuropenpslsetihmoenen"otaDfretyhsecetEonmthooisf
                  Emotional Expression.                 251

Man." As with other matter bearing directly upon

the development hypothesis, its publication was de

ferred as long as possible, in order that the evidence

might be fully weighed. Projected in 1838, it was

not published until thirty-five years later. One class

of objections to the hypothesis was not considered

in the main work. It was generally held that, by his

emotional expression, man was widely separated

from the lower animals. The eminent anatomist,

Duchenne, who remains to-day the best authority on

muscular movements, merely expressed the views

of the time when he stated that no cause could be
                                                        " divine
faasnstigansyed"  for facial expression,   except  the
                  of the Great Artificer.

Having projected his work, how does Darwin pro

ceed ? From the gentlemen who have preceded me
you have learned of his methods. To test the truth

of his conceptions he commences a series of most

minute and careful observations, omitting nothing
within his reach. His most important field is that

which is nearest ; his own children, his friends and

companions, even the dogs that accompany his daily
walks, come under that powerful scrutiny. Where,

indeed, can we find so perfect an observer? The

calm sanity of his mind keeps him equally aloof from

egotism and from self-depreciation. A fact is a fact,

to be stated with the fairness and openness of per

fect daylight. Here is a man who cares more for the

truth than for himself. The black spot in man's

sunshine, the shadow of himself, seems non-existent

for him. He stands by his work, that is enough ; if
it has worth, well -- if not, still well ; the elemental
252 Charles Darwin.

drift of action and reaction will continue, the out

"Acome will still be good. As Carlyle has said,

noble unconsciousness is in him. He does not en

grave truth on his watch-seal ; no, but he stands by

truth, speaks by works and lives by it."
                   ;
   But not as a fact gatherer do we find him greatest.
Many others have struggled with ant-like toil toit,
                                                                                is
amass piles of facts which, like the ant-heap, remain

but sand after all. Darwin brings to his work an in

forming spirit, the genius of scientific hypothesis.

Breathed upon by this spirit, the dry bones of fact
come together " bone to his bone," the sinews and

the flesh come upon them, they become alive and
stand upon their feet " an exceeding great army."

He searches always for the principles which underlie

the facts and make them possible, realising that the

phenomena, the things which are seen, are temporal

and transitory the things which are not seen, the

cosmical forces which govern and control, are eternal.
   In his examination of the expression of the emo

tions he found that both in man and animals they

can be referred to three general principles which may

be termed habit, antithesis, and nervous overflow.

By habit, or repetition, serviceable movements be
come fixed -- involuntary, or semi-voluntary.
                                                By

antithesis, opposite frames of mind are expressed by

opposite actions, even though those actions may not

be serviceable. The theory of nervous overflow

that unusual quantities of force generated by the

cerebro-spinal system are discharged by unusual

channels of expression when the ordinary channels

are insufficient.
Expressions of Grief.  253

   He finds that emotional expressions are generally
direct consequences of anatomical structure, and
clearly shows the interdependence of anatomy and
physiology. For structure can no more be divorced
from function than matter can be dissociated from

force. All the complex expressions of grief-- from

the twitching of the eyelids and mouth to the shed
ding of tears --he has shown to depend upon the
necessity for preventing engorgement of the eyes

during screaming, an act originally useful solely to
attract attention. The steps by which he arrived at
this conclusion are typical of his method. Starting
first with animals, he finds that their expressions of

grief are much less complex and various than those
of man. They are confined to noises, such as scream

ing, barking, whining, in higher forms accompanied

by changes in facial expression, particularly by con
traction of the muscles surrounding the eye. There
is a physiological necessity for this, as otherwise the

expiratory effort caused by screaming might engorge
and rupture the small ocular blood-vessels. By press
ing on the lachrymal gland this causes, in some of
the higher animals, a flow of tears. What at first
was accidental, merely occasioned by the proximity
of the gland, becomes at last habitual, and the nerv
ous force automatically follows the line of its accus
tomed action, causing a flow of tears after emotional

excitement, even though no screaming take place.
The correctness of this view is supported by the fact
that infants do not shed tears until several weeks

old, although they scream violently. The functional
activity of the lachrymal gland, in connection with
254 Charles Darwin.

grief, is, therefore, later in phylogenetic develop

ment. The laws of heredity and adaptation are

found to be operating here, as elsewhere, in the

domain of life ; the supposed gap between the emo

tions of man and of other animals is successfully

bridged over, and another anthropocentric fallacy is

consigned to the limbo of ignorant superstitions.

Many expressions of the lower emotions are found

to be disfiguring vestiges of acts useful to lower

animals for offence and defence, or for obtaining
food. These survive -- relics of the previous history
of our race-- as rudimentary organs are preserved

long after their use has ceased. The erection of the

hair during fear is remotely derived from the same

cause that makes puss bristle when attacked and the

puff adder swell out when approached. Originally

used for the purpose of exciting fear in an enemy by

an increase of size, it now involuntarily accompanies

the somewhat changed emotion of which some of the

phases are extinct. It is not very rare to find per

sons who can make the hair over the front of the

head bristle at will. Rage is habitually expressed by

uncovering the teeth, which in the lower animals,
                    I

                                    is,
                                            a

                                                                 a
an attempt to frighten their enemies by show of

weapons. This expression may become softened

and modified to express the milder emotions of con

tempt and disdain.  have met lady who has to

perfection the rather rare accomplishment mentioned

by Darwin of drawing up the upper lip in a triangu

lar notch directly over the canine teeth so as to dis

play them alone, usually on one side at                             a  time.

This most expressive gesture of disdain can be per
   Blushing.                      255

formed under the influence of the emotions by manyis,
who cannot do it at will.     is

   Of an opposite class are certain higher expressions,is

which, having arisen later, are not yet entirely fixed.a

aBlushing is one of the most curious of these. It is

not found in infants, and varies greatly in frequency
and amount in adults, accompanying the sentiment
of modesty, almost unknown among animals. The

reddening is usually confined to the face and neck.
Darwin suggests an ingenious explanation for this.
The blood-vessels most exposed to variations of tem
perature acquire the habit of expanding and contract
ing --their vaso-motor nerves become more sensitive.
The chief expression of personal appearance is in the
face ; the attention of the mind therefore, directed

there whenever the emotion of modesty aroused.
This interferes with the ordinary tonic contraction
of the blood-vessels, and an excess of blood suffuses

the surface.

  A remarkable confirmation of Darwin's views

the recent discovery of localised centres in the brain
which control emotional expression, and exist in

animals as well as in man. It may some time be

possible to read the currents and counter-currents of
the brain by means of feature-play with precision
approaching that by which we estimate the force of

    distant battery by the play of a galvanometer
needle. Many phenomena of expression, which

were obscure before this discovery, can now be satis

factorily explained. Among these are the phenom
ena of associated movements. It has been stated
that the variety and complexity of the movements
256 Charles Darwin.

involved in the simple act of walking are such that it
would be impossible ever to perform it were it
necessary to think what had to be done, and weigh
in the judgment the precise amount of force neces
sary to distribute to each muscle at each moment of

the act. It is now known that the cerebral centres

which control the separate muscles put in action are
closely contiguous in the brain, and that they prob
ably intercommunicate and excite each other in a

definite manner, predetermined by habit and hered
ity. The conscious mind has only to set in motion

the subordinate apparatus, when it goes on, and
works out the problem with matchless skill, like the
system of cogs and eccentrics that produce the intri

cate pattern in an engraver's lathe. All have noticed

the uncouth manner in which children and untrained
persons follow with lips and tongue the motions of
their hands when using a tool of any kind. Darwin
ascribes this to unconscious imitation, but it can be
explained more strictly in accordance with his own
principles. The facial muscles are actuated from a

cerebral centre in close proximity to those which
move the arms and hands. In the lower animals this
is necessary, for the mouth is an organ of prehension,
used in strict association with the fore-limbs in seiz
ing prey, and in other acts. As this associated move

ment became strongly fixed by long habit, it survives
with great obstinacy, and though it has not been
useful to the race since the historical period, we have
yet to caution our children not to put their tongues
out when they write.

   My limit of time forces me to conclude this hasty
and imperfect summary. The practical bearing of
The " Power of Leasts."  257

these views is not without importance. Physicians
have always depended greatly upon emotional ex
pression as a means of diagnosis. Unconsciously
the face of the patient reveals his physical state.
Yet too much has been left in the empirical border
land of science. Why a certain pathological state
should be indicated by a definite combination of ex
pressions has not always been clearly shown. To-day
the whole subject is studied from the point of view
of anatomy and physiology. No occult force is ad
mitted, the correlative nerve-supply of muscles and
the effect of excitation of nerve-centres are rationally

investigated.
   Aside from the great special value of the work, of

what tremendous import to the race are Darwin's
deductions ! For he has shown us that our every
thought and act mould our physical frames, and
through them the generations yet unborn, either to
beauty and grace, or to uncouth ugliness and de

formity. As the struggle for existence filled the rocks

with organisms forever extinct, because not for the

highest use, so may we, too, fossilise and outgrow
habits and desires of ignoble birth, ascending by the
" power of leasts," by that wondrous calculus of na
ture, to purer and nobler existence. Darwin has

taught us that the forces which, acting through count

less cycles, have brought us up from formless slime,
now remain in our hands to use for good or ill--

                 " That life is not as idle ore,

                        But iron dug from central gloom,
                        And heated hot with burning fears,
                        And dipt in baths of hissing tears,
                      And battered with the shocks of doom
                      For shape and use."
                       Charles Darwin.

                 A DARWINIAN BIBLIOGRAPHY.

                         BY FREDERICK W. TRUE, M.S.,

      Librarian of the U. S. National Museum, and Curator of Department of

                                                             Mammals.

   The complete bibliography of Darwinism should
contain, not alone the works which emanated from
the busy brain and ready pen of Darwin himself, but
the many other productions which these called into
life. The acquiescences of friends, the objections of
critics, the censures of foes, should all be enrolled in
their proper places as representing the ripples and
counter-ripples in the sea of thought, produced by
the weighty ideas which dropped from the clear

mind of the philosopher. It is not to the merits of
these, however, that I can call your attention, but

only to a few facts relative to the books of Darwin
himself.

  I would not have you suppose, if indeed one

could, after the lucid remarks to which you have

listened, that the faulty --and, I fear, almost indis
cernible --list of published works, which I have

attempted to exhibit before you, reveals more than

a moiety of Darwin's writings.* A large number of

comprehensive papers, pregnant notes, and incisive
queries are contained in those storehouses of pre
cise knowledge, the journals of science, and the pub
lications of learned societies. During more than half
a century, from the beginning of Darwin's career
to its very close, scarcely a year passed in which a

   * The speaker referred to two large scrolls hanging on the lecture-
room walls, upon which were inscribed a list of Darwin's most im
portant publications.
Bibliography.  259

number of articles did not issue from his pen. His
first paper, on the Ova of Flustra, and another of

similar nature were read before the Plinian Society
of Edinburgh in 1825. His last note, on the Dis
tribution of Fresh-Water Bivalves, appeared in Na
ture but a few days before his death.

    During the first twenty-five years the articles

have mostly a geological and zoological bearing, but
later botanical and anthropological subjects come
into prominence. They were contributed to many
publications, including a few American, German, and
French journals. The mass of papers, however, are

to be found in the Proceedings and Transactions
of the Geological Society of London, the Philo
sophical Transactions, the Philosophical Magazine,

the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, and

Nature.

   It is in these papers that we first find the germs

of many of those more elaborate works to which
general attention has been attracted. Thus the
works on the " Origin of Species," the " Fertilisa
tion of Plants by Insects," the "Action of Earth-
Worms," and others, were foreshadowed at a time

considerably antedating their final appearance.
   Darwin seemed to prefer to work out and write

out his ideas alone. Once at least, however, he

shared the toil with his friend, Mr. Wallace, and

later, in several instances, with his sons Francis and

George Darwin.
   Regarding the separately published works of Dar

win there is much of interest from the bibliographi
cal point of view. The conscientiousness with which
260 Charles Darwin.

the author profited by the criticisms of others, revis
ing, improving, and extending his generalisations,
makes each new edition seem like a separate pro
duction. Whole chapters were stricken out and
new ones inserted ; facts of doubtful character were

replaced by others of a more positive nature and
more recent acquisition.

  Time forbids that I should refer to the details of

publication of more than one work. The inquiring
student will find his wants satisfied in the several
lists which have already been published.

   I will give the history of but one work, the most

important of all, the " Origin of Species by Means
of Natural Selection." The first edition of this work
received the signature of the author on November
24, 1859, and was published the same year. The
second edition, which appeared soon after, "was
little more than a reprint of the first." " The third
edition was largely corrected and added to, and the
fourth and fifth still more largely." The sixth edi
tion, which appeared in 1872, was likewise largely
amended, and had reached its twenty thousand in
1878. In the meantime foreign editions and trans
lations began to appear. The American and French
editions at first kept pace with the English, the sec
ond American being from the second English, and
the third French from the third English. The Ger
mans, coming in a little later, published their second
edition from the third English, and their third
from the fourth English one. The last editions in all

these languages were derived, I believe, from the

sixth English one. " The Italian is from the third,
Bibliography.  261

the Dutch and three Russian editions from the sec
ond English editions, and the Swedish from the fifth
English edition."

  At least twelve of the more important works

have been issued in one or more editions in Ger

man and French, and a number in other European

languages as well.
   The sage of Down was undoubtedly honest in his

surprise at the ever-extending circle of his influence.

A wider and more intelligent audience could scarcely

be desired. The number of books in which his

opinions are discussed or alluded to is legion. As
the illustrious Asa Gray has remarked : " Dante

literature and Shakespeare literature have been the
growth of centuries, but Darwinism filled teeming
catalogues during the lifetime of the author."
           APPENDIX.

           LIST OF WORKS BY CHARLES DARWIN.

Narrative of the Surveying Voyages of her Majesty's Ships Adven

ture and Beagle between the years 1826 and 1836, describing their

examination of the southern shores of South America, and the

Beagle's circumnavigation of the globe. Vol. iii., Journal and Re

marks, 1832-36. By Charles Darwin. 8vo. London, 1839.

   Journal of Researches into the Natural History and Geology of the
countries visited during the voyage of H. M. S. Beagle round the

world, under the command of Capt. Fitz-Roy, R. N. 2d edition,

corrected, with additions. 8vo. London, 1845. (Colonial and Home

Library.)

   A Naturalist's Voyage. Journal of Researches, etc. 8vo. London,
i860. [Contains a postscript dated Feb. 1, i860.]

   Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. Edited and superin
tended by Charles Darwin. Part I., Fossil Mammalia, by Richard

Owen. With a Geological Introduction, by Charles Darwin. 4to.

London, 1840.                                 Part II., Mammalia,
   Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle.

by George R. Waterhouse. With a Notice of their Habits and Ranges,

by Charles Darwin. 4to. London, 1839.         Part III., Birds, by
   Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle.

John Gould. An "Advertisement" (2 pp.) states that, in conse
quence of Mr. Gould's having left England for Australia, many

descriptions were supplied by Mr. G. R. Gray of the British Museum.

4to. London, 1 841.

   Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. Part IV., Fish, by

Rev. Leonard Jenyns. 4to. London, 1842.

           263
264 Charles Darwin.

   Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. Part V., Reptiles,
by Thomas Bell. 4to. London, 1843.

   The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs. Being the First

Part of the Geology of the Voyage of the Beagle. 8vo. London,

1842.                                              2d edition. 8vo.

   The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs.

London, 1874.
   Geological Observations on the Volcanic Islands visited during

the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. Being the Second Part of the

Geology of the Voyage of the Beagle. 8vo. London, 1844.
   Geological Observations on South America. Being the Third Part

of the Geology of the Voyage of the Beagle. 8vo. London, 1846.

Geological Observations on the Volcanic Islands and parts of

South America visited during the Voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. 2d

edition. 8vo. London, 1876.
   A Monograph of the Fossil Lepadidae ; or, Pedunculated Cir-

ripedes of Great Britain. 4to. London, 1851. (Palaeontographical

Society.)

   A Monograph of the Sub-class Cirripedia, with Figures of all the

Species. The Lepadidae ; or, Pedunculated Cirripedes. 8vo. Lon

don, 1851. (Ray Society.)
   A Monograph of the Sub-class Cirripedia, with Figures of all the

Species. The Balanidae (or Sessile Cirripedes) ; the Verrucidae, etc.

8vo. London, 1854. (Ray Society.)
   A Monograph of the Fossil Balanidae and Verrucidae of Great

Britain. 4to. London, 1854. (Palaeontographical Society.)
   On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. 8vo. Lon

don, 1859. (Dated October 1, 1859, published November 24, 1859.)
   On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. Fifth

thousand. 8vo. London, i860.

On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. 3d edition,

with additions and corrections. (Seventh thousand.) 8vo. London,
1861. (Dated March, 1861.)

   On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life.       4th
                                                              8vo.
edition, with additions and corrections.  (Eighth thousand.)
London 1866. (Dated June, 1866.)
        Appendix.                                                265

   On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. 5th
edition, with additions and corrections. (Tenth thousand.) 8vo.
London, 1869. (Dated May, 1869.)

   On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the

Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. 6th

edition, with additions and corrections to 1872. (Twenty-fourth

thousand.) 8vo. London, 1882. (Dated January, 1872.)
   On the Various Contrivances by which Orchids are Fertilised by

Insects. 8vo. London, 1862.
   The Various Contrivances by which Orchids are Fertilised by In

sects.  " 2Odne"diitsioonm. itt8evdo.froLmontdheont,itle18.]87.  [In the second edition the
word

The Movements and Habits of Climbing Plants. 2d edition.

8vo. London, 1875. [First appeared in the ninth volume of the
Journal of the Linnaan Society .]

   The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication. 2

vols. 8vo. London, 1868.

The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication. 2d

edition, revised. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1875.
   The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex. 2 vols.

8vo. London, 1871.
   The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex. 2d

edition. 8vo. London, 1874. (In 1 vol.)
   The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals. 8vo. Lon

don, 1872.                                                       in the Vegetable
   Insectivorous Plants. 8vo. London, 1875.
   The Effects of Cross- and Self-Fertilisation

Kingdom. 8vo. London, 1876.
   The Effects of Cross- and Self-Fertilisation in the Vegetable

Kingdom. 2d edition. 8vo. London, 1878.
   The Different Forms of Flowers on Plants of the Same Species.

8vo. London, 1877.
   The Different Forms of Flowers on Plants of the Same Species.

2d edition. 8vo. London, 1880.

The Power of Movement in Plants. By Charles Darwin, assisted

by Francis Darwin. 8vo. London, 1880.

The Formation of VegetSble Mould, through the Action of Worms,

with Observations on their Habits. 8vo. London, 1881.
266 Charles Darwin.

LIST OF BOOKS CONTAINING CONTRIBUTIONS BY
                          CHARLES DARWIN.

A Manual of Scientific Enquiry ; Prepared for the Use of Her

Majesty's Navy ; and Adapted for Travellers in General. Ed. by Sir

John F. W. Herschel, Bart. 8vo. London, 1849. (Section VI.

Geology. By Charles Darwin.)

   Memoir of the Rev. John Stevens              Henslow. By    the Rev. Leonard
Jenyns. 8vo. London, 1862. [In                                  Recollections by
                                                Chapter III.,

C. Darwin.]                     on the " Drift " near
  A
       lJe.tteGrei(k1ie8'7s6)"  Prehistoric Europe."   Southampton, published in
Prof.

Flowers and Their Unbidden Guests. By A. Kerner. With a Pref

atory letter by Charles Darwin. The translation revised and edited

by W. Ogle. 8vo. London, 1878.
   Erasmus Darwin. By Ernst Krause. Translated from the German

by W. S. Dallas. With a Preliminary Notice by Charles Darwin.

8vo. London, 1879.                              By Aug. Weismann. Trans
   Studies in the Theory of Descent.

lated and edited by Raphael Meldola. With a Prefatory Notice by
Charles Darwin. 8vo. London, 1880-- .

The Fertilisation of Flowers. By Hermann MUller. Translated

and edited by D'Arcy W. Thompson. With a Preface by Charles

Darwin. 8vo. London, 1883.

  Mental Evolution in Animals. By G. J. Romanes. With a

Posthumous Essay on Instinct by Charles Darwin, 1883. [Also pub

lished in the Journal of the Linnaan Society, .]

   Some Notes on a curious habit of male humble bees were sent to

Prof. Hermann MUller, of Lippstadt, who had permission from Mr.

Darwin to make what use he pleased of them. After MUller's death

the Notes   were   given        "  by his  son  to Dr. E. Krause, who published
them under   the  title,            Ueber  die  Wege der Hummel-Mannchen " in

his book, ' ' Gesammelte kleinere Schriften von Charles Darwin "(1886).

LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, INCLUDING A SELEC
  TION OF LETTERS AND SHORT COMMUNICATIONS
                   TO SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS.

   Letters to Professor Henslow, read by him at the meeting of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society, held Nov. 16, 1835. 31 pp. 8vo.
Privately printed for distribution among the members of the Society.
                         Appendix.                                      267

Geological Notes Made During a Survey of the East and West Coasts

of South America in the Years 1832, 1833, 1834, and 1835 ; with an

account of a transverse section of the Cordilleras of the Andes between

Valparaiso and Mendoza. [Read Nov. 18, 1835.] Geol. Soc. Proc,
ii., 1838, pp. 210-212.
Soc. Proc, ii., p. 210,    [This Paper  "is  incorrectly  described in  Geol.
                         as follows :        Geological   Notes, etc.,  by F.

Darwin, Esq., of St. John's College, Cambridge : communicated by

Prof. Sedgwick." It is Indexed under C. Darwin.]
   Notes upon the Rhea Americana. ZoOl. Soc. Proc, Part V., 1837,

PP- 35. 36.
   Observations of Proofs of Recent Elevation on the Coast of Chili,

Made During the Survey of H.M.S. Beagle, Commanded by Capt.
Fitz-Roy. [1837.] Geol. Soc. Proc, ii., 1838, pp. 446-449.

  A Sketch of the Deposits Containing Extinct Mammalia in the
Neighbourhood of the Plata. [1837.] Geol. Soc. Proc, ii., 1838,

pp. 542-544-
   On Certain Areas of Elevation and Subsidence in the Pacific and

Indian Oceans, as Deduced from the Study of Coral Formations.
[1837.] Geol. Soc. Proc, ii., 1838, pp. 552-554.

   On the Formation of Mould. [Read Nov. 1, 1837.] Geol. Soc.
Proc, ii., 1838, pp. 574-576 ; Geol. Soc. Trans., v., 1840, pp.

505-510-

   On the Connexion of Certain Volcanic Phenomena and on the For

mation of Mountain-chains and the Effects of Continental Elevations.

[Read March 7, 1838.] Geol. Soc. Proc, ii., 1838, pp. 654-660 ;

Geol. Soc. Trans., v., 1840, pp. 601-632. [In the Society's Trans
actions the wording of the title is slightly different.]

   Origin of Saliferous Deposits. Salt Lakes of Patagonia and La

Plata. Geol. Soc. Journ., ii. (Part II.), 1838, pp. 127-128.            Geogr.

   Note on a Rock Seen on an Iceberg in 16° South Latitude.

Soc. Journ., ix., 1839, pp. 528, 529.

Observations on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, and of Other Parts

of Lochaber in Scotland ; with an attempt to prove that they are of

marine origin. Phil. Trans., 1839, PP- 39-82.
   On a Remarkable Bar of Sandstone off Pernambuco, on the Coast

of Brazil. Phil. Mag., xix., 1841, pp. 257-260.

On the Distribution of the Erratic Boulders and on the Contem

poraneous Unstratified Deposits of South America. [1841.] Geol.
Soc. Proc, iii., 1842, pp. 425-430 ; Geol. Soc. Trans., vi., 1842, pp.

415-452.
268 Charles Darwin.

Notes on the Effects Produced by the Ancient Glaciers of Caernar

vonshire, and on the Boulders Transported by Floating Ice. London

Philosoph. Mag., vol. xxi., p. 180, 1842.

Remarks on the Preceding Paper, in a Letter from Charles Darwin,

Esq., to Mr. Maclaren.     Edinb.   New Phil. Journ., xxxiv., 1843. pp.
47-50. [The ' ' preceding  " paper  is : "On Coral Islands and Reefs as

described by Mr. Darwin. By Charles Maclaren, Esq., F.R.S.E."]
Observations on the Structure and Propagation of the Genus Sagitta.

Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xiii., 1844, pp. 1-6.

Brief Descriptions of several Terrestrial Planariae, and of Some Re

markable Marine Species, with an Account of their Habits. Ann.
and Mag. Nat. Hist., xiv., 1844, pp. 241-251.

   An Account of the Fine Dust which often falls on Vessels in the

Atlantic Ocean. Geol. Soc. Journ., ii., 1846, pp. 26-30.
   On the Geology of the Falkland Islands. Geol. Soc. Journ., ii.,

1846, pp. 267-274.

A review of Waterhouse's "Natural History of the Mammalia."

[Not signed.] Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist., 1847, vol. xix. p. 53.

   On the Transportal of Erratic Boulders from a lower to a higher

level. Geol. Soc. Journ., iv., 1848, pp. 315-323.

On British Fossil Lepadidae.        "GeTohl.is  Soc. Journ., vi. , 1850,  pp.
J.439,440. [The G. S.                                                     the
                           says :               paper was withdrawn by

author with the permission of the Council."]

Analogy of the Structure of Some Volcanic Rocks with that of

Glaciers. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proa, ii., 1851, pp. 17, 18.

On the Power of Icebergs to Make Rectilinear, Uniformly-directed

Grooves across a Submarine Undulatory Surface. Phil. Mag., x.

1855, pp. 96-98.'
   Vitality of Seeds. Gardeners' Chronicle, Nov. 17, 1855, p. 758.
   On the Action of Sea-water on the Germination of Seeds. [1856.]

Linn. Soc. Journ., i., 1857 (Botany), pp. 130-140.

   On the Agency of Bees in the Fertilisation of Papilionaceous

Flowers. Gardeners' Chronicle, p. 725, 1857.
   On the Tendency of Species to Form Varieties ; and on the Per

petuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection.

By Charles Darwin, Esq., F.R.S., F.L.S., and F.G.S., and Alfred
Wallace, Esq. [Read July 1st, 1858.] Journ. Linn. Soc, 1859,
vol. iii. (Zodlogy), p. 45.

   Special titles of C. Darwin's contributions to the foregoing : (i.) Ex
tract from an Unpublished Work on Species by C. Darwin, Esq., con
                      Appendix.                                269

sisting of a portion of a chapter entitled, On the Variation of Or

ganic Beings in a State of Nature ; on the Natural Means of Selection ;

on the Comparison of Domestic Races and true Species, (ii.) Ab
stract of a Letter from C. Darwin, Esq., to Professor Asa Gray, of
Boston, U. S. , dated Sept. 5, 1857.

   On the Agency of Bees in the Fertilisation of Papilionaceous Flow

ers, and on the Crossing of Kidney Beans. Gardeners' Chronicle.
1858, p. 828, and Ann. Nat. Hist., 3d series, ii., 1858, pp. 459-465.

  Do the Tineina or Other Small Moths Suck Flowers, and if so what
Flowers? Entom. Weekly Iniell., vol. viii., i860, p. 103.

   Note on the Achenia of Pumilio Argyrolepis. Gardeners' Chronicle,

Jan. 5, 1861, p. 4.
   Fertilisation of Vincas. Gardeners' Chronicle, pp. 552, 831, 832, 1861.

  On the Two Forms, or Dimorphic Condition, in the Species of Pri

mula, ani on their Remarkable Sexual Relations. Linn. Soc. Journ.,

vi. , 1862 (Botany), pp. 77-96.

On the Three Remarkable Sexual Forms of Catasetum tridentatum,

an Orchid in the Possession of the Linnaean Society. Linn. Soc.

Journ., vi., 1862 (Botany), pp. 151-157.
  Yellow Rain. Gardeners' Chronicle, July 18, 1863, p. 675.

On the Thickness of the Pampean Formation near Buenos Ayres,

Geol.  Soc. Journ.,   xix., 1863, pp.   "6o8f-7C1ir. ripedes.  Nat. Hist. Review,
       the So-called  ' ' Auditory-sac
  On

1863, pp. 115-116.

   A Review of Mr. Bates' Paper on Mimetic Butterflies. Nat. Hist.

Review, 1863, p. 221--. [Not signed.]
   On the Existence of Two Forms, and on their Reciprocal Sexual

Relation, in Several Species of the Genus Linum. Linn. Soc. Journ. ,
vii. , 1864 (Botany), pp. 69-83.

   On the Sexual Relations of the Three Forms of Lythrum salicaria.

[1864.] Linn. Soc. Journ., viii., 1865 (Botany), pp. 169-196.
On the Movement and Habits of Climbing Plants. [1865.] Linn.

Soc. Journ., ix., 1867 (Botany), pp. 1-118.                    Linn.

  (Note on the Common Broom Cytisus scoparius). [1866.]
Soc. Journ., ix., 1867 (Botany), p. 358.

Notes on the Fertilisation of Orchids. Ann. and Mag. Nat.

Hist., 4th series, iv., 1869, pp. 141-159.
   On the Character and Hybrid-like Nature of the Offspring from

the Illegitimate Unions of Dimorphic and Trimorphic Plants.

[1868.] Linn. Soc. Journ., x., 1869 (Botany), pp. 393-437.
270 Charles Darwin.

   On the Specific Difference between Primula veris Brit. Fl. (var.
officinalis, of Linn.), P. vulgaris, Brit. Fl. (var. acaulis, Linn.), and

P. elatior, Jacq. ; and on the Hybrid Nature of the common Oxslip.

With Supplementary Remarks on naturally produced Hybrids in the
genus Verbascum. [1868.] Linn. Soc. jfourn., x., 1869 (Botany),

PP- 437-454-

  (Note on the Habits of the Pampas Woodpecker Colaptes campes-

trisj. Zool. Soc. Proc, Nov. 1, 1870, pp. 705, 706.
   Fertilisation of Leschenaultia. Gardeners' Chronicle, p. 1166,

1 871.
   The Fertilisation of Winter-flowering Plants. Nature, Nov. 18,

A
             i.,
1869, vol.        p. 85.

Pangenesis. Nature, April 27, 1871, vol. iii., p. 502.
       New View of Darwinism. Nature, July
                                              8,                         1871,  vol. iv.,
                                                                     6,
p. 180.

Bree on Darwinism. Nature, Aug.               1872, vol. vi., p. 279.

Inherited Instinct. Nature, Feb. 13, 1873, vol. vii., p. 281.

Perception in the Lower Animals. Nature, March 13, 1873, vol.

vii., p. 360.
   Origin of Certain Instincts. Nature, April 3, 1873, vol. vii.,

p. 417.                                                  ,

   Habits of Ants. Nature, July 24, 1873, vol. viii. p. 244.

   On the Males and Complemental Males of Certain Cirripedes, and
on Rudimentary Structures. Nature, Sept. 25, 1873, vol. viii., p.

431.
   Recent Researches on Termites and Honey-bees. Nature, Feb.

19, 1874, vol. ix., p. 308.                   Nature, April 16, 1874, vol.
   Fertilisation of the Fumariacese.

ix., p. 460.
   Flowers of the Primrose Destroyed by Birds. Nature, April 23,

II,1874, vol. ix., p. 482 May 14, 1874, vol. x., p. 24.
                          ;
                                           a
Cherry Blossoms. Nature, May                  1876, vol. xiv., p. 28.

   Sexual Selection in Relation to Monkeys. Nature, Nov. 2, 1876,
vol. xv., p. 18. Reprinted as supplement to the "Descent of Man,"

18--.

Fritz Mttller on Flowers and Insects. Nature, Nov. 29, 1877,

vol. xvii, p. 78.                             Gardeners' Chronicle,
   The Scarcity of Holly Berries and Bees.

Jan. 20, 1877, p. 83.
                           Appendix.           271

Note on Fertilisation of Plants. Gardeners' Chronicle, vol. vii.,

p. 246, 1877.                           Mind, No. 7, July, 1877.    p.
                                        May 30, 1878, vol. xviii.,
   A Biographical Sketch of an Infant.

   Transplantation of Shells. Nature,

120.

   Fritz Mttller on a Frog having Eggs on its back -- on the Abortion
of the Hairs on the Legs of Certain Caddis-Flies, etc. Nature,

March 20, 1879, vol. xix., p. 462.
   Rats and Water-Casks. Nature, March 27, 1879, vol. xix., p.

481.

   Fertility of Hybrids from the Common and Chinese Goose. Na

ture, Jan. 1, 1880, vol. xxi. , p. 207.
   The Sexual Colours of Certain Butterflies. Nature, Jan. 8,

1880, vol. xxi., p. 237.
   The Omori Shell Mounds. Nature, April 15, 1880, vol. xxi.,

p. 561.                                        Nature, Nov. II,
   Sir Wyville Thomson and Natural Selection.

1880, vol. xxiii., p. 32.

Black Sheep. Nature, Dec. 30, 1880, vol. xxiii., p. 193.

Movements of Plants. Nature, March 3, 1881, vol. xxiii., p. 409.
The Movements of Leaves. Nature, April 28, 1881, vol. xxiii.,

p. 603.                                                             15,

   Inheritance. Nature, July 21, 1881, vol. xxiv., p. 257.

   Leaves Injured at Night by Free Radiation. Nature, Sept.

1881, vol. xxiv., p. 459.               Nature, Nov. 17, 1881, vol.
   The Parasitic Habits of Molothrus.

xxv., p. 51,

On the Dispersal of Freshwater Bivalves. Nature, April 6,

1882, vol. xxv., p. 529.
   The Action of Carbonate of Ammonia on the Roots of certain

Plants. [Read March 16, 1882.] Linn. Sac. Journ. (Botany),
vol. xix., 1882, pp. 239-261.

   The Action of Carbonate of Ammonia on Chlorophyll-bodies.

[Read March 6, 1882.] Linn. Soc. Journ. (Botany), vol. xix.,

1882, pp. 262-284.
   On the Modification of a Race of Syrian Street-Dogs by Means of

Sexual Selection.  By W. Van Dyck. With a Preliminary Notice by
Charles Darwin.    [Read April 18, 1882.] Proc. Zoolog. Soc, 1882,

pp. 367-37°-
                Charles Darwin.

WORKS ON DARWINISM FOR FURTHER REFERENCE.

                         ENGLISH.

Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection. A. R. Wallace.

   Darwiniana. Prof. Asa Gray.                                   of
   On the Origin of Species, or the Causes of the Phenomena
Organic Nature. Prof. Huxley.

   The Scientific Evidences of Organic Evolution (London, 1882).

G. J. Romanes.

   Man and Apes (Am. ed., 1874). St. George Mivart.
   Animal Life as Affected by the Natural Conditions of Existence.
Karl Semper.

   Degeneration, a Chapter in Darwinism (London, 1880). E. R.
Lankester.

   Mind in the Lower Animals (London, 1879). Lindsay.

  Animal Intelligence. G. J. Romanes.

   The Fertilisation of Flowers (Transl., London, 1 883, 669 pp.).

Hermann Muller.

Inquiries into Human Faculty and its Development. Francis

Galton.

   Philosophical Discussions. Chauncey Wright.
  On the Philosophic Aspects of Darwinism. G. H. Schneider : Der
Thierischen Wille (xx. and 447 pp., Leipzig, 1880).
   The Theory of Evolution of Living Things, and the Application of

the Principle of Evolution to Religion. George Henslow.

   Religion and Science. Joseph Leconte.                    J. L.
   Natural Law, an Essay on Ethics. Edith Simcox.
   The Theistic Argument, as Affected by Recent Theories.
Diman.

What is Darwinism ? Charles Hodge.

The Story of the Earth and Man. J. W. Dawson.

Winds of Doctrine, being an Examination of the Modern Theories

of Atomism and Evolution (London, 1877). C. Elam.  Matter.       St.
   On the Genesis of Species. St. George Mivart.

   Lessons from Nature as Manifested in Mind and

George Mivart.

Contemporary Evolution. St. George Mivart.
Contributions to the Natural History of the United States, vol.
                         ;

                                                                                           i.,
Essay on Classification  also Amer. Journ. Sri., July, i860.
L. Agassiz.
                      Appendix.                               273

                      FOREIGN.

Beiträge zur Descendenz-Theorie (Leipzig, 1876). Georg Seidlitz.
Entwickelungsgeschichte des Menschen und der höheren Thiere

iste Halfte (Leipzig, 1876). A. Kolliker.

   Anthropogenie, Entwickelungsgeschichte des Menschen (Leipzig,
1874). E. Haeckel.

   Die neuere Schöpfungsgeschichte (Leipzig, 1875). Arnold Dodel.
   Die Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen der gegliederten Thiere (Wurtz-
burg, 1875). C. Semper.
   Für Darwin (Leipzig, 1864). Fritz Müller.

   Ueber die erste Entstehung organischen Wesen u. deren Spaltung
in Arten (Berlin, 1866). A. Müller.

   Zur Entwickelungstheorie (Jena, 1876). Otto Zacharias.
   Der Kampf der Theile in Organismus (Leipzig, 1881). W. Roux.

  In Sachen Darwin's insbesondere contra Wigand (Stuttgart, 1874).

Gustav Jäger.

Etudes sur la selection dans ses rapports avec l'heredite chez

l'homme. P. Jacoby.

Der Darwinismus und seine Stellung in der Philosophie (Berlin,

1877). Eugen Dreher.

Philosophische Consequenzen der Lamarck-Darwin'schen Entwicke

lungstheorie (Leipzig and Heidelberg). Georg Von Gizycki.
   Kant und Darwin, ein Beitrag zur Geschite der Entwickelungslehre

(Jena, 1875). Fritz Schultze.

   Die Darwinschen Theorien und ihre Stellung zur Philosophie,

Religion, und Morals (Stuttgart). Rudolf Schmid.

La Teoria di Darwin Criticamente Exposta, Biblioteca Scientifica

Internationale (Milano, 1880). G. Canestrini.
   Der Darwinismus und die Naturforschung Newtons und Cuviers

(3 vols., 1874-7).    A. Wigand.            (Berlin,  1875).  E. Von
   Wahrheit und     Irrthum in Darwinismus

Hartmann.

   Die Freiheit der Wissenschaft im modernen Staat (Berlin, 1877).
R. Virchow.

   Haeckelismus in der Zoologie (Hamburg, 1876). C. Semper.
   Anti-Darwinistische Beobachtungen (Bonn, 1877). F. Michaelis.

  A journal of highest ability devoted to evolution is Kosmos,

Zeitschrift fur einheitliche Weltanschaung auf Grund der En

twickelungslehre, in Verbindring mit Charles Darwin und Ernst

Haeckel, sowie einer Reihe hervorragenden Forscher auf den Gebieten

des Darwinismus (monthly, 80 pp., since 1876).
                           INDEX.

                 A         Berkeley Sound, 78

Abinger Hall, 242          Bibliography, 259
                           Biological Society, 195
                           Birgos, 115
Aconcagua, 89
Adventure Island, 263      Biscacha, 58
Agassiz, Louis, 272
Agouti, 49                 Bolas, 42
Albermarle                 Botofogo Bay, 29
             Island,  no   Brazil, 37

Allen, Dr., 30             Buenos Ayres, 46, 49
Amblyrhynchus, 108         Buffon, 168
America, 186               Burmeister, Prof.,
Amethyst Mountain,         Butler, Dr., 2      73
Ant-eater, 49
Antennarius, 176      184  Butterflies, 37 ; shower of, 69
Antuco, 93
                                                         C
Archaeopterix, 193
Aristotle, 167                Callao, 103
Armadillo, 49                 Cape Horn, 70
Ascenium, 121                 Cape of Good Hope, 128
                              Cape Verde Islands, 22
Aspalax, 44                    Capybara, 43
Atavism, 181                  Cattle, peculiar breed of, 67
                               Chacao, 87
Atlantic cable,  184
Atoll, 117                   IIIChamisso, 114
Azara, 45, 65
                              Charles Island,
Azores, 122                    Chatham, 107
                              Chile, 37
                 B            Chiloe, 87
                              Chonos Archipelago, 87
Bahia, 28                     Cirripedia, 264
Bahia Blanca, 104             Cocoa-nut, 115
Baker, Frank, 195, 250        Colorado River, 48
Banda Oriental, 104           Concepcion, 90
Bastile 170                   Condor, 77
                              Confervas, 32
Beagle, 5, 19, 263
Beagle Inlet, 80           275
276 Index.

Cope, E. D., 183                        De Maillet, 168
Cophias, 53
Copiapo, 96                             Descent, 194
Coral, 117                              J.Desmodus,
Coral-eating fish, 116                               L3.3,  272
Cormorant, 81                           Diman,
                                        Diodon, 29
Coseguina, 89                           Doubleday,   Mr.,      38
Crabs, 86 ; mimicry of, 176             Dover cliffs, 6, 184
Creation, 203                           Dreher, Eugene, 273
Crocodile, 55                           Drouths,
Cuttle-fish, 25                         Duncan,   D64r.,    6

                       D                Dust showers, 23

                                                               E

DDaagll,geWr, .41H., 195, 208           East Falkland Islands, 78
Darwin, birth, 2 ; school days, 2 ;     Edinburgh, 7
                                        Ehrenberg, 23, 24
   religious feeling, 3 ; collections,  Egg collecting, 3
   4 ; walks, 4-9 ; at Maer, 4-9 ;      Egypt, 186
   laboratory work, 5 ; university
   life, 6 ; nickname of, 6 ; wealth    EEElllatCBearrar,mme3a6nd,or,47 103

of, 6 ; vacation of, 9 ; as a hunt      Embryo, 191
er, 10 ; college life, 12 ; books       Emotions, 265
read by, 14 ; on slavery, 33 ;          Eocene, 188
on birds, 88 ; works on coral,          Epeira, web of, 39
                                        Equus, 189
117, 261 ; appearance of, 131, 239;     Evolution, 173
daily life of, 133 ; early papers       Extinction, 64, 76
of, 137 ; services to science, 140 ;
conclusions, 141 ; publication of                                 F
his great work, 143 ; birth of
Darwinism, 144 ; botanical re           Falmouth, 122
searches, 145 ; religious reti          Fernando Noronha, 26, 27
cence, 147 ; buried in Westmin          Fire-fly, 36
ster Abbey, 148 ; membership in         Floating islands, 85
societies, 149 ; a birthday gift,       Flustra, 2, 8
151 ; honors, 152-155 ; family,         Flying fish, 26, 34
156 ; memorial, 167 ; theory of,        Fossils, 68
184 ; memorial on, 195 ; doc            Fuegians, 79
trine of, 196; Children, 212;
friends of, 212; death of, 213;                                               <;
philosophy of, 214; as an en

tomologist, 228 ; home of, 239 ;        Galapagos, 32, 106                        62
letters of, 240 ; as a botanist,        Geographical distribution,
244 ; bibliography of, 259 ; pa         Geological Society, 125
pers of, 268 ; foreign w.orks on,
                                        Germany, 193
273                                     Giants, 79
Darwin, E. G., 91                       Giant-weed, 81
Darwinism, works on,
                      162,   272        Gill, Theo., 195
Dawson, J. W., 272
Deer, 43
                                               Index.

Glaciers, 82                                                     K

Goethe, 170
Goode,  Prof.,
Grant,  Dr., 7   196                           Keeling Island,   114
                                               Kolliker, Prof.,  273
Gray, 172
Greenland, 191
Greenwich, 124                                                   L

Greyhound, 174                                 Lagostomus, 58
                                               Lamarck, 44, 171
                  II                           Lambert, 168
                                               Lampyris, 36
Haeckel, Ernst, 273                            Lancaster, E. R., 272
Hairless dog, 60                               La Place, 168
Hartman, Von E.                                La Plata, 53
Harvey, W. H.,              , 273              Lianes, 34
Head, Sir F., 101           168                Lightning, 45
                                               Lima, 104
Hecla, 90
Henslow, Prof., 14                             Linnaean Society, 126
Hesperornis,                                   Lizards, 53, 108
Herschel, Sir    1J9.2,     168                Llama, 72
Hibernation,                                   Lobster, 195
                 53. 54                        Locusts, 100
Hill, Major,     10                            Luxan, 101

Hipparion, 188                                 Lyell, Sir Chas., 61, 171

Hippocampus, 47                                                          M
Hodge, Charles, 272
                                               Mackintosh, Sir John, n, 17
HHHooollrdcnoeedrr,,onJtL.,.,B1.89, 3 13
Horse, 62, 66, 188                             Macrauchenia, 73, 104
Hot springs, 84                                Macrocystis, 81
Humboldt, 17, 172                              Malay, 115
Huxley, 174                                    Maldonado, 40
                                               Marsh Prof., 62
Hydrochaerus, 43                               Mathews, P., 200
                                               Mauritius, 120
                         I                     Megatherium, 49
                                               Mendoza, 102
Iceberg, 82                               242  Megalonyx, 49
Incas, 188                                     Mesohippus, 189
Indians, 51, 56                                Michaelis, 273
Insectivorous plants,                          Mimics, 53, 79
                                               Minerals, 7
                  J                            Mines, 84
                                               Miohippus, 189
Jacoby, P., 273                                Mivart, St. G., 271
James Islands, 109                             Monboddo, 170
Jaguar, 44, 65                                 Monkeys, 35
Jelly-fish, 58,
Jenyns, Rev.     L71.,      263                MMoonretesbyV,idCeaop, t4.,3,n4o6

Jungle fowl, 173                               Mould, 265
278                       Index.

Mttller, F., 273          Plinian Society, I              of Cam-

Murderers, 40             Pernambuco, 121
Mylodon, 49
Myopotamus, 87            Philosophical Society
                             bridge, 124
                       N
Neptune, 28               Quail, 43
Noddy, 26                 Quinquina Island, 91
Numrnulite, 186

                          Ramsay, Prof., 186
                          Razor clam, 99
Octopus, 24, 31           Red snow, 98
Odontornithes, 191        Reefs, barrier, 117
Oken, 170
Orchid, 265               Reefs, coral, 117, 264

Origin of species, 264    Reptiles, 193
                          Rhea, 52
Orohippus, 190
Osorno, 87                Rhizopods, 184
                          Ribeira   Grande,
Ostrich, 42, 51           Riley,   C. V., 228    23

Otter, 81                 Rio Negro, 33, 47
Owen,  SPirrofR.,.,49172
Owen,                     Rio Tercero, 59
                          Robber-crab,
                          Romanes, G.     J2.7,  272

Paleozoic, 180            Rosas, Gen., 55
                          Roux, W., 273
Pampas, 61                Royal navy, 17
Pander, 170               Royal Society, 264
Papilio, 37               Ruins, 85
Parana, 59                Reef structures, 119
Parrot-fish, 116          Royal Academy, 125
                          Rhea Americanus, 126
Patagonia, 72
Penguin, 39               Sacred tree, 48
Peru, 104                 Salt lake, 48
Philosophy, 218           San Carlos, 86

Phosphorescence, 70       San Carlos Bay, 89
Planarian, 35             San Lorenzo, 104
Plata, 39                 Santa Cruz, 51, 73
Pliocene, 189             Santa Fe, 60
Polyborus, 45             Santa Maria, 94
Porpoise, 39              Sarandis, 67
Portillo Pass, 97
Porto Praya, 24           Sargassum, 176

Powell, J. W., 195, 214   Scarus, 116

Protococcus, 98           Schleiden, 170
Pteranodon, 44            Schmidt,   R.,
Puma, 85, 86              Schultze,  F.,  273        273
Pyramid, 186                              170,
Pyrophorus, 30
                            Index.

Schwann, 170                True, Fred. W., 195, 258
Scott, Sir W., 8            Tucutuco, 44
Seals, 39                   Turtles, 114
Sea-horse, 47
Sea-sickness, 31                                       U
Sea-slug, 24
Sea spiders, 38             Uruguay, 59
Sedgwick, 18                Uspullata, 101
Seeds, 180
                                                       V
Semper, K., 272
                            Valdivia, 90
Sharks, 27                  Valparaiso, 67, 83
Sorbonne, 170               Vampire, 33
Spencer, 172                Variability, 181
SStt.arHlinilga,ire45, 170  Varieties, 173
St. Jago, 27, 73            Von     Baer,
Stokes, Lord, 21            Von            170
Stone forest, 184                   Mohl,   170
St. Helena, 120
St. Paul's Rocks, 26                             W
Strata, 184
Survey, 40.                 Wallace, Alfred, 172
Symonds, Sir W., 27         Walleechu, 49
                            Ward, Lester         F.,      195,  242
                   T        Wills, Dr., 200
                            Wolf, 170
Tahiti, 113                 WWroiogdhht,ouCse,,
Talcahuana, 91                                   9     272
Teneriffe, 17                                    168,
Tern, 26
Terra del Fuego, 32                                    Y
Tertiary, 186
Thales, 168                 Yale College, 192
Tidal wave, 92              Yaquil, 85
Torpedo, 183                Youmans,    E.       L.,   172
Toxodon, 50
Trotters, 173                                            Z
                            Zacharias, Otto, 273
Iberoes of tbe Bations.

                                                     EDITED BY

EVELYN ABBOTT M.A., Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford.

A Series of biographical studies of the lives and work

of a number of representative historical characters about

whom have gathered the great traditions of the Nations

to which they belonged, and who have been accepted, in

many instances, as types of the several National ideals.

With the life of each typical character will be presented

a picture of the National conditions surrounding him

during his career.

The narratives are the work of writers who are recog

nized authorities on their several subjects, and, while

athnodroduragmhlaytictru"sstwtooriretshy"  as  history, will present  picturesque
                                           of  the Men and of the     events con

nected with them.

  To the Life of each " Hero " will be given one duo

decimo volume, handsomely printed in large type, pro

vided with maps and adequately illustrated according to

the special requirements of the several subjects. The

volumes will be sold separately as follows :

Cloth extra                                                           $i 50

Half morocco, uncut edges, gilt top .          .                         1 75

Large paper, limited to 250 numbered copies for                         3 5°

subscribers to the series. These may be ob

tained in sheets folded, or in cloth, uncut

edges
The first group of the Series will comprise twelve

volumes, as follows :

Nelson, and      th"eThNeavWarlecSkuporfetmheacGyroosfveEnnogrl,a" nedt.c.  By W. Clark Russell,
      author of
                                                                            (Ready April 15, 1890.)
Gustavus      Adolphus,                                   of    Protestantism for                   Exist
       ence.   By C. R.  L.anFdletthceheSrt,ruMgg.Ale.,         Fellow of All Souls
                                                          late                                      College,

Oxford.
Pericles, and the Golden Age of Athens. By Evelyn Abbott, M.A.,
Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford.

Alexander the Great, and the Extension of Greek Rule and of
     Greek Ideas. By Prof. Benjamin I. Wheeler, Cornell University.

Theoderic the Goth,      thaeuthoBrarobfar"iaItnalyCahnadmHpeiornInovfadCeirvsi,"lizeattci.on.             By
      Thomas Hodgkin,

Charlemagne, the Reorganizer of Europe. By Prof. George L. Burr,
       Cornell University.
Henry of Navarre, and the Huguenots in France.                                         By P. F. Willert

      M.A., Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford.
William of Orange, the Founder of the Dutch Republic.
     By Ruth Putnam.
Cicero, and the Fall of the Roman
                                         Republic. By J.                               L.  Strachan
      Davidson, M.A., Fellow of Balliol
                                         College, Oxford.
Louis XIV., and the Zenith of the French Monarchy. By Arthur
Hassall, M.A., Senior Student of Christ Church College, Oxford.

Sir Walter Raleigh, and the Adventurers of England.
By A. L. Smith, M.A., Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford.
                                                                                       It Arose ; What     It
BismR"aAerpcklLa.icfeedTofh; LeAensNsdienWwg,"hGaeettrcm. ItanStaEnmdpsireFo: r.HowBy
                                                                                       James Sime, author  of

To be followed by :

Hannibal,     aAn.dFrteheemSatnr,ugDgl.eC.Lb.e,twLeLe.Dn .,CaRrtehgaiugse    and       Rome.        in the
      By E.                                                                 Prof,      of History

University of Oxford.
Alfred the Great, and the First Kingdom in England. By F. York
     Powell, M.A., Senior Student of Christ Church College, Oxford.

Charles the Bold, and the Attempt to Found a Middle Kingdom.
     By R. Lodge, M.A., Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford.

John Calvin, the Hero of the French Protestants. By Owen M.
      Edwards, Fellow of Lincoln College, Oxford.

Oliver     CCrhoamrwleesll,Fiarnthd ,  the Rule of the    Puritans                     in England.
       By                                                 Oxford.
                                        Balliol College,

Marlborough, and England as a Military Power.
     By C. W. C. Oman, A.M., Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford.

Julius Caesar, and  the Organization of                   the    Roman Empire.
      By W. Warde   Fowler, M.A., Fellow                   of   Lincoln College, Oxford.

                               G. P. PUTNAM'S             SONS
             New York                                                     London

»7 and 29 West Twenty-third Street                         27 Kinu William Street, S i kakd
TLhc 5tor£ of tbe ligations.

  MESSRS. G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS take pleasure in

announcing that they have in course of publication, in

co-operation with Mr. T. Fisher Unwin, of London, a

series of historical studies, intended to present in a
graphic manner the stories of the different nations that
have attained prominence in history.

   In the story form the current of each national life is

distinctly indicated, and its picturesque and noteworthy
periods and episodes are presented for the reader in their
philosophical relation to each other as well as to universal
history.

   It is the plan of the writers of the different volumes to

enter into the real life of the peoples, and to bring them
before the reader as they actually lived, labored, and
struggled --as they studied and wrote, and as they amused
themselves. In carrying out this plan, the myths, with
which the history of all lands begins, will not be over
looked, though these will be carefully distinguished from
the actual history, so far as the labors of the accepted
historical authorities have resulted in definite conclusions.

   The subjects of the different volumes have been planned
to cover connecting and, as far as possible, consecutive
epochs or periods, so that the set when completed will
present in a comprehensive narrative the chief events in
the great Story OF the Nat1ons ; but it of course,

not always practicable to issue the several volumes in
                                           J.
their chronological order.
   The " Stories " are printed in good readable type, and:

in handsome i2mo form. They are adequately illustratedJ.
and furnished with maps and indexes. Price, per vol.,         J. J. is,

cloth, $1.50. Half morocco, gilt top, $1.75.                                                            1
   The following volumes are now ready (January, 891)
                                                                                                     :
THE   STORY  O"F  GREECE. Prof.      Jas. A. Harrison.
  "       "   "   ROME. Arthur        Gilman.
              "   CTHHAELDJEEWAS. .   Prof.  RJaamgeoszinK..  Hosmer.
  "       "   "                      Z. A.
   "      "   "   GERMANY. S. Baring-Gould.
   "      "   "   NORWAY. Hjalmar H. Boyesen.
                  SPAIN. Rev. E. E. and Susan Hale.
                  HUNGARY.           Prof. A. Vambery.
             ''"  CARTHAGE.
                                      Prof. Alfred Church.
                  THE  SARACENS.             Arthur  SOtialmnlaeny.
             "    THE  MOORS IN            SPAIN.                      Lane-Poole.

             "    AATPEHLNREECXSIAIEANNN.ODTREMSRE. A'GGSNY. SPW.ET..MBSPeaPInrRrjaoaEhfm..inGO.erPnor.eofR.JeawwlePint.ts.oMna.haffy.
             "

             '    IATTRUHSESRELYKARGENIAOYD..T.HSZSH..toaAnn.H. leReEyanmgrLyoialzynBineLr.-aaPwdolloeelyses.. .
                  MEDIA, BABYLON, AND PERSIA. Z. A. Ragozin.
          "  "    MEDIAEVAL FRANCE. Prof. Gustav Masson.
"· "         "    HOLLAND. Prof. Thorold Rogers.
""           "    MEXICO. Susan Hale.
             "    PHCENICIA. Prof. Geo. Rawlinson.
             "
             "
             "
             "

             "'   TTESRTSHHACUHWOERESEITSTLBZILYHJAAEAEA.WRRNBNBLDSRSWAA.IANTR.UAYDRTTNI..oONCDhMWO.nERRNoRM.SSrPSA.afrRtoiIcRelfOlk.aS.iHMd.AnetElaofSln.erstdenahdMnW.Zlrie.sm.yDmAC.LerahMnrnnuooe.rl-rcdPrhios.Hooluene...
             "
""    "      "
      "      "
      "      "

Now in Press for immediate issue

THE   STORY  O"F  PORTUGAL. H. Morse Stephens.
              "   VEDIC INDIA. Z. A. Ragozin.
              "   THE THIRTEEN COLONIES. Helen A. Smith.
              "   WALES AND CORNWALL. Owen M. Edwards.
                  CANADA. A. R. Macfarlane.

    G. I'. PUTNAM'S SONS                     T. FISHER UNWIN
             New York
                                                       London
PUBLICATIONS OF G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

The Travels of Marco Polo. Edited for Boys and Girls,

with Explanatory  Notes and   CoinmmtheentsE, absyt,"Tho"sT.hWe .  Knox,
author of " Boy   Travellers                                       Young

Nimrod," etc. Quarto, with over two hundred illustrations.
Uniform with the " Boy Plutarch " and " Heroditus." pp.

530 $2 5°

                              RIDING IN A CAMEL LITTER.

                                    (From 11The Travels of Marco Polo.")

   The story of his travels was received with incredulity, and he died while

Kurope was gravely doubting its truth. It has remained for later genera

tions to establish the correctness of his narrative and accord him the praise
he so richly deserves.

           G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, New York and London.
PUBLICATIONS OF G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

Plutarch for Boys and Girls. Selected and edited by

Prof. John S. White, LL.D. Quarto, with many illustra

tions                             %2 50

Library edition. 2 volumes, i6mo  . . . . $2 50

   This edition contains all the "Lives" and "Parallels" in Plutarch's

own words, with such omissions only as were necessary to adapt them for
young readers. There is also an Introduction and Life of Plutarch by the
editor. As a standard work, adapted to both boys and girls, its wealth of
anecdote and faithful portrayal of character render it peculiarly valuable.

               RESTORATION OF THE WEST END OP THE ACROPOLIS.
                               (Reduced from l1 Plutarch for Boys and Girls.")

   Plutarch is undoubtedly the most eminent, the most entertaining, and
perhaps the most useful of ancient writers. Men who have exercised an
important influence on the world are his theme, and he inculcates honor,
manliness, the public and private virtues, by the illustrations which he
gives, while he stimulates youth and even age by the example which he
furnishes of the lives of great men.

   Plutarch is exactly the book to put into a boy's hands ; the style is viva
cious and crowded with anecdotes, and the sentiment is pure ; just the
book that will help boys and girls build up manly and womanly characters,
and, as Plutarch's views are always practical, it will teach them realistic and
practical views of life.

          G. P. TUTNAM'S SONS. New York and London.

