Charles Kingsley, Christian, socialist and social reformer; by the
Rev. M. Kaufmann.

Kaufmann, M. (Moritz), 1839-1920.
London, Methuen & co., 1892.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015049860300

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
I
CHARLES KINGSLEY
    CHAELES KINGSLEY

CHRISTIAN SOCIALIST AND SOCIAL REFORMER

                \^ BY THE

          EEV.

                author of
     "christian socialism;" "socialism: its nature, its dangers,
and  its  remedies;" "utopias j oe, schemes op social improvement   from
     sir  thomas more to karl marx ;" "socialism and communism     in
          their practical application," etc., etc.

                     JHetfjuen & <2fo.
          18, BURY STREET, LONDON, "W.C.

                                             1892

                                [All rights reserved}
Richard Clay & Sons, Limited,
          London & Bungay.
                              gtbieattb

    TO CONSTANCE, MARCHIONESS OF LOTHIAN,

Whose conscientious endeavours to minister to the necessities and to
      ameliorate the condition of the people in town and country, and
      experience in so doing, is a proof in point that what Charles
      Ringsley held up as ideal in fiction is translatable into fact ;

That the progress of democracy does not by any means preclude a
       happy relationship of mutual affection and esteem between the
      lady of the manor and her dependents ;

That the "silver link of sympathy " may yet unite the hearts of those
      born in high station and in low ;

That is, where nobility of mind and heart becomes the parent of
      courteous kindliness in the one, and courteous recognition in the
       other ;

And that where aristocracy of birth is accompanied by that of merit,
     so far from discouraging popular aspirations, it will help rather
      than hinder social progress in what is best in all classes.
                      PREFACE.

This Preface, like the dog Cerberus, has three heads,

but only briefly  to  guard against  1.thIrteeismaismcoonncoegpratipohn,s
at the entrance       this volume.
                  of

not a biography, of Charles Kingsley, its object being
simply to present one aspect of his life, as a social and
sanitary reformer, and this in the setting and framework
of the thought, feelings, and condition of his time, with
the light of our own thrown upon the picture to present
a distinct view of his social aims, and to show how far
what he aspired after has been attained, and what
remains of achievements yet to be accomplished in the
future. 2. As it is a tolerably well-known fact that the
late Mrs. Kingsley strongly objected to any biography
of her husband, it should be mentioned that the present
work was undertaken before her death, and with the
full knowledge and cordial consent of the family. 3.
Nothing contained in this volume has appeared in
print before. Two independent articles in reviews, after
wards incorporated in the author's work on Christian
Socialism, were published, indeed, as fragments of the
subject before the reader here, but except for the fact
that they are founded on the same materials, they are
not otherwise connected with it. To these prefatory
remarks may be added the hope that this condensed
view of Kingsley's words and works on social subjects
may help in stimulating and directing enthusiasms and
efforts in our own generation among that numerous class
of readers who take an interest in social questions.

May, 1892.
                 CONTENTS.

CIIAP.  INTRODUCTION                                   PAGE
                                                            1
    I.  EARLY LIFE, EDUCATION, AND SURROUNDINGS --
  II.                                                       9
 III.   PREPARATION FOR THE WORK    ... ...
                                                         32
   IV.  KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON-- EVERSLEY HOME-      55
    V.                                                   81
        LIFE AND PAROCHIAL LABOURS
   VI.                                                 115
 VII.   THE ' SAINT'S TRAGEDY ' A POET'S SOCIAL AIMS   146^"»

VIII.   'YEAST    OR, AGRARIAN SOCIALISM IN THE NOVEL  175-*.
        ' ALTON
  IX.            LOCKE ' -- THE SWEATING SYSTEM IN     201^^

    X.       FICTION AND FACT                     ...  223

        'PARSON LOT' -- HIS FRIENDS AND HIS FOES       240

        KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE  ...

        KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER AND PIONEER
              OF SOCIAL SCIENCE

        IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR, QUEEN'S COLLEGE,
                 AND CAMBRIDGE -- THE SOCIAL
        LONDON,

        QUESTION TREATED ACADEMICALLY ...         ...

        SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY's ACHIEVEMENTS, AND

        ESTIMATE OF HIS LIFE AND WORK ...         ...
        CHAKLES KINGSLEY.

        INTRODUCTION.

To understand the man and his social mission we

must have before our mind a clear picture of the times

in which he lived, and the condition of the people which

called forth his generous sympathy and chivalric efforts

in the cause of social reform. Of this, therefore, we

will give a brief sketch before entering upon the

main subject. The year 1848 marks an important
epoch in the history of labour ; it threatened to prove

a critical year in the history of modern European

society. The signal of a great rising had been given
by the outbreak of the Revolution in Paris. The

significance of that event was the self-assertion of the

Proletariat, as such, dictating to the State what should

be done on its behalf. It was the starting-point of a

movement which has increased in force and momentum

ever since; Social Democracy had become a self-conscious

force.                                                    ,- -""

State socialism was accepted as a principle in the

                           B
2 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

French Chamber by the establishment of national work
shops, and thus gave a powerful impulse to the creation
of co-operative associations outside it. The Revolution
itself was a social revolution, the result of social distress

producing discontent among the masses; it amounted

to a declaration of war between the lower and the

middle classes. Since 1830 a differentiation had been

going on between capital and labour. The friction

became more and more irksome as it became more and
more evident that the power of capital had immensely

increased with the use of machinery, whilst the de
pendence of labour on the rich capitalists was rendered
more galling since the vast increase of wealth did not
raise the toilers into a better position. Plutocracy had
become the new tyrant, and factory labour its slave.

In this new industrial society the gulf between rich

and poor was becoming wider every day. The Bourgeoisie
had displaced the privileged orders in the seat of power,
money had become the master of the situation, but the
era of steam and speculation, so far from promoting the
interest of the manual labourer, had tended to lower
wages, and to increase the prices of the necessaries of
life and other commodities in the enlarged demand
for greater self-indulgence among all classes. Labour
was chained to the triumphal chariot of "industrial

progress." It was the era of "free labour," but the

labourers who had helped to procure liberty, fighting
on the side of the middle class against the aristocracy,
now had learned that the cry of liberty was an empty
phrase, that in the very fact of free contract lay the
INTRODUCTION.  3

       secret of greater inequality. They were angry beyond
       measure with the industrial despots, who dictated terms
      which it was impossible to refuse. True they were at
      liberty to refuse to labour at the terms offered. But
      in that case their families would starve. Capital had

       become omnipotent, the labourer was at its mercy,

       when at last, driven to despair by distress and famine,

       the populace revolted, and from Paris the spirit of revolt

      spread to Berlin and Vienna, and even to London. In

       Prussia and Austria the tricolour was unfurled as the

       emblem of German unity, and the symbol of Liberty,

      Equality, and Fraternity. In England the "People's

-- Charter " was the formula which captivated the imagina-

   ^-tion of the populace. People had not learned even yet
\ LJhow to dissociate the social from the political elements

       of revolution, though the dim notion prevailed that in

      the Legislature, if anywhere, the battle must be fought
           ween the men and their new masters. Thus it

       happened that in the same eventful month of March,
       in 1848, when barricades were raised by workmen and
      students in Vienna, and the King of Prussia was com

        pelled at the dictation of the mob to do honour bare

        headed to the remains of those who had fallen fighting
       behind the barricades of Berlin, the Duke of Wellington

   \Jmade preparations on a large scale in view of the
   /great Chartist demonstration on the 10th of April

       in London, and the troops were kept in readiness for

        possible eventualities. The bridges were barricaded,

        the bank and state offices and public buildings were

      carefully provisioned --everything in short was done to
4 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

prevent a repetition on a larger scale of those riots in
London, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Liverpool, and other large
towns during the month of March. London was in a
state of panic. The demands of the Proletariat were
much the same all over Western Europe. Thus, in
Germany oue of the clauses of the programme submitted
to the Frankfort Parliament contained suggestions for a
settlement of the differences between labour and capital
by a " special ministry of labour," which " should check
usury, protect workmen, and secure them a share in the
profits of work."

   In this country the Charter was to bring about

pretty much the same effects by means of a larger and
more direct representation in Parliament of the people's
interests. There was nothing revolutionary in these
demands, but the animus which inspired them, and the
popular commotion aroused by the agitation, spread
terror among the well-to-do classes.

    On the Continent the " rule of Bureau and Bayonet "
had added intensity to the virulence of social dis
contents. Here, too, popular complaints had not been
wanting ever since 1832, when, after the agitation of

the Reform Bill, it was said that instead of promoting
the interests of the people it had practically disenfran

chised labour, and rendered the moneyed class more

powerful than it had been before the passing of that Bill.

There were loud complaints, too, raised against the
working of the new Poor Law, but the chief causes of
discontent were in the first instance the "horrors' of the

factory system," and the temporary effects of the intro
INTRODUCTION.  5

duction of steam in displacing manual labour, intensified
later on by over-production, with stagnation in trade

and the reduction of wages for its consequences. It

led to many acts of violence, such as smashing of

machinery, and setting fire to mills,/ and burning of
hay-ricks in country districts. Scarcity of work, low

wages, food at high prices, long-protracted hours of
labour, even in mining districts, including female and
child labour (in spite of legislation for their protection
since 1833, mainly through the exertion of Lord
Shaftesbury), failure of the crops, commercial reaction

after excessive speculation --all these produced misery

and privation, suffering and distress, which eventually
brought in their train serious disturbances encouraged
or organized by Chartist agitators. Military force had
to be called in to quell insurrection in the coal districts,
in the Potteries, and in Manchester. Other manu
facturing towns in the north were kept in terror by
bands of excited workmen off and on since 1842.

The potato famine in Ireland in 1846 glutted the labour
market in England, and produced a further depression
of wages. Things went on from bad to worse in 1848.
The time had come, so it seemed to many, which Lord
Ashley had foretold in one of his speeches in Parliament
in 1843, when he had said --

   " The danger is wider, deeper, fiercer, and no one who
has heard these statements, and believes them, can hope
that twenty years more will pass without some convulsion,
some displacement of the whole system of society," --

a saying which the author of Perils of the Nation, which
G CHARLES KINGSLEY.

appeared in the same year, fully endorsed, adding that,

" if some stop be not put to the existing mischief (the
growth of capital, with the growth pari passu of misery

and distress), a few years more must land us in a bloody
revolution ! " Nor was it hard for the social agitators
to convince excited mobs that " the panacea for all

grievances is to be found in revolution." In short there

was a general alarm.
    Socialism and Chartism were rampant, and to meet

the danger of the hour, F. D. Maurice and his followers,
guided by his genius and moderated by his wisdom, struck
out a new line so as to bring the Church home to the
people's heart and to plead the people's cause before
their masters, taking their stand on the broad platform
of ecclesiastical and social reform. What they pleaded for
was a resolute return to the principles of Christianity
freed from later accretions of ossified officialism and

dogmatic harshness, and the repellent self-assertion of

class pride among the clergy and religious laity. In their

opinion it had become necessary to remind the religious
world that modern society rests on a Christian basis;
that, accordingly, all social arrangements must be brought
to the test of New Testament morality, that the
organization of labour by means of association or
co-operation implies the cultivation of those Christian
virtues of mutual trust and forbearance, readiness for

self-sacrifice and subordination, without which these

social bonds would prove ineffectual. They affirmed,

and among them more distinctly and emphatically than
the rest, Charles Kingsley, that selfishness and the
                     INTRODUCTION.                          7

quest of self-interest is the main cause of our present
social difficulties, for is it not the selfish pursuit of each

individual and class without regard to the claims of

society as a whole which lies at the root of social

antagonism and social war ? The war of free competi

tion being accepted as a law of nature and lauded as

the prime motive force of industrial progress, and the
principle " every one for himself" being consecrated into

a moral precept which, if obeyed by each individual or

section of society representing a given class interest,
would 'promote the happiness of all according to the

pre-established laws of economic harmony, what follows

from such principles but an internecine warfare of one

against all, ending in the loosening and ultimate

destruction of all social bonds ? Hence the importance

of a unifying force and a process of re-union by Chris

tianity as a principle, and the Christian Church embody
Ifing it. " the priests of the Lord are wanting to the
                          "
cause now,  woe  to  us      cries  Kingsley  in a  letter  to
                         !

Ludlow in 1850. The words confirm the earnest

anxiety and apprehension which filled the hearts of the

Christian socialists, and made them stand out from

among the body of the clergy and religious laity as

Jfiod-sent apostles of a new social era.
    Maurice speaks of Kingsley as the " Thalaba with a

commission to slay magicians and put the Eblis band
Iwhich possesses our land to rout.
                                    am jealous of any

thing which is likely to turn him out of his predestined

course and may make him waste the God-given
8 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

strength." It will be the object of this book to show

how far Charles Kingsley corresponds to this descrip
tion, and to what extent he succeeded in verifying
this glowing prediction of his revered friend and
master.
                          CHAPTER I.

     EARLY LIFE, EDUCATION, AND SURROUNDINGS;

                    PREPARATION FOR THE WORK.

   Although this does not pretend to be a biography,

but simply an attempt to present one aspect of a life's

history, it is none the less interesting and important to

notice how far descent, inherited traits of character, the
circumstances of early life and training, and the current
of events were instrumental in preparing the subject of
this sketch for his public career. Charles Kingsley had no
reason to be ashamed of his ancestors. He was born in
1819, " under the brow of Dartmoor," and inhaled, so to

speak, the spirit of daring of the men of Devon which
he so graphically describes in his most popular story,

Westward Ho! From his mother, who, though of

English parentage, was born in the West Indies, he
inherited the love of luxuriant scenery and romantic
sentiment, and that tendency to aristocratic condescen
sion, in spite of his popular sympathies, which Europeans
acquire who live in the East or the Tropics, a tone of
mind which made him in his popular leanings a
democratic Tory rather than a follower of what is now
     10 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

     called Tory Democracy. His father was a man of good
     points, a country gentleman by birth and habits, a

      clergyman by force of circumstances, but none the less

r faithful in the discharge of his duties, a lover of art, a
     sportsman, a natural historian. From him the son
     probably inherited that " healthy materialism " which
      somewhere he commends, and his bent towards " mus

     cular Christianity," a phrase associated with his name

j^which he never liked. He has been called a "bold

     thinker and a bold rider," both in consequence of a
      healthy physique and the possession of a healthy mind
     in a healthy body bequeathed to him by both parents.
      The more subtle and poetic appreciation of the mysteri
      ous charm of nature and the power of artistic present
      ment were probably owing to the combined influence
     of both parents, aided by surrounding conditions. His
      early childhood was spent in the great Fen country.
      The effect on his mind of its flat scenery and the wide
      sweep of the horizon of the Lincolnshire meres, hidden
      in mist, or suffused with the after-glow of the setting
      sun, were never forgotten, and in the prelude to

     Hereward the Wake, a hero in whom, if we mistake not,

      the author sometimes portrays himself, though perhaps
      unconsciously, we are given to understand how the
      sturdy manliness of the Lowlander is generated by the
      sense of freedom as his eye wanders unimpeded over a
      vast expanse of open country. Here, in the absence
      of the overpowering sense of natural forces which

     inspire man with fear in the hill country, is generated

       a spirit of independence. These physical accidents, as
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.  11

Kingsley frequently remarks, exercise an important
influence on spiritual development. The antiquity of
the house in which he was born, Barnack Rectory,
built in the fourteenth century, with its haunted chamber,
helped, no doubt, to call out the spirit of chivalry which

lends a special charm to his character and writings.
When eleven years old, his father went to take charge
of the living of Clovelly, where the boy was introduced
to the shifting scenes of a busy coast life, and his young
mind filled with all the picturesque details of a sea-
roving population. Here he learned to esteem those
manly qualities, and here, perhaps, he caught the spirit

of adventure which he noted in the rugged sons of
the sea who inhabit the Cornish coast. Here, too, he
acquired that love for the common people in their
natural dignity, brought up as he was in close contact
with them, as we may see by reading between the lines
his description of them in Two Years Ago. Here he
acquired that personal popularity which stood him in
good stead afterwards when dealing with Chartists and

popular leaders. It was not only the result of natural

ness and innate bonhommie, but the effect of having
lived among the people and understanding their ways.
That tact and sympathetic intelligence which inspires
popular confidence is best taught by living among
the people, though not of them, in early life, before

the full consciousness of social demarcation and the
differences of rank and fortune become a bar to free and

easy intercourse. Kingsley had the additional advan
tage of being the son of a clergyman, as he says himself
12 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

in a letter to a clergyman, and in answer to some
strictures on Alton Locke --

  I" From my cradle, as the son of an active clergyman,

have been brought up in the most familiar intercourse with
the poor in town and country. My mother, a second Mrs.
Fry, in spirit and act. For fourteen years my father has

Ibeen the rector of a very large metropolitan parish, and
I Ispeak what know, and testify that which have seen."

What the effect of these congenital tendencies and

early experiences were on the character of the boy, and

how far in his case the child proved to be the father of

the man, may be gathered from a few incidents of early

life, and a few scattered fragments of early thoughts

preserved in the Life we possess by his own wife.

Impulsiveness, precocity, conscientious susceptibility,

shyness and eccentricity seem to have been his main
                               " Don't                    "
characteristics in childhood.           cant, Elizabeth
                                                         !

he says when six years old to a housemaid, condoling

with him on the occasion of a quarrel with his mother.
"Don't cant!" wa3 the burden of his cry throughout

the whole extent of his mature life.

   A similar rough, reprimanding, John the Baptist tone

runs through most of the sayings of " Parson Lot," with

an underground grunt of indignant objurgation against

social and religious pharisaisms more Gothic than
Hebraistic in their rigour. We note, too, in the child

something of the melancholy temperament peculiar to

the period of childhood in men who become famous in

after life, as a prelude of those later broodings over the

deeper problems of life which may be discovered alike
          EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.                      13

in such unlike persons as Goethe, J. S. Mill, and

Lamennais. There is something of this serious and

sombre sadness in Kingsley's earliest attempts in poetry ;
the very title of one written when he was a youth of

sixteen or seventeen speaks of deep dejection as the

result of early speculation -- Hypotheses Hypochondriacal,

where he speaks of his " brooding melancholy."

  In Psyche, a Rhapsody, belonging to the same

period, he breaks out into wailing on the lives led by

the poor in cities, presages of those more definite com

plaints of social wrongs to be found in his maturer
writings --

" Then she passed on in her weary way through ancient

cities, where the wealth and the glory of the world were

heaped, for a strange desire was on her to seek for love

through things above and things below, until she should

rest in it for ever.
   " And she wandered on ; and from some houses came

forth the glare of lamps, and the noise of song and revelry ;

but with it curses and shouts of strife ; and from others the

moaning   of anguish, and the shrieks of despair.  .  .  .
          she shuddered and turned away. . . ."
   " And

   Five years before Charles Kingsley had penned the
Rhapsody, he had witnessed strange things at Bristol
during the riots. He was then a shy and timid boy

of twelve or thirteen years of age, and the horror of the

scenes then witnessed left a deep mark on his mind, as
he says himself. The mob of Bristol was accounted

then as the most notorious for fierceness in the country,

and it was at the time roused to a paroxysm of passion
by the appearance of Sir C. Wetherell, the most un
14 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

popular man in all England, visiting the city as Recorder.
Groans and yells, hooting and hissing from the crowd
greeted him wherever he appeared, and the business of
the court had to be adjourned on account of these in
terruptions. He barely escaped personal violence by
flight from the Mansion House in disguise, and troops
had to be sent for to quell the riot. '. The mob set fire
to some of the public buildings of the city, and the
Bishop's palace was entirely destroyed, the Cathedral
nearly sharing the same fate. With great difficulty,
and not without some shedding of blood, order was

restored.

   In a work entitled The Working-man's Way in the

World, being the Autobiography of a Journeyman Printer,
published in 1844, we have the sober sentiments of a

workman of the period dwelling on these events, and,
what is remarkable as coming from this source, showing
the darker side of the picture reflecting unfavourably
on his own class, the writer speaks of the riots as
" hideous bacchanals, where Gorgon ugliness, matured
in the filth and squalor of Bristol's darkest dens, and
slums of slime and excrement, was in strict keeping
with the seething hell of riot and rapine around . . .
the saturnalia of robbery and license got up under the

pretence of liberty and reform." In a lecture delivered

by Kingsley in Bristol twenty-seven years after this
event, he tells us how it taught him his first lesson
in social science. He speaks of the dark figures
flitting to and fro across what seemed the mouth of
the pit, but which was in reality a prison in flames ;
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.  15

   the central mass of fire as he saw it from a distance
   rising behind Brandon Hill, and a day or two afterwards,
    in close proximity, the ghastly row of corpses, or frag
    ments of corpses, in front of the ruins of burnt buildings.

   " It is good for a man," he adds, " to be brought once at

    least in his life face to face with fact, ultimate fact,

    however horrible may be" these base facts of life in
    lower regions, and the base morality it breeds. More of
    this he saw in later life, and describes, to show how the
    " dangerous classes " and the " dangers of society " arise
  Jiom. natural causes in the condition of things when
) the " better classes " neglect their social duty ; what
/ things may happen when greed and grasping selfishness
    and heartless self-indulgence in the classes above bring
    out the tiger and the beast in those below-- social revolts

     being neither more nor less than a reverting to a former
    type of social co-existence, where the elemental strife

     and struggle for existence prevails, unmitigated by the

(higher forces of civilization. " One day," relates Mr.

    John Martineau, in a letter to Mrs. Kingsley, printed in
    the Letters and Memories, " as he was reading with me,
     something led him to tell me of the Bristol riots in
     1832. He was in that year a school-boy of thirteen, at
     Bristol, and had slipped away, fascinated by the tumult
    and the horror, into the midst of it. He described --

     rapidly pacing up and down the room, and with glowing,
     saddened face, as though the sight was still before his

    eyes--the brave, patient soldiers, sitting hour after
     hour motionless on their horses, the blood streaming
     from wounds on their heads and faces, waiting for the
it; CHARLES KINGSLEY.

notorder which the miserable, terrified Mayor had

courage to give ; the savage, brutal, hideous mob of"
inhuman wretches, plundering, destroying, burning- ;
casks of spirit broken open, and set flowing in the
streets, the wretched creatures drinking it on their

knees from the gutter, till the flames from a burning-

house caught the stream, ran down it with a horrible
rushing sound, and, in one dreadful moment, the

prostrate drunkards had become a row of blackened

corpses. Lastly, he spoke of the shamelessness and.

the impurity of the guilty, the persecution and the

suicide of the innocent.
   " ' That sight,' he said, suddenly turning to me, ' made

me a Radical.'
  I'

I
" ' Whose fault is it,'  ventured to ask, ' that such

things  can  be    '
                 ?

I I" ' Mine,' he said, ' and yours.'

" understood partly then, have understood better

now, what his radicalism was."

The effect on an emotional and excitable nature like

Kingsley's was both instantaneous and indelible, a

photograph imprinted on the mind to become an ever-

present image, like the figure or sketch in the studio of

the artist catching the eye at times, and unconsciously

directing the hand as it works at his own creation, and

giving colour to the picture of his own imagination.

When Kingsley's father removed to Chelsea in 1836,

as rector of St. Luke's parish, another and by no means

favourable view of social and clerical life presented

itself to the son's mind. He is disgusted with the
I  EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.

                                 17

     narrow conventionalities of middle-class respectability,
     and the hollowness of religious professions as then
     in vogue, and the paltriness of religious polemics, the
     reiteration of inane commonplaces, and the round of
     duties performed with puny egotism by the clerics and
     the clerically-minded lay-workers with whom he was

     brought into contact. His soul loathed much "the
     dapper young lady preachers " who visit the poor and
     read the Bible to them in " the most abominable scenes

     of filth, wretchedness, and indecency." The young

     ladies might have done worse, we think, and young
      Kingsley is rather too hard upon them, " falling in love
      with the preacher rather than the sermon," which is a
      practice not only of young women, but some old women
      of both sexes. We may imagine how Kingsley, a
      youth of seventeen, disgusted with the sight of these
      humdrum performances of " Church work," would turn
      to his Plato, which, his tutor at King's College, London,
      tells us, influenced much his mind at this period of his
      life, an influence, it may be inferred from his choice of

      Plato's works as a prize essay at Cambridge, continued

      long afterwards. Like most modern men of mark in
      the study of social and economic questions, Kingsley
      had to pass through a period of scepticism, a fact
      which it is not difficult to account for. Honest doubt

       is a characteristic of deeper minds, which are not easily
      satisfied with either the logical inconsequences of

       easy-going theological orthodoxy or the rank platitudes
       of social optimism. Eager souls are not as easily

   V satisfied in their search after truth and social happiness

                                                                                                                 C
18 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

as the sluggish in temperament and the slow in
imagination and intellectual grasp. The excitable
temper of a highly nervous nature quickly perceives
flaws in argument, and with the rapidity of sympathetic
insight notices faults in social arrangements which

leave the average man indifferent to the sorrows and
sufferings of toiling humanity. Kingsley belonged to the
former class. He conquered his doubts as he did most
things, in a manly fashion, and lived to restore the faith
of others who came to him for guidance. But what is
more to our purpose in this sketch, he was thus enabled
to cope with the difficulties of belief as they presented
themselves to the minds of Chartists and Secularist
leaders of the people with whom in after life he was
thrown together, and over whom he thus exercised a

most powerful influence. It is also curious to note that

among the intellectual restoratives of his own beliefs

were the works of Carlyle. In this, too, he showed

the feelings of that generation of thinking young men,
who, like his distinguished friend and future brother-in-
law, Professor Froude, dissatisfied with the shallowness
of prevailing make-beliefs, found in Carlyle a master
who taught them to seek refuge in work whilst trying
to combat their doubts. " Toil is the condition of our

being," Kingsley writes to an Oxford friend from
Cambridge in 1842; "our sentence is to labour from
the cradle to the grave. But there are Sabbaths
allowed for the mind as well as the body, when the
intellect is stilled, and the emotions alone perform
their gentle and involuntary function."
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.  19

   At this time, and in the interval between taking his

degree and proceeding to his curacy, he began to write
the life of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, the subject of the
Saint's Tragedy, into which it was transformed a few
years later. When it is finished, he says he will begin
the life of St. Theresa, to show the contrast between

the working ascetic and the dreamy mystic, the celibate
and married saint. The two lives represent to him the
social and religious aspects of the Christian's life on a

high level which had now become Kingsley's Ideal. In
a similar way, a kindred mind, the Comte de Mont-
alembert in France, approached the life of St. Elizabeth.
To both it came as an inspiration to prepare them for
their future labours in the cause of social and political

reform on a Christian basis, respectively. Thus the
study of ideal characters and saintly lives attract the
finer minds, and help in building up the spiritual
system of souls, fitting them for the actualities of
public life when the time has come for giving effect

to ideal conceptions. It may be matter of surprise

to some why an ardent spirit like that of Kingsley
was not at this time attracted, as were other gifted
Cambridge men, by the Oxford Movement, which was

a "movement for deeper religion, for a more real
and earnest self-discipline, and a loftier morality, and

more genuine self-devotion to a serious life." The
explanation is to be found mainly in his peculiar
temperament, which in many respects was antipa
thetical to that of the men who set the movement
a-going. His excitable nature was repelled from their
20 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

studious reserve and reticence, and their cautious,

almost conscientious, abstinence from emotional religion
and the exhibition of warmth of religious sentiment.
They, like him, were intense, but repressed sternly

the feelings which were too deep almost for expres

sion. His impatience of trifles and proneness to in
accuracy in matters of detail, his hastiness in grasping

at conclusions, his " impulsive and almost reckless

generosity" --these and other characteristics naturally

repelled him from the men who were the opposite of
all this constitutionally, or by means of a self-deter
mination on high grounds and severe discipline. He
finds himself crying like a child as he listens to the
tunes of some strolling fiddler under the window at
Eversley, and though half ashamed of the emotion, he

records it unblushingly in a letter to his future wife.

Such a mobility of temperament was utterly at variance
with the studied evenness of tone which was the early
note of the leaders in the Oxford Movement. Besides this,
Kingsley was opposed toto ccelo to their ascetic views of

life. When the Tracts for the Times appeared, we are told

he discussed them from the merely human, and not
the religious point of view. He fiercely denounced the
ascetic view of sacred human ties, sapping, as he
thought, the very foundation of family and national

life. His honest naturalness shrank from what ap

peared to him and many others at the time the
" non-natural " sense of accepting religious truths, and
the tortuous party methods which he criticized later

in his controversy with Newman, but which, if it
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.               21

turned out a mistake, was so far important that it

provoked the publication of the Apologia, the most

remarkable book of this description in the English

tongue. Nurtured as Kingsley's mind had been by the

theological speculations of Coleridge and F. D. Maurice,

it had some affinities with the intellectual side of

the movement. For it was in one aspect, at least, a

vigorous attempt to grapple intellectually with religious

problems, to restore rationality and backbone to religious

discussion. None could sympathize more than he did

with those men of the movement who like him were
" talking strong " against the inane mediocrities of the

day, defending the truths, as they called
!                                          without

                         is
                                                               it,

                                                                  if
being able to grasp in their feeble ineptitude the

deeper problems of life and religion. But Kingsley's
conception of religion in its human as distinguished

from its ecclesiastical aspect, gave him a leaning

towards what was best in the Low Church party at this

time, whose depth and subtlety of knowledge of the

human heart he admired. Both high and low have
their good points, but " we must be catholic," he says,
" without the partial or favourite views of Christianity,

like the Dissenters and the Tractarians."
   " Those who throw off humanity by lovelessness," he

remarks elsewhere, " or Manicheism, seem to me,

they could succeed completely, beyond the pale of

God's Church, which the collective healthy humanity

of the earth, and therefore beyond the pale of the
spirit "

He called himself a mystic in theory and an ultra
              22 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

""' materialist in practice, "the most prosaic and matter-

              of-fact of parsons," fishing, riding, hunting for beetles,

              and sometimes after other game, yet, he said once to
              "Ihis curate,
                             am nothing if not a priest." The fact

\/                                          certain ideal of his
           is,  he had, as the latter puts  it,
                                               a
              own as to personal holiness and Church regimen which
                                                                       a
              left him " a free lance in the ecclesiastical field." His   a

              Broad Church opinions were a refuge from the more

    narrow conceptions of Evangelicalism and Sacerdotalism

    alike. He was ready to accept whatever good there

    was in either. But he felt that both lacked the one

    thing which he felt was needful for the time, deep

jj  sense of the importance of religion in its social bearings.

    Moreover he had in him, both as a child of nature and

    a         naturalist, form of natural religion and dash of
                a

    Wordsworthian nature-worship.

       Thus when he wanders about in his parish in the

    bright July sun shortly after settling down to work in

    Eversley, and takes one of his lonely woodland baths,

                it,

                         I
    as he called this suggests to him, he naively states,
    thoughts of Paradise. " know not," he says, " whether

    they are foretastes of the simple bliss that shall be in

    the renovated earth, or whether they are back glimpses

    into the former ages, when we wandered beside the
    ocean of eternal love " Then after an apposite
                             if
                                                   !                            Im

                                                           a

                                                     J.

                                                                            of
    quotation from the ode on the Intimations

    mortality, he refers to the sermon of   H. Newman

    on Reverence, as in mind comparing his own nature-

    worship with the severe tone of high-strung supra-

    natural devoutness in the great leader of the Tractarians,
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.  23

Iand remarks -- " was frightened at a sermon of

Newman's on ' Christian Reverence,' in which he tries

to show that Christ used to 'deter' people and repel
them." But he adds further on, "Talking of the
Tractators -- so you still like their tone ! and so do I.

There is a solemn and gentlemanlike and gentle

Iearnestness which is most beautiful, and which wish
I may ever attain." But he has no sympathy with

" the moaning piety and something darker " in their
writings. Yet, in a letter dated 1868, he speaks of the
Dream of Gerontius, which he has just read, " with awe
and admiration," and is glad that the man has appeared
to teach our generation a sense of reverence which it is

in danger of losing. The severe sternness with which

the younger Kingsley could not readily sympathize was,
as he felt later on, a tonic sadly needed at the time

to restore a healthy vigour to the flabbiness of the
religious nerves and muscles, to send a current of

spiritual force through the system of National Religion,
to restore a higher sense of sacredness of Divine

things among a generation given to sanctimonious

dallying and dawdling. Such was his own reverence
and high tone in the performance of sacred functions,

that a gentleman of the Press threatened to remove

his son from Wellington College after attending College

chapel where Kingsley was officiating on this occasion,
because of his " high doctrine," a story vouched for by
the present Archbishop of Canterbury, then head of the

College.

   What might have happened if the Oxford Movement
       24 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

       and the Christian Socialist movement had joined hands,
       and what impulse such a union of effort might have
       given to the social and religious reform which the
      country needed at the time, it is impossible to imagine.
      "Newman, too," we are told in the history of the
       Oxford Movement by Dean Church, lately published,

     " had laid down that the Church must rest on the people,

      and Froude looked forward to colleges of unmarried

      priests as the true way to evangelize the crowds."
      And, again, that as to Newman's sermons at St. Mary's,
      " what they aspired to revive and save, was the life of

     religion, the truth and substance of all that makes it
      the hope of human society." But the times were un
      favourable to such a confluence of the streams of

      religious and social movement, and a coalescence of
      high and noble aims in their differently and diversely

      constituted and gifted promoters.
         The air was charged with religious controversy.

      Kingsley speaks of himself as an " Ishmael of Catho
     licity," and complains of the state of religious opinion

     as the " salt asphaltic lake of polemics "--Popery and

     Puritanism fighting their battle over again in England
      on " the foul middle-ground of Mammonite infidelity."
     He longs for a new Order of St. Francis, a brotherhood
      of religious genius to cope with our social difficulties,
j For parsons have degenerated into a body of rural
     police in the country, and the Church has become an
      ecclesiastical system unable to meet the spiritual needs
     of a rioting democracy in the towns. He sees the
     finger on the wall writing its " ' mene, mene ' against
           EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.                             25

Anglicanism and Evangelicalism at once--both of

..."which more and more daily prove to me their utter
jmpotence to meet our social evils."                                In plain

truth, the English clergy must Arnold-ize, if they do

not wish to go either to Rome or to the workhouse

           is
                                                ;

                                   it is,I
before fifty years are out. There                  do believe, an

Arnold-ite spirit rising but most laudant, non sequun-

tur. Decent Anglicanism, decent Evangelical Con

servatism (or Evangelicanism) having become the

majority,  now quite Conservative, and each party

playing Canute and the tide, as                  can scramble in

turn into the chair of authority." That in all this

Kingsley in no way exaggerated the state of things,
may be seen from what appears in the recorded sayings
and writings of working-men leaders and the mouth

pieces of popular discontent at the time. Here we

see the most forcible strictures of popular religion

expressed in a tone of sad and sincere regret, and

coupled with touching appeals to the representatives of

the National Church to rise to the occasion, and to

apply once more the force of religion as                            spiritual
                      of

                                        is
                                                                 a
leverage power for the elevation of the people. Thus

William Lovett reminds religious people of this surpass

ing importance of duty as distinguished from doctrine

in matters of religion, of conduct as more important

than mere convictions which the religious world then

thought all-important.

   " When our religious convictions are based on duty,
when we are clearly led to perceive that a certain and

conscientious course    conduct  necessary to be observed
1 it,20 CHARLES KINGSLEY.
                                           of
by every individual in this world to secure individual
happiness and human well-being, we have a hopeful and
stable religion, urging us from day to day, and from year
to year, to our best efforts for the enlightenment, moral
elevation, and general improvement of humanity."

And after dwelling on the futility of great reverence for
religion in theory in the bishops and clergy and religious
people generally, whilst neglecting its practical appli
cation to the duty of the individual and social life --

   " Remember that the highest Christian duty, the highest
moral duty, as well as the highest of our political duties,
all point to the same great end--that of improving and

perfecting our fellow-creatures intellectually, morally, and
physically, so that they may be enabled to enjoy the highest
amount of happiness in this world, and be the better
prepared for the enjoyment of the next." 1

   From such expressions we may learn what warmed
really the spirit of such a man as Kingsley to something
like fever-heat. The plot is thickening, as Kingsley calls

    with " the poor Church of England, the clergy busy
with their commenting and squabbling and doctrine-
picking, while the world of labour turned away from
the Church with disgust." Things came to a head in
1848. He had been watching the rising tide of Chart
ism in his own parish. He had done his best, had
preached to the people on the subjects of the day, on
emigration, poaching, and the political and social dis
turbances of the hour. Now he felt he must join his

     The Life and Struggles William Lovett, in his pursuit of
Bread, Knowledge, and Freedom. London, 1876, pp. 383-5, 435,

and passim.
           EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.

friends in London and take his share in the work of
quelling the storm. His utterances in this first essay of
coping with the question are supposed to have been

very outre", and are excused by some of his friendly
critics and apologists, defended on the ground that he
lost his head a little in the first blush of the general
excitement. We cannot see anything of the kind in
the sayings and writings of the period to justify this
line of defence. We note, on the contrary, a wonderful
amount of calm judgment considering the man's
character and the state of the public mind at the

moment. It is his critics who at the time lost their

heads, not he, in their formidable fear of the dangers
with which they supposed society was threatened. He,
braced up by years of quiet repose and communings
with nature in his country retreat, keeping sufficiently
in touch with the intellectual and social movement

throughout the country, by means of correspondence
and personal intercourse with his London friends, was
well equipped to form a judgment on the state of
affairs, better at least than those who lived in the
whirlpool of excitement. This comes out in one of the
papers to Chartists, which he wrote for Politics of the
People, specially addressed to the Chartists at the time.
Its subject is the British Museum, which he calls " a
true, equalizing place, in the deepest and most spiritual
sense," and then goes on to show how in the higher and
ideal enjoyments of man all are equal ; how the poorest
journeyman contributing cheerfully his mite to the

palace of Art in the National Museum stands on the
28 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

same platform with the wealthiest contributor to such

national institutions, and accordingly may claim the

same right to enjoy the noble treasures there stored up.

IHe adds : " never felt this more strongly than some six
Imonths ago, as was looking in at the windows of a

splendid curiosity shop in Oxford Street, at a case of
Ihumming-birds.
                 was gloating over the beauty of

these feathered jewels, and then wondering what was

the meaning, what was the use of it all. . . . Next me

stood a huge, brawny coalheaver, in his shovel-hat and

white stocks and highlows, gazing at the humming

Ibirds as earnestly as myself. As turned he turned,
Iand saw a bright, manly face, with a broad; soot-

grimed forehead, from under which a pair of keen

flashing eyes gleamed wondering, smiling sympathy into

... Imine. In that moment we felt ourselves to be friends.
             w
          never felt more thoroughly than at that minute

I(though, thank God, had often felt it before) that all

men were brothers ; that fraternity and equality were

not mere political doctrines, but blessed, God -ordained

facts ; that the party walls of rank and fashion and

money were but a paper prison of our own making,

which we might break through any moment by a

single hearty and kindly feeling ; that the one Spirit

of God was given without respect of persons ; that

the beautiful things were beautiful alike to the coal-

heaver and the parson ; and that before the wondrous

works of God, and of God-inspired genius, the rich

and the poor might meet together, and feel that what

ever the coat or the creed may be, ' A man's a man for
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.                                    29

a' that,' and one Lord the maker of them all." And

then the clenching argument founded on all this :

I" For believe me, my friends, rich and poor-- and

beseech you to think deeply over this great truth--that

men will never be joined in true brotherhood by mere

plans to give them a self-interest in common, as the

Socialists have tried to do. No : to feel for each other
they must first feel like each other. To have their

sympathies in common, they must have not one object

of gain, but an object of admiration in common ; to

know that they were brothers, they must feel that they

have one Father ; and a way to feel that they have one

common Father, is to see each other wondering side

hy side at His glorious works."

Not all his utterances reach this high level of serene

impartiality and unclouded vision in the' rarefied region
                                                             *
of true social philosophy.  He   himself                        his *
                                          describes,

own state of mind at this time as chaotic, piecemeal,
passionate ; he feels like the " wild man of the woods,"

who cannot speak the truth without disturbing in his
own soul " a hornet-swarm of lies." But it is a Divine

mania which has taken hold of him ; it is " the word of

the Lord like fire in my bones." But his self-deprecia

tion must not be taken too seriously. One thing is

certain, the Chartists thought him mealy-mouthed like

the rest of his cloth. He is wounded when they and

their clients approach him with suspicion. He gives

expression to this in a letter to Thomas Cooper, after

reading the latter's poem, The Purgatory of Suicides, and

appealing to a poet's sympathy to understand him better
30 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Ithan the rest. "Just because am a clergyman," he

says, " the very office which might to have testified

above all others for liberty, equality, brotherhood, for

Itime and eternity," becomes the occasion of distrust. "

felt myself bound, then, to write to you, to see if among

Ithe nobler spirits of the working-classes could not

... Imake one friend who would understand me

would shed the last drop of my life-blood for the social

... I Iand political emancipation of the people of England.
            want to work with them ; want to realize my

Ibrotherhood with them. want some one like yourself,

intimately acquainted with the mind of the working-
classes, to give me such an insight into their life and

thoughts as may enable me to consecrate my powers

effectually to their service."
    His health broke down under the pressure of work

and excitement, and he had to seek rest at Ilfracombe.

Before returning thence to his parish he goes to London
to attend again Chartist meetings, and meetings in con
nection with land colonization and the association of
tailors. He is delighted to discover by this time that
his village sermons are lent from hand to hand among
the South London Chartists, and that the Manchester

men actually stole a copy of the Saint's Tragedy--a
sign of their better understanding of his sympathies
with their cause. The old spirit is upon him again;
we see it from the manner in which he describes his

master at the business meeting of this Tailors' Associa

tion. "Last night," he writes June 12th, 1849, "will

never be forgotten by many, many men. Maurice
EARLY LIFE AND SURROUNDINGS.                  31

Iwas-- cannot describe it. Chartists told me this

morning that many were affected even to tears. The
man was inspired -- prophetic. No one commented on

I Iwhat he said. He stunned us ! will tell you when

can collect myself."

And with this impression on his mind as to the

magnitude of the task before them, and the magnanimity

                         a
                                         it,
of the man who led them to discharge he returns to

Eversley. His life there, as country parson, as the

minister of reconciliation in things sacred and social,
engaged in the literary labours which quickly estab

lished his fame, and how far some, of them helped to
popularize the movement, will be described in the next

and following chapters.
                       CHAPTER II.

KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON -- EVERSLEY HOME-
                LIFE AND PAROCHIAL LABOURS.

   In 1842 Kingsley took charge of the curacy of

Eversley, to which he was appointed as Rector two
years later, and where he spent thirty-three years of his
life. Here, remarks one who knew him intimately
in this beautiful home-scene and truly ideal English
Rectory, was " the fountain-head of all his strength and
greatness." The surrounding scenery though lovely is

not exciting. With acacias on the lawn, a glimpse of
the fir forest and moors at a distance, the old Windsor

forest forming part of the parish boundaries, there was
just enough and not too much in the environment to
inspire a quiet and young parish priest in his labours.
 The people among whom he was to minister were
 " heth-croppers," and, we are told, poachers by instinct,
 and there is a curiously half disguised sympathy with

 poachers in the poems written about this time. How
 quickly Kingsley caught the spirit of his surroundings,
 and learned to assimilate his nature and identify his
 own instincts with those of the people whose spiritual
     KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  33

director he had become, may be seen in a passage
taken from the Prose Idylls, and quoted in the Letters
and Memories of his Life.

   " The clod of these parts is the descendant of many-

generations of broom squires and deer-stealers ; the instinct
of sport is strong within him still, though no more of the
Queen's deer are to be shot in the winter turnip-fields,
or even caught by an apple-baited hook hung from an
orchard bough. He now limits his aspirations to hares and
pheasants, and too probably once in his life ' hits the
keeper into the river,' and re-considers himself for awhile

Iover a crank in Winchester gaol. Well, he has his faults,
and  have mine. But he is a thorough good fellow,

nevertheless ; civil, contented, industrious, and often very

handsome, a far shrewder fellow, too--owing to his dash of
wild forest blood, from gipsy highwaymen, and what not --

than his bullet-headed and flaxen-polled cousin, the poor

south Saxon of the chalk downs. Dark-haired he is, ruddy,

and tall of bone, swaggering in his youth ; but when he
grows old, a thin gentleman, reserved, stately, and courteous

as a prince."

   With such a fund of sympathetic intelligence in

descrying the character of his people, and accordingly
adapting himself, as he says somewhere, "trying to
catch men by their leading ideas, and so draw them
off insensibly to my leading ideas," he gains respect
and affection. Found to be by these wild young fellows
neither a "young Methodist" nor an "effeminate
ascetic," " they dare not gainsay, but rather look up to

a man who they see is their superior, if he choose to

exert his power in physical as well as intellectual skill."
And this we are told was the secret of his influence
34 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

and success in Eversley. He could discuss the rotation

of crops with the fanners, and understood Ti edging and

ditching as well as the labourer. He could swing a

flail and pitch hay as well as the best of them, nor was

he surpassed by a sportsman all the COUntfyToundToF

his knowledge and skill as a fisherman or a huntsman,

yet he is the clergyman all the same, and whilst using

these subsidiary means for ingratiating himself withins

parishioners, he does so because they, are ..auxiliary to

higher ends. The parish had been badly neglected

before he came, and he sets to work at once to redeem

it " from barbarism," and the evil effects of pauperism.

I" am trying in my way to do good ; but what is the

use of talking to hungry paupers about heaven ? .' Sir,' as
my clerk said to me yesterday, ' there is a weight upon

their hearts, and they care for no hope and no change,

for they know they can be no worse off than they are.'

And so they have no spirit to arise, and go ta. their

Father. Those who lounge upon down beds, and

throw away thousands at Crockford's and Almack's --

they, the refined of this earth, have crushed it out of
Ithem.
        have been very sad lately, seeing this, and

seeing, too, the horrid effects of that new Poor Law."

The man who felt like this and looked into the condition-

of-the-people question with clear eyes, would naturally

attract toward his person, and influence by his teaching

the people of his parish, whose trials he so well under

stood, and helped to bear. Everybody knew and loved

him for his naturalness and perfect ease. Thefe~was

a perfectly good understanding between minister and
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  35

people. He really respected the poor, as all will who;
know them intimately ; he revered them in their heroic
       a
straggles and innate kindliness, there was the same
chivalric courtesy and consideration for them as foris,
all the rest, and there was no artificiality in it. He
resembled the ideal country parson drawn by Words-
worth, as probably'he or was then, more common in
Scotland than in England.

                                               " Man he loved
                As man and, to the mean and the obscure
                And all the homely in their homely works,
                Transferr'd courtesy which had no air
                 Of condescension."

a  Of course he set in motion the whole machinery

of ordinary parish institutions on a more extensive
scale even than that of the well-organized parish
of the present day, very unusual thing in the best
of country parishes then. Clubs, schools, maternal
society, loan fund, lending library, adult evening classes
held three times in the week at the Rectory before
through his exertion the school-room was built, village
lectures, singing classes for adults to introduce Church
music on Hullah's plan to supersede the instrumental
music of trombone and clarionet, and much besides.

In other things he not only equalled but excelled

in self-sacrificing energy and effort the earnest country
parson. There was no lack of earnestness and zeal
in the ordinary routine of parochial work, though there
was a complete and wholesome absence of the stiff and
starched clerical officialism which mars the honest
3G CHARLES KINGSLEY.

work of many a good clergyman who is too much

of the cleric and too little of the man. Besides this

Kingsley somehow found time for a multiplicity of other

important engagements, literary and tutorial, as well as

for simple and healthy enjoyments in field and forest,

stream and mountain, for which others have neither

the capacity nor the will, but which vastly added to

his own usefulness. His good-humour and love of

fun and frolic endeared him to all with whom he

came into contact, and it helped him considerably to

make life tolerable and happy in his country retreat.

   In a letter written in the first year at Eversley and

signed humorously "Boanerges Roar-at-the-Clods," he

invites a friend to come and cheer up his loneliness.

Peter comes and sees him living in a thatched cottage,

but, as he remarks, as happy as if it had been

a palace, and cheerful withal notwithstanding the

monotony of the daily task. Nor in after life at

any time does he express any desire to leave the

simple village. He found the monotony "pleasant in

itself, morally pleasant and morally useful," as he puts

it,

                                                                                                                         11
and we may add intellectually fruitful. Here in

the heart of the country and amid the occupations

of rural life he found the calming and healthily

stimulating and never exciting influences to~steady                                                                              .

and brace his susceptible mind for his best work,

Yeast and Alton Locke might have lost little if Kjngyley

had composed them amid the" stirring fij_J^Jt^B&                                                                             --

But the Saint's Tragedy, Kyj^atia} ...ajftd the-

finished productions of his pen, not excluding his
     KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY" PARSON.                        37

more important contributions to the Christian socialist

publications, were the better for his life in comparative

retirement. He seldom went to London, and when

alrTend pressed him to come up and hear one of his
"Iown songs finely sung in public, he refused.
                                                         love

home and green fields more and more, and never lust

either after Babylon or the Continent." A quick in

telligence, like Kingsley's, readily followed the move

ments in the world beyond his own church steeple, and

there was little in the current of events which escaped

his notice. The fact the true nature and tendencyif,
                       is,
of the more prominent movements in society and the

current of events can be watched with closer scrutiny
                            a
                                    a

                                                      a
and more intelligent interest from distance and per

manent standpoint, such as life in the country affords,

than by an observer placed in the midst of the shifting

scenes and turmoil of town life, especially the observer
                            if
be a man of Kingsley's excitable temperament.
                                                is
Nor                                                                       '
                                                                                ~j
     is    country parson's life as uneventful as some"
        a

imagine, especially       like Charles Kingsley, he

ever on the alert to see the significance of events,

and to turn them to spiritual profit. Thus, when the

cholera broke out in his own parish, he does not take

simply precautions to seal the Kectory hermetically

against infection, and to improve the occasion on

Sundays by preaching sermons full of "precautionary

piety," teaching his people to think of the uncertainty

of life and to prepare for that which to come but
                            is

                                                   ;

                                                                                   I
himself ubiquitous in his parish, a true parish priest,

like Aaron standing between the living and the dead,
38 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

he inculcates from the pulpit the duty of sanitary

precaution to save life, and varies his parochial work

by laying out plans for draining the parish at those

points where low fever had prevailed, and, moreover,

engaged in a crusade against dirt and bad drainage

i elsewhere by speech and pen. So, again, when diph-
: theria breaks out in Eversley, he disregards the great

i duty of self-preservation, and runs at the risk of his

j own life and that of his dear ones from cottage to
/ cottage with bottles of gargle and other medicaments

 ^*to prevent the progress of the disease. Again, when

/ a great heath fire breaks out among the flats, even
   if it happens in the middle of Divine Service, the Rector

is seen actually rushing out of church, leaving the

curate to finish the service, whilst he sallies forth

armed with bill-hook, organizing bands of beaters, going

forth, himself among the rest, to resist the further

advance of the flames, and during the night going

round to inspect the country and cheering the watchers,

and so preserving the firs he loved so much from being

consumed by fire. Thus, as Mr. C. Kegan Paul puts
    Kingsley, " with twenty-parson power," though un
it,
                          a

                                 a
                                                                        a

                                                                              a
like the ordinary conventional parson in most respects,

managed to administer his parish so ably, to read with

his pupils, to write his books, to keep up consider

able correspondence, yet always having considerable

reserve of nervous tissue for interesting conversation,

and for occasional fishing, riding, and walking. And

all this with  physical frame powerful and wiry

indeed, but having the seeds of decay which shortened
         KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  39

his life. It shows how much may be done /by a wise

economy of labour, and avoidance of frittering away

the best hours of the day by what the French term

choses pour rien dire. How he managed it may be

seen from the agenda of a single day as sketched by

his wife, referring to his work in the winter of 1850.

He rose every morning at five, and wrote till breakfast.

He then worked with his pupils and at his sermons.

In the afternoons he visited the people; the evenings

were occupied in teaching the adult school and super

intending the fair copy of Alton Locke made by his

wife. In his walks, or at the trout-stream, or engaged

in any out-door occupations he would think out most

of the thoughts committed to writing, mostly by dicta

tion, afterwards. Sometimes when pressed for time he

would write during the greater part of the night after

everybody had gone to rest. Thus, as will be seen,

he lost little time, and crowded much work into a

comparatively short but "highly vital life," as Bishop

Wilberforce calls it in a letter addressed to Kingsley

in 1869, containing the compliment, which coming

from such a source adds the stamp of orthodoxy on

ILis life and labours : " am quite certain of your

powers being used on the side of that truth which
so many, as it seems to me, in their way longing to

support  it,  distrust and dishonour." The restlessness

of Kingsley's mind prevented him from coming under

that dreadful bane of even the gifted country parson,

namely, intellectual immobility or retarded intellectual

development, because all things round him move
40 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

so slowly, and the discharge of his simple duties is

apt to generate perfunctoriness in their performance,
and a relapse into learned or it may be unlearned
ease. His case is an instance to point a comforting
lesson to the friends and relatives of "able" young

men, for whom they are in constant fear lest they
should be " lost in the country." As a safe and sound
fulcrum for a wider influence, Kingsley's position in

the country was of much value. Mr. J. Martineau

bears testimony to this in a letter to Mrs. Kingsley
giving his recollections of him --

   " As it was an unspeakable blessing to Eversley to have
him for its Rector, so also it was an inestimable benefit to
him to have had so early in life a definite work to do

which gave to his generous sympathetic impulses abundant
objects and responsibilities, and a clearer purpose and
direction. Conscious, too, as he could not but be, of great

powers, and impatient of dictation and control, the repose
and isolation of a country parish afforded him the best and

healthiest opportunities of development, and full liberty of
thought and speech, with sufficient leisure for reading and
study."

Besides this, the truly able clergyman makes every

event and circumstance and act, unimportant to

ordinary persons or parsons, significant and interesting

a
                          it,

                             is
                                    a

                                      it,
                                             a

                                                     it

                                                                     by

                                                                it
by the reality he gives to  and raising               his

own innate elevation of tone to higher level. Club-

day in country district     kind of holiday, important

to those concerned in but to the eye of the outsider

presenting little interest, having even an air about

of the ludicrous in the exhibition of antiquated forms
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.                                              41

of a would-be grand paraphernalia, and the quaint

titles of the chief office-bearers not always supported

by corresponding dignity in person and bearing.

Kingsley sees the kernel of which these are only the

outward shell.,. He preaches to the people "assembled in
tEe church on that verse of the twelfth chapter of the

Corinthians, in which the Church is represented as an
association, with its spiritual force and functions dis

tributed on a'unifying'principle ; shows how the world as

it a " selfish competitive isolating form of society,"
is,
   is
                      a
                                                                    is,
                                                                    i.
and holds up the social ideal of the Church, in which

diverse powers differently used contribute to the common

end; shows how the early Christians had all things in
                                                                         e. " the
common in accordance with this principle,
uniting socialist one"-- socialist, that
                                           as opposed

to selfish individualism -- and leads the minds of his

hearers on to what he calls the millennium^ the king
dom of God perfect society here on earth. Thus

he hallows the occasion, and lifts the minds of his

hearers out of the region of commonplace reflection

to something higher and better. In the letter which

records this fact he speaks of his occupation during this

Whitsun-week. On Friday he goes a-fishing, but the
perch will not bite. Then goes to see E. H. to read
and pray with her. On this he remarks, " How one

gets to love consumptive patients She seems in
a

                  !

                                                a
most happy, holy state of mind, thanks to Smith" (the
curate). He sees another patient, and sits a long time
with her. Then he goes to look up John, who had had

bad luck in fishing, hooking huge jack, which broke
42 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

everything in a moment, and went off with all his

spinning-tackle. They were caught in a storm, which

Kingsley describes with his realistic intensity, not

omitting to state how he prayed when he saw the

danger they were in. Then follows a vivid account of

birds nesting, and an inventory of his treasures re

served for hen and chicks, and so forth. In all this

                                   strange mixture
we have the man exactly as he  is,
                                  a
                                                         a
of earnestness and fun, deep reverence and rollicking

cheerfulness, serious without falsity or affectation,

bright and brimful with high spirits, yet with real

sanctity visible in all he does and says, without a

shadow of sanctimoniousness, varying his occupations

from grave to gay without losing his moral equilibrium,

work and relaxation alternating with each other to

keep up the intellectual balance. Only on rare occa

sions he gives way to a momentary feeling of weariness
arising from over-exertion and exhaustion, when -- and
this more towards the close of his life --he says at
times to his wife, " How blessed will be when
        it                                                  all

over "      ;;
!
                        a

                             it

                                         is
It will not be out of place here to say few words on

Kingsley in his own parish church of the Rector sur

rounded by visitors on the lawn of the man in his

home life and the circle of his family and intimates, to

show how well he succeeds in that peculiar mission of

the country parson, civilizing, enlightening, elevating,

energizing rural life, and raising above the low level
                               it

of mental dulness and grovelling care into a nobler

and more fruitful existence. The present taste for
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  43

biographical sketches of the personal and home life of
celebrated men and women is not altogether a bad sign
of the times. People desire to know whether the man
whose public work they admire so much is really what
he seems to be in his writings, what are his personal

habits and his life at home, for there have been cases

of social philanthropists, and even religious reformers,

who deserved the epithet, "A devil at home, and a saint

abroad." The power of moral tension demanded in
private virtues is much greater than what will suffice
in the exhibition of public beneficence, because it is

constantly called into requisition and under constant
observation. Kingsley's life in the small area circum
scribed by the parish boundaries, bears inspection. The
man and the social missionary, the writer and the
person who wrote, were all of one piece, and cast in
one mould. What struck those who watched him in
the regular performance of his ecclesiastical functions in
the church at Eversley, was the unprofessional sincerity
of his devoutness, the loyal and loving rendering of the
Church services without the slightest accretion of would-
be pious attitudinizing, or over-studious attention to
ritualistic detail, that kind of scrupulous and punctilious
carefulness in gesture and movement which lessens
rather than increases the solemnity of worship, and
tends to magnify the officiating priest rather than the
Creator and Preserver of all mankind. As to his teaching,
he accepted ex animo, and without mental reservation,
the teaching of the Church to which he belonged, avoid

ing conscientiously the vagaries of Broad Churchism, as
ii CHARLES KINGSLEY.

well as those of the High and Low Churchmanship.
To accept anything in the formularies in what Mr.
Ward called a "non-natural sense," was simply impos

sible to a man of such transparent naturalness as
Kingsley. To express unnatural feelings, so as to arouse
the religious emotions in others, would to him have been
as impossible as seeing its display in others would have
been to him a loathing sight. For this reason the
present Archbishop, as Chancellor Benson and head
of the Lincoln Theological School, held up Kingsley as

Ia pattern for young clergymen. " never did," he says,

I Iin his letter to Mrs. Kingsley, "and believe never

shall, see anything that spoke so loud for the Church
of England as never to be put away, as did the morning
service in Eversley Church, whether he read or preached."

   It is a long way from an archbishop to a curate ; but

curates --and every curate is a potential archbishop --

can be severe critics at times ; we would quote, therefore,
the impressions made on the mind of one of Kingsley's
curates by way of contrast. After describing how, one
Sunday morning, the Rector walking from the altar to
the pulpit suddenly disappeared, owing to the fact, as
was afterwards discovered, that en route a lame butter

fly arrested his attention, and which accordingly he
conveyed to the vestry as a place of refuge pro tem.,
he goes on to compare his village to his town sermons,
and remarks : " To my mind, he was never heard to

Igreater advantage than in his own village pulpit.

have sometimes been so moved by what he then said,

Ithat could scarcely restrain myself from calling out,
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  45

as he poured forth words, now exquisitely sad and
tender, now grand and heroic, with an insight into
character, a knowledge of the world, and a sustained
eloquence which, each in its own way, were matchless."

   In the manner of preaching we note the same charac

teristics of complete unconventionality, the ring of
artless sincerity, transparent truthfulness, telling direct
ness of speech and definiteness of thought, never too
deep, and never approaching shallowness, a style always
plain and never bald, original in the sense of not being
a repetition of commonplaces, which made the spoken
word powerful, because it came from the inner depths
of the man himself. His sermons, short, pithy, unpre
tentious, have the merit above all things of what Mr.
Matthew Arnold would call lucidity. They are clear

with the clearness of a narrow trout-stream such as

his soul loved, but not to be compared with the
 breadth and depth of the ocean of thought such as we
 look for in the sermons of Robertson or Newman. We

 can understand how the poor men in the free sittings
 would settle themselves into an attitude of attention,

 as we are told they did as soon as he gave out his text,
 and how in preaching he would try, but ineffectually,
 to maintain calmness, his eager intensity and power of
 emotional force within him gaining the mastery over
 him; his eyes aflame, his wiry frame vibrating with
 terrible earnestness, as he delivered his message here in

 the dimly-lit and sparsely-attended church. During the
 evenings in Passion Week he would exhibit the same

 solemn tone and look of inspiration, overpowered by
4G CHARLES KINGSLEY.

the subject, and forgetting the surroundings, damping
enough to the ordinary preacher-- a sure sign of depth
of feeling and self-forgetful enthusiasm, thus unsustained
by the real or supposed sympathetic rebound of feeling
from a large assembly of appreciative hearers. To this
quality of spiritual force in the man and his message,
must be ascribed the power of his sermons and their
immediate effect, and also in a secondary manner on

those who read them in their published form. A

clergyman, working in an important city parish, speaks
of the twenty-five village sermons as "a plank to a
drowning man," which " kept me from sinking in the
' blackness of darkness ' which surrounds the unbeliever.

Leaning upon these, while, carried about by every wind

Iof doctrine, drifted hither and thither, at last, thanks
Ibe to God, found standing-ground."

   We have read a number of them and other published
sermons of Kingsley's, preached on different occasions
and in a variety of places, including the Westminster
sermons among the rest, with a view to discover the
secret of their power and popularity. But, to be per
fectly candid, much as we feel inclined to pass a favour
able dictum, much as we admire the ease of diction, the

shrewd common sense, the charm of simplicity which
pervades them, the complete freedom from tedious
circumlocution and turgid verbosity which spoils the
sermons of even able but much-occupied men ; much,
too, as we admire the undoubted eloquence of a number
of passages here and there, specially as in the case of
the sermon preached at Bideford on " Public Spirit," or
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.  47

the sermon on " Human Soot," preached in Liverpool,
under the inspiration of the place and the congenial

nature of the theme, we cannot, speaking critically,
place these sermons in the first rank of pulpit oratory.
What rendered them popular at the time was no doubt

their utter unlikeness to the dreary sermons of the
day delivered by scholarly and good men with all
the droning dignity and somnolent solemnity of re
spectable Church of Englandism, and also their un
likeness to the highly-spiced, flashy, and inflammatory
effusions of O'Blare-aways, the men of sound without
sense of whom he gives a picture in Yeast, and who
are so mercilessly held up to ridicule and contempt in

the stories of Anthony Trollope and other painters of

the clerical life of that time. It was refreshing at last

to hear a man say exactly what he meant^ and who
meant something in what he said to his hearers; to
listen to one who never affected what he did not feel,

and who felt very deeply every word he said ; a preacher
whose aim was not to produce pleasant ripples of
emotion in well-dressed, pious virgins, and waves of
approval in severely critical dames, even those whom
Robertson when in Cheltenham called his Muslin

Episcopate, causing at the same time deep sleep to
fall on the men, not, as in the case of Eliphaz the

Temanite, accompanied by thrilling inspiration. In

Kingsley's racy, manly village sermons there were no
asides for the benefit of the cushioned pews, to show
how the parson could lecture inferiors on their duties

to the powers that be, including perhaps the Deity, but
43 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

certainly not excluding the squire. As if acute villagers

could not see through such a trick, and despise the
parson accordingly, and justly so ! Nor were there here
in these sermons the usual appeals in vogue at that
time to selfish fears and debasing hopes. " You know,"
he said to a clergyman of our acquaintance who came

Ito be interviewed as his future curate, " don't allow

swearing in my church." What he meant was, of
course, he never would encourage denunciation against
the guilty in the " old style," though he could hold up
the stern aspect of religious truth when the occasion
required it. Here, then, there were sermons free from
conventional phrases and party passwords, without a

painful attention to word-building, written as the ideas
welled up in the heart, put into appropriate words,
spontaneous, suggestive, informal; they had actuality,
the very quality which was wanting mostly in the
average sermon of the day. Freshness of treatment,
truthfulness in utterance, a poet's quickness and per
ception in the use of tropes and illustrations, and a
shrewd man's directness of aim, a power of seizing
rapidly a few salient points, expressed in simple, well-

selected words and phrases, distinguished by conciseness
of form rather than completeness in substance, adapted
to the power of attention in an average audience, which
cannot bear the strain of close and prolonged reasoning,

-- such were the qualities of his discourses, qualities in

themselves quite sufficient to gain for them a widely-
enjoyed and well-earned popularity, enhanced by the
fact that these sermons were preached by a man rendered
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.                    49

famous by his other works, and certainly not diminished

by Charles Kingsley's well-known acceptableness as a

court preacher.

   The parish itself after a time became the centre of
attraction to many who either sympathized with the

social aims or had become interested in the literary

productions of the Rector. One of these was the Right

Hon. Thomas Erskine, who came to reside in
a                                           and
                              it,

                                          a:
soon became the friend and counsellor of Charles

Kingsley. At his house, Fir Grove, Kingsley met many

men of congenial minds, and formed some of the most

important friendships of his life. Visitors, too, came

to Eversley from many quarters, either drawn by

curiosity or coming to receive counsel and advice

Americans, and among them formidable rival as

writer of social fiction, Mrs. Beecher Stowe; philan

thropists, and social and sanitary reformers nearer

home, notably Mr. Chadwick, to mention one out of

many. At the church on Sundays might be seen

Crimean officers, who had come over from Sandhurst

or Aldershot to hear the author of those stirring stories

which had whiled away weary hours in field hospitals
in strange lands whilst their wounds were healing.

Other strangers came to fill the church during the

summer months, by no means unmingled source of
gratification to the Rector, who often used to say, "
a
                                                 afair on
                                               E

                                   I
cannot bear having my place turned into

Sundays, and all this talking after church." More

congenial to his tastes were the talks on the lawn

under the fir-trees, with a group of guests often including
50 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

men either famous at the time or become distinguished

since. It was a motley crowd of Churchmen and

Dissenters, Unitarian ministers and future Archbishops ;
even Queen Emma of the Sandwich Islands came to
visit the author of the Water Babies, which her husband
had been reading to their young prince.

    Letters, too, streamed in from various quarters when
personal intercourse was rendered impracticable, some

times from unknown persons, as one signed " A Chartist

and a Cabman," thanking him for the pleasure derived
from Alton Locke ; another from a barrister writing from
South Australia, thanking him for the comfort derived
from his sermons ; one from a Wesleyan minister from
Grahamstown; from China; another from the other

side of the Rocky Mountains -- in short, from all points
of the compass these missives came to assure him of
his wide influence. At the same time he corresponds

on subjects of scientific and literary interest with such
men as Darwin, Huxley, Matthew Arnold, and Lionel
Tollemache, not to mention a host of others. One feels

almost overwhelmed by the variety of subjects and the
versatility of a mind which could address itself to all
of them with intense interest, for his letters on these

different subjects invariably display a carefully-directed
attention to each point under discussion ; they are not
replies written off in the eager rapidity which the
severity of strain on the minds of most men of note in
the present day almost renders an obligation ; but they
are carefully-weighed and patiently-considered judg
ments formed by a quick but thoroughly conscientious
-KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.                        51

mind. We might instance among them those letters on

Strikes and Trades Unions, written in reply to questions

put to him by his London friends, who, though

writing themselves from the scene of action to one who

lived far from  it,

                                                     it

                                                                                  a
                could not help acknowledging the
Ifwisdom and good sense of his advice.
                                        be recol

lected, moreover, that all this while Kingsley has

multiplicity of other engagements, brain work of the

highest order, and the multiplicity of small worries which

take so much out of a man, however free from or able

to conquer impending mental irritability, Kingsley never^
lost the cheerful tenor of his even temper, and the
unfailing genial humour in his home-life and in contact^

with those around him. To his own children, and those

of his friends, he was always the same bright, cheerful,
"Ilight-hearted friend and playfellow.
                                        am staying

near Kingsley with my wife and children," writes F. D.
Maurice to Daniel Macmillan in 1852, " who love him

almost as much as do." Equally touching was his
                I

                               a
                                                                        a

                                                                              a
unfailing' tenderness to his aged mother, brightening up
her'last years of failing' health, always having cheer
ing word in her moments of depression, and equally

touching attention to a delicate wife, forgetting or

trying to forget his own hard work and worry in the
interest of his family. " There he sat," says his son,
" with one hand in mother's, forgetting his own hard

work and worry in leading our fun and frolic, with
kindly smile on his lips, and loving light in that bright

eye that made us feel that in the broadest sense of the
word he was our father." His curate, speaking of his
52 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

own reminiscences of Kingsley's "heroism in home-
life," tells the same story, and we have heard others
who knew him in the intimacy of the home circle con
firm the same impression, and one who by no means
loved Kingsley as a man after his own heart, that he
was never greater than at his own fireside. "Home
was to him the sweetest, the fairest, the most romantic

thing in life ; and there all that was best and brightest
in him shone with steady and purest lustre."

    The same cheerfulness of a loving temperament
and affectionate thoughtfulness for others accompanied

him in his walks through the parish ; it was the power
of radiating warmth and light which drew all men
towards him. The parish was near his heart at all
times, and therefore all hearts were full of affection for

him, though, of course, not all in the same degree ; but
none could resist such genuine and perfectly natural
love for his people as was that of the Rector of Eversley.
He identified himself with Eversley, and when the
enclosure of Eversley Common was decided upon it was
a real distress to him. " Eversley will be no longer the
same Eversley to me," he said with a pang. Imme
diately on his return from the American tour, though
not yet recovered from his illness in Colorado, he throws
himself into his parish work eagerly, glad to return to
his simple parishioners, and in the prevalence of much
sickness and mortality among them, visiting them twice
and three times a day in a burning sun and dry easterly
wind. One or two such facts are quite enough to show
the relation of parson and people. There are excellent
KINGSLEY AS COUNTRY PARSON.                                 53

men and conscientious, who, somehow, when placed in
country parishes, forfeit not only their ministerial, but

personal and social influence exactly from the want of

this common feeling, and the absence of anything like

a common interest between them and their parishioners.

They and their friends complain of the want of appre
ciation of their hard work and good intentions all thrown

away on people who cannot understand the purity of

their motives and excellence of their intentions. Not

so with Charles Kingsley. He did not think of himself,

and his dignity was never offended ; he thought and

lived for others, and so they thought well of him, and

loved him because they simply could not help  it,           and,
                                                     it
like his Master, " having loved his own, he loved them

to the end." For this reason he would never leave

for any promotion except a canonry, which permitted
him to stay there. " Even a deanery should shrink
            a

                 II
                      I

                                                     :
                                                         ;

                                  I
from," he writes in 1869 to friend congratulating him
on his appointment to a canonry at Chester " the home

to which was ordained, where came when was
I
        II
married, intend shall be my last home for go where
  will in this hard-working world, shall take care to

get my last sleep in Eversley churchyard."

   The angel of death made his appearance in the
Eversley home sooner than was expected. When for

the last time he returned to  it  from Westminster

Abbey in 1874, and his wife was taken seriously ill, so

much so that hopes of her recovery were abandoned, he

said, "My own death-warrant was signed with these

words." She recovered, but he was taken ill, and
54 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

though he made a "splendid fight for life," he suc

cumbed, and the night came in which he said, "No
more fighting -- no more fighting," and resignedly he

passed away. Villagers, selected by himself on his death
bed, carried him to his resting-place in the church

yard-- those who had known, loved, and trusted him for

years. The highest and lowest in the land stood round
that grave, representatives of every phase of life, because
the capacious mind and large-hearted soul of Charles
Kingsley had a sympathy which knew no bounds for
all, and on the white marble cross placed on his grave,

and " under a spray of his favourite passion-flower, were
the words of his choice, the story of his life -- "

                       "Amavimus, amamus, amabimus,"

and above them circling round the cross --

                                      " God is Love."

    Such was Kingsley's life in Eversley from first to

last. It was in complete harmony with the noble

chivalry and the high aims breathing in his writings
and social aims, extending wide and far his influences

beyond it. It is a remarkable proof of the unity of

his life and mind, his simple activity in a small sphere
 entirely corresponding with the creations of his genius
 penetrating the wider world beyond.
CHAPTER III.

TSE SAINfS TRAGEDY--A POET'S SOCIAL AIMS.

" The Abbey is open for the Canon and the Poet,"

wrote Dean Stanley to Mrs. Kingsley immediately after

the death of her husband, and no one would have

grudged him a place in Poets' Corner at that time, or

now. Still, it is not on his poetry --i. e. in the restricted
sense, to the exclusion of poetic fiction --that his fame
must permanently rest. In ballad poetry among moderns

Kingsley has not his equal, and his songs and some of

his shorter pieces are exquisite. Moreover, all his prose

writings, especially his novels, were interpenetrated

with the spirit of poetry, and it may be added, without

taking upon ourselves in this place to speak of Kingsley

as the man of letters, had he devoted himself entirely

to poetry and the drama, his emotional force, his un

doubted power of description, his spiritual insight which

enabled him to read nature like an "illuminated

missal," the characters of which he understood suffi

                     it,
                                                      a
ciently, as he puts  so as to represent the unseen

by the seen, and his aptness to throw poetic charm

around the most commonplace situations and events,
50 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

his love for the romantic, and above all his idealism --

all these were calculated to make of him a great poet.
But here we are only concerned to speak of his poetry

as interpreting his social aims and subjective experiences

in his social studies ; as when in 1841 he tells us how--

                   " Through sunless cities, and the weary haunts
       Of smoke-grimed labour, and foul revelry,

            My flagging wing has swept."

Why he nagged so soon after producing seven years later

the Saint's Tragedy, he has told us in one of his letters :

I" never wrote five hundred lines in my life before the
ISaint's Tragedy . . . and have not read half enough.
I have been studying all physical sciences which deal with
Iphenomena.
             have been watching nature in every mood ;
I Ihave been poring over sculptures and paintings since
I Iwas a little boy --and all can say is, do not know half

enough to be a poet in the nineteenth century, and have

cut the Muse pro tempore."

   This was in December 1848, after the appearance of

his chef cFceuvre, his first and last attempt as far as we

know at dramatic writing. It was the product of his

youthful mind, written under the pressure of social

and religious problems which then occupied him and

all the world, and bearing the unmistakable impress

of an overpowering intensity. Hence it is not in
manner, polish of style, and artistic skill, all that
might be desired. Though received with favour at

Oxford, Professor Conington wrote an unfavourable

review of which, however, led to a lifelong friend

ship between author and critic -- professor of Greek
comparing with classic models could not fail finding
it it,

                                        a
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'         67

fault with its incoherencies.  The Saint's Tragedy

comes nearer in its forcefulness and wealth of diction

to the Elizabethan drama, though it could not bear

a close comparison with Shakespere in his maturer

productions, and Chevalier Bunsen's prediction that

Kingsley was destined to carry on Shakespere's historical

plays has not been fulfilled. The Saint's Tragedy bears

traces of the restlessness of the nineteenth century,

and Kingsley's own state of mental excitement ; it lacks

the quality of calm development and severe solemnity

in the progress of its action which we look for in

the most finished works of the tragedian. As in

the poem on The Bad Squire, and A New Forest

Battle, only preceding the Saint's Tragedy by a year,

and some other poems in Yeast of the same period,

there is too much visible effort, the fever-heat of the

social passion is not only expanding the poet's soul,
but detrimental to calm workmanship, cool self-recol
lection, and plastic force under control.

   But there is the passionate glow in the poet's soul
which richly compensates for the absence of these

formative powers, and if we miss perfection of form, we

are reconciled by the thought that there is here a
perfect freedom from that artificiality and close attention
to purity of style which, as in the case of the French

tragedians, produces a sense of unreality and ineffective
ness. Kingsley was not the man to " behowl the moon
in any poetry, however exquisite." We have here the
poet at work, as described by himself, a

"Joyous knight-errant of God, thirsting for labour and strife,"
53 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

throwing himself heart and soul into his subject, seeing
in St. Elizabeth a kindred spirit haunted by the
thoughts and struggling with the problems which
agitated his own soul, though how far and to what
extent in his then disturbed state of mind he could

not clearly determine. In one thing the aims were

identical, to quote the last line in the poem addressed
to the authoress of Our Village, in whom, too, he saw

a kindred aim--

             " To knit in loving knowledge rich and poor."

   In the mediaeval saint he saw the qualities of "wisdom,

self-sacrifice, daring, and love" imperfectly displayed,
which he knew were needed in all their plenitude for
such a task. Love for the people was the link which
most strongly attached the poet to the chief person in

his creation. In this respect the Saint's Tragedy differs

from the dramas of Shakespere and Goethe, in which
"the people" do not form a conspicuous element, or
where, at least, popular aspirations are not treated so

seriously or sympathetically. In the Tempest the com
munistic ideal is held up to gentle ridicule. In the Roman

and one or two English historical plays of Shakespere,
popular leaders and those they lead receive scant con
sideration. We might quote a number of passages
from Faust to illustrate Goethe's serene contempt
for the social aspirations generally associated with the
French Revolution. Love for the people, the demo
cratic element in poetry, is of later growth. Even
Tennyson's social philosophy has been characterized as
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDT.'  59

anti-popular in this sense, the Poet Laureate himself
as a " conservative believer in progress," and an " un
iforming optimist," rather than as an advocate of those
who spend their life in laborious poverty and a prophet
of social reform.1 This was in 1874. Lord Tennyson
has since become less a believer in progress, but not
more a believer in popular movements and the power

of the people to work out their own destiny. Kingsley
in the Saint's Tragedy has nothing in his composition
of the " Poet -- Pangloss." He indeed knew the faults
of the people, but never treats them with contemptuous
pity. Yet his hand turns more readily to their would-
be deliverer, St. Elizabeth, "the only healthy popish
saint" in the Calendar.

   As far back as 1843 the study of her life had occupied
Kingsley's mind. Unlike the Comte de Montalembert,
he has not told us how first he became acquainted with
it. But as he shared some of the characteristics of the
French nobleman --his impetuosity, his chivalry, and his
manly love of fighting on the losing side for " God and
Society," his immovable cloudless faith, his belief in the
Church to become a " league for social good " ; so, too,
it may be surmised that in both cases it was elective
affinity which drew both men to the same character in

similar states of mind.

    Similar but not identical feelings attracted the

mind of Kingsley towards the Hungarian princess. To
Kingsley the character of " Dear Elizabeth " has a

    1 See an article on Mr. Tennyson's " Social Philosophy," by
Lionel Tollemache, in the Fortnightly Review for February 1874.
60 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

peculiar fascination, and in 1846, " Dear Elizabeth is

now becoming too far developed to cut her in pieces,

and serve her up in a magazine : she shall appear in a

Ipoem, if wait seven years to finish her." But be

hold, in another year this resolution to follow the

Horatian maxim is broken. After consulting with some

of his friends, and encouraged by them to publish,

especially by Maurice, who undertakes to submit the

MS. to Mr. W. Coleridge, Tennyson, and "Van Arte-

velde Taylor," he hands it over to Parker, and writes
to his friend Powles : " St. Elizabeth is in the press,

...having been taken off my hands by the heroic mag
nanimity of Mr. John Parker     no one else would

have it."

A version of the story of Elizabeth in a dainty poetic

form, peculiar to himself, has been lately given by

Lewis Morris in his Vision of Saints, including many
of the apocryphal incidents of her life omitted by

Charles Kingsley, and we scarcely need dwell on these

by way of introduction --how the young princess, living

as a child and maiden in the uncongenial atmosphere of

the Thuringian court as the affianced bride and wife of

the young Landgrave Lewis, becomes a rare example of
         piety ; how in her "
humble   she strips herself of  great pity for the  labouring
world "                         gorgeous apparel    to clothe

the naked, and is reduced to beggary in feeding the

hungry ; how she empties the royal granaries to save

the starving multitude, and when expelled the castle

by court intrigues in the absence of her husband, she,

even in a life of privation at Marburg, continues her
        'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.                             61

work of charity ; how at last, and by order of her

relentless father confessor, the last luxury of giving is
withdrawn, and under a " soul-crushing asceticism " and

severe  discipline  her  feeble  frame  gives       way,  and

                                                                    she^
dies at the age of twenty-four, reverenced as a martyred

saint by those who, in her lifetime, added to the weight

of cares by their want of appreciating her single-minded

devotedness to duty. Mr. Maurice in the preface to the

Tragedy, and Kingsley in his own introduction to          it,

have given us clearly to understand that the subjective

struggles of the heroine are intended to symbolize the

mental struggles of her age, the conflict between the

manly or human, and monkish or ecclesiastical ideal of

perfection, and also that the Tragedy intended for the
                                 a
study of those who watch or engage in the struggles of; is

soul peculiar to our own times, that here we have;

reflected, in picture of thirteenth-century life, the
        is a
spiritual conflicts of eager and earnest souls in the
nineteenth. Accordingly, we find in the first two Acts,

the theme discussed how far marital love and the

possession of goods may be lawful and expedient for

those who would live the religious life whether in an
age of "heathenry," where people swear " by the sleeve

of  beauty, Madam,"         not the duty of the religious
        a

            :
                         !

                 it

                       is
to stem the tide of secularism by complete abstraction

from the world therefore, says Elizabeth --

    " I'd die saint
     Win heaven for her by prayers, and build great minster
              chantries and hospitals for her wipe out
     By mighty deeds our race's guilt and shame."
62 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

    Lewis, her affianced husband, almost anticipating

Rousseau's revolt against the positive laws of property

in civilized society, speaks of it thus :

                              I" Possession's naught ;

     A parchment ghost ; a word am ashamed

       To claim even here, lest all the forest spirits,
       And bees who drain unasked the free-born flowers,
       Should mock, and cry, ' Vain man, not theirs, but ours.' "

   When Walter of Varila, the incarnation of " healthy
animalism," points out that " possession's beef and ale "

--and moreover " the easiest trade of all, too " -- Lewis
inquires --

   " How now ? What need then of long discipline,

       Not to mere feats of arms, but feats of soul,
       To courtesies and high self-sacrifice,
       To order and obedience, and the grace
       Which makes commands, requests, and service, favour.

IWhy then, if but need, like stalled ox,

To chew the grass cut for me."

Walter has his worldly-wise answer ready for him --

" Custom and selfishness will keep all steady
 For half a life."

So speaks the " dawning manhood of Europe " in the

thirteenth century, struggling to be free from the

restraints of Christian ethics. Of course the high-

flown sentimentality of Lewis and Elizabeth meet with

little favour in the world around them. To it Elizabeth

is only " a canting baby," who was christened a " brown

mouse for her stillness," Lewis a besotted fool with his

conscientious scruples. Yet, fool as he        is,  he wisely
                'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'                          63

discerns the unwisdom in the two extremes of Walter

the Worldling and Conrad the Churchman. He re
minds the former of the duties of property -- " Toil is the
                         "
true  knight's  portion      ;  he  tells  the  latter    that  labour

without love and the service of humanity without

chivalric sentiment are incomplete. The worship of

the Virgin, he shows, is not inconsistent with woman

worship ; as for himself, he prefers a living saint who

can incite him to noble acts.

                                            " From her lips
      To learn my daily task ;--in her pure eyes

      ITo see the living type of those heaven-glories

        dare not look on ;--let her work her will
      Of love and wisdom as these straining hinds ;--
      To squire a saint around her labour field,
      And she and it both mine ;-- that was possession."

   That living saint is Elizabeth, only she is too high
above him in her exalted sense of duty, yet he reasons --

      " Is wedlock treason to that purity
        Which is the jewel and the soul of wedlock ?
                                Elizabeth ! my saint ! "

" You  love     her, then   "   inquires   the  shrewd Walter,

                           ?

who sees a healing quality in this mundane love for
the " male hysterics " of impractical idealism and emas
culating pietism. In answer to this a passage follows

as near akin to Shakespere's playful muse as is to be

met anywhere in its expression of youthful fondness.

Elizabeth's struggle consists in this, that she has

neither the stuff to be a nun right out, or to be a
complete wife either, as she says herself --

      " Too weak to face the world, too weak to leave it"
61 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

But she is a woman, and all things bid her love.

She, not being mistress of herself, sends for Lewis,

accordingly, --" bring him to me-- he is mine." And

                             triumphs. After that doubt and
                             with renewed force. " Have two
                             she be at the same time the spouse
Ithus^uimnn love
self-di^lj^;     t,  return
husbands      ?         Can
                 "

of Lewis and Heaven ? Taming " the rebel flesh " is

hard. In her religious struggles she seeks refuge in a

" boiling crater field of labour," healing the sick and

soothing the sad. Thus, then, "two weakling chil
dren " err in their earnest search for the true path of

duty. Thus the revelation comes to Elizabeth of the

fearful state of things in the condition of those below

her.

    " We sit in a cloud and sing like pictured angels,
      And say, the world runs smooth --while right below
       Welters the black fermenting heap of life
       On which our state is built."

   She experiences what so many experience in the

present day, resolves what some few high-souled men

high-placed socially or intellectually above the crowd
have attempted in their yearning to help the poor in
their struggles -- to mention a modern instance, Laurence

Oliphant, to show that this species of mystic is not yet
extinct --

   I" will taate somewhat this same poverty,

      Try these temptations, grudges, gnawing shames,

     For which 'tis blamed : how probe her unfelt ill ?

       Would'st be the poor man's friend ? Must freeze with him --
       Test sleepless hunger ---let thy crippled back
       Ache o'er the endless furrow ; how was He,
       The blessed One, made perfect ? Why, by grief--
             'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'                         65

IHe read the tear-stained book of poor men's souls,

As must learn to read it."

And so far from repenting of this act of self-effacement,
forgets the whirl of doubt in happy toil, and^rfiorta
others to find consolation in such holy effort.

" Be earnest, earnest, earnest ; mad, if thou wilt :
 Do what thou dost as if the stake were heaven,

And that thy last deed ere the judgment day.
When all's done, nothing's done. There's rest above --
                               if work              "
Below   let  work  be  death,           be  love
                                                  !

In contrast with this there follows a scene in which

nobles and Church dignitaries discuss economic ques
tions quite in the orthodox fashion of the students of

political economy in Kingsley's time. They talk fiercely
of " the stern benevolence of Providence," teaching the
poor " the need of self-exertion," and in the course of

the conversation Conrad's sermon is mentioned in which
he speaks of clerics " aping the artless cant of an aris
tocracy who made them, use them, and despise them" --

was Kingsley acquainted with any such, we wonder, in
his own day ? -- and Count Walter breaks out in bitter
persiflage against the small pedant, -- "your closet philo

...sopher, who has just courage enough to bestride his
theory       for truly man was made for theories, not
theories for man. A doctrine is then men's God--touch

but that shrine, and lo ! your simpering philanthropist

becomes a ruthless Dominican."

But the upshot of it all                that Elizabeth follows
                               is,

                                                         F
her inner promptings during the short spell of happy

married life, until Lewis follows his call, and goes forth
CG CHARLES KINGSLEY.

as a Crusader. In the severe trial of parting Elizabeth

nearly gives way to feminine weakness, all but gratifying
her enemy's sneer --

   " Those saints who fain would ' wean themselves from earth,'
      Stifi'yield to the affections they despise
      When the game's earnest."

But then she recovers her power of resolve after           a
temporary yielding to human infirmity, and says--

               " Life is too short for mean anxieties :
                 Soul, thou must work, though blindfold."

   The next two Acts of the tragedy are full of her
personal trials and wrongs endured heroically on the
removal of her natural protector ; she experiences, too,
what few escape who come in close contact with the
crowd, specially those who fall from high estate, how
ever undeserved the fall may be-- the ingratitude of the
ignorant and the coarse unfeelingness of the ignoble.
But perfected through suffering, she attains at last to
"the strength which comes by suffering." She is far

from being crushed by the failure of her self-imposed

mission. For as her waiting-woman says--

        " These higher spirits must not bend
To common methods ; in their inner world

They move by broader laws."

   When the old nurse in the chamber of the Wart-
burg remonstrates with her for taking all this trouble
" about the ungracious poor," Elizabeth only speaks of
the duty of fasting and mourning while the bridegroom
is away. When the new Landgrave's man sent to turn
her out becomes rude with the coarseness of his kind,
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'  67

she reasons sweetly with him, reminding him how she
nursed his wife in sickness, and when he proves imper
vious to this argument, she still persists in trusting to

the higher instincts of the people --

                         " Lead on : a people's love
                        Shall right me."

    When the monks refuse reluctantly to give her shelter
on the ground that they must obey the powers that be,

and Guta, her waiting-woman, exclaims--

                                  " Mean-spirited !
      Fair frocks hide foul hearts. Why, their altar now
      Is blazing with your gifts "--

Elizabeth gently retorts--

   I" Well--here's one lesson learned ! thank thee, Lord !

     Henceforth I'll straight to Thee, and to Thy poor."

   When an unworthy object of her bounty in better
days reads her a rasping lecture on her false humility
and "selfish hypocritic pride," using the poor man's
body as " stones to build withal your Jacob's ladder,"
to raise herself in the Scala Dei, Elizabeth accepts it as
a heaven-sent lesson, and even discerns much wisdom
in the crone's rebuke.

                                     "Dull boors

              See deeper than we think, and hide within
              Their leathern hulls unfathomable truths,
              Which we amid thought's glittering mazes lose.
              They grind among the iron facts of life,
              And have no time for self-deception."

   Then again, by way of contrast, there follows an
exquisite bit of dialogue between Elizabeth and her
08 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

uncle the Bishop of Bamberg -- a kind of Bishop Blou-

gram, the very picture of a mediaeval Gallio, whose
               " We must be moderate
great motto    is,                                  hate over
                         is                         :I
doing anything -- especially religion," and he certainly
                                                          ;
never errs in excess of religious zeal except in sanction
                                                            a
ing the persecution of heretics. He serves as a foil

to bring out the ardour of his niece, whom an adverse

world has not been able to subdue, and who has been

taught noble self-reliance by misfortune henceforth
    is
         a
she independent of the world's praise and blame in
following her own ideal --

    I" have snapt opinion's chains, and now I'll soar
      Up to the blazing sunlight, and be free."

And so she leaves her uncle's palace for hut or

cottage in Marburg. Here the climax of the struggle

is  reached. She             taught to give up all, even her

children, though not without agonizing thought full of

doubt and despair accompanying the act of self-renunci

ation. Here we hear the voice of the world's sorrow

muffled by mediaeval surroundings, but, like the cry of

the human heart in all ages, as in Job, in the Prometheus,

in the Divine Comedy, in Hamlet, in Faust, so here in

St. Elizabeth  ends with tone of sad resignedness,
               it

                                         a

in which we read something like the neo-stoicism of

our age, the Christian Iphigeneia self-immolated on

the Marburg high altar --

               "Come, the victim's ready."

   Kingsley's power of entering into the mediaeval spirit,
and speaking through Conrad the " heretic-catcher,"
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'  69

from whom not only several centuries of thought, but
an impassable gulf of diversity of temperament separates
him, in his own thought more than once displays a gift
of spiritual assimilation rarely met even in kindred
minds. But here, as in the poem of St. Maura, we
have the same sympathetic appreciation of saintly
asceticism and pious mysticism which in turns attract

and repel his ardent spirit. "Even self-torture," he
remarks in the notes to the Saint's Tragedy, " will have

charms after the utter dryness and life-in-death of mere
ecclesiastical pedantry." But his inmost thoughts were
put into the lips of Walter of Varila, when he accuses
monkish piety, or rather charity, as " double-distilled
selfishness," which gives a "halfpenny for every half

penny worth of eternal life "-- " a private workshop in
which to work out her own salvation." What the
Catholic layman says of the merit-seeking saint in the
thirteenth has a meaning for the "piety pays best"
style of travestied Christianity held up to scorn by

ICharles Kingsley in the nineteenth century -- " have

watched you and . your crew, how you preach up selfish

ambition for Divine charity." Still Kingsley can see
deeper than this. He knows that the stuff of which

martyrs and mystics are made is finer by far than the
coarse clay which is moulded into our matter-of-fact
practical man of the world; that those who follow

Christ's law and example of self-extinction and self-
effacement find true happiness in altruistic endeavour,
though without seeking it. Quoth Elizabeth :
70 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

                                    " Ay, there lies the secret --
             Could we but crush that ever-craving lust
            For bliss, which kills all bliss, and lose our life,
             Our barren unit life, to find again
           A thousand lives in those for whom we die."

                                                      " Is selfishness
            For time a sin --spun out to eternity

         ICelestial prudence ? Shame ! oh, thrust me forth, --

             Forth, Lord, from self, until toil and die
             No more for heaven and bliss, but duty, Lord,

         IDuty to Thee, although my meed should be

             The hell which deserve ! "

   Thus we find Elizabeth canonized not only in the
Marburg convent, but in the literature of England,
and at the very period when religious conventionality
reigns supreme, ;when many there were ready to say
with the monk in this tragedy, dwelling on the futility
of social and religious reform, and the efforts of the
"reformation bitten " Christian philanthropist: "Behold
the fruit of your reformers ! This comes of their realized
ideals, and centralizations, and organizations," &c, &c.
Even the character of Conrad, whose narrow creed and

cruel spirit of religious domination repels, assumes a
nobler aspect towards the close; the tragic horror in
spired by his deeds and sufferings, in the end is softened
into pity as we listen to the eager self-questionings of
his perturbed soul, and the humble confession of his
partial failure and mistakes made in good faith.

    "We make and moil, like children in their gardens,
      And spoil with dabbled hands our flowers i' the planting,
       And yet a saint is made."
        'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'                                                                                            n

                                   " And yet what matter ?
Better that I, this paltry, sinful saint,
Fall fighting, crushed into the nether pit,

If my dead corpse may bridge the path to heaven,

And damn itself, to save the souls of others."

   He, too, has his terrible doubts of the efficacy of the

religious system to which his life is consecrated; but
his powers are willingly sacrificed to and so he finds
satisfaction in the one great work of his life, though,
alas like all the rest, incomplete.

                        " The work done Diva Elizabeth
                And have trained one saint before die
!

         I
                                       is
                                                                             !

                                        I it,

                                                                                                                       !

                                                                                           "!

   And so he expires himself, a victim of his own im

moderate zeal, unshaken to the last in his faith in God
and the power of one saintly life, exclaiming --

" God  martyr's crown Elizabeth."
0

                 !
                   a
                                                                 !

                                                                                    a
With these words concludes the Saint's Tragedy.
   Elizabeth, this ethereal creature who will not wear

coronet in church, who prefers the cross to the crown,

        " Who shrines heaven's graces in earth's rich casket,"

who, in her sweet humility, shrinks from her high task

in dread of the weakness of her own fine-wrought
nature, and yet, "to find my strength in vastness,"
requiring a stronger will to lean against so fair in her

innocent loveliness, that even the stern priests cannot

help admiring from distance --

                                                 " With such looks
          The Queen of heaven, perchance, slow pacing came
          Adown our sleeping wards, when Dominic
         Sank fainting, drunk with beauty she most fair--
it

             a

                                                             ;

                                                  is ;
                                                                                 "
72 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

so womanly in her affection for the husband, so devoted
as a mother to the babes, while all the time more than
half afraid of robbing heaven of its due of love and
loyalty -- is held up throughout as an example of con
scientious performance of duty under difficulty, trying
to reconcile the claims of personal and domestic duties
with those appertaining to " God and society " and
"God's poor."

    Here, then, we have a drama and a tragedy, a
picture of high life and low life with their limita
tions, in which the principal figure as well as the
subordinate personages are very far from perfect, incon
sistent with themselves, and often out of proper relation
with the age in which they live; out of place, so to
speak, on the stage of life on which they appear.
Thus Lewis wants the power of action in addition to
his virtuous amiability and high notion of the sacred-
ness of marriage. Conrad's noble character, with its
depth of religious feeling and height of aspiration,
lacking the breadth which prevents his becoming a
really great reformer of his Church. The " noble lay-
religion" of Walter is warped by a touch of scornful

worldliness, and so --not to proceed any further into an
analysis of less important personages --the drama be

comes a tragedy. The actors being what they are, the

whole must end in a catastrophe or failure. In this

consists the tragic element.
   We have been told that in this tragedy Kingsley sets

up straw men to knock them down, that he keeps on
thrashing a dead horse, or slaying the slain ; in short,
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'  73

that the clanger of asceticism gaining the upper hand in
England is an imaginary foe which it was not worth

while fighting. This may be true at this present

moment, though even now some forms of asceticism

have a charm for many minds, such as Pessimists with

Schopenhauer at their head, Theosophists, and modern

Buddhists, not to mention several varieties of Christian

ascetics in the Anglican and Roman Communion. In
1847, the danger, as it appeared to Kingsley's inflamed

brain, assumed more formidable proportions, and others,

more calm by disposition, shared with him both the

fear of Papal aggression and the revival of ascetic forms
of religion as represented by the Newmanites. Of these

were the late Prince Consort, a great admirer of the

Saint's Tragedy, and who, writing to his daughter in
Berlin in 1860, thus remarks on it--

  I" My best thanks for your kind letter of the twentieth of

June. was certain that the Saint's Tragedy would not only
interest and impress you, but that you would comprehend
and grasp the inner spirit of the work. The substitution
of doctrines made by stupid men for laws of God-made
nature is the core of Catholicism --the good God did
not understand how to make His own world, nature is
wicked, given over to destruction -- a thing to be abhorred.
Yet stay. Not so. The good God made it in the beginning
altogether good, and the devil has spoiled His handiwork ;
it is, to speak properly, the workmanship of the latter, and
God is unable to help; Himself. Then comes the Church
and helps Him out of His trouble ; she destroys the
wicked, degenerate nature for Him, and magnanimously
gives Him His own.

   "This is the true meaning of the flesh and the devil,
74 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

as presented by the Church. Kingsley has depicted this
work of the Church in all its purity in ' Elizabeth the Saint,'
and the reader's own nature shudders before the image of
what the Church has substituted for God's own work." 1

   But we must also take into account another sense

under the immediate influence of which the Saint's
Tragedy was written --the public mind was so agitated
by the " social condition of the people " question, and the
attitude of the Church towards it. This gives it its social

colouring, and when the time has come for the literary
history of England in the nineteenth century to be written

by a competent hand, the Saint's Tragedy will in it occupy

an honoured place as a powerful dramatic expression of
the social aspirations, from a religious point of view, in
1848, as conceived not too clearly, but entertained none
the less fervently by one of the most generous spirits
of that time.

   In the same way perhaps Ibsen's social dramas will

rank high as an expression of a similar feeling at a later
period of the same eventful century, which still more
than Kingsley's tragedy reflect the disheartening sense
of futility in attempts of social amelioration and the
struggles after a higher ideal against surrounding
prejudice and passion, besotted ignorance, and irrational
opposition to new ideas. We may be pardoned, there

fore, if we add a few remarks by way of comparison

and contrast between these two writers by^wray of
concluding this chapter. Both the Saint's Tragedy and

   1 The Life of the Prince Consort, by Theodore Martin, vol. iv.

p. 340.
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'  75

most of Ibsen's plays have this in common -- that they

were not intended for actual representation on the
stage, though Ibsen, having himself been royal stage-
manager at one period of his life, has this advantage
over Kingsley in knowing the possibilities and limit
ations of tragic effect, and the secrets of the art in
bringing them about. Again, we have in both more or
less burning questions of the day as affecting modern
society and social morality discussed, though this is
done directly by Ibsen, and only indirectly by Kingsley.

In this discussion, however, there is a wide difference in

the attitude of mind of the respective writers, separated
as they are by nearly half a century of continually de

veloped thought and discussion since the Saint's Tragedy
was written. Ibsen is a realist, and writes with the
" realistic temper " ; Kingsley is an idealist, and writes
under the full sway of the " idealistic fancy." True, there
is much realism in his art, so much, indeed, that to some

minds he has proved even offensive. Ibsen is an idealist
in his own way. " Do not despise idealists," says one of
the characters in Ghosts, " or they will avenge them
selves." But a trenchant and severe criticism of our

present society rather than the creation of ideal
characters, such as St. Elizabeth, is the predominating
trait of Ibsen's work.

   Another coincidence in connection with this subject
is the place assigned to woman in the regeneration
of society ; both Ibsen and Kingsley look to woman's
influence as a means for the possible realization of a
higher social ideal. Most of the women in Ibsen's
         76 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

          dramas are better than the men ; and the perfect
          woman, though very far from coming up to the
          standard of Elizabeth, appears on the stage as the
         saving power amid the deformities of social life. This

        comes out especially in Pillars of Society, where
         Lona reforms one of these " Pillars," who has well-

          nigh ruined the lives of three women, assisted by her
         younger brother, the supposed scapegrace, but who
         really becomes the scapegoat to redeem the really
         worthless character of Bernick. But the grand energy
         of the women in these plays does not compare with the
         manifold graces of Diva Elizabeth, nor the description
         given of woman's saving power in the "Triumph of

                        sketched in Yeast.

            Another coincidence we find in the common faith

/Womof abonth,"Kingsley and Ibsen in the effects of sanitary

       reform. In An Enemy of Society the principal

    . character, Doctor Stockmann, is proved in the end
         to be after all " a true friend of the town ; he is
        the saviour of society," in pointing out the dangerous
         condition of watering-places from a sanitary point of
        view. But he is overpowered by the selfish greed of
        his fellow-citizens, who would much rather the truth

         were suppressed, so as not to hinder a considerable
         influx of visitors; from which the man of science
        deduces a theory most pessimistic in its character.

        Not only are the water-works poisonous and the
        hygienic baths built on soil teeming with pestilence,
        but there is a further discovery, that " all our spiritual
        sources of life are poisoned, and that our whole
'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'                                         77

bourgeois society rests upon a soil teeming with the

pestilence of lies." Here we have none of the hope

fulness of Kingsley on the same subject ; and that the

author speaks here his own thoughts is evident from

the conclusion of the drama, where the hero of the play
says in view of the rottenness of society-- " You see, the

is
         is,

                                                                                              ;

                                                is it
                                                         is

                                                                         ; is

                                                                         it
fact that the strongest man upon earth he who

stands most alone." The development of the indi

vidual seems to be Ibsen's ideal      Carlyle's one-man
                                  wanted to save the
theory. The man of iron will

worldly crew we call Society, and woman's destiny

   to help in forming strong characters. "All these

majority-truths are like last year's salt pork they are

like rancid, mouldy ham, producing all the moral

scrofula that devastates society." Thus speak the men,

mostly like cynics and fatalists, whilst the women are

strong iu character, standing by the few strong indi

vidual souls to support them in their manly struggles.

Such are Lona, Mrs. Alving, Petra, even in a way

Hetta. What  required, therefore, according to
             is
                           is
                                                            a
Ibsen's social philosophy, the creation of masculine

aristocracy, an aristocracy of will, to make every man

in the land a nobleman, and so counteract the morally

depressing influences of democratic institutions.

We have here some of the social theories of

Kingsley, too, but with a difference. Ibsen dwells

mainly on variation of type in his belief in the evolu
tion of higher morality, and only brings in the
a
                           a
                                                                             is
                                                                                 a
principle of heredity in its power of transmitting evil

qualities. Kingsley, as believer in fixity of form,
78 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

believer in hereditary powers and qualities, ancestral
traits for good preserved as types of moral excellence,

and therefore he writes in a letter to a friend -- "A

Itrue democracy, such as you and should wish to see,
Iis impossible 'without a Church and a Queen, and, as

believe, without a gentry." 1 Moreover, he is a thorough
believer in the gradual development of the aristocratic
temper of mind, and with a chivalric love of the past
combines a better hope for man generally in the
social evolution of the future. He, too, sees like Ibsen
much that raises anger and disgust in the social falsities
of our modern life ; but he does not think with the
Danish dramatist the world is all built over with
whited sepulchres. Ibsen is hopeless because unin
spired by the religious faith which sustains Kingsley.
Herein lies the essential discrepancy between the two
writers, in whom all along we have traced so many
striking resemblances. And yet such is the power of
faith in the future, even in the most hopelessly
desponding social pessimist, that even Bernick in the
closing words of the play is made to say by way of

giving effect to the author's theory, " It is you women

who are the pillars of society." Lona replies, " No, no,

the spirits of truth and freedom --these are the pillars

of society." To this saying Kingsley could not have
objected, though he probably would have added, " Where

   1 In one of the sermons on national subjects he points out that
the true gentleman or lady are known by their unselfish love and
devotion to the common weal, irrespective of birth and inherited

status.
   'THE SAINT'S TRAGEDY.'                             79

the Spirit of the Lord there
" The truth shall make you free."
                 is,               liberty," and again,
                              is
                                        is
In short, Kingsley's social drama           religious not

only in the choice of its subject, but in its conception

and tendencies. To borrow the words of Maurice in the
preface to where he expresses the confidence, " that
   it,
              a
the life of each man, and the life of this world,          a
                                            a
                                                     is

                                                         is
drama, in which perfectly Good and True Being

unveiling His own purposes, and carrying on conflict

with evil, which must issue in complete victory."

Religion after all optimistic. Ibsen, in his power of
   is

dissecting in a merciless severity and unerring force of

delineation the vices of society, being only a natural

realist, keeps too close on the ordinary level of the stage

of life we miss the lifting power supplied by religion;
of soaring above this " low-roofed life " of ours.

Kingsley, without losing sight of the base facts of life

and the hypocrisies in the social world, the brutality of

personal egotism and the insufficiency in many respects

of social institutions in counteracting these powers of

evil, yet has sufficient faith in individual regeneration

and social reform to place figure on the stage which
is

                            is it a

                                                                          is
                                                                               is
the noble exhibition of self-sacrifice. She becomes an

instrument of healing like the serpent raised in the

wilderness, in conscious endeavour of imitating Him

whose life and sufferings was intended to prefigure.

"Work and despair not" its lesson. The individual,

who striving to rise above the dead level of ordinary

ethics, individual or social, according to Ibsen,     in

constant danger of being crushed by the all-powerful
80 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

ness of a faulty system of society. According to
Kingsley, the personal excellences of individual
character and the spiritual forces in society combined,
mutually elevating, and conjointly developing under a
Divine impulse, and constantly subjected to Divine
direction, bring about a gradual transformation in the
unit and the aggregate. The old Berseker spirit in
both these modern men cries out, " Be strong." " Be
strong in yourself," says Ibsen. " Be strong in the Lord,

and the power of His might," says Kingsley. It is not

hard to see which of the two has the most bracing
effect on effort and endeavour in the moral and social

elevation of mankind. In their differences of style

and treatment arising from their different views of man
in society, we note the impassable chasm which
separates the mere social critic or modern social

neologian from the Christian socialist--a chasm wide as

the difference between hope and despair.
                    CHAPTER IV.

YEA8T; OR, AGRARIAN SOCIALISM IN THE NOVEL.

What was said of the social drama in the last

chapter applies with equal force to the social novel, i. e

the novel written with a purpose, either to describe the

effects of certain social evils, or to propound given

methods of dealing with social problems. It spoils the

novel from the purely artistic point of view, and fails to

produce the effect expected from in rousing feeling
                       a it,         a
of antagonism in the general reader, who resents beinga

                                                                 I
taken in by what pretends to be story told for his

amusement, but  is  really " story with a meaning,"
                    a

parable to convey dry lessons in political economy.

Yet novelists of the day, such as e. Tourgenieffl^ing.

drawing vivid pictures of country life in Russia, -tailing

the attention of the reader to the severe trials and

troubles of the agricultural labourer, or Mr. Gissing,

describing with earnestness and fervour the struggles
of the " nether world " in English cities as " a protest

against those brute forces of society which fill with

wreck the abysses of the nether world," have been

eminently successful in this modern department of

                                     G
82 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

light literature. But this, we think, not so much
because of the increased interest taken nowadays in

social problems, though that counts for something, but
because novel readers are so much captivated by the
style of these proficients in story-telling that they resign
themselves to being lectured on social subjects conveyed
so pleasantly and without taxing too severely their atten
tion. Thus, Father and Sons, or Mr. Baring Gould's
Arminel, are devoured greedily by men or women who

care little for Russian Mu^jjes" or plain English John
Hodge. But this cannot be said of the construction or

contents of Yeast. It was written under pressure,

and somewhat hurriedly. But then, it appeared at the
right moment, and was the natural outcome of strong
feeling in the author appealing to others who felt
strongly in sympathy with him. Kingsley's mind as
well as that of the country was in a state of seething,
as the title of the novel suggests. To this must be

attributed its success. It took up the agricultural

'labour question in a forcible way, and it occupied itself

 with another stirring question of the hour, the religious

controversy in connection with Tracts for the Times.
 Moreover, appearing as it did in the form of a serial
 story in Fraser, it " took " the public from the first, and

 did not weary, as the economic and ecclesiastic con
 troversies with which it is interlarded were administered

 in small doses, one at a time by way of monthly
 instalments, the intervals of suspense keeping up an
 interest in the course of the story. We are told that,
 written for the greater part at night when the day's
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  83

work was over, it proved too much for brain and nerves,

and that the author broke down at last from over

exertion, and that even temporary change and rest did
not restore him entirely, and that he sunk again under
it. This accounts for some of its faults, which none

knew better than Charles Kingsley. Writing in 1848 to

Professor Conington, and dwelling on its demerits, he

expresses an intention of laying it aside pro tem., to

ferment for a few years ; but the fermentation, as far
as we know, never led to anything like a thorough
redactic^; there are at least no signs of mellow

maturity. It is as well, perhaps, that it should be so.

For the chief merit of Yeast is its being written

under the inspiration of the moment, and therefore
presenting us with an exact portrait of the author's
state of mind at the time, and an equally faithful

picture of that of the public, both agitated and distracted,

tossed about by the social cyclone then passing over the

country. Its vivid description of field sports proved so
attractive to some readers, that officers in the army,

returning from foreign service, would go straight to
Eversley to see with their own eyes and hear with their
own ears the parson who " could give such a picture of
a hunting scene as the one in the opening chapter of
 Yeast." Moreover, the dwellers in cities, who were
called upon in the then discontented state of the
country districts to form an opinion on the Agrarian
question, readily turned to these pleasant papers in a
popular magazine, written by a man who professed to

 be and was something of a "practical agriculturist,"
84 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

and whom the peasants would listen to when he

preached to them on such exciting subjects as poaching,

emigration, and the rest of the burning questions of the
       y
hour.

We will now give a short analysis of the book, which

will best indicate its character and tendencies. The

hero is introduced in the hunting scene referred to

above, with these two sides to his character, as dashing

and devout, clever and melancholy, at the same time ;
" an unlicked bear, with sorrows before him. " On

riding dreamily after hounds he is arrested in the

midst of solemn reflections, as unusual in the hunting

field as a copy of the Devout Life, of Francis of Sales,

which by a mischance tumbles out of his pocket, by
the sudden appearance of the heroine, " with her perfect

masque, and queenly figure and earnest, upward gaze,

who might have been the very model from which

Raphael conceived his glorious Catharine." Her sudden

apparition produces a mighty rush, followed by a fearful

fall of the hero with momentous consequences, for the

disabled huntsman is carried to her father's mansion to

recover from the severe injuries received. Argemone

is a fair specimen of the ritualistic devotee, and

possesses in her character the elements of graceful
asceticism and elegant 'mysticism. In a walk by moon

light with the hero, who by this time has sufficiently

advanced in convalescence, she discovers that she is

the destined instrument to bring about his conversion,
and takes steps accordingly to bring it about. The

interesting fox-hunter's stay is prolonged, and he makes
           'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.                      85

the acquaintance of Tregarva, " a stately, thoughtful-

looking Cornishman, some six feet three in height,

with thews and sinews in proportion," one of the

keepers, who throughout the book is the principal

spokesman of his class, from whom we learn the state

of the country, and who suggests the remedies to im

prove the condition of agricultural labour. All his

sayings might be prefaced with loquitur Charles
Kingsley. Take for example the following --

"   " Do you mean," says Lancelot (the                  hero of the story),
   that the unhealthiness of the country                is chiefly caused by
the river 1 "
   " No, sir," replies Tregarva, " the river damps are God's

sending ;  and  ysoouthmeeyanar1e"not  too     bad  to  bear."
   " What   do

   "Are men likely to be healthy when they are worse

housed than a pig?"
   " No."
   " And worse fed                             "
   " Good Heavens   than a   hound          ?
                    ! No !   "

   " Or packed together to sleep like pilchards                 in a

barrel?"
   " But, my good fellow, do you mean that the labourers

here are in that state 1 "

  " It isn't far to walk, sir. Perhaps some day, when the

IMay-fly is gone off, and the fish won't rise awhile, you
could walk down and see.               beg your pardon, sir, though,

for thinking of such a thing. They are not places fit for

gentlemen, that's certain."

   Here we hear, as it were, Kingsley discoursing on
health. Tregarva, in the course of the same convers

ation, speaks of the parsons ; and he does so very much

a la Kingsley--
86 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

   "The parsons are afraid of the landlords. They must
see these things, for they are not blind ; and they try to
plaster them up out of their own pockets. . . . And
as for the charitable great people, sir, when they see
poor folk sick or hungry before their eyes they pull out
their purses fast enough, God bless them !--for they
wouldn't like to be so themselves. But the oppression
that goes on all the year round ; and the want that goes
on all the year round ; and the filth, and the lying, and the
swearing, and the profligacy that go on all the year round ;

and the sickening weight of debt, and the miserable grind

ing anxiety from rent-day to rent-day, and Saturday night
to Saturday night, that crushes a man's soul down, and
drives every thought out of his head but how he is to fill

his stomach, and warm his back, and keep a house over his

head, till he daren't for his life take his thoughts one

moment off the meat that perisheth -- oh, sir, they never
felt this ; and, therefore, they never dream that there are

thousands who feel this, and feel nothing else."

   Tregarva is attracted towards and attracts in turn
the sister of Argemone, Honoria, which introduces
another element of the romantic to give additional
spice to the story, because of the disparity of station
in the principals of this story. As an instance, showing
how Kingsley manages to weave social theories into the
texture of his novel, the following passage may serve to

illustrate --

I"   Ask  kteheapterswaegeatinanbdlushheeadv, e--nl"y   angel, Miss   Honoria," ---
                                                       and she, too,  will tell you.
and  the

   think sometimes if she had been born and bred like her

father's tenants' daughters, to sleep where they sleep, to

hear the talk they hear, and see the things they see, what

would she have been now 3 We mustn't think of it." And
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  87

the keeper turned his head away, and fairly burst into

tears.

   At intervals, as we have hinted already, by way of
interlude, or intermezzo, we are treated with bits of

epistolary controversy carried on between Lancelot and
his cousin Luke, a victim of Puseyism, which at this

time was Kingsley's bSte noire, and which he represents
in its most unattractive features; even in his arguments

on the subject with his lady-love he shies stones "at
the rickety old windmill of sham-Popery which you
have taken for a real giant." In opposing the mediaeval
idea of sanctity, as he does in the Saint's Tragedy, he
almost approaches the Scylla of modern Philistinism in

the attempt at escaping from the Charybdis of mystic
pietism, as when in one of his letters to Luke he

says --

    " Give me the political economist, the sanitary reformer,
the engineer ; and take your saints and virgins, relics and
miracles. The spinning-jenny and the railroad, Canard's

liners and electric telegraph, are to me, if not to you, signs

that we are, on some points at least, in harmony with the
universe ; that there is a mighty spirit working among us,
who cannot be your anarchic and destroying devil, and
therefore may be the Ordering and Creating God."

   From such digressions into the field of theological
controversy we are all the more ready to follow our
author returning to discuss the main problem. For
this purpose he arranges a dinner-party. Here we are
invited to listen to a conversation on the condition of

the agricultural labourer by representative persons
83 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

connected with the " landed interest." There is Lord

Minchampstead, at whose table they meet, a keen,

ready, and business-like strong man, the son of plain
Mr. Obadiah Newbroom, who had stood behind the
loom, but in course of time had developed into a manu

Ifacturer, and tells his son, " have made a gentleman of

you ; you must make a nobleman of yourself." The son
followed out his father's advice, and so becomes " the
owner of Minchampstead Park and 10,000 acres, for

two-thirds its real value, from that enthusiastic sports
man Lord Peu de Cervelle, whose family had come in

with the Conqueror, and gone out with George IV."
But though he had avowed at his own table soon after
he came into the country that " he had bought Minch

ampstead for merely commercial purposes, as a profit
able investment of capital, and he would see that,

whatever else it did, it should pay," he was none the

less a fair and good-natured landlord, not forgetting his
duty to his tenantry and subordinates. Here, too, was

Colonel Bracebridge, the plucky sportsman, with better
ideals in his head than could appear from the record
of his life, a class of well-bred scapegrace for whom

Kingsley entertained a sneaking affection ; it is he who
points to the clergy as the potential social reformers in
country districts : " They have the game in their own
hands, if they did but know how to play it." The host,

of course, takes a different view.

   " All the modern schemes for their amelioration, which

ignore the laws of competition, must end either in pauper
ization, or in the destruction of property."
         'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.                            89

   Lord Vieuxbois represents the country magnate of

the old school.

  I"Really do not see," said Vieuxbois, "why people

should wish to rise in life. They had no such self-willed
fancy in the good old times. The whole notion is a product
of these modern days."

   Here our hero breaks in with Kingsley's own char
acteristic vehemence --

  I" think honestly," said Lancelot, whose blood was up,

" that we gentlemen all run into the same fallacy. We

fancy ourselves the fixed and necessary element in society,
to which all others are to accommodate themselves : ' Given

the rights of the few rich, to find the condition of the many

poor.' It seems to me that other postulate is quite as fair :
' Given
of the    the  rircihg.h' t"s  of  the  many  poor,  to  find  the  condition
         few

"If ILord Minchampstead laughed.                         must really de
      you hit us so hard, Mr. Smith,
                                              Lord Vieuxbois, shall we
nounce you as     a            communist.
join the ladies?
                  "

   Thenceforward the hero begins in earnest the study
of the problem, and this by means of personal observ

ation. One of the subjects of social dissection is the
poacher Crawey, of whom as well as his natural enemy
Harry, the old-fashioned gamekeeper, we have a most
powerful description; there are besides some thrilling
scenes of poachers' frays full of esprit and instinct with
passion, and all this to awaken interest in such lives as

theirs, especially poor Crawey's; but the reader is more

puzzled than ever with the problem before him. Is
society answerable for the wrongs of law-breakers like
90 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Crawey ? is he past recovery ? is he capable of higher

things? who is at fault? has this man sinned or his

                                  is,

                                              ?

                                                                     is
betters in putting him where he and leaving him to

the tender mercies of the Game Laws The riddle

left unsolved, and poor Crawey unreclaimed. Argemone
in the meantime has succeeded not in converting

Lancelot, but in making him her slave. He avows his
love in a sketch he draws of the " Triumph of Woman,"

which    an elaborate, perhaps too elaborate, piece of
         it is
writing, and, like most of Kingsley's best bits, spoiled
               is, a
slightly by tone of exaggeration but as confession
                                  i.            a
of love             as may be expected, successful, and hence;a

forth the ideas of social reformation are shared by the

two lovers. The interest of the story turns on the

question, who to win the victory, the hero or the
         is
                      is
father-confessor of Argemone, e. her parish priest             ??

where her lot to be cast, in the world or in the church

will she embrace the spiritual life, or become the wife

of Lancelot The course of true love does not run
            ?

smooth, and Tregarva gets into serious trouble. He

has written a ballad on the Game Laws with strong

flavour of rural socialism  ;     falls into the hands of the

                              it

Squire, who in his wrath dismisses him on the spot.      is

blow, too,  is        impending over the hero's head. His   A

uncle's bank, where his whole fortune invested, on
                                            is

the point of stopping payment. The catastrophe might

be averted by Argemone's spiritual director, the Vicar,

who carries a letter from the banker to Lancelot, on

the prompt delivery of which all depends. But in anit,
evil hour the priest elects to delay knowing full well
·yeast; or agrarian socialism.  91

that this involves the ruin of Lancelot, and so would

put an end to the plan of his union with Argemone.

The letter is not delivered in time, and the crash

comes. Here is a fair opportunity for attacking our

modern credit system, and the author avails himself of

it promptly enough, showing at the same time the

inconsistency of modern religious profession, and modern

methods of money-making.

  I" If I were a Christian," said Lancelot, " like you,

would call this credit system of yours the devil's selfish
counterfeit of God's order of mutual love and trust ; the
child of that miserable dream which, as Dr. Chalmers well
said, expects universal selfishness to do the work of uni
versal love. . . ." "Selfishness can collect, not unite, a
herd of cowardly wild cattle that they may feed together,
breed together, keep off the wolf and bear together. But
when one of your wild cattle falls sick, what becomes of the
corporate feeling of the herd then 1 For one man of your
class who is nobly helped by his fellows, are not the
thousand left behind to perish 1 Your Bible talks of society,
not as a herd, but as a living tree, an organic, individual
body, a holy brotherhood, and Kingdom of God. And
here is an idol which you have set up instead of it."

   In this complicated state of affairs, a Deus ex machind

is brought on the scene in the next chapter, but without

satisfactorily clearing up the difficulties of the plot, and

so to the last we are left to a great extent mystified as
to the final issue. This strange person, Barnakill by

name, who also severely inveighs against capitalism in its
alliance with modern Pharisaism, is not very successful
in his attempt to throw a " supra-lunar illumination on
 92 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

 social questions " ; there is but a very dim light thrown
 by him on the leaden sky of economic disquisition.
 There is little interest in the rest of the story excerpt its
 tragical close. The heroine dies of a fever caught in
 visiting some of her father's cottages ; it is the Nemesis
 avenging culpable neglect of sanitary precautions. Her
 sister, too, falls a victim to disease, the curse of the
 Lavingtons which has come upon them both. But
Argemone in her dying words bids Lancelot to labour
on in the cause of the poor. What he actually performs
under such an inspiration we are not told. Omnia
exeunt in mysterium, that is the phrase which Charles
Kingsley quotes in the Epilogue by way of excuse for
such a mystified ending. Goethe, too, referring to the
mystical close of the second Faust, once remarked, in
"old age we all turn mystics." But then Kingsley
could not plead old age when he concluded his story,
and Lancelot is not like Faust, the author's own
portrait, although Yeast was from the first, like Faust,
to be mythical and typical. Kingsley also anticipates
adverse criticism on the fragmentary character of the
book as a whole, without making out a good case for
himself. But what is the most melancholy part of the
book, is the desponding tone in which it speaks of
possible future reforms--

   "For the present, the poor of Whitford, owing, as it

seems to them and me, to quite other causes than an ' over
stocked labour-market,' or ' too rapid multiplication of the
species,' are growing more profligate, reckless, pauperized,
year by year.
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  93

  I" have set forth, as far as in me lay, the data of the

problem ; and surely if the premises be given, wise men will

I Inot have to look far for the conclusion. In homely English

  have given my readers Yeast ; if they be what take them
for, they will be able to bake with it themselves."

     We may inquire how far are the data supported by
 the sober statements of others, and what is pure fancy
 and fiction ? and again, what success have the bakers
 with such yeast attained to thus far in producing bread
 and not a stone for those who ask for it ? Some of the

 data are referred to by the author of Perils of the Nation,
 a work which Kingsley had studied with deep interest.
 He quotes p. xxv from Mr. Twistleton's report on the
 " Sanitary Inquiry," where we are told that owing to the

 paucity of small farms the English agricultural labourer
 has not the slightest prospect of rising in the world and

 becoming a small farmer himself except by emigration.

Again, on pp. 77, 78, speaking of the enormous ac
cumulations of property in one hand, he points out the
dangerous power thus placed in that hand over labourers

depending entirely on their weekly wages and the roof
over their head on the large landed proprietor who
employs them. Living as they do " in hovels, singly or

clustered, destitute of comfort, cramping the body, and

depressing the mind," . . . "they follow the lowest

instincts and impulses of animal life, and are perfectly
prepared to become the scourges of those orders of

society who have trampled them down to so wretched a

level." If we compare this with what the author of

Yeast says in the chapter entitled " A Village Revel,"
94 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

giving what might seem a too dreary description of the
daily life of English rustics, we may see how sadly true

to life it was then, how sadly true to life it is but in
too many instances even now; "they are a stupid,

pig-headed generation at the best." Lancelot had

expected at the end "to hear something of pastoral

sentiment, and of genial, frolicsome humour; to see
some innocent, simple enjoyment; but instead, what
had he seen but vanity, jealousy, hoggish sensuality,

dull vacuity -- drudges struggling for one night to forget
their drudgery. And yet, withal, their songs and the
effect which they produced showed that in these poor

creatures, too, lay the germs of pathos, taste, melody,

soft and noble affections."

   And what can you expect from men in their hopeless
state? "Day-labourer born, day-labourer live, from
hand to mouth, scraping and grinding to get not meat
and beer even, but bread and potatoes ; and then, at the
end of it all, for a worthy reward, half-a-crown a week
of parish pay-- or the workhouse. That's a lively,
hopeful prospect for a Christian man." What does
such a one say but Nihil habeo, nihil euro. "What
makes me maddest of all, sir," says Tregarva, " is to
see that everybody sees these evils except just the men
who can cure them--the squires and the parsons."
True, they are ready enough with patronizing charities.
There is Lord Vieuxbois spending his whole life and
time among the poor ; " he fats prize labourers, sir, just
as Lord Mincharapstead fats prize oxen and pigs."

    What Kingsley says of the pressure of the system in
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  95

it,degrading the women and driving the men to despair,
and depopulating the country districts, leaving a resi
duum sunk to the lowest depth, and a race of children

growing up over-educated and under-fed ; of the waste
of human life, in fact waste of everything ; " waste of
manure, waste of land, waste of muscle, waste of brain,

waste of population -- and we call ourselves the workshop
of the world ! "-- all this is fully corroborated by the state

ments drawn from official reports and writers of the time
speaking with authority, and receive further illustration
from the letters of S. G. 0., Kingsley's brother-in-law

and brother-in-arms, fighting against the same enemy --

agricultural distress, physical, moral, and spiritual.

   What Kingsley suggested by way of solving it must
be gathered from hints in Yeast, and a published lecture
on "the application of associative principles and methods
to agriculture," in which he addresses himself to the
task in an unwonted spirit of calm deliberation, and

also some few allusions to the subject scattered over
the two volumes of Memories of his life. But before

we proceed to compare his proposals with those of some
others, we would in this place compare the manner in
which the general question is .treated in Yeast and

CoTiazLgsby, as these two novels may be said to repre
sent the rival theories on the agricultural question of
the two Young England parties of that day, the reaction
ary jeunesse dorie, led by Lord Beaconsfield, and the

party, if we may so call of Religious Radicalism led
by Charles Kingsley and his master, F. D. Maurice, as

far as the latter permitted himself to be forced into
96 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

such a prominent position of leadership. The Tories

agreed with the Christian Socialists in this, that the

squires and the clergy were the men to cure the evils
complained of. " Property is the natural protector of

labour," said the former, but replies Kingsley in Yeast,

I" question whether it will suit the people themselves,

unless they can make property understand that it owes

them something more definite than protection." And

it is in this that the two novels differ most radically in

        both their principles and proposals. The author of

                    is more skilful as a novelist, if not in the
KConinivnegntsivlyeness of plot --both novels are poor in this

       respect -- at least in the literary art of interesting pre

sentment and exquisite workmanship. He also excels

the author of Yeast in the grasp of political questions,

and his experience in the practical working of social

politics. This, however, suggests one of its principal

faults ; all is made to subserve his political party ends,
whereas Yeast has the advantage of being a work evi

dently coming from the heart, and in its absorbing

earnestness and unadulterated enthusiasms appealing

to the generous youth of England. In working out its

social problems, or rather in putting the problem before

the reader with perfect frankness and high-toned moral

and religious fervour, it touches a sympathetic chord in

the more emotional, and carries conviction to the more

rational inquirers into the great questions of the day.

The Church, to Mr. Disraeli, is an institution among
others important in the national life, and helping in

shaping the destiny of the people. He  is,  above all
' yeast; ok agrarian socialism.                               97

things, a politician, and as such he speaks of the clergy

in Coningsby in this fashion, "The priests of God are
the tribunes of the people "--though he adds, in a tone
almost the same as that we note in Yeast, " 0,

ignorant ! that with such a mission they should ever

have cringed in the antechambers of ministers, or bowed

before parliamentary committees." But he is very far

from attaching the spiritual importance to the moral

and religious force exercised by "the priests of the
Lord " in the emergency of great social movements,

like Kingsley, who, referring to the democratic element

in Christ, and the mistaken notion of the Chartists

about the Church being an outworn aristocratic in
stitution, writes to Ludlow in 1850 --" If the priests of
                                                               "
the Lord  are  wanting  to the cause  now,    woe     to  us
                                                              !

Both denounce with equally trenchant severity the

utilitarian selfishness of the age. "Life is much
                                      " Life          "
easier," said Lord Everingham.                            said
                                              easy !

Lord Henry Sydney ; " life appears to me to be a
fierce struggle." " Manners are easy," said Coningsby ;

I" and life is hard." " And wish things exactly the
reverse," said Lord Henry. " The means and modes of

subsistence less difficult ; the conduct of life more
ceremonious." " Civilization has no time for ceremony,"

said Lord Everingham. This may be called the

Romanticist aspect of the question. It is the cry of

Wordsworth in his sonnet on Milton --

                               " We are selfish men.

Oh, raise us up, return to us again ;
And give us manners, virtue, freedom, power."

                                                      H
98 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Or that of another sonnet of the same year, 1802 --

                         " Rapine, avarice, expense,
          This is idolatry ; and these we adore :
          Plain living and high thinking are no more :
          The homely beauty of the good old cause
         Is gone ; our peace, our fearful innocence,
          And pure religion, breathing household laws."

   Kingsley goes further into the marrow of the matter
in pointing out the rottenness of the selfish basis of
society. Both attribute the evils complained of to the
industrial revolution commencing when Wordsworth thus
wrote, "the hurry-scurry of money-making, men-making,
machine-making," which put the social organism out
of joint, and the consequent clamour of suffering labour
in what Kingsley calls the spirit of these rattling rail
way days ; it brought in a new social force, the " social
power " of Demos, seeking, as Coningsby says, " a specific
for the evils of our social system in the general suffrage
of the population."

   But whereas the restoration of "the ancient order

of the peasantry" to its pristine condition is the one
thing needed, according to the chief speaker in Con
ingsby, Kingsley points to education, sanitary reform,

and the raising oitne status in the agricultural^

population in keeping with modern requirementsjind
aspirations growing out of modern ideas. " Let me see
property acknowledging, as in the old time of faith,
that labour is its twin-brother, and that the essence of

all tenure is the performance of duty," says Coningsby.
That duty consists in paying better wages, giving better
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  99

homes, and holding out better prospects of rising in the

social scale, is the answer to this given in Yeast. In

Coningsby it is the rich manufacturer, the enemy of

an hereditary aristocracy, and an abettor of democratic

Radicalism as a means to crush the latter, who has

the moral and physical well-being of the people at heart,

building homes and cottages on a new system of ventila

tion, allotted gardens, and the rest, not an aristocratic

landlord like the Duke. This is significant. Lord\
Minchampstead is represented in the same way, but to

show that he follows the aristocratic tendencies of the/

ancient order of landed proprietors. Here the authors

of Yeast and Coningsby change sides, and for this

reason. The latter wants to stimulate his own party of

squirearchy to emulate the Plutocracy in popular social

reforms which shall preserve the order ; the former sets

forth the importance of creating, not only preserving,

the aristocratic element in a new society, to give a new

meaning to noblesse oblige in an age given to ignoble

money-grubbing and self-seeking, and finding, so to

speak, a middle course between feudal ties which are of

the past and money ones which are of the present ; in

looking to the new proprietors gradually superseding the

old, traders become rich and ennobled, buying up estates

here, there, and everywhere, displacing the ancient
nobility ; and, as he says in another place, entering " into

a true chivalrous competition against the ancestral

...owners of the neighbouring estates, to see if he cannot
surpass them  an excellent landlord, presenting to

me one of the most pleasant spectacles on English soil
100 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

at this day." But, again, the position of the two repre

sentatives of the old order and the new, respectively,

are the reverse of what we should expect thein to be

when Disraeli speaks in glowing terms of Manchester

as the "metropolis of labour," and goes on magnilo-

quently after his fashion to say that, rightly understood,

..."Manchester is as great a human exploit as Athens.
      It is the philosopher alone who can conceive the

grandeur of Manchester, and the immensity of its
future." " The earth hath bubbles, and such cities as

Manchester are of them," says Kingsley. The reason
of this divergence is that love of a " splendid materiality,"

of which the mind of Disraeli with its Semitio^bent

could not divest itself to the last, for Endymion is full

of whilst that of Kingsley, full of that spirituality
is
     it,
which his purely Arian mind imbibed from Plato,

after all antagonistic to the trading class, though  it

produces its princely merchants vying in princely muni

ficence with landed magnates who lack the money which

can alone purchase magnificence in these degenerate days.

They are necessary, he would say, for the present distress^
they and their capital help to bridge over the transition

from the old social order of the past to the new social

order of rural industry in the future.

Both authors are in perfect agreement on one point,

that the attempt to reconstruct society in its present
state of disorganization " on a purely rational basis,"
                         a mistake. " There has been an
as Sidonia calls  it,
                     is

attempt to reconstruct society on a basis of material

motives and calculations. It has failed," he says. Of
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.                      101

course, this is an attack against individualism from the

Conservative point of view, to hint at the disintegrating

effects of weakening the authority of custom and long-

established institutions. Kingsley, on the other hand,

directs his attack against individualism in its economic

rather than its political aspect, and tries to show in Yeast
how God has set His seal on " a state of society which

confesses its economic relations to be so utterly rotten and

confused that it actually cannot afford to save yearly

millions of pounds' worth of the materials of food, not to

mention thousands of human lives." He derides this nine
teenth century with its " Franklin-Benthamite religion,"
i. e. with rationalism for its profession of faith -- " a vast

prosaic Cockaigne of steam-mills for grinding sausages

-- for those who can get them. And all this in spite

of all Manchester schools, and high and dry orthodox

schools. Here were the strangest phantasms, new and

old, sane and insane, starting up suddenly into live

practical power, to give their prosaic theories the lie --

Popish conversions, Mormonisms, Mesmerisms, Cali-

«fornias, Continental revolutions, Paris days of June. Ye

hypocrites !  ye can discern the  face of  the sky,  and yet
ye cannot     discern the signs   of the          "    When
                                           time
                                                 !

Lancelot, again, expresses his impotence of working for

this end of social reconstruction under such unfavour

able circumstances, his better genius, Barnakill, inspires

Ihim with confidence. " No," he says, " dare not
Idespair of you English, as long as hear your priest

hood forced by Providence, even in spite of themselves,

thus to speak God's words about an age in which the
102 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

condition of the poor and the rights and duties of

man are becoming a rallying-point for all thought

and all organization." Further, when Lancelot, ready

to attempt the task, though with a sad heart, complains

that in the natural order of things he can hear nothing
but " the grinding of the iron wheels of mechanical
necessity," Barnakill replies, " Which is the will of

God. Henceforth you shall obey not Nature, but Him."

The heroes in both novels are idealists ; even Disraeli

can rise for a moment to the heights from whence he

can look down with noble disdain on party politics,

and spend some of his superb satire on partisan alle

giance to a cause which only affects a fraction of the

nation, or humanity. "Come what may," cries Con-
"Iingsby,  will cling to the heroic principle. It can

alone save my soul." Both agree in this, that the

future of the nation rests with her young men under

twenty-five years of age, for both were the spokesmen

of two sections of young England at the time, and both

attribute an important share to feminine influence in

the work of social regeneration. "Women are the

Priestesses of Predestination," and this we presume on

the ground "that the surest means to elevate the

character of the people is to appeal to their affections,"

not to the material cravings of the Utilitarian School,

or the pure reason of the abstract political thinkers.

For, as the author of Zevana says beautifully -- " On the

blue hills of the obscure age of childhood, to which we

look back ever and anon, there stand out the figures of

our mothers, who thence pointed out the path of life
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  103

for us; and to forget that warmest of hearts is as
impossible as it is to forget the most blissful moments

of existence." This view of woman's place in the

social system and the work of social development and

amelioration is too little noticed by our modern writers.

   But to sum up ! Both in their divergences and agree
ments the authors of Yeast and Coningsby point to one

great truth, which their novels abundantly illustrate

with all the wealth of a glowing imagination ; in both

these novels we meet with given social evils which

demand specific remedies, and these are described
in almost identical terms, and traced to the same

causes. When two writers so vastly different in their

views come to conclusions so wonderfully alike, the

facts, at least, on which their reasoning is based must

be real, and to accuse one of these writers, as did the

chief organ of the Party of which Lord Beaconsfield was

the brilliant spokesman, of exaggeration and wilful

misrepresentation, was grossly unjust and unjustifiable.            (/

   But it is time now to turn to the actual proposals

of Charles Kingsley. At an early stage he proposed

emigration, land colonization, such as " General " Booth is
now carrying on in his " Home Colony," 1 and the like#
But, with the writers of the "Tracts by Christian

Socialists," he learned to regard them as mere palliatives

of the evils of competition. Reclaiming waste land was

another remedy which at one time had its attractions

for him ; but in a letter on the subject written in 1858,

   1 See article on " General Booth's Farm Colony," in Spectatbii.

/\Sept. 12th, 1891.
104 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

and going into the matter in a very business-like
manner, lie points out the defect of this form of land
redemption --

   " It must be remembered," he says, " that if the land is

waste, it is because it is poor, remote, or both, and therefore
too expensive for profitable cultivation by the tenant
farmers ; and that therefore it will probably yield very ill,
after a great outlay."

   He suggests hereditary tenancies, for he had but
little faith in spade husbandry -- la petite culture -- as
generally understood, i. e. as identical with peasant pro
prietorship, for the want of capital in the latter case is
a serious obstacle ; he wants -- an impossible ideal--to
" restore the feudal system, the highest form of civiliza
tion -- in ideal, not in practice-- which Europe has seen
yet." In the meantime, as we cannot take Time by the
forelock and turn it backwards to " the good old times,"
he looks hopefully forward to the future, when " science
should discover" -- this was written in 1871 -- "some

raw article of manufacture which can be grown freely
on English soil, and which will require careful hand-

labour --like the vine, mulberry, tea, coffee, cocoa, &c.

Then, indeed, would the small farmer have a chance,

if he had saved money enough to start with in the mean

time." Twenty years of further experience have not
brought us much nearer to the discovery, and, unless
we are mistaken, have not added considerably in swelling
the working capital of the small farmer.

    Here, then, and thus far, we have no proposals for

heroic remedies. In the tract containing the substance
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.                 105

of a lecture delivered in London, on the 18th May,

1857, shortly after his controversy in connection with

Yeast, he sets forth at large his plans for the amelioration

of the agricultural labourer. The lecture was delivered

on behalf of the Society for Promoting Working Men's
Associations, and dealt with the " application of associa

tion principles and methods of agriculture." A bar

                  speaks of in letter to Mrs.
arister who heard
    a
                 it,

                              it
                                        ; it a
Kingsley as "the manliest thing" he ever did hear,

" and certainly never audience was kept for nearly two

hours and half so attentive, by the mere weight of

the subject, and the force with which           was wielded."

Here we must take Kingsley seriously he deals with

facts in matter-of-fact way, and takes facts as they
are. The farm-labourers he has in view were not

exceptional characters like Tregarva, nor the landlords

models like Lord Minchampstead, but ordinary landed
proprietors, with " no such stock of high farming

maxims," with commonplace bucolics to work under

them. Taking them as he finds them, he reminds theis
former that all landed property " held in fief of God,"
and that the Divine laws of conduct in the mutual

exchanges of human service and commodities are

superior to the laws of the market and commercial
expediency, and that these " remnants of feudal and

parochial socialism," by which he understands cus

tomary laws still acted upon now and then in country
districts, " which some people are now so impatient to
abolish, as interfering with the free battle between

covetousness and the labouring man," are the very means
IOC CHARLES KINGSLEY.

of preventing the agricultural masses from sharing the
fate of their houseless " white slaves " at " the mercy of
Mammon " in the towns ; that to destroy them is to
open the field to cunning and cupidity, and a total
disregard of justice in the contract entered upon
between man and master. The Poor Law, from this
point of view, is described " as an ingenious means of
keeping the poor man a slave, without starving him
into revolution." What he suggests as a remedy for
the unsatisfactory relationship as at present subsisting
between the employers of labour and their men, is
association. He refers to Cromwell's method of draining,
by means of associated labour, the fens of Cambridge
shire, which enabled him to found "the magnificent
socialist organization, by which they have now become
the fattest land in England." He gives a sketch, for
which we have not room here, of the modus operandi
in doing something of the kind now by large manu
facturers; for example, establishing flax farms in a
convenient spot, with a mill to work the flax when
grown, " and round them locate, as thickly as possible,
all mechanics and labourers employed," with a common
kitchen and wash-houses for all, a common and well-
organized system of sewage for sanitary purposes, and
as a means of cheapening the cost of subsistence. Such
an establishment he thinks might be made " chemically,

as well as economically, self-supporting." It might be

combined with the method of associating the labourers
by means of profit-sharing. Thus you might create an
industrial parish, with its library, club-house, co-opera
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  107

tive store, and the rest, without interfering with in
dividual rights, or breaking the laws of political
economy. This would come under the head of what
the French call patronage, in associated labour under a
head. But he has another plan, according to which ten
families of agricultural industrials might combine to
buy or rent land to be worked on the co-operative
principle. But, he concludes, nothing of this sort will
succeed without faith, and unless founded " on the rock

of everlasting justice"; and he adds, "I shall have more

hope in the long run, even of associate ignorance than
of competive wisdom, for justice without science is but
a poor blind child-angel, while science without justice
is a full-grown devil." Some may think that in all
this Charles Kingsley was too sanguine, and it has to

be acknowledged that attempts to carry out co-operative
farming thus far have not been crowned with signal
success, and in some cases have been attended by

lamentable failures. But the principles laid down in
this tract, and the motives furnished for their applica
tion in Yeast, have been more fully recognized every

year since they were published.
   From the last report presented at the Co-operative

Congress at Lincoln in 1891, we learn that in 1890
there were 2022 acres of land in cultivation on co

operative principles, with a working capital of £28,648,
and a rental of £2745. The profits amounted to £794,
the losses to £1155 ; but as to the latter, two societies, out

of twenty-two in England and Scotland, almost entirely
shared between them the losses ; also it has to be noted,
108 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

that all societies holding less than ten acres are ex

cluded from the list. The conclusion drawn from these

'results that agricultural co-operation on its trial
                                   is
             it,                      a
                  is,
                                             is

                                                                                             ;
that so far from dying out, eleven new associations were

created in the course of 1890. It                               proof of Charles

Kingsley's soundness of judgment to find, as the present

writer has discovered on making inquiries as to the

causes of the losses here indicated, that they were

mainly owing to the unwillingness of the societies to

pay for the best management; for, as his informant

puts                 "in' order to get good results, they will have

to pay in a liberal spirit for the brains which were

supposed to manage it." This       is                           the aristocracy of

talent to which Kingsley alludes in his tract above

referred to.

But apart from this, even within twelve years of the

publication of Yeast, in the preface to the fourth edition,

Kingsley could speak cheerfully of the progress made

iu the improvement going on in agricultural districts.

There he speaks of the growth of self-help and inde

pendence among the labourers, of cottage sanitation

by
                                                             a
     landlords, and in general the country parson may
see "a rosier, fatter, bigger-boned race growing up"

around him than that ill-fed generation of 1815 to

1845. Kingsley also notices "the altered temper of

the young gentlemen," and an improvement in the

clergy in their mutual relations with the people, and

speaks of the social effects of the Anglican Movement

indirectly in developing not only more stately and

reverent tone of mind in religious matters, but also
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  109

arousing the feelings of chivalry and Christian self-
sacrifice; in short, a spirit "more genial and human
than can be learned from that religion of the Stock
Exchange which reigned triumphant --for a year and
a day-- in the popular pulpits." These roseate hues
in the tincture of rural life and progress as here
pictured are a little too highly coloured. Still, after

making due allowance for the prepossessions and ex
aggerations of a mind, eager in its happy moods to see
things in their brightest light, equally apt in its sadder
moments to add shadows deeper than facts warranted,
there can be no doubt that there has been some move

ment in advance in these directions.

   Take, for example, the reforms recommended in the
Radical Programme put forward under Mr. Chamberlain's

patronage and approval a few years ago, or the pro
posals of one so well versed in agricultural subjects as
the late Professor Thorold Rogers, in the short-lived

periodical, Subjects of the Day, and making due allow
ance for the prepossessions and proclivities of the
writers, we may be able to see how much remains to
be done in the lines indicated in Yeast.

   First and foremost among agrarian reforms is the
desideratum mentioned by one and all of those who
have given their attention to the subject--" The object of
all land reform must be the multiplication of landowners."
And this, according to a writer in the Radical Programme,
is to be effected in formally conferring on the State

larger powers, such e. g. as the creation of small owners,

a graduated probate duty levied on landed proprietors
no CHARLES KINGSLEY.                                              a

over a certain size.1 Professor Thorold Rogers, in the                        it,

article referred to, speaks of the settlement of agri
cultural labourers on such plots of land as the Act of
Elizabeth prescribed, as "urgent," but he does not

enter into details how it is to be brought about. " It

is the landowners who made them social pariahs, and
serfs without land;" therefore, says Mr. Rogers, quoting
Cobden, " the English labourer has been divorced from

the soil, and must be restored to it."

    These are drastic measures to bring about the

" golden age of agriculture," as Mr. H. George calls

having his own well-known method of a single tax on
land for effecting the same end, with which the author

of Yeast could not have had much sympathy. But
we are told in the last report of the Land National
ization Society, there are signs of the spread of such
and similar opinions both in Parliament and in the
Press. In the religious world, too, we note greater
readiness to accept such theories. Papers like that
read (and since published) by Mr. Albert Spicer at the
Congregational Union of England and Wales, held at
Hull in 1889, on " Christian Economics with reference
to the Land Question," and the establishment of the
" Land Restoration League " by a body of men repre
senting the extreme wing of the High Church party in
the Establishment, show similar tendency in religious

circles.

      "Occupying ownership and peasant proprietary established
under certain conditions, by the aid of the State, acting through
local authorities, seem to be the direction in which these objects
can be attained." --Radical Programme, p. 127.
1

                                         a
·yeast; or agrarian socialism.                                hi

Next in order comes the subject of cottage accom

modation, and that of improved dwellings for the
operative classes in the country. These have received

serious attention in the legislation of the last ten years,

though strangely enough a writer on the subject in a

recent article of the Quarterly Review--an unbiassed
witness on such a subject -- speaks of the condition of

the labourers' dwellings generally as twice as bad as it

a
                                                     is,

                                                          if
was a century ago. The fact           that owing to the

obstructive tendencies of the local sanitary authorities,

the Parliamentary Acts are rendered in many not
most cases inoperative. This, too, applies to the Allot
ment Acts, and the Allotment Amendment Act of 1890,

which meet with the same obstruction even in the teeth
of the scheme for carrying out " compulsory purchase

at fair market value," either for the purpose

of cottage building or land used for allotments. The
demand by the author of the Remedies nearly forty

years ago, substantially repeated by the writer in the
Radical Programme now, for at least half an acre of

garden attached to each cottage, which, as the former

pointed out at the time, would only require one acre

out of seventy-two, or 270 out of an estate of 10,000

acres, to be divided for the purpose of supplying the

labouring class with 760,000 in all, modest demand
a
                                       a
enough, waits as yet realization, though noble-minded

individuals have done as much and more without

legislative direction or compulsion.

Thus, from paper published by the Small Farm

and Labourers' Holding Company, relating to Lord
112 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Tollemache's cottagers, not many years ago, we learn
that in this case three acres of land are allotted to

each cottager, sufficient for the maintenance of a cow,

and it is " the cow," it is added, which " is the anchor

which fastens the labourer comfortably to his fair

haven." From Parliamentary returns it appears that
in 1886 the number of allotments detached from

cottages was 386,513, that attached to cottages 256,802,
i. e. a total of 643,315, for the estimated total of 800,000
agricultural labourers in England and Wales in 1881,
which is so far encouraging.1

   From the Report of the Rural Labourers' League,
over which Mr. Jesse Collings presides, referring to the
Allotment Act of 1887, it would appear that in 1889
from some 8000 to 9000 men were assisted by its

means to obtain pieces of land, if not more, in one way
or another.1 In the matter of small holdings the

Report of the Select Committee on this subject recom
mends that five million pounds sterling should be
placed in the hands of the local authorities by way
of loan, to advance to intending purchasers three-fourths
or four-fifths of the purchase price, a certain portion to
be repaid, the rest to remain a perpetual charge on the
land, with a view to encourage the augmentation of
such holdings, as their diminution from natural causes

is matter of universal regret. A Bill introduced by

Mr. Jesse Collings to give effect to this passed the first
reading without a division.

   1 We quote from the Times, 27th July, 1887 ; see Spectator,

Oct. 12th, 1889.
'YEAST,' OR AGRARIAN SOCIALISM.  113

       All these are attempts, to use the words of Lord         \

     Ripon on the occasion of founding the National Land
     Company under the name of " The Small Farm and
     Labourers' Holding Company," at an influential meeting
    under the late Lord Carnarvon's presidency five years
    ago, for "bringing the possession of land within reach of
     the working-classes," as was also the suggestion made a
     year or two ago, but not as yet acted upon as far as we
     are aware, that the Church Commissioners should let a
     portion of land under their control in small holdings,

   with the same object in view. It shows how much is

     being done and considered within the limit of practi
     cability now, as the result of that awakening of the
     public conscience following upon the appearance of

      Yeast, though we are far from saying that the stirring

    appeal made in it to landowners and the country

     generally was the only or even the principal cause of

y/ihis awakening.

         The publication of Yeast was one of the factors, and

     a very powerful one at the time, though less so since,
     in the general movement for the amelioration of the
     working-man's lot in town and country, which the
     circumstances and events as well as the passions of the
     men, including the passion of philanthropy, set in motion
     in 1848. The author of Yeast shrank from suggesting
     measures; he believed in the working of reformatory
     tendencies in men, gradually bringing about practical

    results in the work of the individual or the State. In

     this he was a true follower of Maurice. But to give
     direction to these vague tendencies and aims, it was
114 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

essential to state forcefully the data of the problem.

In this he succeeded, and for this purpose the novel

was an excellent and effective vehicle. Landlords,
farmers, intelligent labourers, and not to omit the
"intelligent public," all could here learn what was
required to bring about a readjustment of mutual
relations among the various subdivisions of the " landed
interest " under its present altered conditions.
                         CHAPTER V.

 ALTON LOCKE --THE SWEATING SYSTEM IN FICTION

                                       AND FACT.

   In Alton Locke Kingsley presents us with a picture

of the London artisan, and the hardships of workers in
cities, as in Yeast he sets himself'tb describe the trials
of the agricultural labourer. An enthusiastic friend
and former pupil speaks of Alton Locke as at once " his
greatest poem and his grandest sermon." Even so
calm and cautious a writer as Leslie Stephen says that
" Alton Locke may be fairly regarded as his best piece of
work." To these may be added the tribute paid to its
merits quite lately by a German critic, who, pronounc
ing judgment on the recently-published translation of
the work into German, remarks that, though written
forty years ago, it might almost be regarded as a
faithful picture of the labouring world now ; and that,
moreover, as a realistic novel and in its power of social
vivisection, it contrasts favourably with more recent
works of fiction of the same description; that in the
faithful presentation of social distress and its power of
moving the heart to pity it even surpasses some of
       116 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

s/ these, such for example as Zola's Germinal. For here

    \the author in dissecting social maladies remains a cold
      anatomist throughout, whereas in Alton Locke the warmth

     of compassionate ardour is felt throughout. It is to

       this predominating quality, no doubt, that the book owes
       its popularity. Its vigorous and unflinching delineation
       of suffering among the labouring poor, and its scathing
       criticism of indifference and selfishness among the well-
       to-do classes during that season of acute struggles, secured

      for the book a place in the households of England. In

       itself a book having for its chief contents the "self-
       exenterations " of a tailor with a turn for poetry, using

       what gifts he had for agitatorial purposes, was not

       calculated to secure the favour of the reading world on
       its own merits. But the fact that the dreams of the
       tailor-poet, confused, inchoate, often wild in their weird

       incoherence as here described, purported accurately to
       represent the state of mind in the industrial world,
       rendered the book attractive. Kingsley, with a re

       markable amount of poetic insight, gave here an account

       of the religious and social creed of a class whose inner
       life was a terra incognita to the general public. He
       wrote the book when still comparatively young, and

      with a rare vividness of perception, seeing, as it were at

       a glance, and interpreting with clearness and fidelity
       for others what he had seen in the interior workings
       of a working-man's brain. He succeeded in seizing the
       chief characteristics of such a mind with the quick
       intuition of genius. Here we have a description true
       to nature of the intensity of hatred accumulated in the
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 117

heart of one thwarted in his endeavours to rise above
the dead level of his class under adverse conditions ; of

his jealous querulousness at the artificial restraints and
restrictions of society ; of the bitterness of spirit with
which such an one would regard the limitations of enjoy
ment in his own order compared with the liberation of
mind enjoyed by the privileged few. Kingsley showed
how rancour and spite would supervene on finding how
under the most favourable circumstances and under dis
tinguished patronage even the poor man of genius is
hampered, foiled, and frustrated in a world whose best
gifts are at the disposal of the wealthy classes ; how
mental and moral superiority count as nothing when
pitted against the respectable mediocrity or even inferi
ority of those who are fortunate enough to be born the
children of parents in easy circumstances. Kingsley
almost identifies himself with his hero in this. The in
tensity of passion displayed in describing the struggles of
Alton Locke makes one feel that here we have a picture
of what Kingsley would have been and felt, had his lot
been to be born and bred under such conditions. The rage
and iconoclastic fervour of the demagogue were there in
his own heart ; though an aristocrat by birth and dis
position, the opportunity was fortunately wanting to

bring it out. This is the reason why he, in a totally

different plane of life, sees so clearly the attitude of mind
of one belonging to a lower social grade, and why he
describes so ably his inner experiences. He himself
had lived them through in imagination. He explains
himself in a letter to Thomas Cooper, a working-man.
113 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

who had come under his influence, had joined the
Christian Socialists, and was hated and misrepresented
as a deserter by his former atheistic friends accordingly.

" The man who wrote Alton Locke must know a little of

Iwhat a man like you could feel to a man like me, if the

devil entered into him. And yet tell you, Thomas Cooper,

Ithat there was a period in my life --and one not of months,

but for years --in which would have gladly exchanged your
Icircumstantia, yea, yourself, as it is now for any circum-

stantia, and myself, as they were then. And yet had
the best of parents, and a home, if not luxurious, still as

I Igood as any man's need be. You are a far happier man

now, firmly believe, than was for years of my life. The

dark cloud has passed with me now. Be but brave and

patient, and (I will swear now), by God, Sir ! it will pass
with you."
            ·

The man who could in the overpowering sympathy of

his impulsive nature write this in 1856, was the very

man required six or seven years earlier to delineate

with intelligent sympathy the feelings of the working-

class in that important epoch in the history of English

Industry. The book, like Yeast, was written under

pressure in the busy winter of 1850. He rose every

morning at five o'clock, writing until breakfast, so as

not to let it interfere with his other occupations. It

was the only book of which he made a fair copy, a

proof in itself that it was not published in haste, though

in after life he apologizes for its faults on the score of
" my own youth, inexperience, hastiness, illusiveness."

Parker refused to take as he feared the firm hadit,

suffered in reputation by the publication of Yeast.
   'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 119

Through Carlyle, Chapman undertook the publication.
" And so," concludes the letter announcing the fact in
Carlyle's most characteristic style, " right glad myself to

hear of a new explosion, a salvo of red-hot shot against

the devil's dung-heap from that particular battery." v

/As Mr. Froude speaks in the second volume of the life
in London of the depth of depression in Carlyle's mind at
this time, it speaks volumes for the merit of the book he

was thus favourably criticizing, that at such a time he

could take pleasure in it at all. In after years Kingsley
speaks of it as a venture which brought him in so much

in hard cash. Comparing himself to others in the work

of 1848, he writes to Thomas Hughes in his own head-
a-go fun and frolic style--
   ... I" You fellows worked like bricks, spent money.
Irisked no money ; 'cause why,  had none ; but
... Imoney out of the movement, and fame too        made
                                                    made

£150 by Alton Locke, and never lost a farthing."

But he proceeds, and we can believe him --
   I"And if had had £100,000, I'd have, and should have,
Istaked and lost it all in 1848-50.
                                             should, Tom, for my

heart was and is in and you'll see will beat yet."
             is,             is,I
                      it,
                                    it
   The fact  like everybody else at this time, he

strongly felt on the subject, and shared in the general
consternation. " The truth
                                feel we are going on in

the dark, towards something wonderful and awful, but

whether to precipice or a paradise, or neither, or both,
   Ia
I  cannot tell. All my roots are tearing up one by one,

and though keep a gallant front before the Charlotte
                             '
                                          '

Street people (i.e. the Council of Association), little
120 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

they know of the struggles within me, the laziness, the

Iterror. Pray for me ; could lie down and cry at

times." In this state of mind he wrote Alton Locke
and its little companion, the tract Cheap Clothes and
Nasty, which contains a still more fervent exposure of
the slop-selling system. The transparent sincerity of

both, coming as they did from his heart and going
direct to hearts capable of generous sympathy, soon
made them popular in the ranks of labour as well as
among the friends of the working-class. Rarely do the
labourers themselves, whether in town or country,
mistake the true ring of sympathy in one not of their
class speaking to or for them. The book, which was

written "for the sake of the rich who read, and the

poor who suffer," captivated both by its great earnest
ness and unmistakable enthusiasm. Kingsley speaks

of " abuse-puffs " in the press, and "dogs barking" in
tlie religious world, at the time of its appearance, but
in 1857 expresses wonder at the " steady-going, respect
able people who approve more or less of Alton Locke,"
and the steady sale of his two socialistic novels. Fifteen

years later he received a letter from a " Chartist and a
cabman " from Brighton, thanking him for Alton Locke,
another from abroad who had read the book " in a time

of overwhelming misery," and found it the means of
saving him from ruin ; and yet again another letter
from a compositor in Leeds, who speaks of it as " the

means of preventing me from becoming perhaps one of
the dregs and scum of idle scoundrelism." Even from
Wesleyan missionaries in South Africa he received such
       'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 121

 assurances of the spiritual benefit the book had proved
to thousands in distant lands. The religious character
of the book is unique as an attempt not only to show
the connection between honest work and honest doubt,
which has been repeated more than once since the
publication of Joshua Davison, but as an attempt in
fiction to show the reasonableness of Christianity as

the working-man's creed. Kingsley makes it clear at
the outset that he fully comprehends and appreciates
the difficulties of belief in sincere sceptics of this class.
" With the most of us, sedentary and monotonous

occupations, as has long been known, create of them
selves a morbidly-meditative and fantastic turn of
mind," says Alton Locke somewhere, giving the natural
history of unbelief in his own class. On the other

Ihand, remarks the same person, " cannot help fancy

ing that our unnatural atmosphere of excitement,
physical as well as moral, is to blame for very much
of the working-man's restlessness and fierceness." And ,
so it comes to pass that " they must either dream or I

agitate ; perhaps they are now learning how to do

both to some purpose." Yet at the same time, as

Mackaye points out with his shrewd contempt of false
pretensions, the very creed which has lost its power on

the workman -- " The moon of Calvinism, far gone in
the fourth quarter when it's come to the like o' that,"
has left behind it the seclusive spirit it bred in the
(lite of the working-man, as their own organs in the
press show abundantly. And for this reason he prefers
to go back to Christianity pure and simple, as the true
122 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

' J\\\./religion of equality. Kingsley is no believer in natural
             equality, as he says in 1866, though he speaks of a time
          when he held a different doctrine. But if the period
of his life when Alton Locke was written is referred to,

it is hard to see how the writer of this book can be

said to be an advocate of the principles of 1789. He
is here and throughout a believer in " the divine

equality of virtue and wisdom which is open to all

men in a free land," and therefore here more perhaps

than in any other of his works does he invite the
working-men to " try to take their place among ' the
aristocracy of God.' "
                        ..  - .,

But we must go now to the novel to see this, and

it will not be out of place here to give an analytic view

of its drift and scope, with a few samples by way of
quotation from it which may throw light upon its general
teaching. Alton Locke, a " sickly and decrepit Cockney,"

is the child of a broken-down small tradesman, who dies

early, and of a mother whose narrow creed warps her
mind and produces a stint of affection acutely felt by
the sensitive boy. The religious atmosphere of home-
life is rendered stifling even to suffocation by the
frequent presence and sinister influence of one or two
of the least worthy representatives of the sectarian
ministry. When he is old enough, his uncle, a prosper
ous man of business, puts him as an apprentice into
a West End tailor-shop. Here the nauseous physical
surroundings, and the presence of elements threatening
moral infection, affect the delicate constitution of the

youth bodily and almost spiritually; but he is saved
'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 123

from the worst by Crossthwaite, a hot-headed but true-
hearted tailor journeyman and a Chartist. He inspires
Alton Locke with a thirst for knowledge, and in his
pursuit of intellectual improvement the latter frequents
a secondhand bookstall, where, with tears in his eyes,v

he is seen reading Bethune's life and sufferings. The""
owner of the shop, Sandy Mackaye, by far the best-
drawn character in the story, takes an interest in the
lad, and becomes his guide in the study of books, and

puts him through a course of Milton and Virgil by way
of mental discipline. As by degrees an intellectual
revolution is effected by such readings, the ambition of
Alton Locke is roused with a consciousness of power,

encouraged by Crossthwaite's assurances that he 'is a

born genius. With it comes the dissatisfaction of

struggling genius.

  " It came to me as a revelation, celestial-infernal, full of

glorious hopes of the possible future in store for me through

the perfect development of all my faculties ; and full, too,

of fierce present rage, wounded vanity, bitter grudgings

against those more favoured than myself, which grew in

time almost to cursing against the God who had made

me a poor untutored working man, and seemed to have

given me genius only to keep me in a Tantalus' hell of un

satisfied thirst. . . .

. . . Yes ; the Chartist poet is vain, conceited, ambitious,

....uneducated, shallow, inexperienced, envious, ferocious, scur
rilous, traitorous       We have our time and you have

yours ; ours may be the more gross and barbaric, but yours

are none the less damnable ; perhaps all the more so, for

being the sleek, subtle, respectable religious vices they are."

With the new ideas fermenting in his mind the last
124 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

vestiges of old beliefs, or fragments of faith, disappear,

concealment becomes impossible, and the declaration

of his sceptical creed to his mother leads to a final

separation, he is banished from his home, and finds a

refuge with Mackaye. Here he is visited by his uncle's

son, now an undergraduate at Cambridge, who takes

him to the Dulwich gallery of paintings. It is here
that he meets with his fate. It is the old story -- " Who
is she ? " A dean's daughter whom, with her cousin and

the stately Churchman, he encounters here as he stands

in raptures before a painting of St. Sebastian. The dean

takes notice of the artisan, whilst the latter has only

eyes for the young beauty, whose picture thenceforward

haunts his steps until nine years later by accident he

has another glimpse of her in Cambridge. In the

interval, like most young men in love, he writes verses

beginning with an impossible subject, is ridiculed by

it,
           is
                                           a
                                          is
Mackaye out of and persuaded by the latter to

address himself to better things. He now, in company

with the Scotchman, hunts up the scenes where poverty

struggles with vice for a fit subject of democratic

poet's muse. These scenes are described with all the

harrowing realism of which Kingsley's pen capable.
   " Those narrow, brawling torrents of filth, and poverty,
and sin --the houses with their teeming load of life, were piled

up into the dingy choking night. A ghastly, deafening,

sickly sight was. . . . And stopping suddenly before the
entrance of a miserable alley-- 'Look,' says Sandy Mac
it

                                   '

                                                                  !

                                                       is
kaye with his Scotch grim humour, as Virgil might speak to

the author of the Inferno, Look there                                not a soul

down that yard but's either beggar, drunkard, thief, or
'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 125

worse. Write anent that ! Say how ye saw the mouth o'
hell, and the twa pillars thereof at the entry --the pawn
broker's shop o' one side and the gin-palace at the other --

twa monstrous deevils, eating up men, and women, and

bairns, body and soul. Look at the jaws o' the monsters,

how they  open and open, and  swallow  in anither   victim and
anither.                      "
          Write anent that.'

   Equally powerful are the descriptions of the home of
the seamstress, the " phalanstery of all the fiends."

Personal observation, combined with a study of Carlyle
and Tennyson, determines our young poet to apply
himself assiduously to what he calls the democratic art
of stating the people's case in measured rhyme, and this
he does in close contact with the Chartist. The tailor-
shop in which he works having been turned into a slop

shop, a strike is organized. It is in this way that

Chartists are produced, we are informed. The men

must call upon government to redeem their wrongs, and
in order that this call may not be in vain, their voice

Ifmust be heard in parliament. " neither government

nor members of parliament can help us, we must help

ourselves. Help yourselves," says Crossthwaite, the

organizer of the strike, "and Heaven will help you.

Combination among ourselves is the only chance. One

thing we can do -- sit still.  ' And   starve    '  said  some

                                               !

one."

    However, our hero discovers before long the weak

Ipoints of Chartism. " Fool that am ! It was from
Iwithin rather than without that needed reform. . . .
IFor my part, seem to have learnt that the only thing

to regenerate the world is not more of any system,
126 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

good or bad, but simply more of the Spirit of God."
Mackaye advises the hero to proceed to Cambridge, and
with his cousin's aid to work his way through the
University. Here, as he arrives in the middle of a
boat-race, he is made to meet the vision of his dream,
Lillian, but also feels the distance which separates them,
which leaves ample room for morbid reflections and
resentful sentiment, which it must be confessed are a

trifle unreasonable. However, literary hack-work is

found for him, and with it an entrance, too, into the

Dean's house, though a damper is put on the ardour of
the young man when, listening with ecstasies as Lillian
sings one of his own songs, the Churchman overhearing

it says to his daughter --

   "What's that about brotherhood and freedom,
Lillian ? we don't want anything of that kind here."

   Now the publication of his poems is thought of and
effected with the help of the Dean, but not until, by the
latter's advice, the more objectionable passages breathing
Chartism and democratic sentiment are expunged.
They secure a great success. Alton Locke now returns
to Mackaye, who does not approve of this concession
to aristocratic patronage. The hero's occupation now
undergoes another change. He becomes a contributor
to an inflammatory print, and writhes under the tyranny
of the editor of the Weekly TVharwhoop.

   " It was miserable work, there is no denying it--only

not worse than tailoring." He breaks with O'Flynn,
and this brings another humiliation on his head. The
angry editor denounces him as a traitor to the people
     'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 127

in his paper, in thus mutilating his poems. To redeem
his character in the eyes of his workmen, Alton Locke
determines on a step which leads to his ruin. He

volunteers to go forth as a delegate into a disturbed
country district, which happens to be within easy
distance of the residence of his patron the Dean,
there " to preach Chartism to discontented mobs." He

attends the meeting convened for this purpose, listens
with suppressed rage to the wild harangues of some of

the speakers present, and, losing his self-possession when
his own more reasonable proposals meet with a surly

demand for bread, he exclaims, "between disappoint
ment and the maddening desire of influence " :

   " Go and get bread ! After all you have a right to it.
No man is bound to starve. There are rights above all
laws, and the right to live is one. Laws were made for

man, not man for laws. If you had made the laws your

selves, they may bind you even in this extremity ; but they
were made in spite of you --against you. They rob you,
crush you ; even now they deny you bread. God has made
the earth free to all, like the air and sunshine, and you are
shut out from off it. The earth is yours, for you till it.
"Without you it would be a desert. . . Go and demand
your share of that corn, the fruit of your own industry :
what matter if your tyrants imprison, murder you 1 "

    His speech in this tone of desperation produces a
result he scarcely dreamed of-- a hideous riot ensues. In
vain he tries to stem it. A detachment of yeomanry

 are sent for to quell and he as the supposed ringleader
    taken to prison. Then follows vivid description of

the trial scene, and the horror and madness of the hero
is
                               it,

                                                                   a
123 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

condemned to three years' solitary confinement. From

the grated window of his cell he sees the new
church built for his cousin, who is at the bottom of

all this treachery which has led to his own downfall.

For it was he who informed the editor, and through
him his Chartist friends, of the facts in connection

 with the volume of poems, and it is he who now, to
Aeep Alton away from Lillian, keeps the truth from
 the Dean in connection with the hero's conduct on the

occasion of the riot, who would otherwise willingly
have effected Alton Locke's deliverance. In the

bitterness of his heart, on leaving the prison he becomes

a confirmed conspirator. At this very moment the

Chartist movement is reaching its climax, and Cross-

thwaite is in the thick of it. Mackaye, who had discerned

its futility all along, dies on the memorable 10th of
August, when it came to a contemptible end. His last
words are finely told in a scene full of tragic effect.
Eleanor, the cousin of Lillian, appears now in her true
character of a friend of the people's cause, though all

along Alton Locke had regarded her as an enemy. From
her lips he hears what makes up the full measure of

his grief and shame, that Lillian is married to his p.

cousin. Poetic justice is done by the latter's premature ^

death from fever, caught in the performance of his dutv,^^'
The hero, with the intention of committing suiefae', ,^

actually saves a wretch from  it,  Jemmy Downes, a

victim of the sweating system, now reduced by long
years of bad usage to the condition of the "gaunt,

ragged, sodden, blear-eyed, drivelling, worn-out gin-
       'ALTON LOCKE'--THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 129

drinker." Alton Locke accompanies him to his domicile,
which is described with horrible reality, with the dead

wife, whose unclosed eyes stare on the drunken husband
reproachfully, and " on each side of her a little,
shrivelled, impish child-corpse," with their arms round

the mother's neck.

  I" Look ! " cries the wretch, " watched them dying !
Iday after day saw the devils come up through the cracks,
Ilike little maggots and beetles, and all manner of ugly

things, creeping down their throats ; and asked 'em, and
they said they were the fever devils."

    Shortly after this the speaker drowns himself in the
poisoned sewer below. After the vials of wrath are
thus poured out on our present social system in its foul

effects on human bodies and souls, a rhapsody follows

in the style of Lamennais' Paroles d'un Croyant. Eleanor

once more appears on the scene, and directs attention to

the Great Healer, who alone can renovate human society.
   " She spoke of him as the great reformer, and yet as the

true conservative ; the inspirer of all new truths, revealing
in his Bible to every age abysses of new wisdom, as the
times require ; and yet the indicator of all which is ancient
and eternal --the justifier of his own dealings with man
from the beginning. She spoke of him as the true dema
gogue --the champion of the poor ; and yet as the true king,
above and below all earthly rank ; on whose will alone all
real superiority of man to man, all time-justified and time-
honoured usages of the family, the society, the nation,
stand and shall stand for ever. . . .

    " Look, too, at the great societies of our own days, which,
however imperfectly, still lovingly and earnestly do their
measure of God's work at home and abroad ; and say,

                                                                     K
130 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

when was there ever real union, co-operation, philanthropy,

equality, brotherhood among men, save in loyalty to Him --

I IJesus who died upon the cross 1 . . .
    "   see it -- see it all        now.  Oh, my God ! my God !
what
       infidels we have been        "

                                   !

   So cries Crossthwaite, who has been listening all the
while, and so the book ends with a confession of faith

on the part of the Chartist, and unfeigned hope in the
regenerating influences of Christianity as applied to
society on the part of the reformer, and an appeal to
the Christian priesthood as the chosen instruments for

this purpose.

" If they would be truly priests of God, the priests of

the Universal Church, they must be priests of the people,

prieInstsshoofrtt,he"  masses."    can  never  be  themselves without
                       The people

*\ co-operation with the priesthood ; and the priesthood can
' never be themselves without co-operation with the people."

       The hero, by Mackaye's will, emigrates, and dies

   suddenly on his voyage to Texas just before the ship
   touches land, when the ink is as yet wet on the last page
   of the MS., which is supposed to contain the "Auto
   biography of Alton Locke, Tailor and Poet," the book here

  under consideration. A strange end to a very improb

   able story, as stories go, no doubt, and this general air

   of unreality about it is its chief fault. This must be
   acknowledged unreservedly, that as a novel it is almost

\[

   a failure, but not so as a propagandist work of fiction.

   In its presentation of fact it is a complete success. In

   the description of fetid and filthy workshops and fever
, dens of the sweaters, in its exposure of the causes which
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 131

turned honest and peaceable workmen into conspirators,
the author of Alton Locke did the work of half a dozen

labour commissions, and did it much more effectually
by appealing in fervid tones of passionate sympathy to

the well-to-do people of his day, calling upon them to
rescue their fellow-men from destruction of soul and

body, and stimulating private and public philanthropy
to set about and face the social problem with honesty
of purpose. Complaints were made against " the bitter,
indiscriminate, and unsparing indignation which is
poured out upon the rich, the government, and the
clergy " in its pages, though equally severe are the de

nunciations pronounced there against the irrationalities
of Chartism. The tone of indignation is maintained
throughout against the faults and shortcomings of all
concerned. And in this tone of real and unfeigned
righteous indignation, the strength of feeling displayed

in the volume, lies its chief merit. A milder and more

measured presentment of the case would scarcely have
elicited such a response as that produced by it in the
 mind of the public. The world had been lulled to sleep
 by the drowsy commonplaces and " the discretion of
 dullness " in its trusted and authoritative teachers, and
though at first it resented the " impatience of philan
 thropy " on the part of Kingsley in this book, it thanked
him before long for waking it out of the torpor of self-
 indulgence and indifference to the welfare of the masses
 -- " his influence was great in enthusiastic young minds
 in the fifties," says a correspondent who had felt its
 power, in a letter to the author written quite recently.
132 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Kingsley himself, in a letter dated January 13th, 1851,

to a clergyman in answer to criticisms on Alton Locke,

shows what were his feelings and intentions at the time

he wrote it.
I" First.
              do not think the cry ' get on ' to he anything

but a devil's cry. The moral of my hook is, that the

working-man who tries to get on, to desert his class and

rise above it, enters into a lie, and leaves God's path for
Ihis own -- with
                  consequences.   man  might  be  as  a  tailor  or  a
   " Second.
                  believe that a

costermonger, every inch of him a saint, a scholar, and a

gentleman, &c.
    " Third. The workmen are tired of idols, ready and yearn

ing for the Church and the gospel, and such men as your

friend may laugh at Julian Harvey, Feargus O'Connor,

and the rest of that smoke of the pit. Only we live in a

great crisis, and the Lord requires great things of us. The

fields are white for the harvest.
   " Fourth. By the neglect of the Church, by her dealing

(like the Popish Church and all weak Churches) only with
women, children, and beggars, the cream and pith of working

intellect is almost exclusively self-educated, and therefore,

alas ! infidel.

   "Fifth. We are teaching them to become Christians
by teaching them gradually that true socialism, true

liberty, brotherhood and true equality (not the carnal dead-
level equality of the Communist, but the spiritual equality
of the Church idea, which gives every man an equal chance

of developing and using God's gifts, and rewards every
man according to his work, without respect of person), is
only to be found in loyalty and obedience to Christ."

And so forth. And the contents of a volume written on

these lines was characterized by the Times of October

18th, 1850, as "wild and wanton teaching." Was
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 133

the reviewer one of those " stupid, or careless, or ill-
willed persons " referred to by Kingsley in the preface
to another edition of Alton Locke, written in 1854, and
addressed to the working-men of Great Britain, who in

speaking of the thoughts and feelings of the hero " have
represented these as my opinions, having as it seems
to me turned the book upside down before they began

to read it " ?

   The "more ponderous batteries" of the Edinburgh
Review, as one of the writers in the Christian Socialist

calls them, were directed mainly against the supposed
economic fallacies contained in Alton Locke. Whilst
acknowledging the importance of tackling with the
social anomalies attempted here, it took exception to
the heat of feeling and proportionate absence of scien
tific light in the arguments. Kingsley is described
condescendingly as " a zealous and experienced parish-
priest, a gentleman of great literary ability, of very
impatient benevolence, and evidently of somewhat
imperious and aggressive temper towards all who
check his hasty conclusions;" whilst the work itself
"abounds in passages of wild and unchastened elo
quence; and amid much aimless declamation, and
not a little language which Christian feeling and

scholarly taste must alike condemn, it breathes through
every page a profound and passionate sympathy with
the sufferings of the poor." As to the matter, apart
from the manner, it is pointed out fairly enough that

the economic doctrine taught here is the importance

of replacing competition and contention by co-operation
134 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

and concert as the method of industry. But, said the
reviewer, the principle of association as such is not
a new discovery, nor in itself opposed to the teaching
of political economy. At the same time, to hold it
up as a social panacea could only end either in a
chimasra or tyranny ; " associations " (the spread of
which the reviewer thinks would in itself be an ex

cellent thing in raising materially, morally, and
mentally the individual workman) "when they differ
from practical partnerships must be either lost
in the whirlpool of competition, or wrecked on the
rock of monopoly." True, when society_ has been .
Christianized, association may succeed ; but then, when
this spiritual remodelling of man's nature is effected,
it will not matter very much what industrial system
is adopted; but until then, and so long as human

beings remain practically what they are now, the

multiplication of associations would imply a continu
ation of competition with its evils, whilst merging

them all into one would imply the greater evil of

jgojiopoly. To this Mr. F. J. Furnivall replied in

 the Christian Socialist, showing that according to the
 rules laid down in their tracts, containing the rules
 and bye-laws of such associations, the price of articles

 sold by the different associations of the same trade and

 place shall be regulated by these associations, subject

 to the control of the Central Board, in such a manner
 as to prevent either monopoly or unfair competition."

    The Edinburgh reviewer had assured the Christian

 Socialists that they were only attacking the symptoms,
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 135

not the source of the social malady, and wrapping

round him the philosopher's cloak with imposing
dignity, he added --

   " "We cast in our lot with their more systematic fellow-
labourers who address themselves to the harder, rougher,
more unthankful task of attacking the source rather than
the symptoms -- of eradicating social evils rather than
alleviating them."

  To this Ludlow, under the signature of J. T. in the

Christian Socialist, replied thus --

  I" believe the principle of socialism is one that commends

itself to the mind of every one who has first embraced it
with his heart, precisely because it does go to the root of
social misery, whilst the political economy of the day only
crops the weed at the surface ; because it does deal with
causes, whilst that political economy only deals with certain
resulting formulas which it calls laws. . . . Socialism, by
taking account of those moral causes which the economists
neglect, by placing realities in the place of abstractions,
' labourers ' and ' capitalists ' in the place of ' labour ' and
' capital,' shows how selfishness and dishonesty, or fair
dealing and public spirit, must ever vary that proportion."

    And disclaiming altogether originality or novelty

in emphasizing the importance of industrial association,
he proceeds to say --

    " We deny that we are introducing new elements or new
arrangements (except so far as it always is and always

 shall be a new element, a new arrangement, a new com
 mandment, to ' love one another ') ; we say that we are
 developing the old and true elements, restoring the old

and true arrangements. As Madame de Stael said that
 ' freedom was ancient, and tyranny alone new-fangled ; '
Aft -ftJlA Mr

136 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

so we assert that brotherhood eternally precedes division,
and love hatred ; that brotherhood and love can alone
remodel and renovate, division and hatred only deform and
dissolve society."

  It is not an easy task to defend Alton Locke on

 rtistic grounds. The hero even compared with Stephen
Morley in ^h.il as a typical agitator is inferior in moral
calibre, though Lord Beaconsfield found it expedient to
spoil the character of the people's advocate for the
purpose of establishing his theory, that the salvation
of the working-classes must come from the aristocracy.

Still less favourably does Alton Locke compare with
Felix Holt, a more recent creation of the same type of
aspiring artisan, who, in spite of his aims in leading the
rabble, succumbs in the struggle, the force of circum

stances being too much for him. George Eliot's radical
is a more finely-wrought character, self-poised in a more
eminent degree, less the creature of circumstances, re
sisting nobly, however ineffectually, the temptations of
his trying position ; as a son, for example, which " re
quired the utmost exertion of patience, that required
those little rill-like outflowings of goodness which in
minds of great energy must be fed from deep sources
of thought and passionate devotedness." Tffhere is a
resemblance in the speech-making of the fwo heroes at
excited meetings, with equally disastrous effects in both
cases. But on comparing that of Felix Holt with that
of Alton Locke, the moral tone of the former, it will be

found, is the more elevated of the two. " I'll tell you

what's the greatest power under heaven," said Felix,
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 137

" and that is public opinion --the ruling belief in society

about what is right and what is wrong, what is honour
able and what is shameful." So, again, in his divine
discontent Felix Holt never reaches the bathos of ir

rational querulousness justly censured in Alton Locke,

who, when he speaks of his aristocratic rivals able to

gratify the wish denied him of looking on his lady-love
adored from a distance, though he assumes " they
could not adore, appreciate that beauty as he did,"
grows mad over the thought that the very garment
he has been stitching might touch her dress, and he

making coats for them ! These are not Kingsley's
sentiments, but what he supposed to be the feelings

of the discontented artisans of his day. George Eliot
cannot form such a conception of a working-man hero.
" You are discontented with the world," says Felix Holt
to Miss Lyon, " because you can't get just the small

things that suit your pleasure, not because it's a world

where myriads of men and women are ground by wrong
and misery, and tainted with pollution." And yet

George Eliot has much in common with the author of
Alton Locke. She shares in full his contempt for " push
ing middle-class gentility." But she is more tolerant
to it and the weakness of the populace alike, raised
above the arena of contending passions. Kingsley is
in the middle of the fight, and almost enjoys it. Like

his hero, he arrives after many and some futile struggles
at the higher platform, where the lesson is learned that,
in the words of Felix Holt, " the way to get rid of folly
is to get rid of vain expectations, and of thoughts that
133 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

don't agree with the nature of things." But here again
it must be repeated that the intenseness and restless
impetuosity of Kingsley, his " spasms of sympathy " with

his own hero's position, and his identification with him,

and the intellectual fermentation around him, became

a force in the great struggle for the emancipation of

labour at this time. There is confusion and excite

ment; Pegasus rides away at full speed with his

rider ; the author is oyexmastered by passion, and

does not entirely master his art, it gets beyond his

control. What is a fault in the writer of fiction is a

virtue in the social reformer. This overmastering

eagerness and earnestness tells on the sluggish public,

captivated by one who takes the kingdom of heaven

by force, and follows his lead for the time being at

least. George Eliot's mental discipline and ascetic

restraint in speculation does not permit her social

sympathies full flow. She took an interest in the

revolution of 1848, which was a social revolution in

intention ; but she speaks disparagingly in her journal

of Louis Blanc, one of the principal actors in
is                                                                          on
                          is
                                                                       it,
meeting him in London society. We are told that she

read industriously the writings of Robert Owen and

Saint Simon, but they appear not to have made any

profound impression on her severely analytical mind.
The reverse of all this true of Charles Kingsley. His

mind thrown into a paroxysm of excitement by the

events of 1848-9, and in this state of mind he wrote

tAlton Locke. The time came when he cooled down,

/fchen in Two Years Ago he speaks contemptuously of
      'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 139

Fourier's Casino-Paradise. But this novel belongs to
what has been called the reactionary period of his
literary life.

  A curious fact, proving how much the author in this

book is merged in the social reformer is the temporary
absence of humour, for apart from the sardonic humour
of Sandy Mackaye, there is an almost complete absence
of this quality in Alton Locke. Kingsley was too much
in earnest to give way to his natural tendencies, for no
one can doubt that he possessed it in an eminent
degree. But his humour forsakes him so that he
cannot see the grotesque situations of his hero on
more than one occasion. He himself was so sensitive

to the sense of the ridiculous that on one occasion, at
a meeting of the promoters, we are told, " lie was quite
upset and silenced by the appearance of a bearded
member of council at an important deputation in a
straw hat and blue plush gloves. He did not recover
from the depression produced by those gloves for days."
That one who attributed humour to the Deity, and who,
in the Saint's Tragedy, belonging to the same period,
serious as was its intention, introduces more than one
humorous passage, failed to do so almost completely in
Alton Locke, cannot be explained on any other theory
except this, that he was too intense to note its absence.
The creator of Dick Hammerhand in Hereward the

 Wake, and the writer of those humorous epistles to
Thomas Hughes which are dispersed over the pages
of his Life and Letters, was too shrewd not to see the
absurd aspects of Alton Locke's character and sayings,
140 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

but his complete absorption in the subject or moral of

his tale was such as to deprive him, for the time being,

of his critical acuteness and sense of humour.

We may ask now, How far did Kingsley succeed by

reason of this very earnestness in advancing the cause

he had taken in hand ? what progress has been made

in the direction of putting down the sweating system ?

what improvement in the conditions of that particular

domain of labour which he attempted to reform ? and

lastly, what advance in the adoption of co-operative

principles in modern industry, in the direction of re
         the dream of " the                                                                             "
alizing                      organization                                               of  fraternity      ?

As to the first, we find from the report of the Chief

Inspector of Factories and Workshops for the year

ending 31st October, 1889, that in most of those
" workshops wherein young persons are employed there

is a manifest improvement in sanitation," and "that

the employment of females has been for- some time
past more regular and fairly confined to legal limits "

94). Still,
(p.          admitted a few pages further on

                  ' it

                           is

                                                                                     ;
(p. 104), "we have thousands of domestic workshops,

dark, dirty, over-crowded." Mr. C. Booth, in his

cautious and elaborate method of induction, balancing

the pros and cons of sanitary and material progress

among the working-classes, tells us --" In bad sanitation,

over-crowding, long and irregular hours, the life of the

English home-worker too often presents the worst
features of the sweating system.' " And again, " Good

workshops are the exception many of them are in a

very unhealthy condition, badly lighted, ventilated, and
      "ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 141

dirty." From statements such as these by competent
and unprejudiced inquirers, it would appear that little
progress has been made since Kingsley wrote Alton
Locke, but it has to be remembered that our standard

since then has been raised considerably, hence the
disappointment is more poignant. Also we meet in the
same volumes with other statements which show that

there has been considerable mitigation of the worst
horrors of this kind ; still, " allowing that many of the
troubles attributed to sweating are not industrial, and
admitting that those which were industrial are neither
essentially connected with any system of employment
nor to be attributed to inhumanity, still, the trades
of East London undoubtedly present a serious case
of economic disease, with painful and alarming

symptoms." 1

   But it is encouraging to read in the same volumes,

containing a mass of evidence on the existence of so
many festering social evils in the very metropolis of

IEuropean commerce and British enterprise -- " am

inclined to think that if an inquiry such as the present

had been made at any previous time in the history of
London, it would have shown a greater proportion of
depravity and misery than now exists, and a lower
general standard of life." 2 And is it too much to say
that this improvement is partly owing to the exertions
of the Christian Socialists and the publication of Alton

   1 Labour and Life of the People, vol. East London edited
by Charles Booth, p. 487 cf. pp. 214, 238, 487 voL ii. pp. 313-14.

      Vol. pp. 593-4.
2

           i.

                                               ;

                                                                   i.,

                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                           ;
a142 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

              ;Locke ? Kingsley himself in the preface to written
                                  ;in 1854, speaks of the improved condition of things
                                                                                    ?even then and in his preface addressed to the under
graduates of Cambridge, he congratulates them that
                                                                   it,"for thirty years past, gentlemen and ladies of all
shades of opinion have been labouring for and among
the working-classes, as no aristocracy on earth ever
laboured before " and he inquires, " Do you suppose

that all that labour has been in vain " It was not in

vain. Probably the improvements had not been as
great as he supposed and wished to believe. Kingsley's
was very sanguine disposition, and men of strong
sympathies are apt to become optimists in spite of
themselves.

   In the introduction to Two Years Ago, Claude gives

expression to the most comforting sentiments of self-
congratulation on the great social improvement since
1846-8, the spirit of self-reform and self-education, with
the tone of morals raised considerably among all classes

" as for the outward and material improvements --you

know as well as that since free trade and emigration
the labourers confess themselves better off than they
have been for fifty years." Charles Kingsley was not
one of those preachers of smooth things whom he
characterizes in Alton Locke as "daubing the rotten
walls of careless luxury and self-satisfied covetousness
with the untempered mortar of party statistics." When
in later life he could look back on his earlier struggles
with comparative self-satisfaction and composure,
only natural that he should give way to pardonable
I,
                                                                                                                 ;

a

           it

                    is
'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 143

weakness in believing that the world around him was

much more improved than was actually the case.

As to the progress of co-operation, he never was

deceived on this point, in fact he never ceased to deplore

its comparative failure. The application of the prin

ciples of association to commerce and industry must be

a matter of time and slow development, and simply for

this reasonj^hat, as Kingsley and his friends constantly
affirmed, thjji- depends on the growth of the non-self-

regarding principles in the human heart ; that, in the
language of The Co-operative Manual, " to harmonize

the discords of conflicting impulses, and convert the

scorching heat of competition into a life-giving, cheering
warmth," reason, " the fosterer of invention and incen
tive to progress," is not sufficient, but " requires the

assistance of some power capable of moving the will by

the influence of emotion to chose to do what the
reason points out as fitting to be done "
a                                          18) that
                                        (p.

                                                                              ;
Christianity alone can inspire and maintain this senti

ment and supply this emotional force. Even in that

branch of co-operative industry, namely distribution,

which has attained to phenomenal success, this idea

has been almost entirely lost sight of.

Kingsley in 1854 complains of this reluctance on

the part of the workmen themselves to adopt the prin

ciple which alone can raise their class morally and
materially. " How little have the working-men done,"

he says in the preface to Alton Locke, addressed to the
working-men of Great Britain, " to carry out that idea of

association in which, in 1848-9, they were all willing to
144 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

      confess their salvation lay." And, writing to John
       Bullar in 1857, he confesses with regret that " ' associa
       tions ' are a failure,',because the working-men are not

       fit for them." But as for his and Maurice's schemes,

       a failure of a hundred of them does not alter his

       convictions.

       I" shall die in hope, not having received the prpmises,

       but beholding them afar off, and confessing myself a

/v stranger and a pilgrim in a [world of laissez-faire. - For

/ this is my belief, that not self-interest, but self-sacrifice, is
       the only law upon which human society can be grounded
       with any hope of prosperity and permanence. That self-
    Iinterest is a law of nature know well. That it ought to
    Ibe the root-law of human society deny, unless society is
       to sink down into a Roman Empire, and a cage of wild
       beasts, as it very probably may--as it certainly will, if
       your theory is accepted, that God has meant one man to
        rule, and many to obey."

This is in complete correspondence with what is said

prolepticaily by the would-be reformer's last words in
Alton Locke --

I" And have succeeded, as others will succeed long after

my name, my small endeavours are forgotten amid the great
Inew world-- new church  should have said--of enfran

chised and fraternal labour."

   We are very far from acknowledging failure in the
attempts here referred to; to establish a vital prin

ciple and firmly fix it on the public mind is a task
which is not easily accomplished ; it wants time for

maturing, and the progress of growth in ideas which

run counter to human selfishness must be of necessity
     'ALTON LOCKE'-- THE SWEATING SYSTEM. 145
very slow : what appears to be failure is only like the
slowness of movement which resembles immobility to
a hasty onlooker. The idea is gaining ground from
day to day, that co-operation is destined to be the
future mode of carrying on industry, that friendly
association will take the place of militant industrialism,
in a measure at least justifying the unfeigned faith of
Charles Kingsley --

  I" Association will be the next form of industrial develop

ment, doubt not, for production ; but it will require two
generations of previous training, both in morality and in
drill, to make the workman capable of it."

    This was said in 1856 ; one generation has passed
away, and the prospect of fulfilment is not as near by
any means as the true friends of co-operation might
wish -- still there is no real reason to despair of ultimate

success.

                                                                             L
CHAPTER VI.

"PARSON LOT"-- HIS FRIENDS AND HIS FOES.

At one of the gatherings of the Christian Socialists

in the house of Mr. Maurice during the years 1847-48,
Kingsley, finding himself in a minority of one, said

jokingly that he felt much as Lot must have felt in the

cities of the plain, when he seemed as one that mocked

to his sons-in-law. The name of Parson Lot was then

and there suggested, and by him adopted as a rum de

plume. Two years later, in one of the humorous epistles

in verse addressed to his friend Thomas Hughes, and

included, as is the above anecdote, in the Memoir

prefixed to Alton Locke, Kingsley thus concludes with
one of his most characteristic clinchers -- " Says Parson

Lot the socialist chief." It was in keeping with this

mode of using expletives and using strong language

vigorously, that at the Cranbourne Tavern, and in a

mixed assembly, he threw back his head and folded his
"Iarms deliberately, exclaiming,
                                  am a Church of
England clergyman--and a Chartist ! " It was im

possible for him to be cautious in speech. But when
he added in " burning language " that for him the

Charter did not go far enough, he proceeds to explain --
'PARSON LOT'--HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 147

an explanation his opponents omitted to notice--" my

only quarrel with the Charter that does not go farI
                                a
enough in reform." By reform he meant moral reforma
                              I is,
from within, not the changes to be effected by anyI it
number of reform bills passed through Parliament. "is
                                               I
                                                   I
think you have fallen into just the same mistake as the
rich of whom you complain --the very mistake which has

been our curse and our nightmare.  mean the mis

take of fancying that legislative reform social reform,

or that men's hearts can be changed by Act of Parliament.

If any one will tell me of country where a charter

made the rogues honest, or the idle industrious, will

alter my opinion of the Charter, but not till then. It
disappointed me bitterly when read it. It seemed

a harmless cry enough, but poor, bald, constitution-
mongering cry as ever heard," &c. &c. " God will only

reform society on the condition of our reforming every

man his own self."

We have quoted this here in the forefront of a

chapter which deals with Kingsley as controversialist
                                   a
                                                                   a
and pamphleteer, or, as some would call him,
a

social agitator in the Press, for Politics for the People,
and the Christian Socialist, in which some of these

controversies were carried on, were organs of the Press

for agitatorial purposes. In them Kingsley's name

appears attached both to poetry and fiction. The story
of the " Nun's Pool," which had some difficulty in being

inserted in the Christian Socialist, after being actually

refused admittance to Politics for the People, and such
songs as The Day the Lord and the Eagle, the latter
                    of
14S CHARLES KINGSLEY.

written near the Rhine, and both suggested by the
troubles of '48, but left uncorrected in subsequent

editions of the Poems, belong to the poetry of passion.

The tract on Cheap Clothes and Nasty cannot be called

a model of reasoned eloquence, it is full of righteous

indignation against the iniquities of the sweating
system. Here Parson Lot, having his righteous soul
vexed, forgets for the time being the advice of Eccle-
siastes to young men, " to remove vexation from their
hearts." He is eloquent, but his eloquence is un-

chastened ; he gives the reins to his righteous anger.
The effect it produced was instantaneous. Published

in January 1850, it was followed by a practical applica
tion of its teaching in the following month, when the
first Tailors' Association was opened in Castle Street,
with Walter Cooper, the ex-Chartist, as manager. The
opening sentence of the tract, now published with
Alton Locke, so severely censured by Mr. Greg in the

 Edinburgh Review as a " Tract full of raving," gives the

 key-note.

    " King Ryence, says the legend of Prince Arthur, wore a
 paletot trimmed with kings' beards. In the first French
 Revolution (so Carlyle assures us) there were at Meudon
 tanneries of human skins. Mammon, at once tyrant and
 revolutionary, follows both these noble examples--in a

 more respectable way, doubtless, for Mammon hates cruelty,
 bodily pain is his devil, the worst evil of which he, in his
 effeminacy, can conceive. So he shrinks benevolently when
 a drunken soldier is flogged ; but he trims his paletots
 and adorns his legs with the flesh of men and the skins
 of women, with degradation, pestilence, heathendom, and
·PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 149

despair ; and then chuckles self-complacently over the

smallness of his tailor's bills. Hypocrite !-- straining at a
gnat and swallowing a camel ! What is flogging or hanging,
King Ryence's paletot, or the tanneries of Meudon, to the
slavery, starvation, waste of life, yea, long imprisonment
in dungeons narrower and fouler than those of the In

quisition, which goes on among thousands of free English

clothes-makers of this day?"

Mr. Greg condescendingly extends his pardon to this

and similar outbursts on the score of Kingsley's excited

state of mind as it dwells on the wretched condition of

the victims of the system he attacks so fiercely. But

he is inexorable on the severe attack on competition.

" Sweet competition ! Heavenly maid ! Nowadays

hymned alike by penny-a-liners and philosophers as the
ground of all society --the only real preserver of all the

earth ! Why not of heaven too 1 Perhaps there is com

petition among the angels, and Gabriel and Raphael have

won their rank by doing the maximum of worship on the

minimum of grace. We shall know some day. In the

meanwhile, 'these are Thy works, Thou parent of all

good ! ' Man eating man, eaten by man, in every variety

of degree and method ! Why does not some enthusiastic

political economist write an epic on "The Consecration of
             '"
Cannibalism    1

   This was the unpardonable sin. A tract of this kind

written in the present day by a man of equal calibre

would be read with approval by thousands. In the

form of a lecture at a popular meeting at St. James's
Hall, it would be received with deafening plaudits by

the benevolent, and probably form an avenue of success

to an enterprising genius of modern philanthropy, since
150 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

it has become one of the liberal professions, so great is
the change in the public raind since then. The facts
and figures placed side by side of these two very strong
passages fully explain the tone of mind in which they
were written; they also are an answer to Mr. Greg's
insinuations that Kingsley had failed to make himself
acquainted with the actual state of things before writing.
The victims of the slop system are described from
veritable accounts and personal observation; "like
Ulysses' companions in the cave of Polyphemus, the
only question among them to scramble so far back
as to have a chance being eaten at last. Before them

   ever-nearing slavery, disease, and starvation. What
can be done " The respectable customers are warned
not to enter " the temples of Moloch --their thresholds
are rank with human blood. God's curse on them,
and on those who, by supporting them, are partakers of
their sins."

   His contributions to the Christian Socialist bear

more the impress of cool collectedness than this tract,
but in the very letter in which he suggests to Mr.
Ludlow what subjects might be treated in and how,
he also gives reasons for only speaking his mind in
this bold fashion.
is

                              ?

                             of

                                                   is,
                                                                       is

is is

    I

                        is
                                         is

                                                                               ;

                                                it

                                       I
                                                                                                             ;
" This a puling, quill-driving, soft-handed age-- among

our own rank, mean. Cowardice called weakness to

temporize to be charitable and reverent to speak truth

and shame the devil,  to offend weak brethren, who,

somehow or other, never complain of their weak consciences

till you hit them hard. And yet, my dear fellow, still
'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 151

remain of my old mind -- that it is better to say too much

than too little, and more merciful to knock a man down

with a pickaxe than to prick him to death with pins. The

world says, No. It hates anything demonstrative or

violent (except on its own side) or unrefined."

On this point Maurice and his disciple were quite

agreed. Maurice had defended the flaming title of
the tract, Christian Socialist, on the ground that in

approaching the English public "we must not beat

about the bush." He expresses his approval of the
tract referred to above, and with all his caution on this

subject recommended a bold plunge. Kingsley was

not the kind of man to hesitate when thus bidden.

With him it was not so much matter of principle as
predisposition; he simply could not help himself; he

was a born fighter, sometimes adopting the language

of the camp for that of the forum, or that of still more
Ifsacred places, as when he says, "
                                     you want to get

mankind, if not to heaven, at least out of hell, kick

them out." When he talked of the "Scribes and

Pharisees in white cravats laying on men heavy burdens,

and grievous to be borne, and then not touching them

themselves with one of their fingers," he was apt to use
forcible language which, though it might be necessary,

was not welcome to those whom he struck hip and

thigh. But then Kingsley in some occasional fits of

self-humiliation would readily acknowledge his ex

cesses, and calls himself, with a charming air of genuine

self-conviction, a "foul-mouthed, hot-tempered man."

But those whom his written words had wounded had
        152 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

        no opportunity of knowing his penitential regrets, and

        no wonder some of the clerical organs were up in arms

        against him.

          But the fair-minded critic may always find in the

        collocation of several passages in the same letter or

        paper, or whatever it is that Kingsley writes at the

        time being, a fair and balanced statement of the truth
        III.he desires to convey. Take, e. g., Letter
                                                                                                                    to the

        Chartists. He begins by saying that he and they are
        all longing for the same thing, namely, " to see all hum

is f is,bug, idleness, injustice, swept out of England," and this
             as a matter of course, put into italics. Further

        down the page we read, " What are the things which

        you demand most earnestly Is not one of them, that
                         is
                                                     ?
                                                            '
                                                                                                                 1
        no man shall enjoy wages without doing work

           " The Bible says at once, that he that will not work,

        neither shall he eat,' and as the Bible speaks to rich as

        well as poor, so that speech meant for the idle rich

        as well as the idle poor."

          \He then, referring to the passage in the Psalms

        ^jwiere we read, " He helpeth the poor out of misery,"
        ^ind concluding with the words, " The patient abiding
        oflthe meek shall endure for ever," exclaims, "Only,

        mj friends, let  be the patient abiding
                         it                          the meek',
                                     '

                                                                of of

                                                                                                       ?
        not the frantic boast of the bloodthirsty."

        throughout, an equal proportion of solemn warning

        administered impartially to rich and poor.

        In the pamphlet, Who are the Friends         Order he

        complains, that for having adopted the mode of speaking

        their mind without fear or favour, he and his friends
       PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 153

were cursed by demagogues as aristocrats, and by Tories
as Democrats, when in reality they were neither. He
takes credit to himself and them as to the practical

good they have effected in showing how many in " the
upper classes of society" cared for the poor and the

Iworking-classes. " cannot call it either a doubtful or

a contingent one (the practical good referred to), to
make ardent and discontented spirits among the work

ing-classes more patient and contented, more respect
ful to those institutions of which they have been taught
the value, and of which they have often, but too little,
experienced the benefit; to turn their minds from those
frantic and suicidal dreams of revolution which have

been the stock-in-trade of such men as Feargus
O'Connor, to deliberate and/orderly self-improvement,
and the pursuit of honourable independence."

   He showed how as Christian Socialists they were
"fighting for the very existence of that property and
that order which we are accused by some of en

dangering."
   We may now examine a few characteristic passages

in what we must call his controversial writings --we areVx
not touching here on theological controversy, and pass\

over the most important of these between Kingsley
and Newman -- to see how far the extremists on either
side were justified in some of their strictures. We will
first take Politics for the People. When he said here

     58), " that the true reformer's guide, the true poor
man's book, the true God's Voice against tyrants,
idlers, and humbugs/ was the Bible," he certainly
(p.
                                                 '
154 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

laid himself open to the charge of using severe

language. But then St. James had done so before him.

If his opponents applied the description to themselves,

they must have had a poor idea of their own civic

virtues. None but tyrannical employers of labour, idle

good-for-nothings, or actual social humbugs need have

taken offence; surely not the respectable supporters of

the Quarterlies, and the two leading Church organs of

the day ! But the rich are specially stigmatized, it
...might be said, for the warning is addressed to them --
" The Bible  is the poor man's comfort and the rich

man's warning." Our Lord, if we are not mistaken,

utters similar warnings to the classes and comforting

assurances to the masses in the Roman province where

He preached His Gospel to the poor. But in the Third

Letter, of the series occur one or two passages which

might even set at rest rich fools, if any such there were

then. For there the idle rich and idle poor come in for

an equal share of condemnation, and the ranting hum

bugs under either description, as we have seen already.

Whether he chastises the "Mammonite" in Cheap

Clothes and Nasty, in a temporary state of unnatural

excitement produced by the revelations of the Morning

Chronicle, or whether he tells hard truths to his Chartist

friends, in either case it is done for the reason given
in one of his letters written about this time --

   " A man cannot write in the fear of God without run

ning against the devil in every step. He cannot sit down
to speak the truth without disturbing in his own soul a
hornet-swarm of lies. Your hack-writer of no creed, your
       'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 155

bigot Polyphemus, whose one eye just helps him to see to
eat men, they do not understand this ; their pens run on
joyful and light of heart. But no more talk about
myself."

   Not unlike to one in many respects who occupied
a similar standpoint in relation to the French, as
did Charles Kingsley to the English public, Lacor-
daire, sharing with the latter the characteristics of
tenderness, loftiness of character, and candour all com
bined with an intense manliness and studious love of

solitude, he also shared the latter's fate of being dis
trusted and misjudged by his fellow-defenders of the
Church among the clergy and clerically-minded laity.
Kingsley differed from Lacordaire in this, that he had
not the Frenchman's unbounded faith in democracy.

His own standpoint was rather that of the noble
Montalembert, the friend of Lacordaire, that of a

cautious acceptance of democracy rather than a hailing

of it as a God-sent boon.1 He shrinks from making
his children banausoi, insolent, scoffing radicals. " Ah,"
he writes to T. Dixon of Sunderland in 1866, "that
more men in all ranks would 'chose the part which you
and your lost friend have chosen ! Then they could

    1 Pere Lacordaire brought out a democratic Catholic organ,
L'Ere Notwelle, at the outbreak of the French Revolution, and
 when, on the 4th of May, the National Assembly appeared on the
 peristyle of the Palais Bourbon to proclaim the Republic, the ton
 sured monk who stood in the midst of them, conspicuous by his
 white cowl, was cheered enthusiastically as he descended the steps,
 and conducted by the populace in a sort of triumphal march to the
 gates of the Corps Legislatif." -- Frederick Ozanam, His Life and
 Works, by K. O'Meara, pp. 316-20.
       150 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

       look on the inequalities of position in this world as
       slight matters, while they toiled after the divine
      equality of virtue and wisdom, which is open to all men
      in a free land, and try to take their place among the
       aristocracy of God."

          That Lacordaire and Kingsley should be suspected
       of ultra-democratic tendencies, shows the penetration
       of the religious mind on both sides of the British
       Channel ; clerical obtuseness of this kind is not a thing
       of the past. Ozanam explains the reason in the case of

      his friend 'Lacordaire. "Not a word was to be said

       against his orthodoxy, but the form and manner of its
       enunciation was novel, and novelty was next to heresy.
       Nothing was held in greater horror at archiepiscopal
       head-quarters than novelty." The same explanation
       may be applied to Kingsley's case. Moreover, in his
       case there was his " blessed habit of intensity," which
       bishops and archbishops and minor office-bearers of
       the English Church certainly do not affect, and cannot
       appreciate. When the Dons of Oxford grudged an
       honorary degree to Kingsley, they strongly anim
       adverted on the tone of Hypatia. And of this work,
       which Kingsley said was written with his life-blood,

    she also writes to Mr. Maurice in 1850, "My idea in
)V the romance is to set forth Christianity as the only

' really democratic creed, and philosophy, above all
        spiritualism, as the most exclusively aristocratic creed."
       The tone of Hypatia is much calmer in this respect
        than that of the earlier writings, when he was labouring
       under an exaggerated sense of the social danger in the
'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 157

Chartist times, which both to him and Carlyle was
" our reign of terror," " a manifestation of the Supreme."
" The truth is," he writes from Eversley to his ' dearest

Imaster,' " feel we are going on in the dark, towards

something wonderful and awful; but whether to a

Iprecipice or a paradise, or neither, or both, cannot
Itell. could lie down and cry at times. A poor fool

of a fellow, and yet feeling thrust upou all sorts of great

and unspeakable paths, instead of being left in peace to
Ifclassify butterflies and catch trout.
                                         it were not for
Ithe Psalms, and Prophets, and the Gospels, should

turn tail, and flee shamefully, giving up the whole

question, and all others, as cegri somnia." This is talk

ing excitedly, but it wasjtalking aloud his thoughts

without reserve. But reserve was then held to be the

greatest force of the English Church, the width and

height of the clerical neckties of that day symbolizing

that choking dignity of which the present Bishop of

Liverpool then complained the Church was dying. Let

us hear Kingsley giving his impressions of the Frimley

murder, which had a terrorizing effect on his own

neighbourhood. He writes in the Christian Socialist,
and under the pseudonym " Parson Lot," and shows the

connection between political economy and such excuses

arising from economic causes :--

  I" believe political economy to be all but the highest

and most spiritual of sciences ; the science of organizing
politics and of making men good citizens ; of realizing out

Iwardly the ideas of the Kingdom of God ; but will say

Inothing about it now : will simply ask, ' If you allow
153 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

us to use moral means to hop-pickers, why not to their

masters ? If to the outward accidents and symptoms of the

system, why not to the system itself ?

  " If it be replied, you must not interfere between employer

and employed,"

he says in return --

" These are not moral questions ; they are material facts,

affecting material interests ; and a political economy which

cannot alter these facts is not worthy the name of a science ;
it does not even show us how to regulate those very material

... Iinterests which it claims as its exclusive sphere

believe that political economy can and will learn how to
cure these evils, and that, in accordance with the formulas

inductively discovered by such men as Bentham, Bicardo,
Mill, and Chalmers . . . . ' Nature is conquered in obeying
her ' ought to be held as true in political economy as in

chemistry ; and the man who tells us that we ought to in
vestigate nature, simply to sit still patiently under her, and

let her freeze, and ruin, and starve, and stink us to death,

is a goose, whether he call himself a chemist or a political

economist."           '

   Professor Marshall or Professor Sidgwick could not
object to this. They would use different phrases to
convey their meaning. The " reigning school of political

economy "-- as it was then-- Kingsley says further on--

" was furious with Mr. Mill and Miss Martineau for having,

even in a single sentence, deserted the devil of competition
for the angel of association."

The old system which simply made political economy
a system of organized selfishness is falling to pieces, as
Kingsley predicted, to him it was even then " ready to
       'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 159

vanish away." The fulfilment of prophecy has at all
times been taken as a proof of the sacred mission of the

prophet.

   In the second volume of the Christian Socialist, in
the story of the " Nun's Pool," Kingsley speaks rashly
of the " wholesale robbery of the poor -- a robbery the

most shamelessly hypocritical, effected, not by the voice
of the nation, but by a single despot, abhorrent alike to

the laws of God and of human justice" -- he refers to

the alienation of the land from the people, and the
secularization of Church property in the time of Henry

VIII. In the first volume he had drawn a parallel

between the Exodus of the children of Israel from

Egyptian bondage, and the deliverance of the working-
classes from their modern "tyrants." Here he is
frequently using the expression, " aristocratic tyranny,"
and also some arguments more in the spirit of Cobbett
than that of a man professedly "justifying God to the
people" on Church of England lines. We do not
attempt to justify these outbursts; the managers of
the Christian Socialist organs evidently did not relish

them. Kingsley is not quite himself here. At all

events, he is not at his best ; rather at his worst. There

are papers on the "Long game" which display a fair
knowledge of political economy fairly stated, and there
are papers passing for " Bible Radicalism," which are

neither a credit to his biblical scholarship nor his radical
opinions. His reasoning is at low ebb here, though in
the main his advice is good ; all he can counsel is for

the workmen to associate.
1G0 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

That Kingsley's views and opinions, thus somewhat

loosely stated, and evidently bearing the impress of
over-hasty composition -- the papers really were pub

lished in fragments, and the series which was left in some
cases unfinished -- were severely canvassed by bis oppo

nents, goes without saying. Nor did he lack vigorous
defenders. The columns of the Christian Socialist were

fairly opened to opponents, and one writing under the
name of Tory Bill makes a vigorous attack on " Parson
Lot and his principles," to which " Radical Tom "
replies, but it is not necessary to repeat these sayings.
Nor need we quote at length Kingsley's in this public

ation to defend the Christian Socialist movement against

some attacks on it by the Guardian. "Why connect

them (the    C"hrtishteianGuSaorcdiaialisnts)hawdithatshkeeds. usp"iciFoours  word
socialism ?                                                                    this

reason : because we do not regard men as so many

weights, and an association as a mere aggregate of

individuals ; because we consider that men are moral

beings, and that earthly circumstances, work amongst

others, are to supply a moral discipline ; because we

believe that no endeavour really to raise their condition

by connected efforts can be successful which does not

proceed on the feeling of brotherhood, and demand the

exercise of self-sacrifice ; that we learn, in the divinely-

ordained religion of the family, a lesson which is to be

carried out in the wider circles of human society ; be
cause we are convinced that it is God's will that men

should work together as well as pray together, for a

common benefit and a common blessing."
       'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 161

   And again, in a second letter on the same subject--

" There is now in England a mass, an ever-increasing
mass of unemployed labourers, supplying victims for
unprincipled and short-sighted capitalists, or filling our
gaols and workhouses ; try whether association will not
gradually assimilate this mass, and render it the strength
and not the poison, the blessing and not the curse of
our country." He shows how association -- and this is
all he meant by socialism-- is the fundamental principle -

of any Church system. It is curious that the High

Church organ in close touch with the Oxford Move

ment had thus to be taught that the individualism run
riot in economics corresponds to the disintegration of
Church life, and the dissidency of dissent and in matters
ecclesiastical, that the tendency of Christian Socialism
is really a tendency in favour of organized life, and a
restitution of that corporate union which lies at the
foundation of any Church system. When, however,
the Guardian made a personal attack on Kingsley in
" a cruel article " on the republication of Yeast, and
accused him of teaching heresy in doctrine and morals,
Parson Lot fairly lost his temper, as Mr. Hughes tells
us, and answered, " as was answered to the Jesuits of

old --mentiris impudentissimc."
    Kingsley was involved in another controversy some

 what later, which pained his sensitive nature a great deal
 more. He had been asked to preach one of the series
 of sermons arranged during the time of the first great
 exhibition by the incumbent of St. John's Church,

 Charlotte St., Fitzroy Square. Kingsley was unknown,

                                                                                    M
162 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

except by his writings, by Mr. Drew, who professed to
have read them with great interest, and had begged him
through Maurice to preach the sermon. He agreed,

though at some inconvenience, and took for his subject

The Message of the Church to the Labouring Man. It

was suggested by Maurice, and met with the most cordial
approval of the incumbent; no questions were asked
and no guarantees given, and " Mr. Kingsley took
precisely that view of the message of the Church to

labouring men which every reader of his books would

have expected him to take." His text was " The Spirit

of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to

preach the gospel to the poor," &c. (Luke iv. 18--21) ;
.and in the course of his sermon he had said --

  I" assert that the business for which God sends a

 Christian priest in a Christian nation is, to preach freedom,
equality, and brotherhood in the fullest, deepest, widest
 meaning of these three great words ; that in as far as he
 does, he is a true priest, doing his Lord's work with his
 Lord's blessing on him ; that in as far as he does not he is
 no priest at all, but a traitor to God and men." And

 Igain -- " say that these words express the very pith and
  Iarrow of a priest's business ; say that they preach

  reedom, equality, and brotherhood, to rich and poor for

   ver and ever."

He pointed out the two kinds of liberty--the one to

do as one pleases, which is false, the other to exercise
moral freedom " to do what he ought," which is right ;
....the two kinds of equality --" the false, which reduces all
intellects and all characters to a dead level  the

true, wherein each man has equal power to educate
       'PAESON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 163

and use whatever faculties or talents God has given
him, be they less or more. This is the divine equality
which the Church proclaims." Then he proceeded to

distinguish between two brotherhoods -- " the false, where
man chooses who shall be his brothers and whom he will

treat as such ; the true, in which a man believes that all
are his brothers, not by the will of the flesh, or the will of
man, but by the will of God, whose children they all
are alike. The Church has these special possessions
and treasures : the Bible, which proclaims man's free
dom ; baptism, his equality ; the Lord's Supper, his
brotherhood."

   The sermon was listened to with profound attention

by a large congregation, many of whom were working-

men. At the close, just as Mr. Kingsley was about to

give the blessing, the incumbent rose in the reading-desk
and declared, " that while he agreed with much that ,
had been said by the preacher, it was his painful duty
to add that he believed much to be dangerous and
much untrue." The excitement in the congregation
was intense. The working-men could scarcely be kept
quiet and prevented from hissing, and otherwise ex

pressing disapproval ; the preacher bowed his head,

descended the pulpit, solemnly and silently passed
through the crowd, which thronged around him with
outstretched hands and an eager "God bless you, sir."

In the vestry friends met him to express sympathy,

and by their special request the sermon was printed
exactly as it was delivered. Kingsley returned much
depressed to Eversley. Nor was this all. When a
164 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

leading morning paper opened an attack on him as the
" apostle of socialism," and this was followed up by a

letter from the Bishop of London putting an interdict

on his preaching in his Diocese in consequence of a

report of the incident which had reached him, Kingsley

replied respectfully, requesting suspension of judgment

till he had read the printed sermon. Letters of

sympathy came streaming in, but few from his brother

clergy ; a meeting was held by working-men at Kenning-

ton Common to express their warm allegiance and

sympathy. A proposal even was made before the

Bishop's prohibition was withdrawn, to ask Mr.

Kingsley to start a free church independent of

episcopal rule, with a promise of a huge following. Of

course it was not entertained. When the Bishop had

read the sermon he withdrew in a gracious manner, in a

personal interview with Kingsley, his prohibition, and

a fortnight later the latter preached in his father's

church in Chelsea. It may be as well to quote one or

two more salient passages from this sermon to show

why Mr. Drew got so unduly frightened of having

conjured up spirits of revolt which in his panic he felt

he must lay, though at the cost of courtesy and good

faith.

  "In    Judaea," Kingsley had said among other      things,
         could be no absolute or eternal alienation  of the
" there

soil, but only, as Moses ordered, a lease of it according to

its value, between the time of sale and the next year of

Ijubilee. If wanted one proof above all others of the
Iinspired wisdom of Moses, should chose this unparalleled

contrivance for preventing the accumulation of large
'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 165

estates, and the reduction of the people into the state of

serfs and day-labourers."

Again, in a similar spirit --

   " All systems of society which favour the accumulation of

capital in a few hands -- which oust the masses from the
soil which their forefathers possessed of old -- which reduce

them   to the  level of serfs and    day-labourers, living  on
wages  and on                      them down with debt,     or
               alms --which crush

in any wise degrade or enslave them, or deny them a per

manent stake in the Commonwealth, are contrary to the

Kingdom of God."

   Again, connecting the symbolical act of the " mystical

washing away of sin " in baptism with sanitary reform --

" How dare you, in the face of that baptismal sign

of the sprinkled water, keep God's children exposed to

filth, brutality, and temptation, which festers in your

courts and alleys, making cleanliness impossible --drunk
...enness all but excusable -- prostitution all but natural -- self-
respect and decency unknown ?      In that font is a

witness for education and for sanitary reform, which will

conquer with the might of an archangel, when every other

argument has failed to prove that the masses are after all

not mere machines and hands to be used up in the pro

duction of a wealth of which they never taste, when their

numbers are, as far as possible, kept down by economical and

prudent rulers to the market demand for members of Christ,

children of God, and inheritors of the Kingdom of Heaven."

There may be a few clergymen still living --we think

we have met them in the flesh, and it is a weariness to

the flesh to meet them in what they are pleased to call

argument --whom words like these spoken in their

pulpits would frighten as much as they did poor Mr. Drew.

But the less unintelligent among the main body of the
166 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

clergy now would listen with composure if not with

complete assent to such a discourse by such a man on

such an occasion. Things have been said by speakers at
Church congresses quite as strong, and have met with a
favourable reception. Yet it must be acknowledged that
there is something in the profound tone of a few of
these passages of the sermon quoted above which go far

to explain, if they do not excuse, the irrational fear

inspired by them in the minds of slow and steady-going
people in Kingsley's day. Yet he could be calm enough
at times. When consulted, as he often was, by the

council of promoters on questions which turned up from
time to time, and in the settling of disputes, he was
judicious to the last degree. Thus, e. g., in the great lock
out of the iron-trade in January 1852, his opinion was
asked on the subject. The promoters had been requested
by the men on strike to help them in putting their case
before the public. He counselled non-interference

between the masters and the men.

I" think whatever battle is fought must be fought by

the men themselves. The present dodge of the Manchester
school is to cry out against us, as Greg did, ' These Christian

Socialists are a set of mediaeval parsons, who want to

hinder the independence and self-help of the men, and bring
them back to absolute feudal maxims ' ; and then, with

the most absurd inconsistency, when we get up a co-operative

workshop, to let the men work on the very independence

and self-help of which they talk so fine, they turn round

and raise just the opposite yell, and cry, ' The men can't be

independent of    capitalists  ;thethmesseelveass.'so"ciations  will  fail
because the men  are helping
'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 167

He insists though on the men combining or asso

ciating as the only power to raise themselves by, but

"if they can't fight their own battles, no men in

England can, and the people are not ripe for association,

and we must hark back into the competitive rot-heap

again." So, again, when he delivers himself on such a

subject as intemperance, a subject on which so many

are apt to show a considerable amount of insobriety in

judgment and licence in expression, Kingsley's remarks

are a pattern of judicial calm. Referring to a dis

cussion of this topic in the columns of the Christian

Socialist, he expresses regret at the amount of space

allotted to the subject, and then goes on to say, " It
seems to me, that if the teetotal party persevere in their

new eleventh commandment, the thing can only issue,,

some fifty years hence, in a great social split between |

water-drinkers and beer-drinkers, each party despising
Iand reviling the other.
                          regard this teetotal move
Iment with extreme dread.
                           deeply sympathize with

the horror of our English drunkenness that produced

I Iit. honour every teetotaler, as honour every man

Iwho proves by his actions that he possesses high

principle, and manful self-restraint; . . . but think

temperance in beer, like temperance in clothes, is

at once a more rational and a higher virtue either

Ithan sackcloth or water." Again, " dread the spread

of teetotalism -- first, because it will beget that

subtlest of sins, spiritual pride and Pharisaism. . . .

Believe me, my teetotal friends, every gin-sot in
London will help you at that work. The many always
103 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

find comfort to their souls in the thought --' Well, at
least, if we do not abstain, we know that abstinence is

right, and we will prove it by compelling our teachers

to abstain. So we go to balls and parties, but we

won't let the parsons. We are married ourselves, but
Ifwe are too pure to let the clergy be so.
                                            we are sots,

we will take very good care that only a teetotaler shall

        preach to us." The true remedies, he thinks, against

X drunkenness are two -- sanitary reform, which by
        improving the atmosphere of the dwellings of the
       poor will take away the morbid craving for drink, and
        the establishment of " small associate home breweries,"

to escape the dangers of adulteration and public-house

tyranny. The fanatics of teetotalism would not love
" Parson Lot " the more for such prescriptions, nor for

the warning with which he concludes, that those who
try to prevent their adoption are " with whatsoever

good intentions doing the devil's work."

Again, on a question as often approached with

passion by both sides of the controversy, nothing can

surpass the judicious tone in which he advises the
advocates of woman's rights to act with tact and

judgment. He writes from Chester in 1870 to Mrs.
Peter Taylor, in reply to her letter respecting the

"Women's Suffrage Question," and whilst expressing

sympathy he adds,

   " By pamphleteering we shall not win. Pamphlets now

are too common. They melt on the debauched and
distracted sensorium of the public like snow on water.

By quiet, modest, silent, private influence we shall win.
'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 169

' Neither strive, nor cry, nor let your voice be heard in the
Istreets,' was good advice of old, and is still.
Imany a movement succeed by it.                    have seen

                                     have seen many a

movement tried by the other method, of striving and

crying and making a noise in the street ; but 1 have

never seen one succeed thereby, and never shall."

Hearing about this time that Charles Kingsley had

withdrawn  from the  movement, John  Stuart Mill wrote}
to him to  ask the
                     reason. It was  the mode of pr<^

cedure of some of its advocates which had shocked

him so that he refused to attend any more meetings,

the only branch of the movement to which he con

tinued to give his influence being that for the medical

education of women, to which he had always attached

the greatest importance. In his reply he quotes

Professor Huxley's words as expressing his own idea

as applied to this subject--'"To reconstruct society

according to science,' we must steer clear of the hysteric

I Ielement]' and he expresses his determination to set forth

" in every book write (as have done in twenty-five
years) woman as the teacher, the natural, and therefore
divine, guide, purifier, inspirer of the man. And so,

Iperhaps, may be as useful to the cause of chivalry,
Idear equally to you and me, as if attended many

meetings, and spoke, or caused to be spoken, many

speeches." This did not please the screamers for

women's rights.

Probably in none of his utterances was he more

self-restrained and cautious than in his addresses to

women. Was it from the very dread of excessive
170 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

sympathy, conscious as he was, that with all his
manliness he had more of the feminine element in his

composition than was good for him, and that he had to
guard against this weakness ? Take the following bit
of calm and cautious advice in a lecture to ladies on

ladies' work in a country parish, as a sample. Speaking

of visits to cottagers, he tells them (advice not out of
place in these days, when women are divided into
" men's women " and " women's women ") --

   " Let your visits be those of women to women. Consider
to whom you go-- to poor souls whose life, compared with
yours, is one long malaise of body and soul and spirit --

and do as you would be done by ; instead of reproving and

fault-finding, encourage. In God's name encourage. They

scramble through life's rocks, bogs, and thorn-brakes

clumsily enough, and have many a fall, poor things ! But

why, in the name of a God of love and justice, is the lady

rolling along the smooth turnpike road in her comfortable

carriage, to be calling out all day long to the poor soul who

drags on beside her, over hedge and ditch, moss and moor,

bare-footed and weary-hearted, with half a dozen children

at her back, --' You ought not to have fallen here ; and it
was very cowardly to lie down there ; and it was your duty

as a mother to have helped that child through the puddle ;

while as for sleeping under that bush, it is most imprudent

and  inadmissible    '  Why not encourage her, praise her,
                   ?

cheer her on her weary way by loving words, and keep your

reproofs for yourself? Even your advice," <fec, &c.
   " Piety, earnestness, afiectionateness, eloquence -- all may

be nullified and stultified by keeping a poor woman stand

ing in her own cottage, while you sit, or entering her home,

even at her own    request, while  she is at meals.  mercy,  such
                   the poor such   unceremonious
   " Neither like
     'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 171

untender tenderness, benevolence at horse play, mistaking
kicks for caresses. They do not like it, they will not
respond to it, save in parishes which have been demoralized

by officious and indiscriminate benevolence, and where the
last remaining virtues of the poor, savage self-help and
independence, have been exchanged for organized begging

and hypocrisy."

   No doubt as he grew older, like most of us, Kingsley
became, if not more reticent, at least more careful in the

choice of words and phrases. His whole mind and soul

became more self-poised and quiet. He had cooled

down, as it was but natural that he should do. The

caloric temperament, like everything else in nature,

follows the law that dissipation of force which produces

heat is accompanied or followed by a cooling process.

Thus it was that he arrived at that stage when men are

apt to look back with some regret to earlier ebullitions

of feelings and methods peculiar to youth and early

manhood, but which the wisdom of old age has learned

to disapprove of. And so he says in a letter to Ludlow,

Ireferred to already, " For myself, on looking back see

clearly, with shame and sorrow, that the obloquy which
I have brought often on myself and on the good cause,
                                                 "
has  been  almost all  of it  of  my own fault      and  he  goes
"Ion to explain,                                ;

                       mean the proud, self-willed, self-

conceited spirit which made no allowance for other

men's weakness or ignorance; nor, again, for their

Isuperior experience and wisdom on points which had

never considered --which took a pride in shocking and

Istartling, and defying, and hitting as hard as could,
Iand fancied blasphemously, as think, that the Word
 172 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

 of God had come to me only, and went out from me

 only."
    The time came when Kingsley settled down, as he

promised that he would when writing from the West
Indies, " into the quietest old theologian, serving God,

I hope, and doing nothing else, in humility and peace."

But he really never became a reactionary in his old
age, as young radicals are apt to do when they have
become extinct volcanoes.

    " To me, looking back at what he was when he wrote
Yeast and Alton Locke," says one who knew him intimately,
" the change seems rather the natural development of his
mind and character under more or less altered circum
stances, partly because he saw the world about him really
improving, partly because by experience he found society
and other existiug institutions more full of healthy life,
more available as instruments of good, more willing to be
taught, than he formerly thought."

    Some think that when he became a dignitary of the
Church his expressions became more decorous, and his
manner more acquiescent in the social facts which had
assumed a less satisfactory aspect in his less prosperous
days; that when his own struggles with fortune had
been crowned with success he got tired of fighting
the good cause for others. He himself is conscious of
this, and thinks it incumbent upon him to explain it.

  I" If have held back from the socialist movement, it has
Ibeen because have seen that the world was not going to

be set right by any such rose-pink way, excellent as it

and that there are heavy arrears of destruction to be made
up before construction can even begin and wanted to see
;

    I
                                      is,
       'PARSON LOT'-- HIS FRIENDS AND FOES. 173

Ia little. At least see that the old Phoenix must burn,

before the new one can rise out of its ashes."

    But this was written in 1855, that is long before his

dignities had in the estimation of his detractors or

critics spoiled him. Nor is this theory of theirs borne

out by the calm tone of gentle regret and resignation

breathing in his last contribution to the dving Christian

Socialist --it had changed its name by this time into
that of Journal of Association. There he bids farewell

to militant Christian Socialism, not as a warrior laying

aside his armour from lassitude and fatigue, or in the

Achilles' mood of renouncing the scenes of conflict in

which he delights no longer, but as a fighting man who

thinks that for the present the season of combat is

over, the battle must be suspended for a while, Fabian

counsels must prevail.
   " Let us say little and work the more, we shall be the

more respected, and the more feared too, for it. People
will begin to believe that we really know what we want,
and really do intend to get it, and really believe in its
righteousness. And the spectacle of silent working faith is
one at once so rare and so noble that it tells more, even

on opponents, than ten thousand platform pyrotechnics.

In the meantime it will be no bad thing for us if we are

beaten sometimes. Success at first is dangerous, and defeat
an excellent medicine for testing people's honesty -- for set
ting them earnestly to work, to see what they want, and
what are the best methods of attaining it. Our sound
thrashings as a nation in the first French war wer^the
making of our armies ; and it is good for an idea, as well
as for a man, to ' bear the yoke in his youth.' The return
match will come off, and many who are now our foes will
then be our friends ; and in the meantime --
174 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

" The proper impulse has been given,
         Wait a little longer." --Parson Lot.

   This was his last signature under that name. He

Ifwrote at the same time to the editor, " you want an

Epicedium^ifsend one. It is written in a hurry, so if

Iyou like, reject it; but have tried to get the maximum

of terseness and melody." As it marks the close of the

career of the Christian Socialist, so it may fitly be quoted
here, at the close of the chapter --

" So die, thou child of stormy dawn,
     Thou winter flower, forlorn of nurse ;

     Chilled early by the bigot's curse,
  The pedant's frown, the worldling's yawn.

Fair death, to fall in teeming June,
   When every seed which drops to earth
   Takes root and wins a second birth

From streaming shower and gleaming moon.

Fall warm, fall fast, thou mellow rain ;
   Thou rain of God, make fat the land ;
   That roots, which parch in burning sand,

May bud to flower and fruit again ;

To grace, perchance, a fairer morn

  In mighty lands beyond the sea,

   While honour falls to such as we,

From hearts of heroes yet unborn,

Who in the light of fuller day,

Of loving science, holier laws,

Bless us, faint heralds of their cause,

Dim beacons of their glorious way.

Failure 1--while tide-floods rise and boil
   Round cape and isle, in port and cave

   Resistless, star-led from above ;
What though our tiny wave recoil ? "

June 9, 1852.                    Charles Kinosley.
                      CHAPTER VII.

                        KINGSLEV AND CARLYLE.

  I I" CANNOT say what personally owe to that man's

writings," says Charles Kingsley, in a letter addressed

to Thomas Cooper, and dated Feb. 15th, 1850. It is

not by any means the only passage in the Letters and
Memories acknowledging this indebtedness to Carlyle.
However, it is not so much our purpose to show* how
far this indebtedness extends as it is to indicate the
joint labours of Carlyle and Kingsley in their work of
social reform, mainly through literature, each working
in his own sphere, though in a measure as master and
disciple respectively. Carlyle was " full of thoughts on
the great social question of the day," as far back as
1828,1 that is when Kingsley was a boy nine years old.
But the doctrines taught in Chartism on the condition-
of-England question, published eleven years later, and
devoured by the young Kingsley with all the ardour of
early impressionableness, may be seen faithfully reflected
in the pages of Alton Locke--" Carlyle is an old Hebrew

Ifprophet, who goes to prince and beggar, and says, '

  J.1 Tliomas Carlyle : a history of the first forty years of his life,

by A. Froude, vol. ii. p. 60.
176 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

you do this or that, you will go to hell -- not the hell
that the priests talk of, but a hell on this earth,' " said

Kingsley to a Cambridge College, friend. It was this

touch of sympathy with Hebraistic intenseness which

accounts for the kinship of the two souls, moving in

worlds apart, and moulded by different influences from
beginning to end. How well Kingsley understood the
chief characteristics of Carlyle is evident from the
life-drawing he gives of him ,in the person of Sandy
Mackaye, though, strangely enough, Carlyle failed to
recognize himself in this portrait.

   The two men, in spite of disparity of age and up
bringing, had much in common, more at one, perhaps, in
their hates --both satisfied Dr. Johnson's requirements
of a good hater-- than their loves, their dislikes than
their likes. Both from their very soul loathed conven
tionality and cant, both were ardent in their attachment
to truth and plain-speaking, and often overdid this.
Both, though friends of the people, were the friends of
order, but very far from joining the common cry about
" order and progress." Both had a touch of Imperialism
in their composition, and for this reason perhaps were
a trifle too much frightened by "our French Revolu
tion." Both abominated that real child of the Revolu
tion, the doctrine of laissez-faire, and with it the
egoistic mammonism it engendered; neither Carlyle nor
 Kingsley had any pity for the " plumpy, comfortable, pot
 bellied reality of materialistic Manchester schools," and

 both appealed to the really spiritual side of human

 nature, and a higher altruistic ideal, and both waxed
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  177

eloquent on the "Chivalry of Labour" that is to be,
organized by the " captains of Industry." Both spoke
of the supreme " sanctity of work " and the " holiness of
suffering," and both were terribly in earnest in reminding
their countrymen that there is a Providence presiding
over the affairs of man, individually and in the aggregate.
Neither believed in coercion to put down the " Chimera
of Chartism," so long as " the living essence of Chartism
has not been put down^ Chartism means the bitter
discontent grown fierce and mad, the wrong condition
therefore, or the wrong disposition, of the working-classes
of England . . . the essence continuing, new and
ever new embodiments, chimeras madder or less mad,
have to continue." Both addressed themselves to the
task of speaking to and for " that great dumb toiling
class which cannot speak." But neither was a believer
in "Morrison's Pills" for curing social diseases; "for

my part," Alton Locke says, "I seem to have learned that

the only thing to regenerate the world is not more of
any system, good or bad, but simply more of the Spirit
of God." Inner reform is the thing required, not
Reform Bills.

    "The only progress to which Carlyle would allow

the name was moral progress, the only prosperity the

growth of better and nobler men and women; and

as humanity could only expand into high dimensions
 in an organized Society, where the wise ruled and
 the ignorant obeyed, the progress which consisted in

 destroying authority and leaving every one to follow
 his own will and pleasure, was progress down to the

                                                                                    N
 178 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

devil and his angels." His only hope of avoiding the
catastrophe was "a recovered sense of religion,"1 to
teach the " sacred meaning of duty." For this reason
even Carlyle acknowledges that "without a Church
there can be little or no religion. The action of mind
on mind is mystical, infinite ; religion, worship can
hardly (perhaps not at all) support itself without this
aid." Of course it would be easy to point out diverg
encies and discrepancies and a difference of opinion in
the numerous works of two writers, each possessed of

a strongly-marked individuality, and each eminently
original. But it is not our object in this place to point
out the contrasts ; let it suffice to note coincidences of
thought and conjoint influences in their effect on the
development of English thought and sentiment turned

to social questions.

   To enter a little more fully into each of the resem
blances only hinted at above, we may now first dwell
for a moment on the veracity of the two men, which
constitutes their chief strength. " Veracity, true sim
plicity of heart," Carlyle says in Past and Present, " how
valuable are these always ! He that speaks what is
really in him will find men to listen, though under never
such impediments." And applying this to the subject

in hand, he says in the essay on Chartism --" Infidelity
to truth and fact and Nature's order being properly lha--

one evil under the sun, and the feeling of injustice the
one intolerable pain under the sun, our grand question

   1 Thomas Carlyle : London Life, ii. pp. 453-4 ; History of the
first Forty Years, ii. p. 80.
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  179

as to the condition of these working-men would be : Is
it just ? " Kingsley was a man of such transparent

honesty, that Maurice on one occasion speaks con
temptuously of any one who could even imagine his

friend capable of innuendo -- " the notion of accusing
Kingsley of innuendo ! or of any language or acts but
the most straightforward." This straightforward way of
facing social problems in the Church and in the world,
this honest effort of grappling with actualities and
facing the supposed enemies of society with fairness of

argument, is becoming nowadays more the rule than

the exception, mainly through the surviving influence
of these two writers, though the exceptions are still
more numerous than we could wish them to be. There

is still too much of that "pedantry and inane grey
haze " in the inarticulate expressions, misty conceptions,
and mystified utterances on the part even of the most
outspoken friends of the people in their pronounce

ments on social questions, mainly because of the fear
and dread of that intangible public opinion, which like
a Damocles' sword seems ever hanging over their

head.

   Carlyle and Kingsley are lovers of order and har
monious organization, though both are not backward
in sharply criticizing the "existing order," which they
were apt to call disorder. Both agreed that a social

order which was founded on a money contract and held
together by selfish greed was no order at all, but
anarchy, Mammon being the great Anarch ; " that
laissez-faire, ' supply and demand,' ' cash payment for
ISO CHARLES KINGSLEY.

the sole nexus,' and so forth, were not, are not, and will

never be, a practicable law of union for a society of
man."

    They noted how the new industry by machinery which
all the world worshipped was apt to turn men into
" menials of the steam-engine," how multitudes of work
men, women and children, were sacrificed to this " huge
demon of mechanism," that the poverty and misery of
those thrown out of employment in any of the crises
following upon reckless over-production were the real
parents of " reckless unthrift, rebellion, rancour, in
dignation, against themselves and all men." What
Kingsley had seen in Bristol riots, as a boy, Carlyle
had noted in Glasgow, Birmingham, and even Paris
and other places, as a youth, and in later manhood.
They both could say, " we have seen and do testify," and
they looked on with unprejudiced eyes. They clearly

understood --the rest of the world with some few
exceptions blinked the fact-- that in the struggle for
existence in what Carlyle called " this poor sordid era of
ours," and Kingsley "this base generation," and the

rest of the world " the age of progress," the weak must
go against the wall, that freedom of contract becomes
a hollow pretence where one of the contracting parties
must work or starve, and his liberty consists in choosing

between the two alternatives. They also saw nothing

for it but some power to step in to protect the weaker
party. Kingsley was less of a State^socialist than
Carlyle. When, about the time of the Crimean War,

the manager of one of the associations, at a council
          KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.                     181

meeting, asked Kingsley's opinion as to what should be

done in view of the impending bread-riots, and Kingsley
replied that one way was to let the merchants buy it
up and sell it six months hence, which answers best,

and the other was Joseph's plan, and when the manager
broke in, " Why didn't our Government step in then,

and buy largely, and store in public granaries ? "--

I" Yes," said Kingsley, " and why ain't you and flying

about with wings and dewdrops hanging to our tails ?

Joseph's plan won't do for us. What minister could

we trust with money enough to buy corn for the
people, a power to buy where he chose ? " And, we are
told by Mr. Hughes, " he went on to give his questioner

a lecture on political economy, which the most orthodox

opponent of the popular notions about socialism could

have applauded to the echo."

Carlyle, on the contrary, leans towards some form of

          a
                  a

                                           is
                                                             a

                                                                         it,
State socialism, though he is not very clear about

and his State socialism does not amount to much more

than a more real use and forceful application of the

existing powers and acknowledged principles of Govern

ment by way of State-aided education, emigration, and

the like. What both aim at    what French and

Belgian writers understand by patronage, return in

some form to patriarchal relationship of master and

man, with the State in loco parentis where needed by

way of supplement, real aristocracy of governors and

masters.

   "We do say," remarks Carlyle in Chartism, and with
this Kingsley would be in full agreement, "that the old
1S2 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

aristocracy were the governors of the lower classes, the
guides of the lower classes, and even at bottom that they
existed as an aristocracy because they were found adequate
for that. Not by charity balls and soup-kitchens, &c. ; in
one word cash payment had not then grown to be the

universal sole nexus of man to man ; it was something
other than money that the high then expected from the
low, and could not live without getting from the low.
Not as buyer and seller alone, of land or what else it
might be, but in many senses still as soldier and captain,
as clansman and head, as loyal subject and guiding king,
was the low related to the high. With the supreme
triumph of Cash, a changed time has entered ; then must a
changed aristocracy enter. We invite the British reader

to meditate earnestly on these things."

   He wants as does Kingsley more " Organization of

labour." He sees the beginnings of a development of

that new aristocracy he had demanded. He saw

governments upset in France, and others raised in their
place to do this very work of organizing " captainless "

industry. But while he clamours for "Regiments of
the new Era," and severely inveighs against " a blind

loquacious pruriency of indiscriminate philanthropism,"

he after all calls for nothing else by way of Government
interference than " a State grounding itself on veracities,"
not simply satisfied " with the most dexterous keeping
of the peace," but establishing " real secretaryships "
for " domestic peace and utility "-- that is all. True, he
says further on, " Suppose the State to have fairly

started its Industrial regiments of the new Era," and
got its " men able to command men " in ways of industrial
and moral well-doing ; " that the State would give its
              KINGSLEY AND CAKLYLE.  183

very life for such men ; that such men were the State

. . . what a new dawn of everlasting day for all British
        "
souls         But all this is in posse, and, if we are not >
       !

mistaken, is to be carried out in the works of national

workshops or model workshops by the State, for imme
diately afterwards we read, " Mill-operatives, all manner

of free operatives, as yet unregimented, nomadic under

private masters, they, seeing such examples and its

blessedness, will say : ' Masters, you must regiment us a

little, make our interests with you permanent a little

instead of temporary and nomadic ; we will enlist with
                          '"
the    State  otherwise       What he really requires is a
                         !

mode of industry in which under the constitutional

government of the master or masters in the plan of
" constituted anarchy," the " poor blind methods,"

leaving everything to the free play of competition, are

to be abandoned, leading as they do to "Stygian

anarchy." Better too much government than none at
all ; the State must become " the keystone of a most

real organization of labour," for "it exists here to

render existence possible, existence desirable and noble

for the State's subjects." King Capital has proved

but a poor ruler. New kings and governors like

Cromwell and the great Frederick are wanted to rule

industry, a new order of nobles, "the captains of
industry," to support the throne. This in turn will
produce a new " chivalry of labour."

   As to democracy, strange to say, Carlyle is much
more severe on its shortcomings than Kingsley, and it

is in the Latter-day pamphlets where he is most severe.
184 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

" Everywhere immeasurable democracy rose monstrous,
loud, blatant, inarticulate as the voice of chaos." And

what is this irresistible force, composed "of most

inflammable, mutinous, chaotic elements " ? What is
this " huge inevitable product of the Destinies," this
" big, black Democracy " ? There lies the question for us.

In trying to answer Carlyle speaks in what has been

called the "Conservative Barricade style." Kingsley,

with more moderation and tolerant breadth of thought,
is

                    it
                        it

                                 it,
                                        a

                                                                          ;

                                                             a

                                                       if

                                                                                       is
accepts democracy as fact and force, and sees the
supreme need of Christianizing it. " The new element

democracy in Church and State. Waiving the

question of its evil or its good, we cannot stop it. Let
instead " and he begs his correspond
...us Christianize
ent to consider carefully whether " democracy                              be

ot the pith and marrow of the New Testament."

 In the extracts given by Mr. Froude from Carlyle's

Journal (1830-2), seems that at this time the rise of

democracy was regarded with composure,                                     not with

indifference, by him. "La classe la plus pauvre

evidently in the way of rising from its present deepest

abasement. In time the world will be better divided,

so that he that has the toil of ploughing will have the
first cut at the reaping." Again, " Democracy gets along
with accelerated pace --whither . . am purely an on
is
                                                                        ?
                               I
looker, in any other capacity there being no need of me."

It curious that twenty years later Carlyle should

have assumed an attitude so much less in favour of the

rise of democracy, except on the supposition that the
revolutionary socialism of France and Chartism in Eng
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  185

land Lad disgusted him with democracy, which he
thenceforward describes as a " self-cancelling business."

Carlyle was a Girondist, and disliked revolutionary

excesses. In his reminiscences of Lord Jeffrey this comes
out still more clearly --

   "Democracy, the gradual uprise and rule in all things
of roaring, million-headed, unreflecting, doubly suffering,
doubly sinning ' Demos,' come to call its old superiors to
account at its maddest of tribunals ; nothing in my time
has so forwarded all this as Jeffrey and his once famous
Edinburgh Review."

       Kingsley, innate aristocrat as he was, is not afraid of

  "Idemocracy. As late as 1872 he writes thus of himself

   to Thomas Cooper -- can give no more solid proof

   that, while Radical cockneys howl at me as an aristo

  Icrat and a renegade, am none ; but a believer in the

    persons of my children, that ' a man's a man for a' that.' "

   True, unlike Carlyle, he never regarded Jesus Clirist as
   " the greatest of all past and present antigigmen ; " but
   he regarded Him as the great Regenerator of society.

   I J" have discovered also that the world is already

, regenerated by the Lord esus Christ, and that all efforts
   of our own to regenerate it are denials of Him and of the
    perfect regeneration which He accomplished when He sat
   down on the Right Hand of God, having all power given to
   Him in heaven and on earth, that He might rule the earth
   in righteousness for ever."

      In this, however, Carlyle and Kingsley agreed, that

   is in looking forward to the creation of an " industrial
   aristocracy." " That," in Carlyle's words, referring
   apparently to Kingsley's expression, " a ' splendour of
1SG CHARLES KINGSLEY.

...God,' in one form or another, will have to unfold itself
from the heart of these our Industrial ages too  an

actual new sovereignty, Industrial aristocracy." And

in order to this there must be higher ideals. On this,

too, both are agreed. The enemy of ideals at the
time was " Midas-eared " Mammonism, " pure egotism,"
with " try-to-get-on " for its shibboleth, and " devil-take-
the-hindmost " for its corollary, " the shabbiest gospel

that had been taught among men."

An able German writer, Dr. Gerhart von Schulze-

Gaevernitz, a friend and disciple of L. Brentano, in a
lately published work of considerable merit, on " the

social, political education of the English People in the

nineteenth century," gives a prominent place to Carlyle,
the " Isaiah of the nineteenth century," in counteracting

this tendency. He regards Carlyle as a spiritual force

to which more than to any other must be ascribed the

revulsion which has taken place in English thought

against exclusive individualism. Perhaps the author

rather over-estimates this influence of Carlyle's. For

the revulsion of feeling against the anti-social tendencies

of the past, and the profession rather than the practical

adoption of altruistic principles in the present day, are

the result of a general advance in European thought of

which both Carlyle's and Kingsley's writings were as

much consequence as cause.1 Carlyle in the Reminis-

 J1 See Zum socialen Frieden. Eine Darstellung der socialpoliti-

schen Erziehung des englischen Volkes im neunzehnten ahrhwndert,
von Dr. Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz (1890), vol. i. 74-5 ; 87-9 ;
179 ; 235. The book is well worth studying.
              KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.                              187

cences mentions the year (1825) of his own Hegira
from the " soul-murdering mud-gods," when he attained

to spirit-emancipation from "Stygian quagmires."

  I" have for the spiritual part ever since lived, looking

down upon the welterings of my poor fellow-creatures, in
such multitudes and millions still stuck in that fatal ele
ment, and have had no concern whatever with the Pusey-
isms, Ritualisms, metaphysical controversies and cobweb-
beries, and no feeling of my own except honest silent pity
for the serious and religious part of them, and occasional
indignation, for the poor world's sake, at the frivolous,
secular, and impious part, with their universal suffrages,
their nigger emancipation, sluggard and scoundrel pro
tection societies, and ' unexampled prosperities ' for the time

being."

Henceforth he becomes the prophet fighting against

the infidelity to fact and unbelief in the Divine reality

behind the facts of the universe, against all unbelievers

in the Divine veracity, in their love for semblances and
" simulacra " ; the " aim of the man of letters should be

to feel in himself, and reveal to others, the ' Divine idea
              '"
of the world         ;  and  so  in a  letter  to  his  brother  John in
1833 he says, " My mind would so fain deliver itself of
that ' Divine idea of the world.' " Starting from this

high conception of their mission and their message to

the times, both Carlyle and Kingsley cast to the winds

any considerations of private interest, determined once
and for all to " refuse to do the devil's work in this

which is God's earth, let the issue be simply what it

I Imay. ' must live, sir,' say many ; to which answer,

' No, sir, you need not live ; if your body cannot be
183 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

kept together without selling your soul, then let the
body fall asunder, and the soul be unsold.'" Thus
Carlyle in 1837. Corresponding with this we read about

Kingsley, that when his friends urged him to withdraw
in 1848 from the sympathy with the people which was

likely to spoil his prospects in life, he writes to his wife--

I I" will not be a liar.  will speak in season and out of
Iseason.
IGod.       will not shun to declare the whole counsel of

       will not take counsel with flesh and blood, and

flatter myself into the dream that while every man on

earth, from Maurice back to Abel, who ever tried to testify

against the world, has been laughed at, misunderstood,

slandered, and that, bitterest of all, by the very people he

Iloved best and understood best, alone am to escape. My
Ifaith is clear, and will follow in it. He who died for
Ime, and who gave me you, shall not trust Him through
                                                     "
whatsoever  new  strange  paths  He  may  lead  me
                                                    1

    For this reason both men, whose smaller failings and
human infirmities have afforded such an infinity of
comfort and consolation to the moral pigmies who are
ever ready to drag through the mud the great names of
men whose intellectual and moral grandeur they could
not measure, being the small-statured mortals that
they are, not only dwell emphatically on the sanctity
of labour -- " He who has found his work," says both
Carlyle and Kingsley, "let him ask no other blessed
ness" --but they also emphasize the duty of self-sacrific
ing and self-denying activity. Society, from being an
agglomerate of self-seeking units chaotically thrown
together, must be restored to a belief in a Divine
Unity, and find here a Divine centre of Union. London
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.             189

is,is to Carlyle a " huge aggregate of little systems, each
                               aof which is again a small anarchy, the members of

which do not work together, but scramble against each

other." . . . "Nevertheless, God is in it." And so he

emphasizes the fact in Past and Present, that the

universe is not "a great unintelligible Perhaps"; it

is the same important truth on which Kingsley dwells
in his novels, his lectures, his academical addresses.

" In the heart of its tumultuous Appearances, Embroil

ments, and mad time-vortexes, is there not silent,

Eternal, an All-just, an All-beautiful, sole Reality, and
ultimate controlling Power of the whole ? " Coming

from Carlyle, such words produced a deeper effect than
coming from a clergyman preaching on the text, " The
Lord God omnipotent reigneth," for this is the idea
which underlies all Kingsley's teaching, and on which
he dwells most impressively, both in expatiating on the
facts of natural history and the history of man. The
fact these two men addressed in this respect two

different constituencies on the same subject of supreme
importance, each with its own prepossessions and con
victions. Carlyle held up the belief in a Divine idea to
the large body of men who had lost faith in the beliefs
of their childhood, and were in search for a substitute.
Kingsley addressed those who had their secret doubts,
but were anxious to keep to the " old paths," or as near

at least to the ancient landmarks as was compatible
with truth. Both in their own way and in their own
sphere did much towards restoring the faith in Provi
dence, combined with high sense of duty, and dis
190 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

associated entirely from those emasculated makeshift

beliefs, which were virtually concealed unbeliefs, accepted

by men at the time.

Apart from the matter of their teaching, there was

much in their manner which was alike. There are
fewer " splenetic sputterings " and " atrabilioujrutter-
ances " in Kingsley than in Carlyle, but at times there

is the same impatient abruptness. He does not call

men contemptuously "Dead Sea apes," but he hits hard

at times, though with the velvet glove of gentlemanly

toleration. But in both there is the same terrible

earnestness which Jeffrey used to complain of in his

kinsman contributor. Both men had the faculty which
Carlyle ascribes to Shakespere, " that high vates talent

of interpreting confused human actualities," and both

use it for the purpose of drawing vivid pictures which

do not, indeed, unfold " what divine, melodious Ideals,

or Thoughts of the Supreme were embodied in them" --
for these were lost for awhile, they imagined --but
describe " the living chaos of ignorance and hunger,"

which was the actuality of the day. Carlyle does so in

the sombre chiaroscuro of Rembrandt, Kingsley in the

rich colouring of Rubens. Carlyle breaks out in a
" torrent of sulphurous denunciation," when he describes
the Past and Present Era of thirty years ago -- " your

cotton-spinners and thrice-miraculous mechanism, what
                                                                 "
is this  too,  by itself, but  a  larger  kind  of  animalism
                                                               ?

Nothing can be more severe than his strictures on the

"Pig Philosophy" of the age, nothing more solemn

than his warnings to turn away from such a degrading
                  KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.

materialism. Still, he is not quite hopeless. "Me

chanism is not always to be our hard taskmaster, but

one day to be our pliant, all-ministering servant " ; "a

new and brighter spiritual era is slowly evolving itself
for all men." From the German, from Fichte in
particular, he had learned to put his faith in idealism ;
and Christianity afforded him, as well as Fichte, the
highest ideal for the individual and society. " Make an
organ of thyself" says Carlyle, with the profound con
viction that the higher development of the individual
lies at the root of a higher social organization ; and so he
shows in Characteristics, which is " the most condensed

example of Carlyle's peculiar teaching," that "society
is the vital articulation of many individuals into a new
collective individual," i. e. as we say nowadays, the

individual is the cell of the social organism. Hence the

importance, as Kingsley put it in his inaugural lecture
on taking the Chair of History in Cambridge, " of the
self-determining power of the individual" as a factor
in the "orderly progress of humanity," denying the
mechanical theory of an "inevitable sequence" in
human affairs, which denies or ignores "the self-

arbitrating power of man."

   But que /aire ? What practical remedies are there
to raise the individual and society, and for the pre

sent distress what ought to be done ? They agree
rather in what ought not to be done. Neither re
actionary nor revolutionary measures will bring about
a better state of things. Both dislike anything like an
attempt to return to old and worn-out systems. Both
192 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

are bitter in their attacks on " Puseyisms " and
"Jesuitisms," the attempts in the Anglican and Roman
Churches to regain the people alienated from the faith
by attempts to improve their social condition cb la

Cardinal Manning. In their strong prejudices they

were prevented from seeing any good in such sympa
thetic efforts, ready, as the Germans say, to throw out
the child with the bath-water.

    On the other hand, Carlyle notes with his peculiar
sardonic humour the advances of " horny - handed
Radicalism." He notes with grim satisfaction its
earnestness. " Radical Murphy (at a meeting in the
City of London Tavern), with cylindrical high hat (like
a water-can), pot-belly, and voice like the great bell of

Moscow, All in Earnest." This was in 1834. A few

years before that Mr. Froude tells us he indulged him
self in an " impatient Radicalism " of his own. But

Iwhen writing to Emerson he says-- " Radicalism feel

to be a wretched necessity, unfit for me ; Conservatism
being not unfit only, but false for me ; yet these two
are the grand categories under which all English

spiritual activity that so much as thinks remuneration
possible must range itself." Kingsley is much less
severe as a critic on Chartism, though his strictures

on its errors, as we have seen already, are pointed and
just. He, too, is equally averse to either reactionary
or revolutionary measures, and has as little faith as his
master Carlyle in mere accession of the masses to parlia
mentary influences and political power, or that the
possession of a twenty-thousandth part of a Talker
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  193

in our National Palaver will do " the people " much
good. In fact, it is not political reform, but the inner

reform of each man that is required in the opinion of

both To effect a happy union of society you must

improve the social unit. It is a quite insoluble and im

possible problem : " Given a world of knaves, to produce
an honesty from their united action ; " it is the moral not
the political constitution that wants reforming ; " it is

not by mechanism but by religion, not by Self-interest

but by Loyalty, that men are governed or governable."
" Therefore," says Carlyle in his Journal, " ' Society for
the diffusion of common Honesty ' were the usefullest

of all societies could it take effect." By honesty Carlyle

meant a great deal more than keeping one's hands from

picking and stealing ; he and Kingsley meant by this

a more unconventional, more really outspoken honesty
in speech and action, in religious profession, in moral

practice. The current half-truths, morbid self-contem

plation and weak self-pity, and utter inability to see

straight and look facts courageously in the face, both

men hated with a perfect hatred ; what they felt

was needed were honesty of purpose and honest effort,

eradicating the false, the feeble in thought and feeling.
" The whole life of Society," complains Carlyle in the
Characteristics, " must now be carried on by drugs ;

doctor after doctor appears with his nostrums, of Co

operative Societies, Universal Suffrage, Cottage-and-

Cow Systems, Depression of Population, Vote by Ballot.

To such height has the dyspepsia of society reached ;

as indeed the constant, grinding internal pain, or from
                                                                            o
194 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

time to time the spasmodic spasm throes, of all Society
do otherwise too mournfully indicate." The myriads of
mechanical inventions of a society, self-conscious of its

?sickly condition cannot save                                               unless each member

           is is
                                    of
                                          it,

                                                                           ;
effects a personal cure in himself first. " Tojrefjarrn
world," says Carlyle in Signs the Times, " to reform a                           is,
                                                                                              a
nation, no wise man will undertake and all but foolish
                                                                                                           
men know, that the only solid, though a far slower

reformation, what each begins and perfects in himself."
   But what are the prospects of this moral amelior

ation On this point Carlyle and Kingsley differed.

The former     inclined to Pessimism, though even

in "chaotic London" he sees blissful symptoms here

and there discernible of palingenesia. But at the very

best he only clings to desperate hope, for in his view
the whole frame of society rotten. Where the new
               a
                        is

    to come from when the old has vanished away he

knows not, though out of all evil comes good, "this
is is is
           iswonderous mankind advancing somewhither," thoughis
" perfection of practice, like completeness of opinion,

    always approaching, never arrived; truth, in the

words of Schiller, immer wird, nie ist never always                           ;
   a-being." Allan Cunningham's " gingerbread Lubber-

land"          pleasant to him as "streams of ambrosial

ditch-water;" yet says Kingsley, in justification of his

own optimism, "All men worth anything, old men

especially, have strong fits of optimism --even Carlyle
has --because they can't help hoping, and sometimes

feeling, that the world  is  going right, and will go

right, not your way, or any way, but its own way.
KINGSLBY AND CARLYLE.  195

Yes, we've all tried our Holloway's Pills, Tom, to cure

Iall the ills of the world, and we've all found out, hope,

by this time, that the tough old world has more in its
inside than any Holloway's Pills will clear out." He
himself had learned to disbelieve in the efficacy of
the specific, but had not lost his faith in the panacea
for all human ills, the remedial power of Christianity,
and the Church of England as an institution for
the promotion of righteousness, individual and social.
" Strange to say," he says in a letter to Captain
Alston in 1862, " Thomas Carlyle now says that the

Church of England is the most rational thing he sees
now going, and that it is the duty of every wise man
to support it to the uttermost." Perhaps Carlyle did
not mean quite as much as is implied here. " That
thing, the Church of England," as at one time he
had spoken of it with supreme contempt, could scarcely

have risen in- his estimation to such an extent as to

warrant this saying of Kingsley's. Towards the close
of his life, we are told by Mr. Froude, Carlyle was taken

by a friend to the Abbey to hear a great and popular

preacher-- was it Kingsley? --but before the service
was over the friend began to regret his temerity in
acting as bear-keeper to such a man in such a place.
For every moment as the sermon went on its way,

 Carlyle's stick threatened to drop on the pavement
 to give expression to the holder's dissent and dis
approval of it. Even the genial dean close by watched
with some apprehension the movements of his friend,

 though happily the threatened signals of disagreement
190 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

were not given, to* the great relief of all concerned ;

but the story is characteristic of Carlyle. It does

not, however, go far to prove the completeness of his

conversion to good Churchmanship.

   In the end Carlyle and Kingsley fought shy of each

other, we are told by Mr. Garnett, and we can under

stand this easily enough. In his younger days Kingsley

had looked up to Carlyle, not only as a prophet, but
as his prophet; but as Kingsley grew older, Carlyle,
like some others, probably thought that worldly success
had taught him to prophesy smooth things. His later
writings would seem, to Carlyle's eye, to be too opti
mistic, apologetic, and in the nature of compromising
matters when antagonism and contention would be
more in keeping with the demands of truth and justice.
Probably the only Churchman with whom Carlyle

entirely sympathized -- Maurice even was never quite
at ease with him --was John Sterling, but then John

Sterling had separated from the Church, which he had
entered without due consideration. Carlyle respected
his conscientious scruples ; he himself had refused for

similar reasons to join the Scotch Kirk.
   Now John Sterling and Charles Kingsley bore many

resemblances. There was in both the same velocity of
thought and intellectual impetuosity, the same headlong
alacrity in arriving at resolves and conclusions, the same
impatient rashness and self-conscious sensitiveness;
both had been attracted for a time by what Carlyle
calls "the transcendental moonshine of Coleridge's
Christian philosophy." There was the same bright
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  197

is,ingenuity which pleased Carlyle so much --both had
              athe bent of the artist and some of the traits of the
saintly character. But there was this fundamental

difference. Kingsley was physically vigorous, though
he wore himself out prematurely by the "very excess
of life " which in John Sterling brought on disease and
death. Hence the greater joyousness of existence in

Kingsley, which reconciled him more easily to life's
contradictions. Sterling's life was to Carlyle " a tragical
history, as all histories are; yet a gallant, brave, and

noble one, as not many are." Kingsley's could

scarcely be called so. Sterling had given up his
"democratic philosophies and mutinous radicalisms,"
as Carlyle himself, as Kingsley had done. But though
to Sterling, as to Kingsley, religion per se was an in

dubitable fact --as, indeed, it was to Carlyle --yet " the
Sun" of "English priesthood" rising over "vast ruins

and extinct volcanoes of his dead radical world" was,

in the case of John Sterling, to sink again. In the

case of Kingsley nothing, we are told by a Cambridge
acquaintance, who knew him as the Professor of History,

was more patent than his desire to pass for an orthodox
English priest. The fact Charles Kingsley, like De
Maistre and Lamennais, both of whom were diligent
students and admirers of Tertullian, had something of
the African's fiery spirit, and not little of the style
and forcefulness of the Punic apologist in his com
position. So far as he shared the fiery temper of
Tertullian, he was a man after Carlyle's own heart.
But by degrees Kingsley became more reconciled to
198 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

the existing order of things, and had learned to tolerate

the shortcomings of current thought, and in a measure
tried to justify the age he lived in; whilst Carlyle

remained in opposition to the end of his days.

Kingsley, who in his younger days had called Arch

bishop Whately, the apostle of tolerance and the

exponent of political economy as taught then, "the
                                     "
greatest  mind  of  the present day     ;  Kingsley,  who had

never for a moment swerved from his allegiance to

the large-minded and large-hearted teaching of his

" master," F. D. Maurice, was a man too broad in his

sympathies, too wide in his catholicity and all-embracing

affectionateness, too joyous in his undying hopefulness,

to satisfy the severe and stern demands of the Philo

sopher of Chelsea, in whom the intellectual hardihood

as well as the hardness of the Covenanter had left their

indelible mark. Kingsley, like his Major Campbell,
was "a man very tender and pitiful to weak women

and children, but very terrible to full-grown knaves."

Carlyle shared with him the latter ; less so, if at all,

the former qualities of mind and heart; he had not,

or at all events he had in much smaller degree, the

softer, gentle, pitiful forbearance with human foibles
and folly which hisVi-devant disciple possessed in

an eminent degree. The peculiarities of character
come out most distinctly in the view the two men

take of heroes. To Carlyle the sincere man is the true,
" a veritable                                     "
               hero,  if he  prove  a true  man       Kingsley
                                                 !

was attracted, as we see in his essay on Heroism,

"by the more tender and saintly ideal of heroism
KINGSLEY AND CARLYLE.  199

which had sprung up during the earlier middle ages."

Stoicism, a self-poised self-concentration, is what Carlyle
admired most. "True heroism must involve self-

sacrifice," according to Kingsley. Therefore, however

unheroic the age may be, it is not necessary to be a
social Luther or a Knox thundering forth anathemas ;
" any man or woman who will, in any age and under

any circumstances, can live the heroic life and exercise

heroic influences." Carlyle was attracted by the
stoicism of the English aristocracy. The reason is not
far to seek. Like the ancient, like some of our modern^

stoics, he was himself an aristocrat morally and mentally

standing aloof from the common crowd. Kingsley, as
he showed in Hypatia and in the incomparable lectures
on " Neo-Platonism " delivered before a Scotch audience
-- and Carlyle's cultured countrymen are apt to be
conscious of this moral and intellectual superiority
of the select few, an heirloom, perhaps, of the Calvin-

istic doctrine of election--is too deeply imbued with

the democratic creed of Christendom which permits
slaves and harlots to " gaze on the very deepest root-
ideas of their philosophy." " There was a truly practical
element here in Christian teaching ; purely ethical and
metaphysical, and yet palpable to the simplest and

lowest, which gave to it a regenerating force which

the highest effort of Neo-Platonism could never attain."
Thus disparity of age, and growing diversity of views,
prevented that coalescence of opinion and harmonious

intercourse between these two noble-minded and faith

ful teachers of their day and generation, which would
200 CHARLES KINGSLES".

enable a writer who admires both, each in his own
way, to say of them, much as he should have wished
to do so, that like Saul and Jonathan they " were lovely
and pleasant in their lives, and in their deaths they
were not divided."
   CHAPTER VIII.

KINGSLET AS SANITARY REFORMER AND PIONEER OF

   SOCIAL SCIENCE.

I I" SEE one work to be done ere die, in which (men

are beginning to discover) Nature must be counteracted,

lest she prove a curse and a destroyer, not a blessing

                         Sanitary Reform. Politics
and a mother ; and that  is,I
                                a

                                                J.

                                                     I
Ifand political economy may go their way for me.

can help to save the lives of few thousand working-

people and their children, may earn the blessing of

God." Thus writes Kingsley in a letter to Bullary
dated Nov. 26th, 1857. Of this work he never grew

tired, and two years afterwards, when writing to Lady
Harding, who had established Convalescent Home for
                         a

                             I
                                 II

                                                                   a
Children, shortly after the first meeting of the Ladies'

Sanitary Association, of which from the first he was
warm friend and supporter, he says, " am going to

throw myself into this movement. am tired of most
things in the world. Of sanitary reform shall never

grow tired. . . There can be no mistake about the
.

saving of human lives, and the training up a healthy
generation. God bless you and all good ladies who
£02 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

have discovered that human beings have bodies as

well as souls, and that the state of the soul too often

depends on that of the body." In his lecture on

" Great Cities," delivered at Bristol, Oct. 5th, 1857, we

note the transition state of his own mind from that of

the social to the sanitary reformer, which also serves

to illustrate the close connection between the two,

for it was here in this very city, as we have already

shown in a previous chapter, that he got his first

lesson in social politics. The end of his social philo

sophy is a deep conviction that physics and ethics

cannot be disassociated, that the tendency downwards

in the moral grade and the social revolt in the working

poor must in a great measure be attributed to material
conditions. " They sink," he says in this lecture, " they

must sink, into a life on a level with the sights, sounds,

^ye the very smells, which surround them." Even the

craving for drink is owing mainly to the wretchedness
of their domicile ; " the main exciting cause of drunken

      believe firmly, bad air and bad lodging." He
ness  is,I

                                                                            is
dwells upon the importance of prophylactic measures

to prevent the canker of social disease at the root;

instead of finding wretched palliatives to remove the

symptoms, he expresses his full conviction "that

reformatories, ragged schools, even hospitals and asylums,

treat only the symptoms, not the actual causes, of the

disease; and that the causes are only to be touched

by improving the simple physical conditions of this

class; by abolishing foul air, foul water, foul lodging,

overcrowded dwellings, in which morality                                        difficult
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.  203

and common decency impossible." This especially in
view of the noble struggles under adverse circumstances
of the poor themselves, "their stern, uncomplaining,
valorous self-denial ; and nothing more," he adds, " stirs
my pity than to see them struggling to bring up a
family in a moral and physical atmosphere where right
education is impossible." He makes an earnest appeal

to the philanthropic feelings of his audience, an appeal
which, with others repeated under different circum
stances and in different places, has borne some fruit in

public measures and private beneficence. It amounts

to this --" Let the man who would deserve well of his

city, well of his country, set his heart and brain to the
great purpose of giving the workmen dwellings fit for
a virtuous and civilized being, and, like the priest of
old, stand between the living and the dead, that the

plague may be stayed."

  A year later he writes again to John Bullar, expressing
his determination thus :--

I" see more and more that we shall work no deliverance
Itill we teach people a little more common physical know
ledge, and  hail the Prince Consort's noble speech at

IAberdeen as a sign that he sees his way clearly and deeply.
  have refused this winter to lecture on anything but the

laws of health ; and shall try henceforth to teach a sound

theology through physics."

   To Kingsley " a bit of sanitary reform- work is a sacred
duty." Those who were pillars in the cause of sanitary
reform then -- Mr., afterwards Sir Edwin Chadwick, Sir
John, then Mr. J., Simon, and " dear old Southwood
204 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Smith" -- were friends and correspondents.           He did

them good service in making the cause popular by his

vigorous style of exposition and earnest exhortation,
addressed crowds whom they could scarcely reach, still

less persuade. Public opinion needed rousing on the

subject, and public morality raising to a higher level.

The pioneers of sanitary reform had to surmount

numberless obstacles and at times virulent opposition
to their efforts, for " the British nation," as Kingsley

puts  ; it,"reserves to itself, though forbids to its
                                   it
             !?
                                                  .
armies, the right of putting to death unarmed andit a is

unoffending men, women, and children. . . Public

opinion has declared against the necessity of sanitary

reform and not public opinion known to be, in these

last days, the Ithuriel's spear which to unmask and
                                   is

destroy all the follies, superstitions, and cruelties of the
universe " And again, " Sanitary reformers have turned

again and again to her Majesty's Government. Alas

for them The Government was ready and willing

enough to help. The wicked world said, Of course

It will create new department. It will give them
                                            .'
                                                                              !

more places to bestow.' But the real reason of the

willingness of the Government seems to be that those

who compose are thoroughly awake to the importance

of the subject." Not so the mob of respectable people
in town or country, the " comfortable classes," who are
ever on the side of the great goddess, " Leave alone,"
and by whom the command, " Touch not the unclean

thing," was most sacredly obeyed since      it       was the

easiest thing to keep it. The time had not yet come
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.                  205

for that identification of the causes of moral and

physical evil which Mr. S. Laing, in his interesting

work, A Modem Zoroastrian, tells us is the charac

teristic of the age we live in, and that " our most

earnest philanthropists and zealous workers in the

fields of sin and misery in crowded cities are coming,

more and more every day, to the conviction that an
improvement in the physical conditions of life is the

first indispensable condition of moral and religious

progress" (p. 224).                                               ^

The visitation  of the cholera  was  the  most  powerful

ally since 1831 of the social reformers. But with its
disappearance the fears it had provoked passed away
from the public mind, and with them the anxiety to

promote sanitation, though philanthropists, as Lord
Shaftesbury's biographer tells us, " continued to preach

the good doctrine that cleanliness is next to godliness,"

and conversely divines like Dr. Chalmers said "that

the world is so constituted that if we were inwardly

right we should be physically happy." Thus the Public

Health Act was passed in 1848, by which a Central
Board of Health was called into existence with Lord

Ashley for its chairman, and Dr. Southwood Smith and
Mr. Edwin Chadwick to support him --it was the latter
who was the real spiritus rector of the Board. At

first they were mainly engaged in taking measures to

stay the invasion of the cholera and mitigate its horrors,
especially in the following year. When appointed to

this office, Lord Ashley writes in his diary, "It will

involve trouble, anxiety, reproach, abuse, unpopularity.
CHARLES KINGSLEY.

I shall become a target for private assault and  the
Ipublic press ; but how can refuse ? "           the

   It was at this time that Kingsley preached

celebrated Cholera Sermons at Eversley, which were
afterwards published, " peppered," as he says, " for

London palates." In one of them, referring to the

popular notion that the cholera wa3 sent by God as a

national punishment, for which the remedy suggested

was the proclamation of a national fast and confession
of national sins and repentance, he inquires --

" Did they repent of and confess the covetousness, the

tyranny, the carelessness, which in most great towns, and

in too many villages also, forces the poor to lodge in un-

drained, stifling hovels, unlit for hogs, amid vapours and

smells which send forth on every breath the seeds of

...rickets and consumption, typhus and scarlet fever, and
worst and last of all, the cholera ?    To confess their

sins in a general way cost them a few words ; to confess

and repent of the real particular sins in themselves was a

very different matter ; to amend them would have touched
vested interests, would have cost money -- the Englishman's

god. It would have required self-sacrifice of pocket as
well as of time. It would have required manful fighting

against the prejudices, the ignorance, the self-conceit, the

laziness, the covetousness of the wicked world. So they

could not afford to repent of all that." And, therefore,
" as soon as this panic of superstitious fear was past,

carelessness and indolence returned.*'

   He does not deny that the cholera is a Divine
visitation, but he shows that it is a punishment for
transgressing the laws of nature, the inevitable, con
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.  207

 sequences of natural causes according to the irreversible
 decrees of the Author of our being.

    " Yes, my friends^as surely and naturally as drunkenness
punishes itself hya shaking hand and a bloated body, so
does filth awnge itself by pestilence. Fever and cholera,
as you^GuId expect them to be, are the expression of God's
judgment, God's opinion, God's handwriting on the wall
Against us for our sins of filth and laziness, foul air, foul
food, foul drains, foul bedrooms. Where they are, there is
cholera ; where they are not, there is none, and will be

none, because they who do not break God's laws, God's

laws will not break them."

    The Board, which had by its very efficiency incurred

popular displeasure, that demanded the removal of Mr.
Chadwick from his post, was reconstructed in 1858.
After that its functions were divided between the

Privy Council and the Home Office, with Sir John

Simon for its medical officer.1

   In 1866 another step in advance was made by the

passing of a new Sanitary Act, which greatly strength
ened the position of the central authority, but also
provided for the supervision of all sanitary administra
tion. Other Acts followed, all in aid of that " Sanitary
Progress" which is so ably sketched in the article
referred to in the note below, and more elaborately in

Sir J. Simon's volume on English Sanitary Institutions

(1890), on which it is based. For further particulars

we must refer our readers to these publications, where,

too, they will find statistics to show more completely

   1 See for more details an article on "Sanitary Progress" in the
Edinburgh Review for January 1891.
;208 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

                     is,the actual nature of the progress of sanitation made
thus far.

   Nor must it be forgotten that, politically speaking,
sanitary progress is only " a single breaker in the
general tide of reform," and has gone on pari passu,
with the progress of scientific discovery and its practical
application. Of this close connection of science and the

science of health Kingsley was throughout an eloquent

exponent, as when in his essay, The Air Mothers, he

incidentally dwells on the importance of teaching the
rudiments of sanitation in public schools and colleges,
as a branch of that social science with which the sons

of the governing classes ought to be thoroughly or at

least tolerably well acquainted. It is worth while

mentioning here that Lord Shaftesbury, in his address
as President of the Health Section at the Social Science

Congress at Liverpool in 1858, stated that the pre
ventive mortality of the country amounted to 90,000
annually, and it is gratifying to find the evangelical
 philanthropist uttering words which bear a remarkable

 resemblance to some sayings of Kingsley's on the same
topic. " But when people say we should think more of
 the soul and less of the body, my answer that the
 same God who made the soul made the body also."

 In that very year Kingsley, in the essay which appeared

 in Fraser, appeals to all, in spite of " theological differ
 ences," to join in this " sacred crusade against dirt,
 degradation, disease, and death " as, indeed, ten years
 before he had suggested that " sanitary league," of
 which Maurice, with his " dread of societies," did not
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER. 209

approve, but one of which Kingsley's friend, Charles

Mansfield, actually founded. It is to these efforts of

Kingsley's that Dean Stanley refers in the funeral
sermon --

   " Artisans and working-men of London," said the dean,
" you know how he desired, with a passionate desire, that
you should have pure air, habitable dwellings ; that you
should be able to show the courtesies, the refinements, the

elevation of citizens, and of Englishmen."

   And in this Kingsley's share -- for there were not a
few besides, like Sir Arthur Helps, who with pen and

tongue helped on the work of sanitary reform-- consisted

as much in teaching others how to do
it                                    as doing

    is
                                                                 :
                                                   is

                                                             is
                                                                   it,

                                                                                     p
                                                                                is

                                                                    it
himself. This he did in his own vivacious and eager

manner of embracing a cause, which helped in stimu

lating more sluggish natures, and producing a ferment

of enthusiasm in quarters where such stimulants were
required. Thus in his speech on the " Massacre of the

Innocents," at the first meeting in Willis's Rooms of the
" Ladies' National Sanitary Association," he shows that
the premature death of infants not the " will of God,"
but " stupid neglect, stupid ignorance, or, what
                                                  just
as bad, stupid indulgence " on the part of men and

women, closing the speech in these forcible words
addressed to mothers " And will you remember that

not the will of your Father that in Heaven that

one little one that plays in the kennel outside should

perish, either in body or in soul?" At the Royal

Institution, in a lecture showing the importance of

applied science to the preserving of health, he shows
210 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

if only parents would read and perpend such books

Xhowas Andrew Combe's, and those of other writers on
           physical education, we should not then see the children,

even of the rich, done to death piecemeal by improper

food, improper clothes, neglect of ventilation, &c, &c.

In his town sermons, such as the notable sermon

preached in Liverpool on behalf of the Kirkdale Ragged
School, he speaks of the " human soot " in a town
where " capital is accumulated more rapidly by wasting

a certain amount of human life, human health, human

   intellect, human morals, by producing or throwing
  away a regular percentage of human soot " ; and warns

V his hearers, as he had done in his social novels, that as
   foul vapours destroy vegetation and injure health, " so
   does the Nemesis fall on man--so does that human

soot, these human poison gases, infect the whole society

which has allowed them to fester under its feet." At

the same time he looks forward to a more scientific and
more truly Christian era, when " our human refuse
shall be utilized, like our material refuse, when man as

man, even down to the weakest and most ignorant,

shall be found to be (as he really  so valuable that
is,
                                                             ;
                                                            is)
                                                                        it
will be worth while to preserve his health to the level

of his capabilities, to save him alive, body, intellect, and
character, at any cost because men will see that a man

after all, the most precious and useful thing in the

earth, and that no cost spent on the development of

human beings can possibly be thrown away." In the

same tone he exhorts his hearers at the Chapel Royal,

St. James's, in his sermon on loyalty, after referring to
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER. 211

the fact that 200,000 persons had died of preventible

fever since the Prince Consort's death a few years
before ; and in allusion to the recent recovery of the

Prince of Wales from an attack of the same disease, he

exhorts his hearers to show their loyalty by attending

to this duty of sanitary reform, which they owe to their
sovereign, their country, and their God, until no fever
alley or malarious ditch is left in any British city,
so that through his exertions and theirs they " might

deliver the poor from dirt, disease, and death."

Here Kingsley's scientific knowledge and habits

acquired by scientific studies were of great advantage

to him, and it will not be out of place to say a few

words here on his scientific attainments, as a help to

his sanitary efforts.

   In all his lectures and addresses it was ever his aim

to show not only this connection between science and

sanitation, but also the intimate relation which existed

between scientific studies and the practical conduct of

life, between a knowledge of the physical and spiritual
laws of human life. From a child he had a taste for

natural studies, as his schoolfellow, Mr. Powles, mentions

in his reminiscences incorporated in the first volume

of the Letters and Memories, and this taste for science

he retained to the end. Writing to Matthew Arnold in
I1870, Kingsley says : " Ah, that
                                   could see you and
Italk with you ! But here am, trying to do my quiet
work ; and given up now, utterly, to physical science --
which is my business in the Hellenic direction." It is

also worth mentioning here that these studies had a
212 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

sanitative effect on his own mind, keeping it from

falling into the snare of the fallacies of exaggeration

and exclusion towards which, by reason of his intensity

and emotional fervour, he was constantly gravitating.

Science taught him that reverence for fact which he

dwells upon constantly in his scientific lectures, and

also the importance of this inductive habit of mind.

And such were his powers of intense vision and

of dramatic representation in reproducing the vivid

impressions of facts on his own mind, that he could

state in a concrete and tangible form the most difficult

subjects of scientific import; therefore we venture to

Repress an opinion that Kingsley was really at his best
as a popular lecturer on scientific subjects.

One more trait in Kingsley's method of teaching

science has to be mentioned. He never dogmatizes ; he
is suggestive, not doctrinal. " Find out for yourselves,"

he says to his hearers or readers. Thus in this very

lecture, after propounding several questions in natural

history which appear difficult to answer, he does not try
to theorize at all. " Who can answer these questions ?

I answer -- Who but you, or your pupils after you, if you

will but try." In the same way and before a more

critical audience, himself in the seat of authority, on

assuming the Cambridge Professorship, he says to the
Icrowd of listeners before him, " am not hear to teach
Iyou history.
               am here to teach you how to teach

yourselves history." In this way he stimulates inquiry

and the spirit of adventure in quest of scientific

discoveries; and this, as he says in the lecture on
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.     213

Thoughts in a Gravel-pit, "is the only way to get
gold wisely, and spend it wisely" --i.e. by not being

afraid of digging down deep for ourselves with open
eyes for hidden secrets. " We will call our pit no more a
gravel-pit, but a wisdom-pit, a mine of wisdom." His

natural modesty, enhanced by scientific pursuits, comes

out in a thousand ways; it was this which struck all

that came across him, especially during his residence

in Cambridge, sweet humility not being exactly one

of the graces most cultivated by the average run of

University tutors and professors.

   And this modesty produces in him a reverence for
scientific facts, which will in the end teach rever

ence for divine things, for nature reveals God. He

attributes Carlyle's marvellous influence through his
writings to the fact that they are " instinct with the

very spirit of science," for in them he has taught men

moral and intellectual courage to face facts boldly

while they confess the divineness of facts ; not to be

afraid of nature, and not to worship nature ; to believe
that men can know truth ; and that only in as far as they

know truth can they live worthily on earth. Besides,

there is nothing like a knowledge of unpleasant facts,

for it leads to effort for the purpose of facing them
Ifmanfully.  nature is the " spotted Panther," and

many facts support this view, then, as panthers can be

hunted down or tamed, so too nature can be brought

into subjection by obedience to her laws. This has a

sanitary bearing; physical evil can be prevented by a

knowledge of therapeutic science, diseases can be cured,
214 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

and thus life saved. For this reason he would establish

sanitary professorships in the Universities, and recom
mends the study of natural sanitary science to boys in
the higher schools, and also a fund for the promotion
of " the teaching the teachers in common schools the
laws of health " ; in this way, to quote the concluding
words of the ode composed on the installation of the
late Duke of Devonshire as Chancellor of the University
of Cambridge --

                     " Spreading round the teeming earth,
                       English science, manhood, worth."

    Physical science, physical education, and their prac

tical uses is his constant theme. In a lecture to the
officers of the Royal Artillery (1872) on the study of

nature, he points out its important bearing on the
health of the soldiers committed to their care, and

shows how the men of science, though they do not wear
Queen's uniform, are fighting with the army though
against different enemies, against ignorance of the laws
of health, which causes death and disease. He hints that

every officer in the army is really, or ought to be, a
health officer. " The wise and humane officer, when once

his eyes are opened to the practical value of physical
science, will surely try to acquaint himself somewhat
with those laws of drainage and of climate --geological,

meteorological, chemical --which influence, often with

terrible suddenness and fury, the health of whole armies."
   How far did Kingsley succeed in all these varied

efforts to promote the study of sanitary science ? In
his beautiful essay on the Air Mothers, he himself
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.                                  215

seems to anticipate slow progress in this direction,
though it was written three years after the important
Health Act of 1866, when, as Sir John Simon puts
if

                    a
                                                                                is it,
for the first time "the grammar of common sanitary

legislation acquired the novel virtue of the imperative

mood," and at "moment of popular piety towards

the cause of sanitary reforms." This, like all pious

emotions in the individual and the community,

given to spasmodic efforts succeeded by relapses, and

has to he stimulated into life again by appeals to the

law men will not obey the gospel. " We shall be,"
says Kingsley in this essay, " like the tortoise in the

fable, and not the hare; and by moving slowly, but

surely, win the race at last." He was not very far
wrong in his prognostic. But in the very year of his

death was passed the Health Act, which had for its

object "the consolidation of central functions," which

enables the Government to watch over, assist, revise

the action of local sanitary authorities, which promises

fairly for the future progress of sanitary reform, and

which made Lord Shaftesbury say with                            sense of
                           I
relief, Jan. 11th, 1875--
                                        '

                                                    a

                                                             '
   " Sanitary questions, of which saw the dawn, and had
Ialso the early labours, are passed into Imperial subjects.

Boards are everywhere, laws have been enacted, public
attention roused, and Ministers have declared themselves
willing to bring to bear on them the whole force of Govern
ment. Not only am not wanted, but my interference
would be superfluous and an incumbrance."

We will not say that the voice of Kingsley was no
21G CHARLES KINGSLEY.

longer wanted after this public acknowledgment of the
duty of the preservation of life on the part of the
country and its Government. But it may be affirmed
that the work of pioneering, in which he was principally

engaged, had well-nigh come to an end. It is gratifying

to read, in the article of the Edinburgh Review on

sanitary progress, already referred to, the following
sentence in allusion to statistics of sanitary results

previously quoted -- "These figures alone are an elo

quent defence of the sanitary work which has been
going on, for nowhere is sanitary progress so clearly
seen as in a lowered death-rate for children of tender
years." But, we are told, "the conclusion is irre

sistible that the sanitary progress of this country is

sure, if somewhat slow." This is fully borne out by Sir
John Simon's work on English Sanitary Institutions,

and the two volumes of Public Health Reports by the
same writer, re-published by the Sanitary Institute.
When writing to this veteran of sanitary reform in 1854,
Kingsley, complimenting him on his City Cholera Report,
its cautious modesty, eloquence, and completeness, says,

I I" only wish that may have half as fair an account

of solid work done to render at the last account,

as that report contains," and closes the letter thus :
" Unless the physical deterioration of the lower classes
is stopped by bold sanitary reforms, such as you have
been working out, we shall soon have rifles but no men
to shoulder them, at least to use the butts of them
when required."

   No one will agree with Kingsley in this modest
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.  217

estimate of his own work in sanitary reform, and all
will be glad to note the success which has crowned

his labours. There are those who have complained
,that Kingsley, in his excessive zeal for health of

the body, approaches at times the border-line which

divides the spiritual and fleshly schools of thought.
But this is in complete forgetfulness that he always

bears in mind the close connection between a healthy
body and a healthy soul; as when he shows in the
lecture on the "Science of Health," "that wherever we

find a population generally weakly, stunted, scrofulous,
we find in them a corresponding type of brain which
cannot be trusted to do good." So, too, in the lecture
on the " Two Breaths," he points out the close connection

between physical conditions and morality, how from ill-

lungs we get not only bodily disease, but " folly, temper,
laziness, intemperance, madness, and let me tell you

fairly, crime." For this reason he quarrels with the

hermits, whose good qualities he knows how to value in
a separate volume, but whom he dislikes because they
looked upon " dirt as a sign of sanctity."

   In 1857 he gives a sketch of possible sanitary improve

ments, which has since been filled up in Dr. Richard
son's Presidential Address in the Health Department of

the Social Science Association at the Brighton meeting
in 1875, entitled in its printed form, " Hygeia, a City of
Health." Many of the things adumbrated by Kingsley
at that remote date have actually come into existence,

as the result of private or associated philanthropy or

legislative measures, such as extended factory and work
213 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

shop legislation, the establishment of public lavatories,
drinking fountains, public baths, gymnasiums, and pro
visions made by urban authority so as to procure for the
masses pure air, pure sunlight, pure water, pure dwell
ing-houses, pure food. Any one reading the two volumes
of Sir John Simon's reports during the course of his
official life, with the history of sanitary institutions,
showing what has been accomplished thus far in carrying
out the recommendations contained in those reports, or
watching recent efforts more fully to carry out the
spirit of those laws apart from obediently following the
letter, cannot help feeling how much has been done in this
direction, and how much this country owes to Kingsley
for stimulating others to take the work in hand. His
chief share consisted in removing prejudices against
sanitary measures by authority, and with others help
ing to educate public opinion to the extent of making
such Acts of Parliament more acceptable, and by them
to exercise that widely accelerative influence for the
betterment of local sanitary government, which re
quires more propelling power and moral momentum
to make it work effectually even in the present day.1

    But apart from " State Hygiene," much is done now by
independent associations, such as the Ladies' Sanitary
Association founded in 1856, Canon Kingsley being one
of its earliest and most devoted friends, and where his

   1 It is only since the passing of the Local Government Act of

1888 that an "easy way has been opened for rural sanitary
administration." --Sanitarxj Institutions, by Sir John Simon, p.
420 ; cf. Public Health Reports, by the same, vol. ii. p. 364, seq.
KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER.  219

memory is still cherished, as we are told --and we can
well believe it--by its present able and active secretary.

From its report for the year 1888 we learn that know
ledge is growing on the subject among all classes, and
with it a determination " efficiently to mitigate suffering

and disease," and that there is a growing feeling among
thoughtful women in favour of sanitary reform, and we
wish the committee success in its expressed intention
to " broaden out the lines on which reverent womanly

preventive work may turn." This is exactly what
Charles Kingsley strove and laboured for throughout.
From its report for 1891 we learn that 10,000 sanitary
tracts were disseminated in the previous year, making
a registered total, since 1857, of 1,676,609. The
general work of the society is very succinctly stated
in its report presented to the Seventhjefernational
Congress of Hygiene and Demograpbyneld in the past

year. It consists of lectures to ladies on physiology,

applied to health and education, sanitary lectures for
the artisan classes, instruction in educational gymnastics,
depot work in poor localities, providing baths, pails,
tubs, brooms, &c, to promote personal cleanliness. The

society has also opened a college for the technical
training of girls of a higher grade in "hygiene and
household science," and to provide lectures on nursing of

the sick. In such and similar work it is carrying out

those principles of sanitary reform of which Kingsley

was the advocate, and on the lines indicated by him.
    The National Health Society, to which he refers in

favourable terms in one of his scientific lectures,
220 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

organizes lectures in drawing-rooms and elsewhere on
domestic hygiene, and by means of " Homely Talks " at

mothers' meetings and workmen's clubs, endeavours to

spread a knowledge of home-nursing and the preven

tion of infectious diseases. It holds examinations,

awards prizes and a medal to those who prove them

selves proficients in these subjects, and lately has

worked in conjunction with county councils, providing

lectures on food and cookery and the laws of preserving

or restoring health. It, too, has a lengthy list of tracts

to boast of. The Sanitary Institute, with its Parkes
Museum in Margaret Street, founded a year after

Kingsley's death, is an institution promoting similar

objects. It holds sessional meetings, provides for

lectures for sanitary officers, examines those who aspire
to such offices, holds an annual congress like that on

hygiene and demography already referred to, has a valu

able library, and publishes works on sanitary subjects.
   As a result of these and other agencies at work,

Sir Joseph Fayrer, speaking on "Preventive Disease"
at this congress, presided over by H.K.H. the Prince

of Wales, and attended by thousands of visitors

showing an enthusiastic interest in its proceedings,,
could state that in reference to sanitary progress in

the country, great improvements have gradually been

made (among the people) in the mode of living; the

houses are better constructed, the drainage and venti

....lation are now complete, the land is better cultivated,
and the subsoil drained  the death-rate is con

siderably reduced, and the expectancy of life enhanced.
          KINGSLEY AS SANITARY REFORMER. 221

Water is purer, food is more varied and nutritious,
clothing is better adapted to climate, the noxious

character of many occupations has been mitigated,
and the mental, moral, and physical aspects of the
people altogether improved. Education is general, a
better form of government prevails, and the social
conditions are far in advance of what they have been.1

"But," he proceeds to say, "preventible disease still

kills yearly about 125,000," and, "it has been calculated

that 78i millions of days of labour are lost annually,

which means £7,750,000 per annum."
   Lord Basing, who was enabled to pass through Parlia

ment the Public Healths Act in 1875, could boast at
the same congress that in consequence of the adminis
tration of public health laws which that Act codifies and
consolidates, the death-rate during twenty years has
been reduced by one-seventh. Mr. John Hamer (hon.
secretary of the Mansion House Council on the Dwellings
of the Poor) recommended, in the Section of State

Hygiene, that railway companies should be compelled
to run cheap trains within a fixed zone round every city
for labourers and artisans coming from the suburbs and
adjacent country; that lodging-houses should be pro
vided by the enterprise of municipal authorities ; and
that medical officers of health should be State servants,

not subject to property owners or the local authority,
&c, &c.

   From what has been said by such high authori
ties on the achievements of sanitary reforms, it is not

                              1 Times, Aug. 12th, 1891.
222 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

too much to expect the favourable consideration of
such desiderata, and the acceptance of such a sugges
tion as that of Dr. Seaton, in his opening address as

President of the British Medical Association last year--

namely, the appointment of county healths officers, who
would be independent of local influences and authorities.
What has been done in the past augurs well for future
possibilities, and even so cautious and competent a judge

of such matters as Sir John Simon arrives at a hopeful

conclusion after a careful historical survey of the past
history of sanitary reform, so that in pronouncing his
sursum corda, he adds : " My thankfulness is not more
for the great interpreters of nature than for the men
who in nearer and more distinctive senses have been
the organizers of help for their kind, and have made
human sympathy a power in politics."

    Among such men Charles Kingsley deserves a dis

tinguished place.
                         CHAPTER IX.

IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR, QUEEN'S COLLEGE, LONDON,

    AND CAMBRIDGE --THE SOCIAL SYSTEM TREATED

      ACADEMICALLY.

The professorial career of Kingsley was cut short at
Queen's College for Ladies, Harley Street, to which he
was appointed on May 13th, 1848, and which he re
luctantly resigned through ill-health in the spring of
1849. At Cambridge, where he held the Professorship
of Modern History from 1860 to 1869, he never felt

quite at ease, for both his unexpected appointment
and his work during the tenure of his office, as
Professor of Modern History, were made subject to
sharp criticisms, both within and outside the University.
Kingsley was too sensitive to bear these persistent
attacks with even-minded indifference, and too sensible

of his own deficiencies to regard them as entirely
groundless. Nevertheless, in his capacity as a lecturer
to young people of both sexes he exercised a potent
influence in helping to form opinions on historical,
moral, and social questions in his hearers and pupils
which have borne fruit since. Both in the Ladies'
College and at Cambridge, though in the first he still
224 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

was in the stage of youthful effervescence, whereas in the
latter he had passed into that of ripened manhood, he
tried and succeeded in stimulating and directing the ap
pointed studies with a constant view to the social well-

beins of the nation. It was but natural that at Queen's

College he should dwell chiefly on woman's sphere

in the social system, whilst at Cambridge he would

draw attention to the social lessons taught by history.

Happily, his inaugural lectures in both places are avail

able in a published form, so as to enable us to form an

'opinion on his collegiate work in this respect, and in

them we have the pith and marrow of his teaching, his

views on the relation of culture to social duty. These

lectures should, however, be read in conjunction with

some of his historical and general lectures and essays

on sanitary and social questions delivered at the Royal

Institution in London, the Philosophical Institution at

Edinburgh, and other localities, for in them too he
speaks as it were ex cathedrd. They throw light on

each other, and when taken together show more ade

quately than taken separately the balance and equipoise

of Kingsley's mind, which some are inclined to give him

little credit for. Note, for example, his strictures on

the individualizing power which led to social dissolu

tion in Alexandria during the Ptolemaic era, contained

in his lectures on Neo-Platonism, and compare this

with his qualified praise on the great work of the

French Revolution in claiming the rights of a "God-

given individuality," declaring, as he puts  it,  as

Christianity had done eighteen centuries before, that
           IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.                        225

" man  is  not  the puppet  of institutions  "      and  compare
                                                 ;

this again with his statements on the evil effects of

excessive individualism, on which we have dwelt already,
as the abuse of this divine right of personal freedom and

responsibility ; and from this comparative view on one

single subject we may see how complete was Kingsley's
grasp, though each taken singly would expose him to
the charge of one-sidedness.

   The two inaugural addresses at Queen's College are
full of happy remarks on health and education, on
woman's mission as a helpmate to man in the salvation

of body and soul. In the introduction to his lecture

on English Composition, written about the same time,

he shows his lady pupils that the way to work out
their great destiny is to educate themselves, since
" woman is by her sex an educator," employed in the

training of children ; and so he concludes his lecture by

reminding them "that it is the primary idea of this
College to vindicate women's right to an education in
all points equal to that of men ; the difference between

them being determined not by any fancied inferiority

of mind, but simply by the distinct offices and character

of the sexes."

   So, again, at the commencement of his introduction
to the study of English Literature, which also formed
part of his teaching as lecturer at Queen's College, he

expresses a fervent hope " that if this Institution shall

Iprove, as pray God it may, a centre of female education

worthy of the wants of the coming age, the method and

practice of the College will be developing, as years bring

                                                         Q
221 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

experience, a wider eye-range, till we become truly able
to teach the English woman of the nineteenth century

Ito bear her part in an era which, as believe, more

and more bids fair to eclipse, in faith and in art, in
science and in polity, any and every period of glory

which Christendom has yet beheld."

   And since knowledge puffeth up and charity edifieth,
he reminds his female audience that it is woman's
vocation to become " the priestess of Charity," that it
should be " one of the highest aims of woman to preach
charity, love, and brotherhood ; but in this nineteenth

century, hunting everywhere for law and organization,
refusing loyalty to anything which cannot range itself

under its theories, she will never get a hearing till her
knowledge of the past becomes more organized and

methodic." Thus he concludes, in a fine peroration
which deserves to be transcribed in full, since it gives
an eminently sane and forceful view of woman's destiny,
fairly comparing with the best that has been written on

this subject, even by the greatest master of style -- we
refer to the author of Sesame and Lilies and Ethics of the
Dust. Speaking of the purpose of the College, he says--

    " Our teaching must be no sexless, heartless abstraction.
 We must try to make all which we tell them bear on the
 great purpose of unfolding to woman her one calling in all
 ages --her especial calling in this one. We must incite them
 to realize the chivalrous belief of our old forefathers amongst
 their Saxon forests, that something divine dwelt in the
 counsels of woman ; but, on the other hand, we must con
 tinually remind them that they will attain that divine
 instinct, not by renouncing their sex, but by fulfilling it ;
IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.                          227

by becoming true women, and not bad imitations of men ;

by educating their heads for the sake of their hearts, not

their hearts for the sake of their heads ; by claiming woman's

divine vocation as the priestess of purity, of beauty, and of

love ; by educating themselves to become, with God's blessing,

worthy wives and mothers of a mighty nation of workers, in
an age when the voice of the ever-working God is proclaim

ing through the    thunder   of falling dynasties  ahnedeactr.u' m" bling
idols : ' He that            work, neither shall
                   will not

   When Kingsley was compelled to give up his lecture

ship at the College, he writes to his successor in office,
" Don't be afraid of talking about marriage. We must
be real and daring at Queen's College, or nowhere ; "
which was evidently meant as a hint, which at this
time he thought fit to drop on all occasions, that
" marriage is an honourable estate," not only as against
the old and modern ascetics, as he does in the Saint's

Tragedy, but also as against the fanatics of female
education and idol-worshippers of art and culture, to
declare once and for all, as Ruskin did, that education

does not mean learned prudery or pharisaic pride in
mental superiority, but is to be " enterprized," like

marriage, not for the purposes of individual self-exalt
ation, but as a means of going on to perfection in the
family or social unit, as the first step in the work of per^
fecting society as a whole. " The question of the better
or worse education of women," he says in his lecture on
" Thrift," delivered at Winchester in 1869, " is one far

too important for vague sentiment, wild aspirations, or
Utopian dreams." And further on, speaking of the
     229 CHARLES KIXGSLEY.

      effects of education on female character and habits, he

     says to the parents of women--

       " If any parents wish their daughter to succumb at least

      to some quackery or superstition, whether calling itself
     scientific or religious --and there are many of both just now
     --they cannot more certainly effect their purpose than by
      allowing her to grow up ignorant, frivolous, luxurious, or

             j with her emotions excited, but not satisfied, by the

yvainreading of foolish and even immoral novels . . . the im
      mortal spirit, finding no healthy satisfaction for its highest
      aspiration, is but too likely to betake itself to an unhealthy
      and exciting superstition. Ashamed of its own long self-
     indulgence, it is but too likely to flee from itself into a
      morbid asceticism . . . never having been taught to guide
     and teach itself, it is but too likely to deliver itself to the
      guidance and teaching of those who, whether they be quacks
      or fanatics, look on uneducated women as their natural

       prey."

          So, too, speaking on technical education, which has
     made of late such important strides in the direction

      indicated by Charles Kingsley, he expresses an intention
      of " restoring woman to her natural share in that sacred
      office of healer, which she held in the Middle Ages, and
      from which she was thrust out during the sixteenth

      century."

        In the inaugural address to the study of English

     literature, he had spoken of History as a subject " most
     adapted to the mind of woman," because of the personal

      interest attaching to the men and women of whom
     history treats ; " the living human souls of English men
      and English women," and the interest in mankind,

      simply as mankind, which historical studies must have
IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.            229

for woman, " with her blessed faculty of sympathy, that

pure and tender heart of flesh, which teaches her al

...ways to find her highest interest in mankind, to see the
Divine most completely in the human  to see, and

truly, in the most common tale of village love and

sorrow, a mystery deeper and more Divine than lies in

all the theories of politicians, or the fixed ideas of the

sage."

   So, too, when appointed to the chair of Modern
History in Cambridge, he still adhered to this method
of directing the historical studies in his pupils. History
was but his text, his chief aim was that of the teacher

and preacher, and as an eloquent interpreter of the
purposes of history before an audience of young men,
to whom history is but too often a mere succession of
events to be learnt by heart, and to be ready for periodical
examinations, he achieved what he wished to achieve.1
Accordingly, we find him saying in his inaugural
lecture on " the Limits of Exact Science as applied to
History," which appears as an appendix in the later
edition of the Roman and the Teuton, that, as he is

the greatest statesman who makes history because he
understands men, so he is the true student of history

who studies it because of, and only because of, the human

interest in it.

   1 See F. Max Midler, Preface to The Roman and the Teuton, a
series of lectures delivered before the University of Cambridge by-
Charles Kingsley, p. xii. This really is an apology on the part of
the Oxford Professor, of his friend, bearing reference to the attacks
of professed historians on Kingsley's want of accuracy and

method.
230 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

" Names, dates, genealogies, geographical details, cos

tumes, fashions, manners, crabbed scraps of old law, which

you used, perhaps, to read up and forget again, because

they were not rooted, but stuck into your brain as pins are

into a pincushion, to fall out at the first shake --all these
you will remember, because they vrill arrange and centralize

themselves around the central human figure. . . .

   " Without doubt history obeys, and always has obeyed

in the long run, certain laws. But those laws assert them

....selves, and are to be discovered not in things, but in
persons       though the rapid progress of Science is

tempting us to look at human beings rather as things than

as persons."

    Thus, he would wish them to take the Roman's motto

for their own : Homo sum, nil humani a me alienum

puto.

   It is interesting to follow Kingsley, who was both a

scientific and a literary man, in tracing the connection

between physical and moral or historical science, in

showing under what limitations history may be admitted

into what he calls elsewhere the "Choir of Sister
Sciences." In drawing the line of demarcation be

tween the laws which govern natural phenomena and
human actions, he picks out an example in point which
is specially interesting in relation to the subject of this
volume, and to the economic controversies connected

with it. He speaks of the error of the early or laissez-

faire school of political economy.

..." It was too much inclined to say to men, ' You are the
puppets of certain natural laws '   no less certainly was

the same blame to be attached to the French Socialist

school . . . namely, that man was the creation of circum
       IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.                            231

stances ; and denied him just as much as its antagonist the
possession of free will, or at least the right to use free will
on a large scale. . . . Both of them erred, surely, in ignoring
that self-arbitrating power of man, by which he can, for

good or for evil, rebel against and conquer circumstance."

He objects to the interpretation, therefore, of " moral

phenomena by physical, or at least economic laws";

as a believer in the "self-determining power of the

Individual," he holds that the inventive reason of

man has been in all ages interfering with anything like

an inevitable sequence or orderly progress of humanity.

His opinion as applied to this particular case is now

accepted by nearly all the modern representatives of

political economy and scientific socialism. Whether

his argument applied universally, as against the opposite

school of thinkers, will hold good, is another question.

The preponderating influence of genius, and incalcul

able aberrations of the unreasoning multitude, as well

as the unforeseen disturbances in the regular course of

human action caused by monsters of virtue or of vice,
make undoubtedly against the " regular sequence in

human progress." There are things, as he shows with

great force, which make it difficult to calculate before
                                                            "
hand  the " effect  of inevitable  laws on  human  conduct      ;

      is,

       it

               is
                                                                                                   a
there as he quotes from Goethe, in human nature a

demoniac element defying all law and all induction.

Still  questionable whether he gives here

complete reply to such arguments as those advanced by

the late Professor Clifford, in some well-known Essays,

or those underlying the philosophy of George Eliot's
232 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

novels on the close correspondence of the physical and

moral laws of our being. We take it that Kingsley

did not quite understand the terms of the controversy.

All that scientific interpreters of human action mean

is the existence of necessary laws of conduct, as sure

and unfailing as those which prevail in the physical

world ; and even Locke, in his work on the Human Under
standing, gives a hint of the possibility of knowing at

some future date those moral laws of cause and effect

which would enable us beforehand to calculate events

in future history, though with our present limited
knowledge these do defy "exact computation." But

Kingsley was right in pointing out the danger of

identifying physical and moral laws, apart from tracing

analogies between them, as tending to weaken the force
of the latter, since a materialistic conception of the laws

which govern human conduct acts as a moral solvent, and

must of necessity retard man's spiritual development.

Also in taking up the spiritual, as distinguished from the

mechanical view of social progress, he comes to a right
conclusion, though by a circuitous route of reasoning :

" If there be an order, or progress, it must be moral ;

fit for the guidance of moral beings; limited by the

obedience which those moral beings pay to what they

know."    To this his opponents could not take ex
ception.  But when he says, " man can break the laws

of his own being, whether physical, intellectual, or

moral," and on it founds his argument against necessary

laws, they would retort, and with a fair show of reason,
" Yes, and get broken on the wheels of natural necessity,
IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.  233

winch ever revolve in the same round of cause and

effect, -whether you call it natural or supernatural law."
   Both the subject and intention of this inaugural

lecture, and the academical career of which it formed

the commencement, suggest a comparison with one

whose character and personal history were singularly
like that of Charles Kingsley ; we speak of Frederick
Ozanam, sometime Professor of the Sorbonne, who,

though a layman, made it the chief object of his life

to defend Christianity against Scepticism, and to
vindicate in the Professor's chair the spiritual as
against the materialistic view of history. He too, like

Kingsley, tried hard to impress the religious world
with a sense of the importance of the social question,

and its solution from the Christian standpoint. In his

devotion to science, and the unrivalled power he
possessed in attracting the young ; in his belief in the
sacred mission of art, as well as in the intensity of

his own faith, and the corresponding power of raising it
in others, he was the counterpart of Charles Kingsley.
Both were firm believers in the/power of Christianity

to effect a social palingenesis-/ They|were contempor

aries, Ozanam being Kingsley s senior by about six years.
Both men also resembled each other in this, that they

had their moments of weariness and d&ouragement, which

seems to be a peculiar trait of highly sensitive natures.
   Ozanam, like Kingsley, became at an early age the

recognized mouthpiece of the Christian party, and by his
impassioned and sympathetic eloquence won brilliant

triumphs in debate. Like the young law-students who
231 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

followed the lead of Maurice, a band of young French
men with similar aims and aspirations gathered round
M. Bailly, and followed his advice to become the medium
of moral assistance and administration of physical
comforts to the poor of given localities; and out of
this sprang the powerful Society of St. Vincent de
Paul. Each member had a poor family to look
after ; they met, like the band of Christian Socialists in
the house of Maurice, every week to report their ex
periences, discuss the wants of their protege's, and the
means of relieving them.1 Moreover, the relation of
Ozanam to the Socialists of France was not unlike that
of Kingsley towards the wilder sort of Chartists. " Free
masonry," says Ozanam, and he speaks here as a devout
Catholic in the south of Europe, "and Socialism trade
upon the misery and the angry passions of these suffer
ing multitudes, and God alone knows what the future has

in store for us if Catholic charity does not interfere in

time to arrest the servile war that is at our gates."
" Here are now (in 1840) 2000 young men enrolled in
this peaceful crusade of charity . . . giving everywhere
the password, reconciliation and love."

   It was the aim of both to " rehabilitate Christianity "

as the poor man's religion and the working-man's
friend, and both dwell, therefore, in their University

lectures by way of preference -- Ozanam in a more
comprehensive manner than Kingsley -- on the relation

   1 See an interesting memoir of Frederick Ozanam, his Life and
his Works, by Kathleen O'Meara (Grace Ramsay), with a Preface
by Cardinal Manning, 1878, pp. 79 and seq.
IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.  235

of Christianity to paganism, and the regenerative in
fluence of Christianity socially in the early centuries
of our era ; and this with its bearing on present social

difficulties. It is in 1848 that Ozanam thus speaks on

the eve of the " violent shock " which perturbed England

as well as France, and we hear almost the voice of

Kingsley in what he says -- " It is a social question ; do

away with misery, Christianize the people, and you will
make an end of revolutions." The Ere Nouvellc took

in France the place of Politics for the People in England ;
it was founded by Ozanam, and there are in it passages

from Ozanam's pen describing the haunts of the poorer
working-people in Paris, which bear a striking resem
blance to similar descriptions in Alton Locke.

   Like Kingsley, Ozanam belonged to the broader
school of religious thinkers and workers, who endeavour

to attract by affection rather than to compel by author
ity. He bewailed the extreme Ultramontane/tendencies
of the school of De Maistre, represented in the Univers,

which only alienated the people in presenting the
Church and Christianity in their most repulsive aspects.
The aim of his own school, that of Chateaubriand,

Gerbet, and Lacordaire, was like that to which in this
country Kingsley belonged : " to search out all the
secret fibres of the human heart that can attach it to
Christianity, awakening in it the love of the true, the
good, and the beautiful, and then showing it in revealed

faith the ideal of those three things to which every soul

aspires. Its mission is to bring back those who have

gone astray, and to increase the number of Christians."
       233 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

          In the same way Kingsley showed indirectly in his

       lectures on Neo-Platonism that the secret of its failure,

       and the success of Christianity as a popular philosophy
       for all, consisted in this, that " there was a truly practical

       human element here in Christian teaching, purely

       ethical and metaphysical, and yet palpable to the simplest

       and the Invest, which gave to it a regenerating force

       which the highest efforts of Neo-Platonism could never

       attain." And this because the latter "refused to ac

       knowledge a common Divine nature with the degraded

       man." Hence the "Alexandrian impotence for any

       practical and social purposes."

       When in London during the Exhibition in 1851,

       Ozanam remarks on the wide gulf he observes to exist

       here between rich and poor ; and he says, referring to

       this strange display of the extremes of wealth and

       poverty --" It looks to me like a seal of reprobation on

       their riches that they do not serve to ameliorate the lot
       of humanity --the lot, that      of the greater number --
                                    is,
                                                              is is
       and that the most opulent city in the world also that

       which treats its poor most harshly." There no need

       after all that has been said in this volume to quote

       passages from Kingsley of a similar nature. Enough

       has been said in drawing this parallel, which has an

       interest of its own, but serves more especially to bring

       out more clearly by way of comparison and contrast

       the characteristic traits of Charles Kingsley.1 But in

"            We may be permitted to refer here to an article originally
       published in the Contemporary Review, and afterwards re
      1published in the author's work on Christian Socalism, on

         Lamennaia and Kingsley, comparison and contrast."
         a
                                             a
               IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.     237

connection with the suhject immediately before us in

this chapter, we cannot avoid showing how both men,

and for the reasons given already, were attracted to the

same historical period in the selection of a subject for
their academical lectures, because it afforded an oppor

tunity for showing, as we said, the power of Christianity

as a socializing influence, and its power for raising a
society which was " expiring of over-luxury and wealth,"
and " its own corrupt excesses." From this they deduced

the theore^that the same Christianity can save, too,
our modern society. Ozanam, who " lived in the Middle

Ages," takes for his watchword Passons aux Barbares !

by which he meant the Germanic hordes, who after

overrunning the Roman Empire were converted to

Christianity.  So far he and Kingsley are wide

apart. But when we are told by Ozanam's biographer
that his idea was " that religion could constitute this
cohesive element in the State, that the Church would

create the bond of unity, which would enable society to

govern itself," we see that he was not so far apart from

Kingsley's standpoint as might be imagined from the

nature of the case. And in that portion of the volume

on The Roman and the Teuton in which Kingsley dwells

on the civilizing and organizing and colonizing work of

the mediaeval Church and monastic institutions, he is no

less eloquent than his French neighbour, and no less
                                     that as " in the
ready than he to draw a lesson from  it,
                                         is
Middle Ages the masses rose by religion," so now the

only hope of raising them permanently through the

power of Christianity.
 233 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

     The want of accuracy, and other faults of style and
 treatment in these Cambridge lectures have been made

 much of-- too much we think --by Kingsley's severe
 critics. We need not dwell on this unpleasant subject
 here. Admitting the facts with some of Kingsley's most

 devoted friends, accepting his own self-depreciating
remarks on his shortcomings in historical scholarship,
we cannot help thinking that he was hardly dealt with.
To him may be applied what he says in one of his lectures

Ion the Ancien Regime (1869) --" Eetter for his race, and

better, believe, in the sight of God, the confusions
and mistakes of that one sincere brave man, than the
second-hand, cowardly correctness of all the thousand."

    The great lesson Kingsley tried to impress on his
hearers in the crowded lecture-room at Cambridge was
the same as that which Ozanam, placed in a similar
position, and as unfairly criticized at times by opponents,
tried to convey to his pupils at the Sorbonne, that the
future welfare of society depends on a new outburst of

   e latent forces of Christ's religion.
   We have been informed by some who attended the
Cambridge lectures, that in them there was little of
social teaching, but those who have told us so
attended only a few of these lectures. Every one who
has taught in lecture-rooms or class-rooms, unless he
is addicted to the vicious and wooden system of

slavishly adhering to his manuscript or notes, knows
how casual remarks, incidental thoughts, the result of
sudden inspiration, come to the lecturer's lips, and are
given utterance to and find lodgment in the hearer's
IN THE PROFESSOR'S CHAIR.  239

memory. Certain it is that Kingsley stirred up the
interest of young men, and in some way did divert
their minds to social questions of the hour, as in the
case of one whose letter Mrs. Kingsley quotes in the
Memoirs of her husband, as one out of many express

ing the general regret of the undergraduates when

Kingsley left Cambridge --

   " Speaking from the experience of these ten years, there

is no comparison between our state of thought now and

Ithat of 1860 --chiefly if not entirely due to you. We are

learning, trust, to look very differently at our relations
to our fellow-men, at those social duties which seldom appear
important to young men in our -position, until we come
across a mind like yours to guide us."

    He once told a Fellow of the college with whom he was
pacing round the cloisters in Neville's Court in Trinity

 after dinner, that all along he had been disappointed

 with his Cambridge residence and professorial successes,

 and, adds our informant, to whom the words were

 addressed, when Kingsley had lost confidence in him

 self owing to so much adverse criticism, which he was
 too modest to call in question, he lost the power

 of inspiring it in others. This may well be, and

 probably for this reason he left the University without
 resentment indeed, for there was no guile in him, and
 he was incapable of malignity, but also, we fear, with
 out happy reminiscences. His gallant struggle to
 introduce a more humane study of history in Cambridge

 was a comparative failure. But, as he says somewhere
 in his historical studies, " no struggle after a noble aim,
 however confused or fantastic, is ever in vain."
it,                      CHAPTER X.

SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS, AND ESTIMATE
                      OF HIS LIFE AND WORK.

   We have now followed Kingsley through the greater
part of his life, carefully keeping within the limits of
the task undertaken in this volume, and that is to pre
sent him simply in the light of the social and sanitary
reformer. We have shown how he was the man needed
for the times, equipped by nature and prepared by
circumstances and training for his work, and how ably
and faithfully from first to last he did and this in
the face of numerous obstacles, and at times under a
deep sense of discouraging disappointment. We have
seen him as the country parson practically carrying out
those principles of social beneficence and self-devoted
service to others which are so eloquently set forth in
the Saint's Tragedy and his two social novels. We
have seen him given up later on to the work of sanitary
reform, and last of all as the Cambridge Professor, still
adhering in the main to those social theories with which
his name was identified in early life. Little remains to
be said by way of summarizing his achievements, nor
     SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 241

is it an easy task to form a correct estimate of an
influence so varied as that which Kingsley exercised

over the men and women of his day, an influence which,
though real and extensive, was scarcely tangible enough
to enable us to calculate its exact value and significance.
Moreover, as we have taken pains at the close of each
chapter to show what has been done since his day in

the direction marked out by him, it is not needful here
to dwell on these effects of his pioneering work. But

the indirect influences of such a man are much greater
than those which are patent to the eye. For Kingsley
had a remarkable power over others, and much that
they did was the result of his promptings and the effect
of his propelling power, the magic force of his person
ality communicated to those who were under its spell.
And this should not be left out in estimating the effect
of all he was, and said, and did. But we might as well
try to calculate with mathematical precision the circum
ference of all the circles formed at the most distant
shores of the ocean by the ripples produced in the throw
of stones by one standing at the opposite shore, and
standing, as in this case, at some considerable distance
from us both in time and space. Perhaps the best
summary of Kingsley's varied gifts and graces, and the
use he made of them, is that given by Professor Max
Miiller in the preface to the lectures on the Roman and
the Teuton to which we have drawn attention already.

   " As one looked on that marble statue which only some
weeks ago had so warmly pressed one's hand, his whole
life flashed through one's thoughts. One remembered
  242 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

  the young curate and the Saint's Tragedy ; the Chartist
  parson and Alton Locke ; the happy poet and the sands
  of Dee ; the brilliant novel-writer and Hypatia and
  Westward Ho ! the Rector of Eversley and his village
  sermons ; the beloved Professor at Cambridge, the busy
 Canon of Chester, the powerful preacher in Westminster
 Abbey. One thought of him by the Berkshire chalk-

 streams and on the Devonshire coast, watching the
 beauty and wisdom of Nature, reading her solemn
 lessons, chuckling too over her inimitable fun. One saw
 him in town alleys, preaching the gospel of godliness
 and cleanliness while smoking his pipe with soldiers
 and navvies. One heard him in drawing-rooms, listened

 to with patient silence, till one of his vigorous or quaint
 speeches bounded forth, never to be forgotten. How
 children delighted in him ! How young wild men
believed in him, and obeyed him too ! How women

 were captivated by his chivalry, older men by his

genuine humility and sympathy ! All that was now
passing away -- was gone. But as one looked on him

for the last time on earth, one felt that greater than the
curate, the poet, the professor, the canon had been the
man himself, with his warm heart, his honest purposes,
his trust in his friends, his readiness to spend himself,

his chivalry and humility, worthy of a better age. Of
all this the world knew little, yet few men excited

wider and stronger sympathies."
   Perhaps among these, one of the last-mentioned, his

chivalry, was the most noteworthy, and Kingsley's
insistence on the truth that, contrary to the well-known
     SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 243

dictum of Burke, the age of chivalry is not past.
"Some say," he preached in the chapel of Windsor
Castle, " that the age of chivalry is past, that the spirit
of Romance is dead. The age of chivalry is never past
so long as there is a wrong left unredressed on earth, or

Ia man or woman left to say, ' will redress that wrong,

or spend my life in the attempt.' The age of chivalry
is never past, so long as we have faith enough to say,

' God will help me to redress that wrong, or if not me,
He will help those that come after me, for His eternal

will is to overcome evil with good.' " And in his own
life he proved, as his wife has told us in a passage of
touching pathos, that the age of chivalry has not passed
away for ever, for " Charles Kingsley fulfilled the ideal
of ' a most true and perfect knight ' to the one woman
blest with that love in time and to eternity." On
account of this trait mainly, we venture to think, in his
charming personality, Kingsley, as a man, as a minister,
and as a man of letters, was so eminently successful in
his social and sanitary mission. His modest manliness
proved an irresistible attraction to all classes, to men
of varied views, attainments, prepossessions, and even
prejudices, and women were won over to the cause he
advocated with so much genuine tenderness and heart
felt sympathy. His thoroughness, a rare quality at all
times, not least so in his own day, imparted to all he'
said and did a living force which told powerfully on
others. We come across a curious illustration of this
in a letter of George Eliot, in which she says to Sarah
Hennell (Nov. 26th, 1862)--
      244 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

         "You will be interested to know that there is a new

      muster of scientific and philosophic men lately established,
      for the sake of bringing people who care to know and speak
      the truth as well as they can, into regular communication.
      . . . The plan is to meet and dine moderately and cheaply,
      and no one is to be admitted who is not ' thorough ' in the
       sense of being free from the suspicion of temporizing and
      professing opinions on official grounds. The plan was
      started at Cambridge. Mr. Huxley is president, and
      Charles Kingsley is vice. . . . Mr. Robert Chambers
      (who lives in London now) is very warm about the matter.
      Mr. Spencer, too, is a member." 1

         How many clergymen at that date could be admitted
     on such conditions to such a club ?--how many still in
      our own ?

\/ As a minister, Kingsley's power of persuasiveness

/ ^-again chiefly lay in the earnestness of his tone, the
      spiritual force of a man who deeply felt all he said and
      more, where every syllable was felt to be the outcome
     of a highly-wrought and finely-moulded mind ; it was
     the human element in him which endeared him to all
     hearts, as it was the forcefulness of his character which
     retained the esteem of those he had won by his affection.
     For this reason he never felt quite at home ' as a
     preacher in a university church. Here he never could
    get near enough to his hearers. In his village church
     and in Westminster Abbey he felt at home, for in both

     he could identify himself with his audience. Every
     body loved him in his own parish, and all who cared
     for hi3 preaching in London came to the Abbey to hear

          1 George Eliot's Life, by J. W. Cross, vol. pp. 342, 343.
ii.
is,  SUMMARY OE KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 245

him if they could. In both places his sensitive nature

was upheld by the responsive feeling of the audience ;
he was en rapport with his hearers. He was somehow
conscious of the absence of this receptiveness in Cam
bridge. And this produced awkwardness, inward hesi
tation, and a corresponding lack of force. So, too, since
the effect of spiritual force is in a given ratio to the
effort expended according to the laws of conservation
of spiritual energy, his work done so faithfully became

in those who knew how to appreciate it a stored-up
energy for good, an energy the effects of which are still
felt in our own day.

   As a man of letters he was not so much a " master

of sentences," if by this be meant correctness of style

and calm stateliness of diction, as he was able to express
what he had to say with a racy, vigorous, " nervous grasp

of words," introducing colloquialisms, and even slang

when it served his purpose. There are occasional bursts
of eloquence full of sublimity and pathos, and these are

to be found by the side of quaint humorisms and

grotesque turns of thought and expression, which
produce the sense of unevenness in his best writings,
and more so in the writings connected with our subject,

for here he wrote and spoke over-mastered by his own
emotions, which are too strong for controlled utterance.

"With Kingsley," says Max Miiller, "his life and his
work were one. All he wrote was meant for the day he
wrote it. He did his best at the time and for the time."
That he wrote not for posterity, and, unless we are
mistaken, for this very reason the immediate effect of
              CHARLES KINGSLEY.

bis words was so great, and gave such a powerful

impact to enthusiasms in young spirits, who were

fascinated by his simple grandeur and naturalness. In

this way he stirred up high-minded men and women of

his own day, and did much through them for intellectual

and moral culture. Yet even among the best of these
there would be some who felt as did George Eliot when

she says, referring to Kingsley in one of her letters

If(we quote from memory)-- " you love him as much
I I.as do, and are riled as much as am by his faults."

But what are minor faults, which offend the fastidious

taste of the literary epicure, compared with the real

force which made one of the wisest and most refined
scholars of that day to say of him that, as he " walked
amongst ordinary men," his walk " was often as of a

waker amongst drowsy sleepers, as a watchful sentinel

in advance of the slumbering host " ? A man of this

sort struggling for utterance in the imminence of

danger could not stay to pick his words. He could

cry aloud and spare not, without giving heed to the

tuneful modulations of his voice, or the measured

cadence of his sentences. Had he done so, the dreamers

would not have been awakened, as others, indeed, there

were ready to lull them by their lullabies into pleasant

optimistic dreams.

  If we are asked what was the sum and substance of

Kingsley's social teaching, we are inclined to reply in

the happy phrase of a lady correspondent, speaking of

Socialism, " What a curious copy and at the same time
                                            "
reversal  of  Christianity  Socialism  is      It was the great
                                           !
    SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 247

aim of Kingsley to show how far Socialism could, and
how far it could not, be reconciled with Christianity;
how far they go together, and how far they were utterly
at issue. Few in his day, and not too many religious
and irreligious people in our own, taking an interest in
this question, were as clear-sighted as he was, and as
plain-spoken in pointing out the true and the false,
the attainable and the impossible, in the vague social
aspirations of the time, and in drawing a marked
distinction between the right and the wrong way, each
promising to lead to the goal. One of the greatest
services he rendered to his age was this, that he made

plain-speaking on such subjects popular, and so inspired
more timid Churchmen to have the courage of their
opinions then, and since, and to speak out their minds
without fear or favour, when by dint of intellectual
hardihood they had tackled with the social problem

honestly. Such plainness of speech, vigorous in pro
portion to its colloquial simplicity, as in his tract on
betting and gambling, or in his story Westward Ho !
could gain the ear of those for whom it was intended
by reason of its healthy masculine tone, which strikes
the ear of the young as a familiar sound. And more

 or less this is true of most of his writings ; hence their
popularity among young readers, and their lasting effect
for good in fostering in them what virtue they possess,
 and guarding them from harm and vices such as they
were prone to by reason of their youth. The young
 officer and the young squire could read or listen to
 Kingsley, but lent a deaf ear to all the dull discourses
248 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

of clerical pedants and respectable nonentities, who
never depart a hair-breadth from the conventional
tone whether in logic or in language, because of their
borTiA attachment to systematic artificiality. There are
the " spasmodic jerks and joltings as the steam-engine
fights its way, with many an impatient snort, to its
destination," as a contemporary critic complains, speak
ing of Kingsley's style, but there is also what the young

call "go" in him. Even in the lecture-room, says the

same critic, the extravagance of thought and language

breaks out, "as if the shooting-jacket were peeping out

under the Professor's gown ; the exuberance of animal
spirits which explodes in slang, his fearless champion
ship of what he believes to be truth, are the character
istics of one who retains the freshness and elasticity of

mind which others have left behind them." And for

this very reason, we reply, he was such an eminent
Mentor of youths.

    Kingsley was not exactly the founder of a new school,
but he helped in forming a new school of the Prophets,
a new order of truth-seeking and truth-speaking young
clerics, whose distinctive characteristic is clergy-nwm-
liness, who in directness, spontaneity, and earnest
simplicity which avoids the sanctimonious tone, but
looks to true sanctity as the aim of all Christian
teaching and life, are more or less influenced by the
example of what Sir Mount Stuart E. Grant Duff calls
the openairness in the tone and teaching of Charles
Kingsley. These gradually displace the popular parson
of the last generation. But the merit does not consist
SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 249

only in helping to reproduce those of his traits which

are thought worthy of imitation in others, but also, as
the critic quoted above puts it fairly enough-- and
coming as it does from an impartial contemporary it
carries great weight --

  If" we look deeper we see in him a man fearless in

       is
                           is ;

                                                    ;

                                                        it,
asserting the truth, as he conceives for its own sake,

and at all hazards, without being the slave of party                        is ;

who in an age of fastidious luxury not merely writes and

talks about the poor, but shows that he indeed feels with

them and for them who keeps a practical aim in view,
while many lose themselves in impracticable doubts and

purposeless questionings and who, while the world at

large  more prone than ever to bow the knee to

intellectual ability, not ashamed to pay the honour

which they deserve to obscure labourers in the cause of

duty, rather than those who stand above their fellows

in the pride of knowledge and refinement. He sends

men back from unprofitable attempts to grasp what

beyond their reach, to see that religion really, as our
'

                                       is is
                                                                        is
catechism teaches, the mainspring of morality, and that

the creeds of the Church Catholic find their fittest

counterpart in all that noblest in man. He reminds

us that men are most truly 'manly' when they are

 godly,' that true manliness and true holiness are one.

An influence like this especially efficacious among

young men, whose moral sense revolts from pharisaical

denunciations of the world as unmixedly evil, and, from

the narrow timidity which, as in the Donatists at old,

so now in certain quarters, merges Christianity in the
250 CHARLES KINGSLEY.

Icry, ' Shall  be saved ? ' They welcome in him a

thorough Englishman, not exempt indeed from the
weakness of his nation; an Englishman in politics,

averse alike to a centralizing Imperialism and to a

Republicanism equally subversive of domestic life ; an
Englishman in his religious belief, with nothing of
Italian sentiment, of German scepticism, or of Calvinistic

austerity about him, and whose watchword is that of

our English Prayer-book, 'Fear God, and love your

neighbour.' " 1

   Such an influence as here described by an inde

pendent authority, cannot but be efficacious for good,

as the writer here quoted loyally acknowledges, and

   it

                           ?

                               it

                                                                            is,

                                                                                                                                                         ?
the question to be asked in the last place                                    How far

was lasting what will be in the immediate future

Kingsley was eminently a "prophet of the present."

He could not say with Carlyle a few days before his

death, "They call me  great man, but not one
                      a

                                 if
believes what told them." It was not true of Carlyle,
   I

for they would not read his books they utterly dis
believe their contents. For the same reason may be
                                                                              it

                                                                                                 's
answered that the continued popularity of Kingsley
books are in some measure proof of their vitality asa

a  teaching power in the present day. But once more
to quote Professor Max Miiller, so high an authority,
who knew Kingsley so well and lived with him on

terms of intimacy both as relative and friend, and
   1

                                         :
                                                 a
                                                                           a
     Faith and Philosophy Essays on some tendencies of the day,
by the Rev. T. Gregory Smith, late Fellow of Brasenose College,

Oxford.
      SUMMARY OF KINGSLEY'S ACHIEVEMENTS. 251
 to apply what he says of the University lectures to
 Kingsley's writings generally: "They will be valued
 chiefly for the thoughts which they contain, for the
 imagination and eloquence which they display, and
 last, not least, for the sake of the man--a man, it is
true, of a warm heart rather than of a cold judgment,
 but a man whom for that very reason many admired,
many loved, many will miss, almost every day of their
lives."

   It is because in the words of Kingsley we hear the

true ring of the human voice, addressed in tenderness
to human beings like himself in search of a higher
Human Ideal, that those words will find an echo in all

human hearts, all at least not utterly void -- if such
there be, which God forbid !-- of such higher individual

and social aspirations, which to realize, Kingsley spent
the whole of his life, and into which he threw all the
strength of his noble soul, and thus " he being dead, yet
speaketh."

                                     THE END.

                            Richard Clay & Sons, Limited, London & Bungay,
A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS

AND ANNOUNCEMENTS OF
 METHUEN AND COMPANY

    PUBLISHERS : LONDON
        36 ESSEX STREET

                        W.C.

....POETRY,
           CONTENTS

FORTHCOMING BOOKS, .               .         PAGE
.........HISTORY,                     .3
ENGLISH CLASSICS,     .      .  ,
                                                   9
ILLUSTRATED BOOKS, .                            IO
..........SCIENCE,                               11
..PHILOSOPHY,                                    12
BIOGRAPHY,                   . ,'
GENERAL LITERAtURE,                           M

....LEADERS OF RELIGION,THEOLOGY,                 15
                                                 18
FICTION,
                                                 19
BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, .     ,                20
                                                 21
THE PEACOCK LIBRARY,                             22

UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERIES,                     31
                                                 3»
SOCIAL QUESTIONS OF TO-DAY,                      3>
                                                 34
CLASSICAL TRANSLATIONS,                          35
                                                  36
EDUCATIONAL BOOKS,

          NOVEMBER 1896
                                                                       November 1896.

Messrs Methuen's

       ANNOUNCEMENTS

                          r oetry

                                     RUDYAKD KIPLING                                                              6s.

THE SEVEN SEAS. By Rudyard Kipling. Crown 8w.                                                                     this

150 copies on hand-made paper. Demy Svo. 21s.
30 copies on Japanese paper. Demy Svo. 42s.
The enormous success of ' Barrack          Room Ballads
    volume, so long postponed, will        have an equal,  'Jiuf sntoiftieasgrtehaeteerxipseucctcaetsiso*n  that

                          GEORGE WYNDHAM

SHAKESPEARE'S POEMS. Edited, with an Introduction and
     Notes, by George Wyndham, M. P. Crown Svo. y. 6d.

                                                                             [English Classics.

                                       W. E. HENLEY

ENGLISH LYRICS. Selected and Edited by W. E. Henley.
Crown Svo. Buckram. 6s.

Also 15 copies on Japanese paper. Demy Svo. £2, 2s.
Few announcements will he more welcome to lovers of English verse than the one
that Mr. Henley is bringing together into one book the finest                  lyrics                       in' Lyoruar
lHanegruoaicgae.'    The volume will be     produced  with the same care that  made
                   delightful to the hand  and eye.

                                            'Q'
POEMS AND BALLADS. By ' Q,' Author of 'Green Bays,

      etc. Crown Svo. Buckram. 3s. 6d.

History, Biography, and Travel

THE FALL OF THECAPCTAOINNGHOINDAERABS, By Sidney L.

      Hinde. With Portraits and Plans. Demy Svo* 12s. 6d.

This volume deals with the recent Belgian Expedition to the Upper Congo( which
developed into     a war   between         the State forces and the   Arab slave-raiders                          --in
Central Africa.     Two   white men        only returned alive from  the three years' war
Commandant Dhanis and the writer of this book, Captain Hinde. During the
greater part of the time spent by Captain Hinde in the Congo he was amongst
cannibal races in little-known regions, and, owing to the peculiar circumstances
of his position, was enabled to see a side of native history shown to few Europeans.
The war terminated in the complete defeat of the Arabs, seventy thousand 01
whom perished during the struggle.
Messrs. Methuen's Announcements                                                            3

                              8. baring gould

THE LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. By S. Baring
Gould. With over 450 Illustrations in the Text and 13 Photo-."

gravure Plates. Large quarto, 36J.

This study of the most extraordinary life in history is written rather for the general
   reader than for the military student, and while following the main lines of
Napoleon's    career, is      concerned   chiefly with    the  hdiseveealorlpymleifnet--otfhheispecrhioadracintewr haicnhd
his personal   qualities.        Special  stress is laid  on
his mind and character took their definite shape and direction.

The great^ feature of the book is its wealth of illustration. There are over 456
    illustrations, large and small, in the text, and there are also more than a dozen
    full page photogravures. Every important incident of Napoleon's career has
    its illustration, while there are a large number of portraits of his contemporaries,
    reproductions of famous pictures, of contemporary caricatures, of his handwriting,
    etc. etc.

It is not too much to say that no such magnificent book on Napoleon has ever been

published.

                              VICTOR HUGO

THE LETTERS OF VICTOR HUGO. Translated from the
French by F. Clarke, M.A. In Two Volumes,
ioj. 6d. each. Vol I, 1815-35.                                                        Demy %vo.

This is the first volume of one of the most interesting and important collection of
letters ever published in France. The correspondence dates from Victor Hugo's
boyhood to his death, and none of the letters have been published before. The
arrangement is chiefly chronological, but where there is an interesting set of
letters to one person these are arranged together. The first volume contains,
Laammoenngnaoitshe;rs(,A(z)a  Letters to his father  ;o(f2)abtoouhtis   young wife    ; (3) to his confessor,
                               very important set                      fifty letters  to Sainte-Beuve ; (5)
letters about his early books and plays.

                                       J. M. RIGG                      A CHAPTER IN        THE
                                                                                           Inn,
ST. ANSELM OF CANTERBURY;                                              Rigg, of Lincoln's
     History of Religion. By J. M.

       Barrister-at-Law. Demy Zvo, *js, 6a*,

This work gives for the first time in moderate compass a complete portrait of St.
    Anselm, exhibiting him in his intimate and interior as well as in his public life.'
Thus, while the great ecclesiastico-political struggle in which he played so prominent
a part is fully dealt with, unusual prominence is given to the profound and subtle
speculations by which he permanently influenced theological and metaphysical
thought ; while it will be a surprise to most readers to find him also appearing
the author of some of the most exquisite religious poetry in the Latin language.           'as

                              EDWARD GIBBON

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE]
By Edward Gibbon.                         A New Edition, edited with Notes,
Appendices, and Maps by J. B. Bury, M.A., Fellow Lof Trinity
College, Dublin. In Seven Volumes,                             Demy $voj gilt tof,y
                                                                                      %s. bd.
II.each. Crmvn Svo. 6s. each. Vol.
4 Messrs. Methuen's Announcements

                                W. H. FLINDERS PETRIE

A HISTORY OF EGYPT, from the Earliest Times to
     the Present Day. Edited by W. M. Flinders Petrie, D.C.L.,

     LL.D., Professor of Egyptology at University College. Fully
     Illustrated. In Six Volumes. Crown Svo. 6s. each.

        Vol. II. XVII.-XVIII. Dynasties. W. M. F. Petrie.

   ' A history written in the spirit of scientific precision so worthily represented by Dr.
         Petrie and his school cannot but promote sound and accurate study, and supply a
         vacant place in the English literature of Egyptology.'-- Times. .

                                        J. WELLS

IA SHORT HISTORY OF ROME. By J. WELLS, M.A., Fellow
      and Tutor of Wadham Coll., Oxford. With 4 Maps. Crown Svo.
     y.6d. 350 //>.

    This book is intended for the Middle and Upper Forms of Public Schools and for
        Pass Students at the Universities. It contains copious Tables, etc.

                                    H. DE B. GIBBINS

ENGLISH INDUSTRY: HISTORICAL OUTLINES. By
H. deB. Gibbins, M.A. With 5 Maps. Demyivo. \os.bd. Pp. 450.

LThisEnbgoloiskh  is written with the view of affording  a clear view of the   main facts of
                   Social and Industrial History placed  in due perspective.       Beginning
with prehistoric times, it passes in review the growth and advance of industry
up to the nineteenth century, showing its gradual development and progress.

The author has endeavoured to place before his readers the history of industry
as a connected whole in which all these developments have their proper place.
The book is illustrated by Maps, Diagrams, and Tables, and aided by copious
Footnotes.
                                    SIRS. OLIPHANT
                                    . By Mrs. Oliphant. Second Edition.
THOMAS CHALMERS.
     Crown Svo. y. 6d.                                            [leaders of Religion.

                  Naval and Military

                                    DAVID HANNAY

A SHORT HISTORY OF THE ROYAL NAVY,' from
     Early Times to the Present Day. By " David ' Hannay.

Illustrated. Demy Svo. I$s.

This book aims at giving an account not only of the fighting we have done at sea,
but of Use growth of the            service, of    the part the Nary has     played in the develop
ment of the Empire, and              of its inner   life. The author has     endeavoured to avoid
the mistake of sacrificing           the earlier   periods of naval history  --the very interesting
wars  owf i1t7h7.9H-1o78ll3a--ndto
War                                 in the seventeenth century, for instance,  or the American
                                    the later struggle with Revolutionary and  Imperial France.
Messrs. Methuen's Announcements                                                                     5

                                         COL. COOPER KINO

A SHORT HISTORY OF THE BRITISH ARMY. By Lieut.-

     Colonel Cooper King, of the Staff College, Camberley. Illustrated.

       Demy Svo. Js. 6d.
    This volume aims at describing the nature of the different armies that have been

         fanned in Great Britain, and how from the early and feudal levies the present
         standing army came to be. The changes in tactics, uniform, and armament are
          briefly touched upon, andj the campaigns in which the army has shared have
         been so far followed as to explain the part played by British regiments in them.

                                           G. W. STEEVENS

NAVAL POLICY: With a Description of English and

     Foreign Navies. By G. W. Steevens. Demy Svo. 6s.

This book is a description of the British and other more important navies of the world,
with a sketch of  the lines on  wphoilcichy,ouarndnasvhaol wpsolwichyatmoiguhr tnapvoaslsifbolrycebreeadlelyveilso.pedA.
It describes our  recent naval                                                of the instruments of modern warfare-
                                                                              a view to determine how far we are
dgeutnasi,leadrmbouut rn, oenn-tgeicnhensi,caalndactchoeunlitkeis--gwiviethn
abreast of modern invention and modern requirements. An ideal policy is then
sketched for the building and manning of our fleet ; and the last chapter is
devoted to docks, coaling-stations, and especially colonial defence.

                         Theology

                                             F. B. JEVONS

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF RELIGION.

      By F. B. Jevons, M. A., Litt.D., Tutor at the University of Durham

       Demy Svo. ios. 6d.
    TMhri.AfsRroorFitbms.iectBrlhtet.hesseoJ'etnhpvaioornoniddnfst'DMnuou'rrfm.IhnavbtOrimeetotrwd,leuyocino'tfsifowtnhA'henIinctcthhsoareorthrnhpiaeaeovstlioeoHgonyafi.s'lrt'eoTaarhdnyeydooloafFgpoiRclpkaee-llaloirgreeiHdoann;'Ddabrtn.rodeoGaktiissbssoot'hnfee'esdafiirtrle'syXdt rXaebtlXytigeIimoXDnp.r,t.

          that has been made in any language to weave together the results of recent
          investigations into such topics as Sympathetic Magic, Taboo, Totemism,
          Fetishism, etc., so as to present a systematic account of the growth of primitive
          religion and the development of early religious institutions.

                                       W. TOBEE FA0SSETT

THE'DE CATECHIZANDIS RUDIBUS OF^ST." AUGUS

     TINE. Edited, , with Introduction, Notes, etc. , by W. >Yorke
     Faussett, M.A., late Scholar of Balliol Coll.' Crown Svo. y, 6d.

An edition of a Treatise on the Essentials of Christian Doctrine, and the best
methods of impressing    them   coanrecawnhdiicdhateastrfeoartibsaeptiosmf .^CiceTrofcemeidgihttor   beetows upon
this patristic work the  same                                                                       claim. There
is a general Introduction, a careful Analysis, a fitU Commentary, and other useful
matter. No better introduction to the study of the Latin Fathers, their style and
'diction, could be found than this treatise, which also has no lack of modern interest.
6 Messrs. Methuen's Announcements

                    General Literature

                                            C. F. ANDREWS

CHRISTIANITY AND THE LABOUR QUESTION. By

      C. F. Andrews, B.A. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

                                              R. E. STEEL      By R. Elliott

MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY.
    Steel, M.A., F.C.S. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 4s. td.

                          O. LOWES DICKINSON
THETGREEK VIEW OF LIFE.                        By G. L, Dickinson,

    " Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.    Crown Svo. 2s. 6J.

                                              [ University Extension Series.

                               J. A. HOBSON                    By J. A.
THE PROBLEM OF THE UNEMPLOYED.
                                                               Crown Svo.
      Hobson, B.A., Author of 'The Problems of Poverty.'

    2s. 6d.                                                [Social Questions Series.

                             B. E. BALLY
GERMAN COMMERCIAL
     E. Bally, Assistant Master  CORRESPONDENCE.                By S.
    Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
                                 at the Manchester Grammar     School.

                                                               [Commercial Series.

                                               L. F. PRICE

ECONOMIC ESSAYS. By L. F. Prick, M.A., Fellow of Oriel

       College, Oxford. Crown Svo. 6s.

This book consists of a number of Studies in Economics and Industrial and Social
     Problems.

                             Fiction

             MARIE CORELLI'S ROMANCES

             FIRST COMPLETE AND UNIFORM EDITION

           Mkthuen        Large crown Svo. 6s.
          of a New
Messrs.              beg   to announce that   ofthMeyarhiaeve  Ccoormemllei'nScedRotmheancpeusb.
lication            and   Uniform Edition
This Edition is revised by                                                                   The
volumes are being issued at  the Author,      ainndthceofnotlaloinwsingnewordPerref:--aces.
                             short intervals

I. A ROMANCE OF TWO WORLDS. 2. VENDETTA.
    THELMA.                                            4. ARDATH.
3.  THE SOUL        OF       LILITH.                    6. WORMWOOD.
5.  BARABBAS.                 8. THE          SORROWS OF SATAN.
7.
Messrs. Methuen's Announcements.                                                         7

                          BARINQ GOULD

DARTMOOR IDYLLS. By S. Baring Gould. Cr.Svo. 6s..
GUAVAS THE TINNER. By S. Baring Gould, Author of
' Mehalah,' 'The Broom Squire,' etc. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6s.
                                                           By S. Baring Gould.
THE PENNYCOMEQUICKS.
New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

A new edition, uniform with the Author's other novels.

                                             LUCAS 2XALET

THE CARISSIMA. By Lucas Malet. Author of ' The Wages of

       Sin,' etc Crown Svo. 6s.
    This is the first novel which Lucas Malet has written since her very powerful ' The

         Wages of Sin.'

                                    ARTHUR MORRISON                                      Author

A CHILD OF THE JAGO. By Arthur Morrison.
       of ' Tales of Mean Streets. ' Crown Svo. 6s.

This, the     first long  story which Mr.        Morrison  has   written, is  like  his  remarkable
     ' Tales  of Mean     Streets,' a realistic  study of  East  End life.

                                        W. E. N0RRI8

CLARISSA FURIOSA. By W. E. Norris, 'Author of 'The

       Rogue,' etc. Crown Svo. 6s.

                                        L. COPE CORNFORD

CAPTAIN JACOBUS : A ROMANCE OF HIGHWAYMEN.

     By L. Cope Cornford. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6s.

                           J. BLOUNDELLE BURTON                               Author of 1 In
DENOUNCED. By J. Bloundelle Burton,

      the Day of Adversity,' etc. Crown Svo. 6s.

                               J. MACLAREN COBBAN

WILT THOU HAVE THIS WOMAN? By J. M. Cobban,

      Author of ' The King of Andaman.' Crown Svo. 6s.

                                  J. F. BREWER
THE SPECULATORS. By J. F. Brewer. Crown Svo. 6s.

                                         A, BALFOUR

BY STROKE" OF SWORD. By Andrew Balfour. Crown

      i Svo. 6s.
r

   8 Messrs. Methuen's Announcements

                                                 H. A. OWEN  By Mary A. Owen.

   THE DAUGHTER OF ALOUETTE.

          Crown Svo. 6s.

       A story of life among the American Indians.

                          RONALD ROSS

   THE SPIRIT OF STORM. By RONALD ROSS, Author of

          ' The Child of Ocean. ' Crown Svo. 6s.

   A romance of the Sea.  J. A. BARRY

   IN  THE     GREAT DEEP : Tales of the Sea. By J.                A.

       Barry.    Author of 'Steve Brown's Bunyip.' Crown Svo. 6s.

                          JAMES GORDON

   THE VILLAGE AND THE DOCTOR. By James Gordon.
          Crown Svo. 6s.
                                           BERTRAM MTTFORD

   THE SIGN OF THE SPIDER. By BERTRAM MlTFORD.
         Crown Svo. y. 6d.

       A story of South Africa.
                                                   A. SHIELD

   THE SQUIRE OF WANDALES. By A. Shield. CrownSvo.
        y. 6d.

                                              G. W. STEEVENS

   MONOLOGUES OF THE DEAD. By G. W. Steevens.
        Foolscap Svo. y. 6d.

       A series of Soliloquies in which famous men of antiquity --Julius Csesar, Nero,
            Alcibiades, etc., attempt to express themselves in the modes of thought and
            language of to-day.

                          S. GORDON
   A HANDFUL OF EXOTICS.
        y. 6d.                                    By S. Gordon.  Crown Svo.

   A volume of stories of Jewish life in Russia.

                                                 F. NEUMANN

   THE SUPPLANTER. By P. Neumann. Crown Svo. y. 6d.

                          EVELYN DICKTNSON
   THE SIN OF ANGELS.     By Evelyn Dickinson.
        y. 6d.                                                   CrownSvo.

                          H. A. KENNEDY
   A MAN WITH BLACK EYELASHES. By H. A. Kennedy.
        Crown Svo. y. 6d.
                        A List of

    Messrs. Methuen's

             PUBLICATIONS

                                                      Poetry

Rudyard       Kipling.                       RBuAdyRaRrAd CKKip-RlinOgO. M                                             BALLADS;                                  And
                                                                                                                                                               Crown
      Other  Verses. By                                                                                             Ninth Edition.
       Svo. 6j.

    '  Mr. Kipling's verse             --is  strong,  vivid,  full of character.                                               . . . Unmistakable              genius
         rings in every line.'               Times.
    '"Barrack-Room Ballads" contains some of                                                                                                  t"ha"tGuMnrg. a  Kipling   has
       eE"vnTegorlmidshomnlyeit,,e"wraahrtieuc,rheinihsaossuarhyiitonhpgeinrtiaoong,porooaddltuocdgeeedat.hl'.e--r  "thFeuzzbye-stWwuzozryk,                     Din,"  and
                                                                                                                    superior to anything of the kind                    that

                                                                                                                    Athenamm.
' The ballads teem with imagination, they palpitate with emotion. We read them
       with laughter and tears ; the metres throb in                                                                owuhratpuilss?e's--, tPhae lcluMnnainlgl lGyazoertdtee.red

       words tingle with life ; and if this be not poetry,

"Q." THE GOLDEN POMP : A Procession of English Lyrics
       from Surrey to Shirley, arranged by A. T. Quiller Couch. Crown
       $vo. Buckram. 6s.
    'A delightful volume : a really golden "Pomp."' --Spectator.
" Q." GREEN BAYS : Verses and Parodies. By « Q.," Author

     of 'Dead Man's Rock,' etc. Second Edition. Crown %vo. 3s. 6d.
'The verses display a rare and versatile gift of parody,
     a very pretty turn of humour.' -- Titties.                                                                     great command             of metre, and

H. C. BeecMng. LYRA SACRA : An Anthology of Sacred Verse.
       Edited by H. C. Beeching, M.A. Crown Svo. Buckram. 6s.
    ''AAnchaanrtmhoinloggyseolefchtiiognh,  excellence.' --Athenaum.
                                            which maintains a lofty standard                                                   of excellence.' -- Times^

W. B. Yeats. AN ANTHOLOGY OF IRISH VERSE.

     Edited by W. B. Yeats. Crown Svo. p. 6d.
    '                                                         -- Times.
    '  AItnisatetdraitcetdivebyanthde  catholic selection.'   most accomplished                                                of modern Irish                 poets, and
                                       most criginal and
       against his editing             but   oawsningdleelicoabtjeectliyornicsc.a' --n Sbeatburroduagyht,Renvaiemwe.ly,                       that it excludes
       from the collection             his

E.     Mackay. A SONG                        OF THE               SEA : My Lady                                                               of               Dreams,
        and other Poems.                                                                                                                                       The Love
                                              By Eric             Mackay, Author                                                              of '
       Letters of a Violinist.' Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, gilt top. $s.
    * Everywhere Mr. Mackay displays himself the master of a style marked                                                                                      by all the
       characteristics   of the best rhetoric                soHneorohuass.'a--keGelonbes.ense                                 of rhythm      and              of general
       balance; his     verse is excellently
    '  Throughout the book the poetic workmanship is fine.' --Scotsman.

                                                              A2
10 Messrs. Methuen's List

Ibsen. BRAND. A Drama by Henrik Ibsen. Translated by
      William Wilson. Second Edition. Crown %vo. $s. 6d.
   'The     gsraemateesstetwworiltdh-po"eAmgamoef mtnhoen,"ninwetitehen"thLecaern."turwyithnetxhte  to "Faust.'*      It is in
                                                                                                    literature that
       the                                                                                                            we new
      instinctively regard as high and holy.'-- Daily Chronicle.

"A.G." VERSES TO ORDER. By "A. G." Cr.Zvo. 2s.6d.

      vet.

'  A  small volume of verse by a writer whose initials are well known to                                 Oxford men.
   A  capital specimen of light academic               p--oeSttr.y.JamTehse'sse Gavezersttees.      are  very bright
      engaging, easy and sufficiently witty.                                                                               and

F. Langbridge. BALLADS OF THE BRAVE; Poems of

      Chivalry, Enterprise, Courage, and Constancy, from the Earliest
      Times to the Present Day. Edited, with Notes, by Rev. F. Lang-
   bridge. Crown Svo. Buckram.
                                                                6d.               "ScBhaollaodl sEdoiftitohne .Brav2es."   6d.
' A very happy conception happily carried out.                 These                                                       are
      intended to suit the real tastes of boys, and will suit the taste of the great majority.'
      --Spectator,                              'The book is full of splendid things.'-- World.

Lang and Craigie. THE POEMS OF ROBERT BURNS.
      Edited by Andrew Lang and W. A. Craigie. With Portrait.

      Demy 8tw, gilt top. 6s.

   This edition contains a carefully collated Text, numerous Notes critical and textual,
      a critical and biographical               Introduction,  and a Glossary.
   '  Among the      --edTitiimonest.  in  one   volume, Mr.    Andrew Lang's                       will take    the   place  of
   '    authority.'                                                                                                   pages,  as
      To the general public the beauty of its type, and the fair proportions of its
      well as the excellent chronological arrangement of the poems, should make it
      acceptable enough. Mr. Lang and his publishers have certainly succeeded in
      producing an attractive popular             tehdeitiloenastofnothtaeblpeoefet,atiunrew.'h--ichGlathsgeowbrigHhetrlayldw.ritten
      biographical introduction is not

                                       English Classics

                                       Edited by W. E. Henley.

   ' Very dainty volumes are these ; the paper, tvpe, and light-green binding are all
      very agreeable to the eye. Simplex munditiu is the phrase that might be applied

      to them.'-- Globe.

   'The volumes are strongly bound in green buckram, are of a convenient size, and
      pleasant to look  upon, so that whether on the shelf, or on the                               table,  or   in   the  hand
      the possessor is  thoroughly content with them.' -- Guardian.

   '  The paper,     type, and         binding    of   ltihteisrateudreit.i'on--   are in excellent      taste,  and       leave
        nothing to   be desired        by lovers   of                             Standard.
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY.
      By Lawrence Sterne. With an Introduction by Charles
      Whibley, and a Portrait. 2 vols. Js.
THE COMEDIES OF WILLIAM CONGREVE With
      an Introduction by G. S. Street, and a Portrait. 2 vols. 71.
                      Messrs. Methuen's List                                                     ii

THE ADVENTURES OF HAJJI BABA OF ISPAHAN.

     By James Morier. With an Introduction by E. G. Browne, M. A. ,

       and a Portrait. 2 vols. Js.

THE LIVES OF DONNE, WOTTON, HOOKER, HER

     BERT, and SANDERSON. By Izaak Walton. With an
     Introduction by Vernon Blackburn, and a Portrait, y. 6d.

THE LIVES OF THE ENGLISH POETS. By Samuel
    Johnson, LL.D. With an Introduction by J. H. Millar, and a

       Portrait. 3 vols. 10s. 6d.

                       Illustrated Books

Jane Barlow. THE BATTLE OF THE FROGS AND MICE,

     translated by Jane Barlow, Author of ' Irish Idylls,' and pictured
     by F. D. Bedford. Small $to. 6s. net.

S. Baring Gould. A BOOK OF FAIRY TALES retold by S.
Baring Gould. With numerous illustrations and initial letters by
Arthur J. Gaskin. Second Edition. Crown Svo. Buckram. 6s.
'Mr. Baring Gould     has done   a good deed, and is deserving          of gratitude,  "inoruer-wfaritthinegrs
                      style the  old stories that delighted the         childhood of
   in honest, simple      We do  not think      mhaesreolmy i'tt'eodld  any of our                stories,
                       commonly  regarded   he                           fashioned."  favourite  the form
and   grandfathers."                        as                                           As to
the  stories that are
of the hook, and the printing, which is by Messrs. Constable, it were difficult to
commend overmuch. ---Saturday Review.

S. Baring Gould. OLD ENGLISH FAIRY TALES. Col

     lected and edited by S. Baring Gould. With Numerous Illustra
tions by F. D. Bedford. Second Edition. Crown Svo. Buckram, 6s.
'A charming volume, which children will be sure to appreciate. The stories have
been selected with great ingenuity from various old ballads and folk-tales, and,
having been somewhat altered and readjusted, now stand forth, clothed in Mr.
aBraerignogodG.'o--ulGd'us arddeilaignh.tful English, to enchant youthful readers.     All the tales

S. Baring Gould. A BOOK OF NURSERY SONGS AND

     RHYMES. Edited by S. Baring Gould, and Illustrated by the
      Birmingham Art School. Buckram, gilt top. Crown Svo. 6s.

    ' The volume is very complete in its way, as it contains nursery songs to the number
       of 77, game-rhymes, and jingles. To the student we commend the sensible intro
        duction, and the explanatory Botes. The volume is superbly printed on soft,
        thick paper, which it is a pleasure to touch ; and the borders and pictures are, as
        we have said, among the very best specimens we have seen of the Gaskin school/
        --Birmingham Gazette.
12 Messrs. Metiiuen's List

H. C. Beeching. A BOOK OF CHRISTMAS VERSE. Edited
     by H. C. Beeching, M.A., and Illustrated by Walter Crane.

   Crown Svot gilt top. $s.
A collection of the best verse inspired by the birth of Christ from the Middle Ages
   to the present day. A distinction of the book is the large number of poems it
   contains by modern authors, a few of which are here printed for the first time.
'
   An anthology which,     from  oiftsitsunfietlylowosf.'a--imGaunadrdhiiagnh.  poetic  excellence,      has a better
     right to exist than  most

                                 History
Gibbon. THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN
   EMPIRE. By Edward Gibbon. A New Edition, Edited with
   Notes, Appendices, and Maps, by J. B. Bury, M.A., Fellow of
   Trinity College, Dublin. In Seven Volumes. Demy 8xw, Gilt top.
   %s. 6d. each. Also crown Svo. 6s. each. Vol. I.
' The time has certainly arrived for a new edition of Gibbon's great work. . . . Pro
   fessor Bury is the right man to undertake this task. His learning is amazing,
   both in extent    and   accuracy. The book        i--s  issued               in  a   handy            form,  and                                                                                                                                             at a
   moderate price,   and  it is admirably printed.'        Times.
' The edition is edited as a classic should be edited, removing nothing, yet indicating
   the value of the text, and bringing it  up   tmo adnaytel.ibraIrtiepsr.o'm--isSecsottsombaen.of              the  utmost
   value, and will be a welcome addition    to

'This edition, so far as one may judge from the first instalment, is a marvel of
   erudition and critical skill, and it is the very minimum of praise to predict that the
   seven volumes of it will supersede Dean MUman's as the standard edition of our
   great historical classic' -- Glasgow Herald.
' The beau-ideal Gibbon has arrived at last.' --Sketch.
'
   At last there  ciesntaunryadceoquuldatepromdoudcee.r'n--eMdaitniocnhesotferGibGbuona.rdi.an. ..  The  best edition                                                                                                                                           the
     nineteenth

Flinders Petrie. A HISTORY OF EGYPT, fromthe Earliest
     Times to the Present Day. Edited by W. M. Flinders

     Petrie, D.C.L., LL.D., Professor of Egyptology at University
     College. Fully Illustrated. In Six Volumes. Crown &ve. 6s. each.

   Vol. I. Prehistoric Times to XVI. Dynasty. W. M. F.
           Petrie. Second Edition.

' A history written in the spirit of scientific precision so worthily represented by Dr.
   Petrie  and his   school cannot but promote             soofunEdgypatnodlogayc.c'u--raTteimesst.udy,                                                                                                                                                         and
   supply  a vacant  place in the English literature

Flinders Petrie. EGYPTIAN TALES. Edited by W. M.
     Flinders Petrie. Illustrated by Tristram Ellis. * In Two

    Volumes. Crown $vo. $s. 6a7. each.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          are
''''IAIntrvevhaaaalllsuulyaaabbillslleeucisetanraadstitdfiiiocatniospnviaclitutnuoerethtthoeeotlfihtlieetlierfaesraltutuidsnereennsPteaolofeofsfcthoitinhsmeteoprawyaroanrtaddivn.e'd"--EagforGycllpkeht-ba,leo*e.--roelo.Dgay.iT'lyh--eNSecdwortass.wminagns.
                                   Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                                                                               13

Flinders Petrie. EGYPTIAN DECORATIVE ART. By

     W. M. Flinders Petrie, D.C.L. With 120 Illustrations. Crown

       Svo. 3j. 6d.
   ' Professor Flinders Petrie is not only a profound Egyptologist, but an accomplished
       student of comparative archaeology. In these lectures, delivered at the Royal
       Institution,  he            displays both                                      with  rare skill in elucidating                                                                   the
       development    of           decorative art         qiunaliEfigcaytpiotn, s  and in   tracing its influence on                                                                    the
       art of other countries. Few experts can speak with higher                                         authority
       knowledge     othf alenartnhiengPraonfedssinorsighhtim.' s--elfT, imaensd.  in  any  case   his  treatment                                                              and wider
       ject is full                                                                                                                                                            of his sub

S. Baring Gould. THE TRAGEDY OF THE CiESARS.
       The Emperors of the Julian and Claudian                                              Lines.                       BWairtihngnuGmoeuroluds,
       Illustrations from Busts, Gems, Cameos, etc.
       Author of ' Mehalah,' etc. Third Edition.                                             By S.                       Svo. i$s.
                                                                                             Royal
' A most splendid and fascinating book on a subject of undying interest. The great
       feature of the book is the use the author has made of the existing portraits of the
       Clsicnaaeelseoaofrsfr,epasroenfadursctehh.emaaIgdtnmiifsiricabebrnlieclleia.cnr'--ittliycDaawl irlsyitutebCntlh,ertoyannicdhleet.hheasielluxshtirbaittioends  in   dealing with   this
                                                                                                                                                                         are supplied   on a

'  The volumes will in no sense disappoint the general reader. Indeed, in their way,

       there is nothing in any sense                       so good      in         English. . .    d. uMll rp. agBea.r'in--gA                                                  Gould has
       presented his narrative in such                    a way as     not         to make one                                                                                 theneeum.

A. Clark. THE COLLEGES OF OXFORD : Their History,
       tChleairrkT,raMdit.iAon.,s.FellBoyw    Members of the University.                                                                                                 Edited by A.
                                              and Tutor of Lincoln College.
                                                                                                                                                                          Svo. 12s. 6d.

   ' A work which    owfilOl xcefortradi.n'l--y Abtekenapoepuemale. d  to for      many     years  as   the                                                              standard  book on

       the Colleges

Perrens. THE HISTORY OF                                                TFraLnOslaRteEdNbCyEHanFnRaOhMLyn1c4h3.4

     TO 1492. By F. T. Perrens.

       Svo. 12s. 6d.

   A history of Florence under the domination of Cosimo, Piero, and Lorenzo de
       Medicis.
   ' This is a standard book by an
                                                          ihnonIteasltiananhdisitnotreyl.l'ig--enMt anhcihsteosrtiearn,                                               who has deserved
   j well of all who are interested                                                                                                                                  Guardian.

      L. S. Horsburgh. THE CAMPAIGN OF WATERLOO.
       By E. L. S. Horsburgh,                             B.A. With Plans. Crown
   '                                                      and thorough.' --Daily Chronicle.                                                                              Svo.      $s.
      A brilliant essay--simple, sound,
   *  A--stBudirym, inthgehammost             the         most lucid,  the most critical           that has been produced.                                                                  '
                                    concise,
   '                               Mercury,
      Aacbalerebfuoloka.n' d--pArdecmisieralsttyudya,nda  fair and impartial criticism,
                                                          Horse Guards Gazette.                    and an eminently                                                                read

H. B. George. BATTLES OF ENGLISH HISTORY. By H. B.

     George, M.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford. With numerous
       Plans. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
   ' Mr. George has undertaken a very useful task -- that of making military affairs in
        telligible and instructive to non-military                      readers-- and has               executed                                                         --it  with laud
   \'   able intelligence and industry, and with                       a large measure of               success.'                                                              Times.
      This book is almost a revelation ; and we
                                                                       heartily congratulate the author on his
       work and on the prospect of the reward he has well deserved for so much con
       scientious and sustained labour.'-- Daily Chronicle.
t4 Messrs. Methuen's List

0. Browning. A SHORT HISTORY OF MEDIAEVAL ITALY,
      a.d. 1250-1530. By Oscar Browning,                                                 Fellow and Tutor of King's
      College, Cambridge. Second Edition.                                                In Two Volumes. Crown
                  '"cA.
      Svo.   5'-                           1250-1409. --
                  Vol.
                  Vol.                1.    1409-1530.--  Guelphs and                          Ghibellines.
                                      11.                  The Age of                          the Condottieri.

   '  A vivid picture of medireval Italy.' --Standard.                                                 of a work of immense
   '  Mr. Browning is to                    congratulated        on the
        labour and learning.'         b--e  Westminster       Gazette.   production

O'Grady. THE STORY OF IRELAND. By Standish
      O'Grady, Author of ' Finn and his Companions.' Cr. Svo. 2s. 6d.
   ' Most delightful,            tghmreaopfsrhteics,hsteiasmtc,uultbaert,eineagzn.iedstqIuvtsaoliunmrtalyecsy.w' r--ihtutMemneo.'tuh--ro, dTiisimttseTsi,omriegsi,nal
      make it one of                                                                                                                                                   imaginings,
      survey at once
'A

                                                 Biography
R. L. Stevenson. VAILIMA LETTERS. By Robert Louis
      Stevenson. With an Etched Portrait by William Strang, and

      other Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown Svo. Buckram. 7*. 6d.
 ' The Vailima Letters are rich                               ovtahreierstiesbesoifdetsha"t
                                                 in  all the                                       charm which have secured
      for    Sbteovyesn.'s"o--n  the  affection  of  many                                         journalists, fellow-novelists,
      and                        The  Times.
 * Few publications have in our time been more eagerly awaited than these "Vailima
      Letters," giving the first fruits of the correspondence of Robert Louis Stevenson.
      But, high as     t--heStti.deJamofeesxpseGctaazteiotnte.has  run,  no reader                can  possibly
      in the result.'                                                                                             be disappointed
 '    For                         SocfoEttn'sglJiosuhrnlaitler"atiunrekintdhestheanletatenrys                    treasure. They
        are  tmheorestulidkeent"                                                                indeed are a     autobiography.'
      --National Observer.                                                                     other literary

F. W. Joyce. THE LIFE OF SIR FREDERICK GORE
      OUSELEY. By F. W. Joyce, M.A. With Portraits and Illustra

      tions. Crown Svo. fs. 6d.
 ' All the materials have been well digested, and the book gives us a complete picture
      of the life of one who will ever be held in loving remembrance by his personal
      friends, and who in the history                 of music in        this country will always occupy a
      prominent position on account                  of the many         services he rendered to the art.' --
      Musical News.
 '    This book has   cboenesniduernadbelretaklietnerainryqsukitiell.'t--heTrimigehst .           and written    with sympathy,
        insight, and                                                                     spirit,

W. O. Collingwood. THE LIFE OF JOHN RUSKIN. By

     W. G. Collingwood, M.A., Editor of Mr. Ruskin's Poems. With

      numerous Portraits, and 13 Drawings by Mr. Ruskin. Second

      Edition. 2 vols. Svo. 32s.
 ' No more magnificent volumes have been published for a long time.' -- Times.
'   AItSniusocbhlloenagmboosoninkucmeisewnaet pholeafadsauanreobbifloeogrsrtauhpbehjeydcta.yw, itaOhnndseuacohfjotydheefloigmrhotessvterbo.e'f a--suuDtbifsautlialnybceoCohkarsonndaicboloefu. tforomne.
'

      of tin noblest lives of our century.'-- Glasgow Herald.
                           Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                                                                                         15

C.     Waldstein.           JOHN RUSKIN :                                                                                                a Study. By Charles
       Waldstein,
                           M.A., Fellow of King's                                                                                        College, Cambridge. With a
       Photogravure Portrait after Professor Herkomer. Post Svo. $s.
    ' A thoughtful, impartial, well-written criticism of Ruskin's teaching, intended to
       separate what       the author regards as                                  valuable                                               --anDd apielyrmCahnreonnticlfero, m  what  is transient
       and erroneous       in the great master's                                  writing.'

W. H. Hutton. THE LIFE OF SIR THOMAS MORE. By

     W. H. Hutton, M.A., Author of ' William Laud.' With Portraits.

    '  Crown Svo. $s.                                                                                                                                                         It is excellently,
    '  AATnhemveeeoxbnscotleooclkvloeinmnlagtpylylsme,togewnooorpigdtrtereascnpela.hn'i.tm'a--t--iSotcnoTo.i'mths--iemgshaD. na.railnyk
                                                                                                                                          among our  biographies.
    '                                                                                                                                    Chronicle.

M. Kaufmann. CHARLES KINGSLEY. By M. Kaufmann,
       M.A. Crown Svo. Buckram. $s.
    A' Thbeiogaruatphhoyr  of Kingsley,   especially dealing with his achievements in social reform.
                           has certainly  gone about his work with conscientiousness and industry. --
        Sheffield Daily Telegraph.
                                                                                                                                         PUBLIC      LIFE  OF WILLIAM
A. F. Robbins. THE EARLY
       EWART GLADSTONE. By A. F. Robbins. With Portraits.
       Crown Svo. 6s.

    'Considerable          ltahbisouirntearnedstinmgucwhorskk.'il--l              of presentation                                                    have  not been unworthily
       expended on                                                                Times.

Clark Russell. THE LIFE OF ADMIRAL LORD COL-

     LINGWOOD. By W. Clark Russell, Author of ' The Wreck

      of the Grosvenor.' With Illustrations by F. Brangwyn. Third
       Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
    '  A most
    '            beogxyoceoildnlenbthtoeoakcn.'odu--nwSthrayot.l'uesr--odmaSyte.  book, which we                                         should      like  to see in the hands of
         every                                                                    James's Gazette.
                                                                                  Review.
       A really

Southey. ENGLISH SEAMEN (Howard, Clifford, Hawkins,
       Drake, Cavendish).                 By Robert                                                                                        Southey.        Edited,                  with
       Introduction, by David              Hannay.                                                                                       Second Edition,      Crown                       an
                                                                                                                                                                                    Svo,  6s.

    ''AAdmbrairvaeb, leinasnpdiritwinelgl-tbooldok.s't--oriBelsacokf              our naval history.'                                                --Army and               Navy  Gazette.
                                                                                  and White.
    ' The work of a master of style, and delightful all through.' --Daily Chronicle.

                           General Literature

S.     Baring Gould.       ofO'LMDehaClaOh,U' NetcT. RYWitLhIFSEixt.y-sevBeyn                                                                                                 S. Baring
        Gould, Author
                                                                                                                                                                               Illustrations
       by W. Parkinson, F. D. Bedford, and F. Masey. Large
    Crown Svo.                I Of. 6d. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. 6s.
' " Old Country                                                                                                                                                                     and  move-'
                           Life," as healthy wholesome reading, full of breezy life
       ment, full of quaint stories vigorously told, will not be excelled by any book to be
       published throughout the year. Sound, hearty, and English to the core.' -- World.
16 Messrs. Methuen's List

S.     Baring Gould.          HISTORIC ODDITIES AND STRANGE
        EVENTS. By
                            S. Baring Gould. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
    ' A croelaledcintigo.n'--ofTeimxceisti.ng and entertaining chapters. The whole volume is delightful

S. Baring Gould. FREAKS OF FANATICISM. By S. Baring
       Gould. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
    * Mr. Baring Gould has a keen eye for colour
        fcahsocsineantinggiveboaomkp.'l--e Ssccootpteishto  his descriptive  and  effect, and the subjects he has
                                                            Leader.          and
                                                                                  analytic faculties. A perfectly

S. Baring Gould. A GARLAND OF COUNTRY SONG :
       English Folk  SSo. nBgsarwinitgh                     their Traditional     Melodies. Collected and

       arranged by                                          Gould and H.          Fleetwood Sheppard.

       Demy 4t0. 6s.
S. Baring Gould. SONGS OF THE WEST: Traditional
       Ballads and  Songs of                                S.WBesatrionfgEGngolaunldd,,  with their                       Traditional
       Melodies.    Collected      the                                                    M. A., and
                                   by                                                                                      H. Fleet
       III.,wI(Vcoo.no,tda5ijSn. hinegIpnp25aonrdeS,onVMgos.l.A, e.FarcehAn)rc, rhaPnmagoretrosdccfoIo.,r,VIoIi.c,ePiano. In         Parts
                                                                                          and                                     4  Part
                                                                             l$s.                                     3s. each.

    ' A rich collection of humour, pathos, grace, and poetic fancy.' --Saturday Review.

S. Baring Gould. YORKSHIRE ODDITIES AND STRANGE

     EVENTS. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

S.     Baring Gould. STRANGE                                SURVIVALS                                             AND SUPER
        STITIONS. With Illustrations.
       Svo. Second Edition. 6s.                               By S. Baring                                         Gould. Crown

    '  We have read Mr. Baring     Gould's book             from             beginning    intoiten'--d.              It is full   of quaint
         and various information,  and there is             not a            dull page                            Notes and       Queries.

S. Baring Gould. THE DESERTS OF SOUTHERN
       FRANCE. By S. Baring. Gould. With numerous Illustrations
       by F. D. Bedford, S. Hutton, etc. 2 vols. Demy Svo. 32J.
    This book is the first serious attempt to describe the great barren tableland that
       extends to the south of Limousin in the Department of Aveyron, Lot, etc, a
       country   of dolomite cliffs, and                    canons, and subterranean rivers.                               The region is
       full of  prehistoric and historic                                                                                    of mediaeval
                                                             interest, relics of cave-dwellers,
       robbers, and of the English domination and the Hundred Years' War.
    '  His two richly-illustrated volumes                   oafrehisfutollryofanmdatmtearnnoefrsi.n' t--erSesctotstmo atnh.e
    *    the archaeologist, and the student                  which rarely fails to arrest attention.'                             geologist,
                                                                                                                                  -- Times.
       It deals with its subject in a maimer

R. S. Baden-Powell. THE DOWNFALL OF PREMPEH. A
       Diary of Life with   the Native                      Levy in Ashanti,                                      By Lieut. -Col.
       Baden-Powrll.          With 21                        Illustrations, a             1895.                   and a Special

                                                                                          Map,
       GCheaoprtegre oBnatdheenPo-Plitoicwael lla,ndK.CCo.Mmm.Ge.r,ciMal.PP.ositDioenmoyfSAvos.han1ti0s.by6dS. ir
    'A                                                                                                            --Daily
    'A  compact, faithful,  bmnooaosrktr.a' tr--ievaeYd.o'arb--klesGhlraierscegoorPwdosotH.fethraeldca. mpaign.'           News.
    1A  bluff and vigorous
        really interesting
                     Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                             17

W. B. Gladstone. THE SPEECHES AND PUBLIC                                                                          AD
     DRESSES OF THE RT. HON. W. E. GLADSTONE,
     Edited by A. W. Hutton, M.A, and H. J. Cohen, M.A                                                            M.P.
     Portraits. Svo. Vols. IX. and X. us. 6d. each.
                                                                                                                  With

Henley and Whlbley. A BOOK OF ENGLISH PROSE.

     Collected by W. E. Henlky and Charles Whibley. Cr. Svo. 6s.
'                                --an
'  A unique volume of extracts   Mr.                  Haretnlgeayl'lsery"  oLyf reaarlHyeproroicsea..'"--' --BiSramtuinrgdhaaymRePvoieswt..

   An admirable companion to
' Quite delightful.  The choice made has been excellent, and the volume has been
   most admirably    printed by Messrs. Constable.                         bAegirmeaagteinretdr.e' a--t  for those not  well
    acquainted with  pre-Restoration prose could not
                                                                                                         A thenaum.

J. Wells. OXFORD AND OXFORD LIFE. By Members of

     the University. Edited by J. Wells, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of
   Wadham College. Crown Svo. 3j. 6d.

This work contains an account oflife at Oxford-- intellectual, social, and religious--
   a careful estimate of necessary expenses, a review of recent changes, a statement
   of the present position of the University, and chapters on Women's Education,
     aids to study, and University                    Extension.
'  We congratulate Mr. Wells on                       the production       of a readable and Intelligent          account

   of Oxford as it is at the present time, written by persons who are possessed of a
   close acquaintance with the system and life of the University.'-- A thitutum.

W. M. Dixon. A PRIMER OF TENNYSON. By W. M.

     Dixon. M.A., Professor of English Literature at Mason College.

   Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

'  Much sound     abnodonw.e' --ll-eSxpperaeksesre.d  criticism  and acute literary          judgments.       The biblio
     graphy is a
' No better estimate of the late Laureate's work has yet been published. His sketch
   of Tennyson's life contains   isevmeorystthiinntgereesstsinegn.t'ia--l ;GlhaissgobwiblioHgerraaplhdy.  is full and con
   cise: his literary criticism

W. A. Craigie. A PRIMER OF BURNS. By W. A. Craigie.

   Crown Svo. 2S. td.

This book is planned on a method similar to the ' Primer of Tennyson.'                                        It has also
     a glossary.
'                                li----terGPalaotubierle. MoaflithGeapzoeettte.'.--  Time*.
'  A valuable addition to the
'  An excellent short account.*
   An admirable introduction.'

L. Whibley. GREEK OLIGARCHIES : THEIR ORGANISA

     TION AND CHARACTER. By L. Whiilky, M.A, Fellow

'  of Pembroke College, Cambridge. Crown Svo. 6s.
'
   Ansubejxeccet.e'd--ingTliymeuss. eful handbook      t a careful and     well-arranged     study        of  an  obscure
   Mr. Whibley is never tedious or
                                                      pedantic'--Pall      Mall Gazette.

W. B. Worsfold. SOUTH AFRICA : Its History and its Future.
   By W. Basil Worsfold, M.A With a Map. Crown Svo. fix.
' An intensely interesting book.' --Daily
' A monumental work compressed into a                 Chronicle.                     compass.' -- World.
                                                      very moderate

                                                      A3
li Messrs. Methuen's List

0. H. Pearson. ESSAYS AND CRITICAL REVIEWS. By
   C. H. Pearson, M.A., Author of ' National Life and Character.'
   Edited, with a Biographical Sketch,             by H. A. Strong, M.A.,

   LL.D. With a Portrait. Demy %vo.                 10s. 6d.
' These fine essays illustrate the great breadth of his historical and literary sym
     pathies and the remarkable variety of his intellectual  interests.' --Glasgtw Herald.
'  Remarkable for careful handling, breadth of view, and     thorough knowledge.' -- Scots

   man.
' Charming essays.' --Spectator.

Ouida. VIEWS AND OPINIONS, By Ouida. CrownZvo.

      Sec$nd Edition, 6s.

' Ouida   Is outspoken, and the    reader of this  book will not have a   --duSllpemaokmeer.nt.  The
    book  is full of variety, and  sparkles with   entertaining matter.'

J. S. Shedlock. THE PIANOFORTE SONATA: Its Origin
     and Development. By J. S. Shedlock. Crown %vo. $s.

    ' This work should be in the possession of every musician and amateur, for it not
        only embodies a concise and lucid history of the origin of one of the most im
        portant forms of musical composition, but, by reason of the painstaking research
        and accuracy of the author's statements, it is a very valuable work for reference.'
          --A thenaum.

E.M. Bowden. THE EXAMPLE OFBUDDHA: Being Quota

      tions from Buddhist Literature for each Day in the Year. Compiled

     by E. M. Bowden. With Preface by Sir Edwin Arnold. Third

       Edition. itmo. is. 6d.

J. Beever. PRACTICAL FLY-FISHING, Founded on

     Nature, by John Beever, late of the Thwaite House, Coniston. A

      New Edition, with a Memoir of the Author by W. G. COLLINSWOOD,
      M.A. Crown Svo. 3s. 6tl.
    A little book on Fly-Fishing by an old friend of Mr. Ruskin.

                                   Science

Freudenreich. DAIRY BACTERIOLOGY. A Short Manual

     for the Use of Students. By Dr. Ed. von Freudenreich.

     Translated from the German by J. R. AlNSWORTH DAVIS, B.A.,

      F.C.P. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

ChalCmhearlms erMs itcMhietcllh. ellO, UMT.ALI,NFE.ZS.S.OFFulBlyIOIlLluOstGraYte.d.  By P.
                                                                                      Crown

    Svo. 6s.
A text-book designed to cover the new Schedule issued by the Royal College of

      Physicians and Surgeons.

G.Massee.     A MONOGRAPH OF THE MYXOGASTRES.                                                     By
      George                                                                                     ntt.
              Masske. With 12 Coloured Plates. Royal %vo. i8j.
' A work much in advance of any book in the language treating of this group of
   organisms. It is indispensable to every         student   of the Myxogastres. The
                                                   aeruracy  and execruti:^.'-- NtUurt.
   coloured plates deserve high praise for their
   Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                                                             rg

                   Philosophy

L. T. Hobhouse. THE THEORY OF KNOWLEDGE. By

   L. T. Hobhousb, Fellow and Tutor of Corpus College, Oxford.

   Demy Svo. 2ls.

*  ThBeramdleoyst'sim"pAorptpaenatracnocnetribauntdioRn eatolitEyn."glisFhulplhoilof sborpihllyianstinccerittichiesmpubalincdatioofn   of Mr.
                                                                                                                                      positive
   theories which are models oflucid statement.' --Glasgow Herald.

* An elaborate and often brilliantly written volume. The treatment is one of great
   freshness, and the illustrations are particularly numerous and apt. -- Times,

W. H. Fairbrother. THE PHILOSOPHY OF T. H. GREEN

     By W. H. Fairbrother, M.A., Lecturer at Lincoln College,
     Oxford. Crown Svo. p. 6d.

    This volume is expository, not critical, and is intended for senior students at the
        Universities and others, as a statement of Green's teaching, and an introduction to
        the study of Idealist Philosophy.

    ' In every way an admirable book. As an introduction to the writings of perhaps the

         most remarkable speculative thinker whom England has produced in the present
        century, nothing could be better than Mr. Fairbrother's exposition and criticism.' --
        Glasgow Herald,

F. W. Bussell. THE SCHOOL OF PLATO : its Origin and

     its Revival under the Roman Empire. By F. W. Bussell, M.A.,

       Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose College, Oxford. Demy Svo. Two

     volumes, ios. 6d. each. Vol. I.

    ' A highly valuable contribution to the history of ancient thought.'-- Glasgow Herald.
    ' A clever and stimulating book, provocative of thought and deserving careful reading.'

        -- Manchester Guardian.

F. S. Granger. THE WORSHIP OF THE ROMANS. By

     F. S. Granger, M.A., Litt.D., Professor of Philosophy at Univer

      sity College, Nottingham. Crown Svo. 6s.

   The auther delineates that group of beliefs which stood in close connection with the
        Roman religion, and among the subjects treated are Dreams, Nature Worship,
        Roman Magic, Divination, Holy Places, Victims, etc. Thus the book is also
         a contribution to folk-lore and comparative psychology.

   'A scholarly analysis of the religious ceremonies, beliefs, and superstitions of ancient

        Rome, conducted in the new instructive light of comparative anthropology '--

         Times.
20 Messrs. Methuen's List

                                        Theology
E. a B. Gibson. THE XXXIX. ARTICLES OF THE
       CHURCH OF ENGLAND. Edited with an Introduction by E.
       C. S. Gibson, D.D., Vicar of Leeds, late Principal of Wells
       Theological College. In Two Volumes. Demy Svo.
       VoL L Articles I.- VIII.                                                                                           7/. 6d. each,

    '  Theexptoonneentm. 'a--inStaciontesdmatnh.roughout Is                      not that of the partial   advocate, bat the faithful
    '  There are ample proofs of clearness                                       of expression, sobriety   of judgment, and breadth

    '  of view.   . . . The  book will  be welcome                               to all students of        --theNasutibojnecatl,  and its sound,
       definite,  and loyal  theology   ought to be                              of great service,'                               Observer.
                                                                                              hoisrdaetrtlyentairorna.n' g--emYoenrkt,shluirceidPatsrte.atment,
       So far from     repelling the general                                     reader, its
         and felicity   of diction invite and                                    encourage

R. L. Ottley. THE DOCTRINE OF THE INCARNATION.
       By R. L. Ottley, M.A., late fellow of Magdalen College, Oxon.,
       Principal of Pusey House. In Two Volumes. Demy &vo. i$s.
    ' Learned                                                                    a--rrNanagteiodn.'a--l ROebcsoerrdv.er.
    'Accurate,  and reverent :   lucid   and well
                  well ordered,  and    judicious.'
    'A clear and remarkably full account of the main currents of speculation. Scholarly
       precision . . . genuine tolerance . . . intense interest in bis subject -- are Mr.
       Ottley's merits. --Guardian.

S.     R. Driver.      SERMONS ON SUBJECTS                                                                                  CONNECTED
        WITH THE        OLD TESTAMENT. By S.                                                                              R. Driver, D.D.,
       Canon of Christ Church, Regius Professor of Hebrew in the Uni
       versity of Oxford. Crown Svo. 6s.
    1A welcome companion to the author's famous ' Introduction.' No man can read these
         discourses without feeling that Dr. Driver is fully alive to the deeper teaching of
         the Old Testament'--Gwrdiom.

T. K. Cheyne. FOUNDERS OF OLD TESTAMENT CRITI

     CISM : Biographical, Descriptive, and Critical Studies. By T. K.
      Cheyne, D.D,, Oriel Professor of the Interpretation of Holy Scrip
       ture at Oxford. Large crown Svo. Js. 6d.
    This important book Is a historical sketch of O. T. Criticism in the form of biographi
    'AcIvtaelirssyttuhledeaierosnnelfydrobamonodtkhineosftdriutascytski^vineodf  Eichhorn to those  of  Driver and        Robertson  Smith.
                                                                                 in English.
                                                                                 work.' -- Times.

C.H.Prior. CAMBRIDGE SERMONS. Edited by C. H. Prior,

     M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Pembroke College. Crown 8w. 6s.

    A volume of sermons preached before the University of Cambridge by various
    'Aprreeparcehseerns,taitnivceludcionlglecttihoen.ArchBbisishhoopp             of Canterbury     and    Bsiesrhmopon.W' --esGtcuoattr.dian.
                                                                                 Westcott's is a    noble

H. 0. Beeching. SERMONS TO SCHOOLBOYS. By H. C

     Beeching, M.A., Rector of Yattendon, Berks. With a Preface by
     Canon Scorr Holland. Crown Svo. is. 6d.

    Seven sermons preached before the boys of Bradfield College.
              Messrs. Methuen's List                                                             21

E.B. Layard. RELIGION IN BOYHOOD. Notes on the
    Religious Training of Boys. With a Preface by J. R. ILLINO-
     worth. By E. B. Layard, M.A. limt. lu

                    SDetiotfonal Books*.

With Full-page Illustrations. Fcap. %vt. Buckram, y. 6d.

THE IMITATION         Padded morocco, $s.                                            a Kempis.

                    OF CHRIST. By Thomas
With an Introduction by Dean Farrar. Illustrated by C. M.
  Gere,
          and printed in black and red.                        Second Edition.       there  can  hare
'Amongst  all the innumerable English editions                 of the " Imitation,"
been few which were prettier than this one, printed in strong and handsome type
bbyinMdiensgs.'rs--. GCloanssgtoawbleH, ewriathld.all the glory of red initials, and the comfort of buckram

THE CHRISTIAN YEAR. By JOHN KEBLE. With an Intro

     duction and Notes byW. Lock, M. A., Sub-Warden of Keble College,

RIreland Professor  at Oxford, Author                          of  the  * Life  of John Keble.'

Illustrated by      Anning Bell.
' The present edition is annotated with all the care and insight to be expected from
Mr. Lock. The progress and circumstances of its composition are detailed in the
Introduction. There is an interesting Appendix                     on the MSS. of the   "ACh"risSthioarnt
Year," and another giving the order in which the                   poems were written.
              tnhoeteT, h--oGuugahrtdiaisn.prefixed            and any difficulty  in the text ti ex
Analysis of                                          to each,   work.' --Glob*.
plained in a
' The most acceptable edition of this erer-popular

              Leaders of Religion

Edited by H. C. BEECHING, M.A. With Portraits, crown Svo.

   A series of short biographies of the most prominent                  leaders
of religious life and thought of all ages and countries.

   The following are ready --

CARDINAL NEWMAN. By R. H. Hutton.

JOHN WESLEY. By J. H. Overton, M.A.
BISHOP WILBERFORCE. By G. W. Daniel, M.A.

CARDINAL MANNING. By A. W. Hutton, M.A.

CHARLES SIMEON. By H. C. G. MOULE, M.A.

JOHN KEBLE. By Walter Lock, M.A.
THOMAS CHALMERS. By Mrs. Oliphant.

LANCELOT ANDREWES. By R. L. Ottley, M.A.
ss Messrs. Methukn's List

AUGUSTINE OF CANTERBURY. By E. L. CUTTS, D.D.
WILLIAM LAUD. By W. H. Hutton, M.A.
JOHN KNOX. By F. M'Cunn.
JOHN HOWE. By R. F. Horton, D.D.
BISHOP KEN. By F. A. Glarke, M.A.
GEORGE FOX, THE QUAKER. By T. Hodgkin, D.C.L.

                 Other Tolumes will be announced in due course.

                       Fiction

                     8IX SHILLING NOVELS

                     Marie Oorelli's Novels

                       Crown ivo. 6s. each.

A ROMANCE OF TWO WORLDS.                            Fourteenth Edition.
VENDETTA. Eleventh Edition.
THELMA Fourteenth Edition.

ARDATH. Tenth Edition.

THE SOUL OF LILITH. Ninth Edition,

WORMWOOD. Eighth Edition.

BARABBAS : A DREAM OF THE WORLD'S TRAGEDY.

Twenty-fifth Edition.

' The tender reverence of the treatment and the imaginative beauty of the writing
have reconciled ns to the daring of the conception, and the conviction is forced on
us that even so exalted a subject cannot be made too familiar to us, provided it be
           in the true spirit of Christian faith. The amplifications  "ofDtrheeamScriopftutrhee
presented  are often conceived with high poetic insight, and this
narrative
World's Tragedy" is, despite some trifling incongruities, a lofty and not inade

kqueavtieewp.araphrase of the supreme climax of the inspired narrative.' -- Dublin

THE SORROWS OF SATAN. Twenty-ninth Edition.

' A vtry powerful piece of work. . . . The conception is magnificent, and is likely
to win an abiding place within the memory of man. . . . The author has immense
command of language, and a limitless audacity. . . . This interesting and re
...markable romance  will live lonp after much  of  .thneoveeplh, eamnedraelvelintesrautbulirme eo.'f--thWe .daTy.
                     A literary pb-nomenon .
is forgotten.                                    .
Stead in the Rtvitw «y Reviews.
                     Messrs. Methuen's List                                                          23

                     Anthony Hope's Novels

                     Cretan %vt. 6s. tach.

THE GOD IN THE CAR. Seventh Edition.
    ' A very remarkable book, deserving of critical analysis impossible within our limit ;
        brilliant, but not superficial ; well considered, but not elaborated ; constructed
         with the proverbial art that conceals, but yet allows itself to be enjoyed by readers
        to. whom fine lherary method is a keen pleasure ; true without cynicism, subtle
        without affectation, humorous without strain, witty without offence, inevitably
       sad, with an unmorose simplicity/-- The World,

A CHANGE OF AIR. Fourth Edition.                                                  The character! are traced

  'A wgirtahceafuml, asvtievralyciohuasndc.'o--meTdimy,est.rue to human oat ore.

MAN MARK.AOF                     Third Edition.
    '
Of"  all Mr. Hope's  books, "    A Man of Mark " is          the            one which best   compares with
     The Prisoner                   The two romances         are            unmistakably    the work of the
                     of Zenda."                          style of narrative peculiarly   seductive, piquant,
scaommeprwehrietenrs,ivea,ndanhde--phoissseoswsens.'--a  National Observer.

THE CHRONICLES OF COUNT ANTONIO. Third

Edition.

' It is a perfectly enchanting story of love and chivalry, and pure romance. The
outlawed Count is the most constant, desperate, and withal modest and tender of
lovers, a peerless gentleman,    an                      intrepid fighter,  a very faithful friend, and a most
magnanimous foe. In short,       he                      is aa altogether    admirable, lovable, and delight

ful hero. There Is not a word in the volume that can give offence to the most
fastidious  taste of man or woman, and there is not, either, a                           dull paragraph in it.
The book    is everywhere instinct with the most exhilarating                            spirit of adventure,
and delicately perfumed with the sentiment               of  all                         honourable  deeds of
history and romance.' --Guardian.                                           heroic  and

                     S. Baring Gould's Noreli

                     Crown %vo. 6s, each.

If' To say that a book is by the author of " ehalab " is to imply that it contains a
story cast on strong lines, containing                   dramatic possibilities,     vivid and  sympathetic
descriptions of Nature, and a wealth                     of ingenious imagery.'     --Speaker.

'That whatever Mr. Baring Gould writes is well worth reading, is a conclusion that
may be very generally accepted. His views of life are fresh and vigorous, his
language pointed and characteristic, the incidents of which be makes use are
striking and original, his characters are life-like, and though somewhat excep
tional people, are drawn and coloured with artistic force. Add to this that his
descriptions of scenes and scenery are painted with the loving eyes and skilled
hands of a master of his art, that he is always fresh and never dull, and under
such conditions it is no wonder that readers nave gained confidence both in his
wpoidweenrs.'o--f  amusing and satisfying                them, and that year        by year his popularity
                   Court Circular.

ARMINELL : A Social Romance. Fourth Edition.

URITH : A Story of Dartmoor. Fourth Edition.
' The author It at his best.'-- Timet.
' He has nearly reached the high water-mark              of " Mehalah."             '--National Observer,
24 Messrs. Methuen's List

IN THE ROAR OF THE SEA. Fifth Edition.

   'One of the best Imagined and most enthralling stories the author has produced.
       --Saturday Review.

MRS. CURGENVEN OF CURGENVEN. Fourth Edition.

*  A novel of  ovifgtohreounsarhrautmivoeurisanspdlesnudsitda.i'n--edSupsosweexr.'D--aGilyrapNheicw. t.
'  The swing

CHEAP JACK ZITA. Third Edition.
'A
'A   powerful drama of human potion.'--        Westminster  Gazette.
     story worthy the author.'-- National      Observer.

THE QUEEN OF LOVE. Fourth Edition.
    ' The scenery U admirable, and the dramatic incidents are most striking.' --Glasgow
       Herald.
    '''SCYtoafrioncutnicbogean,n.'hnin--eotateSrrtupeilsusystteinrixtegc,dDoomaawnimnldyeucnNnldeeteviwldesry..t'oo--uaihWlawveeshtomfiincnaissrtheeerfdorGit.ac'lz--eeatPnteuly.n, cehn. ergetic, and interesting

KITTY ALONE. Fourth Edition.
'A'
       strong and original story, teeming with   hgurmaapnhicintdeeressctr-ip--tioDn,ailsytirrTineglegrinacpihd.ent,
'    and, above all, with vivid and enthralling
   Brisk, clever, keen, healthy,   humorous,   cahnadraicntteerr.e' s--tinBgr.i's--tolNaMteiorncaulryO. bserver.
   Full of quaint and delightful   studies of

NO£MI : A Romance of the Cave-Dwellers.                                                                  Illustrated by
   R. Caton Woodvillk. Third Edition.
   " Noe*mi " is as excellent a tale of fighting and adventure as one may wish to meet-
    All the characters that interfere in this exciting tale are marked with properties
     of their own. The narrative   also runs dear  and sharp as                                               Loire itself.'--
     Pall Mall Gazette.                                                                                  the

'Mr. Baring Gould's      powerful  hasstoaryccuIsstofmulledouf st.h'--e Ssttaronndgarldig.hts            and  shadows  anc"
                        which he
    vivid colouring to

THE BROOM-SQUIRE.                          Illustrated by Frank Dadd.

      Third Edition.

*'' AAAiwsssprttosiortwwarteeyienenrtofeoufnoflefetdpexfainceiedbctpe.ye'tr--intoohefnSesapwsnleooairsbikkniwe.lt'ier--ot.yrveeBsantlnadtcthhksrawotaueegnsthdenee*mstWAhssehpoiwotUfowe.tbheuersofufhtloehriabsoneindtrebas'egsttirtcciekhritanatrglhaeac,stnaetonra.rd'yn--.yi'tts--DhiaaGntigmluyaohrsNdepeihwahensar.es.

                           Gilbert Parker's Novels

                                       Crown 8o#. 6s. tack.

PIERRE AND HIS PEOPLE. Third Edition.

  'StorPieasrkehra'sppsiltyylec,o'--nceDivaeidlyaTnedlefginrealpyh,executed. There is strength and genius in Mr.
                            Messrs Methuen's List                                                                      25

MRS. FALCHION. Third Edition.
   ' A splendid study of character.' --Athenatum.
   ' But little behind anything that has been done by any writer of our time. '--Pall
      Mall  Gazette.
   'A very  striking     and admirable  novel.' --St. James's Gazette.

THE TRANSLATION OF A SAVAGE.
' The plot is original and one difficult to work out ; but Mr. Parker has done it with
      great skill and delicacy.   be Tahdeulrleapdeersronwhinodiesedn.o't--inDteareilsyteCdhrionnicthleis.  original,  fresh,
      and well-told tale must
   '  A strong and successful piece of workmanship.                            --TMhaencphoersttraeirt       of Lali,
        dignified, and pure, is exceptionally well drawn.'                                                 Guardian.   strong,

THE TRAIL OF THE SWORD. Fourth Edition.

   'Everybody with a soul         for romance               will  thoroughly enjoy "The Trail of                        the
        Sword."  '-- St. James's  Gazette.                  like  this, in which swords flash, great                   sur
   '  A rousing  and dramatic     tale. A book

      prises are undertaken, and daring deeds done, in which men and women live and
      love in the old straightforward passionate way, is a joy inexpressible to the re
      viewer, brain-weary of the domestic tragedies and psychological puzzles of every
      day fiction      and  aws «keceann.n'o--t DbuatilybeCliehvroenitchlaet.  to the reader      it will
      as welcome   ;  and                                                                                  bring  refreshment

WHEN VALMOND CAME TO PONTIAC : The Story of

      a Lost Napoleon. Third Edition.
   * Here we find romance -- real, breathing, living romance, but it runs flush with our
      own times, level with our own feelings. Not here can we complain of lack of
      inevitableness or homogeneity. The character of Valmond is drawn unerringly ;
      his career, brief as it is, is placed before us as convincingly as history itself. The
      book must be read, we may         say     re-read, for any                   one thoroughly to              PapaplrleMciaatell
      Mr. Parker's delicate toucli      and     innate sympathy                    with humanity.'--

'     Gazette.        of genius which   1895 has as yet produced.' --New Age.
   The one work

AN ADVENTURER OF THE NORTH: The Last Adven

      tures of 1 Pretty Pierre.1

   'The present book is full of fine and moving stories of the great North, and it will
      add to Mr. Parker's already high reputation.' -- Glasgow                                    Herald.
   '  The new     book     is   very romantic   and         svoecryhareanctteerrtiasitnicingo--f  full of that      peculiarly
        elegant  spirit  of    adventure which   is                                               Mr. Parker,     and of that
      poetic thrill which has given him warmer, if less numerous, admirers than even
      his romantic story-telling gift has done.' -- Sketch,

THE SEATS OF THE MIGHTY. Illustrated. Fourth

      Edition.

   ' The best thing he has done ; one of the best things that any one has done lately.'--
      St. James's Gazette.
   '  Mr. Parker   seems  Into"beTchoemSeeasttsroonfgtehre  aMnidghetaysi"erhewisthhowesvetrhye   serious novel that he
        attempts.  .. .                                                                           matured power which
      his former novels have led us to expect, and has produced a really fine historical
      novel. . . . The great creation of the book is Doltaire. . . . His character is
      drawn with quite masterly strokes, for he is a villain who is not altogether a villain,
      and who attracts the reader, as he did the other characters, by the extraordinary
      ...brilliance of his gifts, and by the almost unconscious acts of nobility which he
      performs.          Most sincerely is Mr.              Parker             to  be  congratulated        on the finest
      novel he has    yet written.'-- A thenaum.
26 Messrs. Methuen's List

   'Mr. Parker's        latest book  places                 hbiomok.in' --thBelacfrkonatndranWkhiotef .          living     novelists.        "The
       Seats of the     Mighty" is   a great
   'One of the strongest stories of historical interest and adventure that we have read
       for many a day. . . . Through all Mr. Parker moves with an assured step, whilst
       in bis treatment of his subject there is that happy                                        bAlennodtianbgleofanthde  poetical with the
       prosaic which has characterised all his writings.                                                                    successful book.'
        -- Speaker.
      The story is
   ...'                                                                                           In none of his books has his
                     very  finely  and  dramatically                    told.
       iAmliaxgein, aGtiavbeordfa, cuVlatyubaapnp--eaarebdovteo aslul,chDoslptaleirnedi--d apnudr,pionsdeeeads,              Captain Moray,
                                                                                                                 here.      person who takes
                                                                                                                 every
       pdauratlisinedt.h--e Saccotitosnmaonf. the story are clearly conceived and finely drawn and indivi
   'An admirable romance. The glory of a romance is its plot, and this plot is crowded
       with fine   sensations,   which     --haPvealnl oMreasltl        until the                 fall  of  the  famous
       the final  restitution   of love.'                               Gazette.                                            old         city      and

Conan Doyle. ROUND THE RED LAMP. By A. Con an
       Doyle, Author of * The White Company/ ' The Adventures of
       Sherlock Holmes,' etc. Fourth Edition. Crown %vo. 6s.
   ' The book is, indeed, composed of leaves from life, and is far and away the best view
                        vouchsafed us                       blaetheinPdhythseicisacenn.e"s'--oIflltuhsetracotensdultLinogn-drooonmN. ewsI.t
                        The Diary of a
       UNDER THEthat hastboee"n                                                                                                               is  very

       superior
RED StanleyStanley Weyman.
                                                                                                  ROBE. By
       Weyman, Author of ' A Gentleman of France.' With Twelve Illus
      trations by R. Caton           Woodville. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. i
   'A book of which we have          read every word                         for the
                                      a pang that we                         cannot               sheer     pitleaaslluraendofstraerat daingga,in.a' n--d
       which we put down with                                                                     forget

   '     Westminster    Gazette.        at                  all   must  read       this           thrilling romance,        from the              first
      Every one who     reads books
       page of which to the last     t--heDbarielaythClehsrosnircelaed. er                                                An inspiration of
         manliness and courage."                                                              is   haled along.          with a wholesome
                                                                                                  and dramatic,
   'A  delightful tale of chivalry      and adventure, vivid
       modesty and reverence for        the highest.' --Globe.
                          A FLASH OF SUMMER. By Mrs.
Mrs.ClCiflfifoforrdd,.                                                                                                           W. K.
                        Author of 'Aunt Anne,' etc. Second Edition.
                                                                                                                                 Crown

       Svo. 6s*
   ' The story is a very sad and a very beautiful one, exquisitely told, and enriched with
       amuatnhyor'ssubrtelpeuttoauticohne--s oaflrewaisdey  and   t--enidnetrhiensriagnhkts.  ofItnowvielll(istusn.'d--ouSbpteedalkye,r. add
   '                                                        high                                                                              to its
      We must congratulate Mrs. Clifford upon a very                                           successful and interesting                     story,
       told throughout with        finish and a                   delicate sense of
       indeed, have always          distinguished                   the best work                 proportion,               quaabllietiews ritwehr.i'ch--,
        Manchester Guardian.                                                                      of this very

Emily Lawless. HURRISH.                                                 By the Honble. Emily Law-
, less, Author of * Maelcho,' etc. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
   A reissue of Miss Lawless' most popular novel, uniform with ' Maelcho.'
Emily Lawless.'            EMmAilEyLCLaHwOless: ,a
                                                                              Sixteenth                 '   Century Romance.
     By the Honble.                                                          Author of                     Grania,' etc. Second
      Edition. Crown Svo. 6s,
'  A really  great book.' -- Spectator.
'  There is  no keener pleasure in life                           than  the  recognition                of genius.          Good work is

      commoner than it used to be, but                            "thMeaeblecshto  is"        as rare as ever. All the more
      gladly, therefore, do we welcome in                                                     a piece of work of the first order,
      which we do not hesitate to describe as one of the most remarkable literary
      achievements of this generation.                            Miss Lawless                is possessed       of the very essence
      of historical genm*.'-- Manchester                          Guardian.
                         Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                                                                                                        27

J. H. Pindlater. THE GREEN GRAVES OF BALGOWRIE.
   By Janb H. Findlater. Third Edition. Croivn Svo. 6s.
'''''''AAAA"AAfTapsvrbwhecieoenouaerwagrylluktleuyGytrlciafrofhueourafallelrynrrinmdegasmintoinGrnoderaargrisrgaylvkeiv,nianravevabonsisedllvad,eedoflspoc.fiat'arnloeBnc--ttrvheadeyeJ.elr.'goe'rst----o,isutcrwtarSaSrnntnpaiaetgdeanalecdlenbt"aTodeaotr--afsaoreEuirrvtg.dPtrdeiuif.aunautlhcallslalMiisttttoiytsoao.en'rull--yfls...''GNa----aanztGVeeiwotautnneaS.airtcdlyoiatOcFnhba.siewrr.vrietre.r of undoubted
'' APenrmeexqatueisditewiitdhylhl,igdhelaicnadten, oabflfeecptuinrgp,osaen. d               --Black and White.
                                                                               beautiful.'  of the most wholesome                                                                                      stories

                                                                               It is one
   we have met with, and cannot fail to leave a deep and lasting impression.'--
   Newsagent.
E. F. Benson, DODO : A DETAIL OF THE DAY. By E. F.
    Benson. Sixteenth Edition. Crown Svo.
'  ABABryidplleeaiarlipwngetrhtliuyttefaurlwllorfyieftatwqesunitti.tt'oeyf--seekpxWeicgteocrprhaltmdioo.nfaasnlodcaiepbtaiylri.at' yd--.o'xS--.p' Ae--cttkSaeptoneraa.ukemr..  6s.
'
'
'

E. P. Benson. THE RUBICON. By E. F. Benson, Author of
   'Dodo.* Fifth Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

' Well written, stimulating, unconventional, and, in a word, characteristic' --
   Birmingham Post.

' An exceptional achievement ; a notable advance on his previous work.'-- National
   Observer.

M. M. Dowie. GALLIA. By Menie Muriel Dowie, Author

     of ' A Girl in the Carpathians. ' Third Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
' The style is generally admirable, the dialogue not seldom brilliant, the situations
   surprising in their freshness and originality, while the subsidiary as well as the
   ptorinccoilpoaplhonch.'a--racStaetrus rdlivaey  and move,  and                   story itself is readable                                                                                   from title-page
                                                   Review.                     the   at times delightfully                                                                                     written book.

'  A--veDryainlyotGabralephbico. ok; a very sympathetically,

Mrs.OliOphlipahnatn. t.     SIR ROBERTS                                             FORTUNE.                                                                                                   By Mrs.

                         Crown Svo. 6s.

' Full of her own peculiar charm of style and simple, subtle character-painting comes
   her new gift, the delightful story before us. The scene mostly lies in the moors,
                         of the authoress                     PSacolltcMh amlloGoar zbeettceo.mes                                                                                   a  living  thing,
                          and changeful.'
    THEand at the touch                             a                                                                                                                                                  strong,

         tender, beautiful,                        --
                                                   TWO MARYS. . By Mrs. Oliphant.
Mrs. Oliphant.
   Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
W. E. Norris. MATTHEW AUSTIN. By W. E. Norris, Author
   of ' Mademoiselle de Mersac,' etc. Fourth Edition. Crown %vo. ds.'
'  "Matthew Austin "
    factory and morally  may safely be pronounced one                               yoefart.h' e--mDoasitlyintTeellleecgtruaaplhly.                                                                    satis
                          bracing novels of the current
W. E. Norris. HIS GRACE. By..W. E. Norris. Third
   Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
' Mr. Norris has drawn a really fine character in the Duke "or Hurstbourne," at'once
   unconventional and very true to the conventionalities of life, weak and strong in
   a breath,  capable of inane follies and heroic                                   odfesctiusdioyn.'s,--yAetthennoat usmo ;de1f'initely                                                               por
   trayed as  to relieve a reader of the necessity
28 Messrs. Methuen's List

W. E. Norris. THE DESPOTIC LADY AND OTHERS.
       By W. E. Norris. Crown Svo. 6r.
    ''AAnbuedxgteret moeflyfooedntfeicrttiaoinninogf  whvioclhumneo--ontheewsilpl rtigirhet.l'ie--stSerfosf
       Daily TeUgraph                                                                                        man.        companions.'--
                                                                                                              holiday

H. G. Wells. THE STOLEN BACILLUS, and other Stories.

     By H. G. Wells, Author of 'The Time Machine.' Crown

       %vo, 6s.

    ' The ordinary reader of fiction may be glad to know that these stories are eminently
       readable from one cover to the other, but they are more than that ; they are the
       impressions of a         'v--erSyatsutrrikdianyg  imagination,     which, it would seem, has a great deal
       within its reach.                                 Review.
Arthur Morrison. TALES OF MEAN STREETS. By Arthur
       Morrison. Fourth Edition, Crown Svo. 6j.
    ' Told with consummate art and extraordinary detail. He tells a plain, unvarnished
       tale, and the very truth of it makes for beauty. In the true humanity of the book
       lies its justification, the permanence of its interest, and its indubitable triumph.'--
       A thenai* nt.
    ' A great book. The author's method is amazingly effective, and produces a thrilling
       sense of   reality. The writer lays upon                     us a master hand. The book is simply
       appalling   and irresistible in its interest.                to mItaikseh.'u--moWrooursld,also ; without humour
       it would   not make the mark it is certain

J. Maclaren Cobban. THE KING OF ANDAMAN : A
       Saviour of Society. By J. Maclaren Cobban. Crown Svo. 6s -
    ' An unquestionably interesting book. It would not surprise us if it turns out to be
       the most interesting novel of the season, for it contains one character, at least,
       who has in him the root of immortality, and the book itself is ever exhaling the
       sweet savour of the unexpected. . . . Plot is forgotten and incident fades, and
             the really     human endures, and           throughout this book there stands                               out  in bold
       only  beautiful     relief its high-souled                                                                        the  Master
       and                                               hainmdseclhf.i'v--alrPicalpl rMotaaglloGniaszt,ettJea,mes
       of Hutcheon, the King of Andaman
    '  A most  original          refreshing story. James                    Hutcheon is a                    personage whom it is
         good  to know     and     impossible to forget.                  He is beautiful                    within and without,
                            and
        whichever  way we take him.' -- Spectator.
    '               of Andaman," is a book which                          does  credit  not                  less      to the heart than
       "The King
       the head of its author.' -- Atherutum.
    '  The fact  othf a"t  Her                        the Queen has been pleased to                                      express to the
         author            The  Majesty               Andaman" her interest in his                           gracefully  doubtless find
                                King of                                                                      work will
       for it many readers.' -- Vanity Fair.

H. Morrah. A SERIOUS COMEDY. By Herbert Morrah.
       Crown Svo. 6s,

    'There   are many delightful          places in this volume, which is well worthy of                                      Iftosrctei.t'le--.
       The   theme has seldom            been presented with more freshness or more

       Scotsman.
       B. Walford. SUCCESSORS TO THE TITLE.
L.                                                                                                                       By   Mrs.
        Walford, Author of 'Mr. Smith,' etc. Second Edition,
                                                                                                                              Crown

       Svo. 6s.

    'The story is fresh and healthy from beginning to finish ; and our liking for the two
       isnimrpelsepepceto. p--leSwcohtosmaaren.the successors to the title mounts steadily, and ends almost
    '.Thceellebnotokreaisdinqgu.i'te--wGolartshgyoivto                                                                      It is ex
                                                         b« ranked  with  many  clever                       predecessors.
                                                        Herald.
                                 Messrs. Methuen's List                                                                                                                            29

T. L. Paton. A HOME IN INVERESK. By T. L. Paton.
          Crown Svo. 6s.
    '     dpblioesotaiknsacwntlhtyicahfnrdebswheaearlsln-wdmrfiatartsekcsninoasftticnoogrnys.'nid--oevrDealba.'lie--lyMpCroohnmrtorionsseice.l'e--.StSacnotdsamradn. .
    '  A
    '  A
       A

John Davidson. MISS ARMSTRONG'S AND OTHER CIR

     CUMSTANCES. By John Davidson. Crown 8w. 6s.

    ' Throughout the volume there is a strong vein of originality, a strength in the
        h--aSncdolitnsgm, ana.nd a knowledge of human nature that are worthy of the highest praise.'

J. B. Burton. IN THE DAY OF ADVERSITY.                                                                                                                                      By J.

     Bloundelle Burton. Crown Svo. 6s.'
    '  AU--nwuPeslual-aiwllrlMiytteiannltlerGsetasotzrienyt,gted.aranwdnfuflrloomf  highly dramatic situations.' --Guardian.
                                                                                    that inexhaustible mine, the time of Louis                                                     XIV.

H. Johnston. DR. CONGALTON'S LEGACY. By Henry
       Johnston. Crown Svo. 6s.
    ' The story is redolent of humour, pathos, and tenderness, while it is not without a
         touch of tragedy.' -- Scotsman.
       A worthy and permanent contribution                                          to Scottish creative literature.' --Glasgow
          Herald.

Julian Corbett. A BUSINESS IN GREAT WATERS. By
       Julian Corbett. Crown %vo. 6s.
    ' In this stirring story Mr. Julian Corbett has done excellent work, welcome alike
          fMorr.itCsodrbisettint ctwlyritelsitewrairtyh  flavour, and for the                     wholesome tone which pervades it.
                                                         immense spirit, and                      the book is a thoroughly enjoyable
          one in all respects. The                       saadltveonftutrhees.'o--ceSapneaiskeirn.   and the right neroic ring re
          sounds through its gallant                                                              is
                                                                                                           it,

                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                                                                           a
C.     Phillips Woolley.                               CTlivHeEPhQiUlliEpEs NWSoBoEllReyR,YAuCthUoPr .                                                                      A   Tale
                                                                                                                                                                               Snap,'
         of Adventure. By                                                                                                                                               of
          Editor of Big Game Shooting.' Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6s.
''
                               --wSilclodtsemligahnt.                               a book which upholds the healthy schoolboy code
  A

                              *
           book which                                    boys:
          of morality.'
    A     brilliant  book.         Dick St. Clair,                                  of Caithness,   apnugaillmisot.s' t--idAedalmcirhaalrtayctearn--d Hocrosme-
          bination   of the      mediaeval knight                                   and the modern
       guards Gazette.

Robert Barr. IN THE MIDST OF ALARMS. By Robert
          Barr. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
                                                                                                    hruemasoounr.'to--bDeapilryouCdh.'ro--niPclae.ll
         book which            has abundantly satisfied us                          by its capital
                               achieved a triumph whereof                            he has every
    'Mr. Barr has
  ''      Malt Gazette.

L.  A  Daintrey.                 TBHyELauKrIaNGDaiOntFreAy.LBECrRowIAn .Svo.A                                                                                           Romance    of

        isthe Balkans.                                                              .                                                                                   6s.
                 is
       Miss Daintrey seems to have an intimate acquaintance with the people and politics
          of the Balkan countries in which the scene of her lively and picturesque romance
          laid.' On almost every page we find clever touches of local colour which dif
          ferentiate her book    unmistakably from                                  --theGlaosrdgionwaryHenroavldel.  of                                                           The
          story briskly told,    and well conceived.'                                                                                                                   commerce.
3o Messrs. Methuen's List

Mrs. Pinsent. CHILDREN OF THIS WORLD. By Ellen
       F. Pinsent, Author of 'Jenny's Case.' Crown Svo. 6s.
    '
       Mrs. Pinsent's    new novel   hsatrsenpglethntyofotfouvcigho,uar,ndvacrlieeatryn, esasndofgvoisoidonw. 'r--itiAngth. enTtehuemre.
         are certainty  of purpose,

Olark RusselL MY DANISH SWEETHEART. By W.
     Clark Russell, Author of 'The Wreck of the Grosvenor,' etc.

       Illustrated. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

G. Manville Fenn. AN ELECTRIC SPARK. By G. Manville

      Fenn. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

     A simple and wholesome story.' -- Manchester Guardian.

R.     Pryce.   TIME        AND THE WOMAN. By Richard                                                                      Pryce,
        Author
                of ' Miss   Maxwell's Affections,' 'The Quiet Mrs.                                                        Fleming,'

       etc. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
    ' Mr. Pryce's
       its literary  rweosrekrvere.'c--alAlsththeenasutymle. of Octave  Feuillet,  by its clearness, conciseness,

Mrs. Watson. THIS MAN'S DOMINION. By the Author

     of i A High Little World.' Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

Marriott Watson. DIOGENES OF LONDON. By H. B.
     Marriott Watson. Crown Svo. Buckram. 6s.
' By all those who delight in the uses of words, who rate the exercise of prose above
    the exercise of verse, who rejoice in all proofs of its delicacy and its strength, who
    believe that English prose is chief among the moulds of thought, by these
    Mr. Marriott Watson's book will be welcomed.' -- National Observer.
M. Gilchrist. THE STONE DRAGON. By Murray Gil

     christ. Crown Svo. Buckram. 6s.
    ' The author's faults are atoned for hy certain positive and admirable merits. The
       romances have not    --theNiraticoonuanlteOrpbasret rvienr.  modern  literature,  and to read them is a
       unique experience.'

E. Dickinson. A VICAR'S WIFE. By Evelyn Dickinson.
       Crown Svo. 6s.

E. M. Gray. ELSA. By E. M'Queen Gray. Crown Svo. 6s.

                        THREE-AND-8IXPENNY NOVEL8

                                             Crown Svo.                            By Edna Lyall.

DERRICK VAUGHAN, NOVELIST.
TMJSAHUACEBRQGJUEMEECROTTYTVAITN.OOGFVBAFQyINUNSIEG.TTEBYHRa.E.rRinB.gyByMGBMoayuraSglrd.ya.BrGeaartiunBnget.nGsoonu.ld.
JACO TRELOAR. By J. H. Pearce.
              Messrs. Methuen's List                                   3*

AUT DIABOLUS AUT NIHIL. By X. L.
THE COMING OF CUCULAIN. A Romance of the Heroic

      Age of Ireland. By Standish O'Grady. Illustrated.

THE GODS GIVE MY DONKEY WINGS. By Angus

      Evan Abbott.

THE STAR GAZERS. By G. Manville Fenn.
THE POISON OF ASPS. By R. Orton Prowse.
THE QUIET MRS. FLEMING. By R. Pryce.
THE PLAN OF CAMPAIGN. By F. Mabel Robinson.
DISENCHANTMENT. By F. Mabel Robinson.
MR. BUTLER'S WARD. By F. Mabel Robinson.
A LOST ILLUSION. By Leslie Keith.
A REVEREND GENTLEMAN. By J. M. Cobban.
A DEPLORABLE AFFAIR. By W. E. Norris.
A CAVALIER'S LADYE. By Mrs. Dicker.

              HALF-CROWN NOVELS

              A Series of Novels by popular Authors.
    1. HOVENDEN, V.C. By F. Mabel Robinson.
2. ELI'S CHILDREN. By G. Manville Fenn.
3. A DOUBLE KNOT. By G. Manville Fenn.
4. DISARMED By M. Betham Edwards.
    A MARRIAGE AT SEA. By W. Clark Russell.
5.  IN TENT AND BUNGALOW. By the Author of ' Indian
6.

    Idylls.'
7. MY STEWARDSHIP. By E. M'Queen Gray.
8. JACK'S FATHER. By W. E. Norris.
9. JIM B.

Lynn Linton. THE TRUE HISTORY                     LOyFnnJOLSinHtoUnA.  DAVID

      SON, Christian and Communist. By E.                               Eleventh

    Edition. Post %vo. Is.

    Books for Boys and Girls

    A Series of Books by well-known Authors, well illustrated.
    THE  ICLEITLTALNEDECRH'SILSDWROERND.          S. Baring
1.  TWO                                       By  CHING.        Gould.
2.  E. COTHELL.
                                          AND                   By Edith
32 Messrs. Methuen's List

3.  TODDLEBEN'S HERO. By M. M. Blake.
4.  ONLY A GUARD ROOM             DOG. By    EByditHharEr.yCCuotlhlienlgl.-
5.  THE DOCTOR OF THE
                                   JULIET.
           WOOD.

6. MASTER ROCKAFELLAR'S VOYAGE. By W. Clark
    Russell.
    SYD BELTON : Or, The
7.   By G. Manville Fenn.         Boy  who   would  not     go  to                                    Sea.

              The Peacock Library

  A Series of Books for Girls by well-known Authors,
handsomely bound in blue and silver, and well illustrated.

1.  A PINCH OF EXPERIENCE. By L. B. Walford.
2.  THE  RED GRANGE. By Mrs. MOLESWORTH.
    THE  SECRET OF MADAME DE MONLUC.                                                              By  the
3.  Author of ' Mdle Mori.'

4.  DUMPS.    OTBFHy ETMHiFsE.ASPPHaErIOrO,PNLA.Eut.hBoyrByoLf. L'T.A.dTaM. meMaedaanedd.e.Eve.'
    OUT OF
5.  A GIRL
6.  THHEPESYHOGNIOPSUYR.ABBLyEL.  T. Meade.
                                  MISS. By
7.                                              2s. 6d.
8.
                                             L. T. Meade.
9. MY LAND OF BEULAH. By Mrs. Leith Adams.

        University Extension Series

  A series of books on historical, literary, and scientific subjects, suitable

for extension students and home-reading circles. Each volume is com
plete in itself, and the subjects are treated by competent writers in a
broad and philosophic spirit.

                        Edited by J. E. SYMES, M.A.,

                     Principal of University College, Nottingham.
                   Crown Svo. Price (with some exceptions) 2s. 6d.

                             The following volumes are ready :--

THE INDUSTRIAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By H. de

      B. Gibbins, M.A., late Scholar of Wadham College, Oxon., Cobden
       Prizeman. Fourth Edition, With Maps and Plans, $s.
   'A compact and clear story of our ndustrial development. A study of this concise

          but luminous book cannot fail to give the reader a clear insight into the principal
        phenomena of our industrial history. The editor and publishers are to be congrat
         ulated on this first volume of their venture, and we shall look with expectant
         interest for the succeeding volumes of the series.' -- University Extension Journal*
              Messrs. Methuen's List                  33

A HISTORY OF ENGLISH POLITICAL ECONOMY. By
L. L. Price, M.A., Fellow of Oriel College, Oxon. Second Edition.

PROBLEMS OF POVERTY : An Inquiry into the Industrial
     Conditions of the Poor. By J. A. Hobson, M. A. Third Edition.
VICTORIAN POETS. By A. Sharp.
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. By J. E. Symes, M.A.
PSYCHOLOGY. By F. S. Granger, M.A., Lecturer in Philo

      sophy at University College, Nottingham.

THE EVOLUTION OF PLANT LIFE: Lower Forms. By

G. Masske, Kew Gardens. With Illustrations.

AIR AND WATER. Professor V. B. Lewes, M.A. Illustrated.
THE CHEMISTRY OF LIFE AND HEALTH. By C. W.

     Kimmins, M.A. Camb. Illustrated.

THE MECHANICS OF DAILY LIFE. By V. P. SELLS, M.A.

Illustrated.

ENGLISH SOCIAL REFORMERS. H. de B. Gibbins, M.A.
ENGLISH TRADE AND FINANCE IN THE SEVEN
     TEENTH CENTURY. By W. A. S. Hewins, B.A.
THE CHEMISTRY OF FIRE. The Elementary Principles of
Chemistry. "ByM. M. Pattison Muir, M.A. Illustrated.
A TEXT-BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL BOTANY. By M. C.
Potter, M.A., F.L.S. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

THE VAULT OF HEAVEN. A Popular Introduction to
Astronomy. By R. A. Gregory.
                              With numerous Illustrations.

METEOROLOGY. The Elements of Weather and Climate.
     By H. N. Dickson, F.R.S.E., F.R. Met. Soc. Illustrated.

A MANUAL OF ELECTRICAL SCIENCE. By George
    J. Burch, M.A. With numerous Illustrations, y.

THE EARTH. An Introduction to Physiography. By Evan

     Small, M.A. Illustrated.

INSECT LIFE. By F. W. Theobald, M.A. Illustrated.

ENGLISH POETRY FROM BLAKE TO BROWNING. By

W. M. Dixon, M.A.

ENGLISH LOCAL GOVERNMENT. By E. Jenks, M.A,

Professor of Law at University College, Liverpool.
34 Messrs. Methuen's List

           Social Questions of To-day

              Edited by H. de B. GIBBINS, M.A.

              Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

A series of volumes upon those topics of social, economic,

and industrial interest that are at the present moment fore

most in the public mind. Each volume of the series is written by an

author who is an acknowledged authority upon the subject with which

he deals.

              The following Volumes of the Series are ready :--

TRADE UNIONISM-- NEW AND OLD. By G. Howell,

      Author of ' The Conflicts of Capital and Labour. ' Second Edition.

THE CO-OPERATIVE          MOVEMENT TO-DAY. By                            G. J.

     Holyoake, Author of  · The History of Co-operation.'                Second

Edition.

MUTUAL         THRIFT. By Rev.           MJo. veFmroemnt.e'  Wilkinson,  M.A.,

      Author  of ' The Friendly Society

PROBLEMS OF POVERTY : An Inquiry into the Industrial
     Conditions of the Poor. By J. A. Hobson, M.A. Third Edition.
THE COMMERCE OF NATIONS. By C. F. Bastable,

     M.A., Professor of Economics at Trinity College, Dublin.

THE ALIEN INVASION. By W. H. Wilkins, B.A., Secretary
to the Society for Preventing the Immigration of Destitute Aliens.

THE RURAL EXODUS. By P. Anderson Graham.
LAND NATIONALIZATION. By Harold Cox, B.A.

A SHORTER WORKING DAY. By H. de B. Gibbins

     and R. A. Hadfield, of the Hecla Works, Sheffield.

BACK TO THE LAND : An Inquiry into the Cure for Rural

      Depopulation. By H. E. Moore.

TRUSTS, POOLS AND CORNERS : As affecting Commerce
     and Industry. By J. Stephen Jeans, M.R.I., F.S.S.

THE FACTORY SYSTEM. By R. Cooke Taylor.
THE STATE AND ITS CHILDREN. By Gertrude
      TUCKWELL.

WOMMiEssNW'ShitWleyO.RK. By Lady Dilke, Miss Bulley, and
Messrs. Methuen's List                                       35

MUNICIPALITIES AT WORK. The Municipal Policy of
       Six Great Towns, and its Influence on their Social Welfare. By
     Frederick Dolman.

SOCIALISM AND MODERN THOUGHT. By M. Kauf-

       MANN.

THE HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES. By R.

      F. BOWMAKER.

MODERN CIVILISATION IN SOME OF ITS ECONOMIC

     ASPECTS. By W. Cunningham, D.D., Fellow of Trinity College,

        Cambridge.

Classical Translations

Edited by H. F. FOX, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose

                                   College, Oxford.

   Messrs. Methuen are issuing a New Series of Translations from the
Greek and Latin Classics. They have enlisted the services of some
of the best Oxford and Cambridge Scholars, and it is their intention that
the Series shall be distinguished by literary excellence as well as by
scholarly accuracy.

/ESCHYLUS --Agamemnon,          LCLho.Dep.h, olraotee,    Eumenides. Trans
                                                        Professor of Greek at St.
      lated by Lewis Campbell,
Andrews. $s.

CICERO-- De Oratore I. Translated by E. N. P. Moor, M.A,
     Assistant Master at Clifton, y. 6d.

CICERO -- Select        Orations (Pro   Milone, Pro Murena,  Philippic II.,
                         Translated by  H. E. D. Blakiston,  M.A., Fellow
      In Catilinam).
and Tutor of Trinity College, Oxford. 5j.

CICERO-- De Natura Deorum. Translated by F. Brooks,
     M.A., late Scholar of Balliol College, Oxford. 3;. 6d.
LUCIAN -- Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Cock,
TS.heT.ShIirpw, iTnh,e  Parasite, The Lover of                Translated by
                        M.A., Assistant Master  Falsehood).  late Scholar of
       Exeter College, Oxford. 3*. 6d.          at Clifton;

SOPHOCLES-- Electra and Ajax.                   ATranslated by E. D.
Morshead, M.A., late Scholar of New College, Oxford ; Assistant
Master at Winchester. 2s. 6d.

TACITUS-- Agricola and Germania. Translated by R. B.

      Townshknd, late Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge, is. 6d,
36 Messrs. Methuen's List

               Educational Books

                                            CLASSICAL

TACITI AGRICOLA. With Introduction, Notes, Map, etc.

      By R. F. Davis, M.A., Assistant Master at Weymouth College.

       Crown Svo. 2s.

TACITI GERMANIA. By the same Editor. Crown Svo. 2s.

HERODOTUS: EASY SELECTIONS. With Vocabulary.
     By A. C. Liddell, M.A., Assistant Master at Nottingham High

       School. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

SELECTIONS FROM THE ODYSSEY. By E. D. Stone,

     M.A., late Assistant Master at Eton. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

PLAUTUS : THE CAPTIVI. Adapted for Lower Forms by

     J. H. Frekse, M. A., late Fellow of St. John's, Cambridge, it. 6d.
DEMOSTHENES AGAINST CONON AND CALLICLES.

     Edited with Notes, and Vocabulary, by F. Darwin Swift, M.A.,

       formerly Scholar of Queen's College, Oxford ; Assistant Master at
       Denstone College. Fcap. Svo. 2s.

                                                   GERMAN

A COMPANION GERMAN GRAMMAR. By H. de B.

     Gibbins, M.A., Assistant Master at Nottingham High School.

       Crown Svo. is. dd.

GERMAN . PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN TRANSLATION.

      By E. M'Queen Gray. Croivn Svo. 2s. 6d.

                                        SCIENCE

THEjWORLD OF SCIENCE. Including Chemistry, Heat,

Light, Sound, Magnetism,                ElBecytriRci.tyE, lBliootatnyS, tZeoeoll,ogMy,.APh.,ysiFo.loCg.yS,.
Astronomy, and Geology.

147 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

Mr. Steel's Manual       is  admirable  oifnthmeaynoyunwga. y's--. SaTtuhredabyookReivsiewwe.ll  calculated  to
  , attract and retain  the  attention
! If Mr. Steel is to be placed second to any for this quality of lucidity, it is only to
Huxley himself ; and to be named in the same breath with this master of the
craft of teaching       is to be accredited  with the  clearness of   --styPleareanndts'siRmepvliiceiwty.    of
arrangement that        belong to thorough   mastery   of a subject'

ELEMENTARY, LIGHT. By R. E. STEEL. With numerous

Illustrations.'" Crown Svo.' 4J. 6d.
Messrs. Methuen's List  37

                                                 ENGLISH

ENGLISH RECORDS. A Companion to the History of

     England. By H. E. Malden, M. A. Crown %vo. p. 6d.

   A book which aims at concentrating information upon dates, genealogy, officials,

         constitutional documents, etc., which is usually found scattered in different
         volumes.

THE ENGLISH CITIZEN : HIS RIGHTS AND DUTIES.

     By H. E. Malden, M.A. is. 6d.

    'The book goes «ver the same ground as is traversed in the school books on this
       subject written to satisfy the requirements of the Education code. It would
        serve admirably the purposes of a text-book, as it is well based in historical
        facts, and keeps quite clear of party matters.'-- Scotsman.

             METHUEN'S COMMERCIAL SERIES.

                      Edited by H. de B. GIBBINS, M.A.

BRITISH COMMERCE AND COLONIES FROM ELIZA
     BETH TO VICTORIA By H. de B. Gibbins, M.A., Author of

       ' The Industrial History of England,' etc. etc. 2s.

COMMERCIAL EXAMINATION PAPERS. By H. DE B.

      Gibbins, M.A. is. 6d.

THE ECONOMICS OF COMMERCE. By H. de B. Gibbins,

      M.A. is. 6d.

A MANUAL OF FRENCH COMMERCIAL CORRE
     SPONDENCE. By S. E. Bally, Modern Language Master at

       the Manchester Grammar School. 2s.

A FRENCH COMMERCIAL READER. By S. E. Bally.

          2S.

COMMERCIAL GEOGRAPHY, with special reference to Trade

     Routes, New Markets, and Manufacturing Districts. By L. W. Lyde,
     M.A., of the Academy, Glasgow. 2s.

A PRIMER OF BUSINESS. By S. Jackson, M.A. is. 6d

COMMERCIAL ARITHMETIC. By F. G. Taylor,

      M.A. is. 6d.
38 Messrs. Methuen's List

                works by a.m. m. stedmah, m.a.  Accidence.
INITIA LATINA: Easy Lessons on Elementary

      Second Edition. Fcap. Svt. is.

FIRST LATIN LESSONS. Fourth Edition. CrownSvo. zs.
FIRST LATIN READER. With Notes adapted to the

      Shorter Latin Primer and Vocabulary. Second Edition. Crown Svo.
       is. 6d.

EASY SELECTIONS FROM          CAESAR. Part L The Hel
                              LIVY. Part i. The Kings of
       vetian War. iSmo. is.

EASY SELECTIONS FROM

       Rome. iSmo. is. 6d.

EASY LATIN PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN TRANSLA

     TION. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.
EXEMPLA LATINA. First Lessons in Latin Accidence.

      With Vocabulary. Crown Svo. is.

EASY LATIN EXERCISES ON THE SYNTAX OF THE

     SHORTER AND REVISED LATIN PRIMER. With Vocabu-

      lary. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d. Issued with the con
      sent of Dr. Kennedy

THE LATIN COMPOUND SENTENCE : Rules and

      Exercises. Crown Svo. is. 6d. With Vocabulary. 2s.

NOTANDA QUAEDAM : Miscellaneous Latin Exercises on

       Common Rules and Idioms. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.
      With Vocabulary, 2s.

LATIN VOCABULARIES FOR REPETITION : Arranged

      according to Subjects. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

A VOCABULARY OF LATIN IDIOMS AND PHRASES.
       iSmo. is.

STEPS TO GREEK, l&mo. is.

EASY GREEK PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN TRANSLA
     TION. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

GREEK VOCABULARIES FOR REPETITION. Arranged

      according to Subjects. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

GREEK TESTAMENT SELECTIONS. For the use of

      Schools. Third Edition. With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabu
       lary. Fcap. Svo. 2s. 6d.
Messrs. Methuen's List                                    39

STEPS TO FRENCH. iSmo. Sd.
FIRST FRENCH LESSONS. Crown Svo. is.
EASY FRENCH PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN TRANSLA

     TION. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d.

EASY FRENCH EXERCISES ON ELEMENTARY

     SYNTAX. With Vocabulary. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

FRENCH VOCABULARIES FOR REPETITION : Arranged

      according to Subjects. Third Edition. Fcaf.Svo. is.

     SCHOOL EXAMINATION SERIES.
Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.

                                         Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

FRENCH EXAMINATION PAPERS IN MISCELLANE

     OUS GRAMMAR AND IDIOMS. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A.

       Sixth Edition.

        A Key, issued to Tutors and Private Students only, to be had on

       application to the Publishers. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. ti t.

LATIN EXAMINATION PAPERS IN MISCELLANEOUS

     GRAMMAR AND IDIOMS. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A.
     Fourth Edition. Key issued as above. 6s. net.

GREEK EXAMINATION PAPERS IN MISCELLANEOUS
     GRAMMAR AND IDIOMS. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A

      Third Edition. Key issued as above. 6s. net.

GERMAN EXAMINATION PAPERS IN MISCELLANE
OUS GRAMMAR AND IDIOMS. By R.                 J. Morich,
chester. Third Edition. Key issued as above.              Man
                                               6s. net.

HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY EXAMINATION PAPERS.

     By C. H. Spence, M.A., Clifton Coll.

SCIENCE EXAMINATION PAPERS. ByR. E. Steel, M.A,

      F.C.S., Chief Natural Science Master, Bradford Grammar School.
     In two vols. Part I. Chemistry ; Part II. Physics.

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE EXAMINATION PAPERS.

      By A. M. M. Stedman, M. A. Second Edition. Key issued as
      above. Js. net.

