William Kitchen Parker, F.R.S. : sometime Hunterian Professor of
Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons of England
: a biographical sketch / by T. Jeffery Parker.

Parker, T. Jeffery (Thomas Jeffery), 1850-1897.
London ; Macmillan, 1893.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044079806360

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
WPTPFKJehaia.tifRolrcrflkmihek.aeeSeramrynsr.,
$?arbarti College ILtlirarg

JOHN  FROM THE BEQUEST OF

      AMORY LOWELL,

          (Class of 1813 .

This fund is $20,000, and of its income three quarters
          shall be spent for books and one quarter
                      be added to the principal.
WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER
.'A .
I
0

  William Kitchen Parker

                                     F.R.S.

           SOMETIME HUNTERIAN PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY
               AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE ROYAL COLLEGE
                               OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND

                       Si Btopaplji'cal fefeetcij

           f-fi BY HIS SON

          T. JEFFERY JARKER

          MACMILLAN AND CO.

                              AND NEW YORK
                                     1893
ii 13 1893
Nature never did betray

The heart that loved her ; 'tis her privilege,

Through all the years of this our life, to lead

From joy to joy ; for she can so inform

The mind that is within us, so impress

With quietness and beauty, and so feed

With lofty thoughts, that neither evil tongues,

Rash judgments, nor the sneers of selfish men,

Nor greetings where no kindness
Is                                                               nor all
                                                            is,
The dreary intercourse of daily life,

Shall e'er prevail against us or disturb

Our cheerful faith, that all which we behold

full of blessings.
The following pages are founded upon a
short sketch of my father's life and work,

which was circulated in manuscript among

the members of the family shortly after his
death. I am not altogether responsible for

the delay in publication.

   My sincere thanks are due to Professor
Huxley for his very interesting letter printed
on p. xi, and to several of my father's

correspondents who have most kindly placed

his letters to them at my disposal. I must

also express my great indebtedness to the
viii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

Obituary Notice in the Proceedings of the
Royal Society, vol. 48, by Professor Rupert

Jones and Mr. J. E. Harting ; and to an

article in the London Quarterly Review for

April 1891, by the late Mr. G. T. Bettany.

Mr. Bettany was in the habit of taking notes

of my father's conversations, and I have

therefore quoted freely from his records, only

venturing to correct one or two trifling in

accuracies.  T. Jeffery Parker.

March 1893.
   .......CONTENTS

Introductory Letter by the Right Hon. T. H. PAGE
Huxley                                               xi

                             I                       1

Birthplace -- Parentage --Early Life

                           II

.12Apprenticeship -- Student Life . . .

                         III                         25

Marriage -- Medical Practice -- Researches on the    47

        Foraminifera and on the Vertebrate Skeleton

      IV ...

Researches on the Vertebrate Skull
WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

                                 V                     PAGE
Literary Characteristics -- Miscellaneous Writings
                                                         60

                         VI

Scientific Honours -- Professorship -- Retirement
from Practice --Personal Characteristics
                                                    .  83

                           VII                      . 107

Religion -- Character -- Personal Appearance

Last Days --Death        VIII

                                                       123

List of Published Works                                133
      INTRODUCTORY LETTER

My dear Parker -- The biography of

your father, which you have allowed me to
read, gives a presentation as accurate as it is

vivid, of a man of noble and lovable char
acter, endowed with intellectual powers of
a very unusual order. In fact, I have never
met with another such combination of minute

accuracy in observation and boundless memory
for details, with a vagrancy of imagination
which absolutely rioted in the scenting out
xii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER
of subtle and often far-fetched analogies.
The genius of an artist struggled with that
of a philosopher, and not unfrequently the
latter got the worst of the contest. In our
innumerable confabulations over your father's

work I considered it my duty to pose as the

stern ally of the weaker side ; and it grieves
me to think of how many waifs and strays
(often of much literary beauty, but with no
earthly business where they made their

appearance) I may be responsible for smother
ing. My merciless criticisms were accepted

with unfailing sweetness ; but the proverb
about the difference between taking a horse
to the water and making him drink has a

particular application to cases of this kind.

One is an expositor by nature, or not at all.
INTRODUCTORY LETTER  xiii

Your father simply poured his mind into his

drawings and spread it out over the manu
script which, as it were accidentally, ac
companied them. The result is a marvellous
body of documentary evidence, quite unprece
dented for extent and for accuracy, in which
the adept morphologist will find a store of

valuable facts and suggestions, while the

neophyte will more probably become hope

lessly lost. " To him that hath shall be

given" would be an appropriate motto for
the whole collection of monographs.

     The only personal recollection of my
old friend which it occurs to me to mention

has reference to the occasion (mentioned in
the Biography, p. 83) when, as the recipient
of a Royal Medal, he had to speak at the
xiv WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

Royal Society Dinner. Practised speakers
find a performance of this kind somewhat of

an ordeal ; and, I confess, I was not a little
anxious as to how a man of your father's
retired habits and highly - strung nervous
organisation would get through it. My
anxiety proved altogether superfluous. I

have listened to a great many such speeches,
but never to a better, whether in matter or
in manner. For dignified simplicity, pure
English, and literary quality, John Bright has
provided the only parallel in my experience.

It was a curious illustration of what char
acter will do for a man. The duty of ex
pressing truthfully and to the best of his

ability that which it seemed fitting to
his candid and modest mind should be
INTRODUCTORY LETTER                       xv

said, weighed upon your father, to the

complete exclusion of all other considera

tions, and it made him for the nonce      a

perfect orator. --Ever yours very truly,

T. H. Huxley.
~

                                         I

        My father's birthplace is an old farmhouse

         in the little village of Dogsthorpe, about two

           miles from Peterborough : a rambling, white

         washed, stone building, partly of one, partly
         of two stories, thickly thatched with reeds,
         and standing at the end of a charming
         garden full of old-fashioned flowers and well-
          grown trees. The house was built in 1635
          by one Walter Sly, whose initials are duly
          carved on a gable -end. The large, low

           rooms, with great beams crossing the ceiling,
2 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                         i

the window of the sitting-room or " house "

with its broad ledge always full of flowers,

the staircase with its heavy oaken balustrade,

the wide, open chimney in the kitchen, all

combined to make the house as delightful

inside as outside it was picturesque.

    My father was always pleased to recall the

numerous Shakespearian names in his county:

Walter Sly he connected with Kit of that

ilk, and a neighbouring field, known as

" Nabb's -- formerly pronounced Napp's --

close," gave him a sort of personal interest

in that mysterious personage Old John Naps
of Greece.

    The village is of the usual midland type, a
single straggling street of cottages and farm

houses, with a smithy and a little general

shop, the mingled odours of which linger in

the nostrils after half a lifetime. There was,

however, no church, as the village was in
i WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 3

the parish of St. John, Peterborough, and
mission-rooms were not then invented. As a

walk of two miles to and from church was a

serious thing to the hard-worked peasants on
their one day of rest, the religiously disposed
attended the church in the neighbouring
village of Paston, while the rest spent their
time, when the public-houses were shut, in
leaning against walls, clad in smock-frocks
or in the gorgeous velveteen sleeved-waist
coats, which now no longer add their pleas
ing bit of red to the rural scene.

    To remedy this godless state of things,
my grandfather, who was a Wesleyan of the
old school -- a Methodist-Churchman -- had
services on Sunday evenings in one of his

cottages, and afterwards took the chief share

in the erection of a chapel -- a tiny brick

building with a pulpit, some dozen pews
for the farmers, and forms behind for the
4 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                     i

labourers. According to the custom of the
Methodists of that day, the chapel services
were never held at the same time as those of

Paston church, where my grandfather was

regular in his attendance.  But for the

deeper spiritual wants of his nature he found

more satisfaction in the earnest homely wor

ship of Methodism than in the colder, more

formal, and perhaps rather perfunctory ser

vices of the Church of England of that time.
My father's religious views and religious life
were a direct outcome of this, now obsolete,

mingling of churchmanship with dissent.
    My grandfather, Thomas Parker, was a

working farmer, farming his own land --an

upright, God-fearing man, with the native
courtesy so often associated with the pro
vincial speech and dress of the midland

yeoman. Although possessed of no special

intellectual ability, he must have been a very
i WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 5

capable business man : he made his farm pay-

handsomely, and was able to provide a re

spectable patrimony for each of his children.
He married a farmer's daughter, Sarah

Kitchen, from whom my father considered

he inherited his intellectual tastes. She was

a great reader, and it was not long before
her death that my father sent her his large
copy of Milton's Poems, that she might
renew her acquaintance with her favourite

author. I remember her well as a refined,

sweet-faced old lady in a large white cap and
auburn " front," knitting by the window

of the " house " in the wheel-chair in which,

owing to paralysis of the lower limbs, she
was condemned to pass her latter days.

    My father's connections on both sides --
Parkers, Newtons, Kitchens, and Christians --

seem to have all been farmers, those on the

father's side the more practical, those on the
6 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  i

mother's side the more contemplative. One

of his maternal uncles was a somewhat re

markable character in his way : he neglected

his farm to sit up reading, his favourite
subjects being geology and archaeology. He
took a great interest in the parish church of

his village --Skillington, Lincolnshire, where
Sir Isaac Newton went to school--and when
I last saw him was helping to get a memorial
window erected to the late vicar, Mr. Hud

son, who was killed during the descent of
the Matterhorn, in Mr. Whymper's celebrated
expedition. He was also notable for his Lam-

bertian proportions, weighing at least twenty-

three stone -- how much more was never

known, as the scales refused to register any

thing higher. When he was measured for a

coat, no tape could be found to meet round his

" waist," and he had to tell the tailor to
" stick in a pin and begin again."
i WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 7

    My father, the second son, and, with the
exception of six little ones who died in in
fancy, the youngest child of his parents, was
born on the 23rd of June 1823. He used to
say that his earliest recollection was of the

joy he felt, when about three years old, at
the sight of a marsh-marigold or " water-

blob " -- a characteristic reminiscence since,

to the end of his life, the beauty of a wild-
flower was to him a source of the keenest

enjoyment.

    He was sent when quite young to a dame-

school in the village, and afterwards to the
parish schools of Werrington and Paston :
more than this his father does not seem to

have thought necessary ; and, like other boys
of his station in life, the intervals of school-

time were filled up by work on the farm--un

congenial enough to a lad whose delight was
in Nature and in books, and who would will
8 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  i

ingly have given all his spare time to reading,
looking after his pets, and preparing skeletons.
He often spoke with enthusiasm and grati
tude of the benefit received during boy

hood from the Penny Magazine, edited, if

I remember rightly, by P. M. Roget, and

would often run long distances to get the
monthly number a little earlier. Besides read

ing all he could get hold of, he taught himself
drawing : he learnt shading by observing

the sun -illuminated railings, and a pencil

drawing of some sheep which I saw years

afterwards at the paternal farm-house was

a very creditable production for a self-taught

boy.

    This kind of life --farm-work tempered
by intermittent schooling -- went on till he

was over fourteen, when the incongruity be

tween what he was doing and what he felt
himself fitted for forced itself upon him and
   r WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 9

   he " struck." To quote his own words as
   reported by Mr. Bettany : --

       " Thirty-nine years ago this day (i.e. in

   1838) I came home from the turnip-field,

   from cropping up the ball of the turnips after

   the sheep had eaten all they could get at--

   wet, and weary, and utterly miserable ; and I

   made up my mind that should be the last of

   it. Next day--Sunday-- in the afternoon, I

   said to my father : ' Father, I'm going to

   school to-morrow. This is not the sort of

   work I'm cut out for in life, and I can't

   stand it any longer.'  He said, 'Very well,
   my lad, you shall.'
                          I said, 'Thank you,

   father,' and was happy. My idea then was
   that I would be either a bookseller or a

   lawyer."

       The result of this assertion of himself was
   that he went for three quarters of a year to

   the Peterborough Grammar School, under the

V
10 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  i

Rev. William Cape. There he learnt all the

Latin and Greek he ever knew, which I fancy

was almost as much as many people are able

to remember as the result of the seven or

eight years usually devoted to these subjects.
    By the time this short grammar school

course was over he had reached his full height
of 5 feet 9^ inches, growing 8 inches be

tween fourteen and fifteen years of age. His
schoolfellows nicknamed him " Tony Lump

kin," and the chaff to which his short coat-

sleeves and trousers exposed him led to the only

breach of the peace he was ever known to

commit : he silenced his persecutors by thrash

ing the biggest of them, and was thereafter let
alone. His rapid growth seems to have had

a permanently weakening effect : from this
time he was always frail and weakly, and

suffered enough to bring a man of less energy
into a condition of permanent invalidism.
i  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  n

    It was during his fifteenth year that

he began to lead the intensely religious life
for which he was thenceforth remarkable.

Full of life and energy, ingenuous and
sincere, he had no taint of the morbid
condition of mind often associated with
youthful piety, or of the superficial saintli-

ness so readily assumed by imitative children
under suitable surroundings ; but to him the

things of the spirit were the truest realities,
and the development of his own spiritual
nature at once the highest duty and the
keenest joy.
                         II

My father's short boyhood was now over.

After leaving school at the age of fifteen he
finally decided to have nothing to do with

farming, and was apprenticed to a druggist
named WoodrofFe at Stamford. Here, like

Marryat's Japhet, he learnt "the rudiments";
but, not content with learning to decipher

prescriptions and compound potions, under

took, out of hours, an amount of work which
is a sure index of his wonderful industry and

enthusiasm.

  "... We opened at 7 a.m. and shut at
ii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 13

10 p.m. So I used to get up often three

hours before seven, and go out over the

fields and woods botanising ; and thus in

two summers I collected and preserved five
hundred species of plants. I have them now.
I used to go out with my fellow -apprentice
Jack Day ; and sometimes I had to pull him

out of bed or pommel him before he would

get up. . . .

   " I read my first Physiology while making

sheep -ointment in a huge trough, with a lot
of pestles revolving by machinery, into which
two quart bottles of quicksilver were emptied

and mixed with grease and various other

ingredients, and then revolved till the quick

silver was killed, and then again mixed.

While this was going on I managed to do

some reading."

    He was often accompanied on his botanical

expeditions by his life -long friend, the Rev.
14 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                    ii

Samuel Walker. He used to wake him by

throwing stones at his window, and while
Mr. Walker was dressing employed his time
by learning the Book of Proverbs by heart.

    It was in this way that he acquired his

remarkably extensive and accurate knowledge

of botany ; for the rest of his life every native

flower and weed was to him as a personal

friend. His sight was very keen, and to the
end of his life he would name every plant

in the hedgerow during a country walk, or on

the railway bank as he passed it in the train,

giving its characteristics, medicinal properties,
and place in the Linnean classification. And
in accordance with his poetic temperament

a flower to him was not a mere specimen,

but a " revelation of order and beauty."

   At the end of three years Mr. WoodrofFe,

for whom he entertained the greatest respect
and affection, told my grandfather that he
ii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 15

could teach William no more, and with rare
generosity offered to release him from his in
dentures. By this time he had fully decided

upon a medical career, and his master,
with more insight than might have been
looked for in a country druggist, is said to
have prophesied that his unconventional

apprentice would one day be a Fellow of the
Royal Society. He was therefore apprenticed
in 1842 to a country surgeon, Mr. Costal,
of Market Overton, with whom he remained

about two years, greatly appreciating the

pleasantness and refinement of his new sur
roundings after the rougher life of farm and
shop. Here also the process of self- training

went on : at Stamford he had mastered the

systematic botany of the district ; at Market
Overton he taught himself comparative
anatomy, dissecting numbers of birds and
mammals, and accumulating a portfolio of
1 6 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                           11

exquisitely beautiful and accurate drawings --

so accurate that he was able to make use of

them after he had become an acknowledged

master in animal morphology.                         Yet his

enthusiasm for anatomy did not prevent a

keen and permanent distaste for its un

pleasant aspects. " I always have a horror,"

he said, " of the flesh of anything that has

been alive. My dissection is done against a

acontinual sensitive repulsion to                    and to
         a

                                                it,
the odours characteristic of different

animals."

   All this time, as throughout his career,

he lived the double life of saint and student.
He made regular practice of meditating in

the fields for an hour every evening, and his

health, previously far from strong, suffered
from regimen which no one with his con
stitution should have attempted to practise.

He accustomed himself to take only two
n WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 17

meals a day, frequent fainting fits being the
natural result.

     The next move was to London, the home
of the rest of his life. He entered at Charing
Cross Hospital in 1844, and at the end of the
same year was appointed assistant to Dr. R. B.

Todd, the physiologist, at King's College. His

medical studies were carried on partly at
these two institutions and partly at a private

school in Bedford Square. His mode of life

at this time was rather a remarkable one for

a medical student, taking into consideration

that he was within ten years of being a
contemporary of Mr. Robert Sawyer and Mr.
Benjamin Allen. To quote his own words

as recorded by Mr. Bettany : --
    " When I was a young hospital student,

no one led a more regular life. I worked

hard till five in the day, then went home,

                                                       c
1 8 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  ii

read my Bible for an hour it might be,
and often spent part of the evening at

prayer-meetings, class-meetings, or in visiting
the sick. Coming home at ten o'clock to

supper with a gloomy surgeon and his silent

wife, I would explode with fun and humour

so as to astonish them. It was just the same

when visiting my father at home, then partly

paralytic ; I would talk to him over texts of
Scripture and thoughts I had gathered up

from my better opportunities, and then at

supper I would be boiling over with fun,

till father would say, ' What's come to the

lad ! ' "

    His enthusiasm and genius must have

made him an ideal student to a teacher with

the slightest spark of his own fire, but to the

more conventional lecturer he must have been

a little trying. I believe he never took a

note in his life, and resolutely declined to
n WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 19

sit for any examination beyond what was
absolutely necessary for qualifying him as

a general practitioner. His chief, Dr. Todd,

once took him to task for making sketches
of all sorts at lecture, instead of taking

notes. My father replied that this was his
way of listening, and that he understood

and remembered what was said as well as

any of the note-takers. Todd, in fact, never
seems to have understood him, so after work
ing for three quarters of a year in the vaults
at King's College at dissection, histology, and

experimental physiology, my father threw up
his appointment, conceiving that his master
would never give him fair play. But Todd's

even more distinguished colleague, Mr., after
wards Sir William, Bowman, formed a juster
estimate of the bright-eyed, impetuous coun
try lad. He says in a letter to Mr. Bettany
written shortly after my father's death : --
20 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  11

     " Every one was charmed by his almost

boyish simplicity, passion for nature and
anatomical work, lovableness.

   "At a later period I always thought it

very touching to notice him quite unchanged,

devoted with passionate zeal and delight to

the researches in which he was immersed, and

by which he was winning so much renown
(though renown he never dreamt of), while

patiently and most conscientiously enduring

the daily round and toil of a commonplace

general practice, and rearing a young family
in slender circumstances to an upright and

honourable future.

    " He was a bright, happy, loving man,
full of reverence, intensely feeling the pure
pleasure of the contemplation and investigation
of Nature, who greatly advanced knowledge

because apparently he could not help doingit,

    the joy was so pervading. He much,
ii  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  21

in many ways, reminded me of Michael

Faraday."

    His vacations at this time were spent in

a characteristic manner. Bowman's classical

researches on the structure of the kidney had
just given a great impulse to the study of

the capillaries or microscopic bloodvessels.

The subject had evidently taken a strong
hold on my father : when he went home for

the holidays he converted the barn into a
dissecting-room, and dissected every animal
that died on the farm or that he could procure

in the neighbourhood, such as " vermin " of
all kinds from the keepers. His largest sub

jects seem to have been a donkey and a large

seal caught in the Willand at Stamford. He

injected the more important organs, usually

with chromate of lead, and mounted literally

hundreds of preparations. I have several of

these, and they are very interesting as showing
22 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER     n

the advance in microscopical technique in

forty years : they consist of slices of the

various organs of any shape and size, and

^about to  inch thick, mounted, in pure

Canada balsam, on slips of glass of various

sizes without cover-glasses. They are, how

ever, excellent as injections, and by reflected

light give a good notion of the diverse

arrangements of capillaries.

Both in London during the medical session

and at Dogsthorpe in the vacations he

continued his elaborate and thorough study

of comparative anatomy, producing sheet after
sheet of faithful and artistic drawings of

skeletons, viscera, etc. They are all worthy

of publication, but " researching " was not a

recognised thing in those days, and they

remained in his portfolio, unseen save by a

few friends, until in 1885 they were exhibited
at one of the conversazioni of the Royal
ii  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  23

Society. His drawings of the external form
of animals, made at the Zoological Society's

Gardens, were often less successful, but showed

the same faithfulness in detail : he made, for

instance, an elaborate study of the form and
arrangement of the spots of the giraffe.

    He took the most effectual and laborious

way of acquiring a thorough knowledge of

the subject he was afterwards to make his

own by preparing and setting up large

numbers of skeletons, principally of fishes.

In my childhood, as I well remember, his

consulting-room wall was covered with glass

cases, made by himself, containing skeletons

of fishes of various sorts and sizes --I think

the largest was a tunny. Many of these he
afterwards sold to the College of Surgeons,
and they are now in the Hunterian Museum.

But he also prepared smaller skeletons, espe
cially of birds, by the hundred, keeping the

                                                 "
z4 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER       u

loose bones of each in a draper's cardboard
box or a seidlitz-powder box, generally with
a strip of blue paper at the bottom to show

off the white bones. I think nothing more

perfect in this branch of zootomy has ever
been done than some of his skeletons of the

smaller birds : as a handicraftsman in all
work requiring delicacy of touch and keen
ness of sight he was unequalled.

    During his student's career he attended
Owen's lectures at the College of Surgeons,
and received with enthusiasm the doctrine
of the Archetype which he was afterwards to
do so much to overturn. The death of the
master, then in the prime of life and at the
height of his reputation, is fresh in the mind
of every one : the pupil, afterwards the second
in command and the first in labours of the

rival force of morphologists, finished his

course nearly three years ago.
                     Ill

During the latter part of his student-life

my father made the acquaintance of his future
wife, Elizabeth Jeffery, youngest daughter of
Thomas Jeffery, then clerk to the Vauxhall
Bridge Company. He could hardly have
married into a family more different in
character from his own, for my mother's
relations on both sides were just as typical
townsfolk as his own were rustics. My
maternal grandfather was a good-natured
methodical man of business with no ideas
beyond his account books. My grandmother,
26 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  in

a woman of much strength of character, kind
and hospitable, was the daughter of Michael
Prendergast, a prosperous cloth merchant of
Irish Roman Catholic descent, two of whose

sons attained a certain position in their day.
The eldest, Joseph Prendergast, D.D., was
for many years Head-master of Lewisham
Grammar School, and wrote a Latin grammar,
now forgotten. The second, Michael Pren

dergast, Q.C, was Recorder of Norwich,

and afterwards Judge of the Sheriff's Court,
London, an able but eccentric man, whose

absent-mindedness is recorded, not in the most

charitable spirit, in Serjeant Ballantyne's

Reminiscences. I cannot resist the temptation

of mentioning that the wife of Michael
Prendergast the younger was a daughter of
George Dawe, R.A., whose big pictures are

remembered no more, but who lives as the

hero of the delightful story of the goose in
in  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER          27

Charles Lamb's Recollections  of a  Late
Royal Academician.

    My mother inherited the strong, sweet
nature of her mother, and by her never-

failing common sense and her calmness under

good or evil fortune supplied precisely those

qualities in which my father was deficient, and

so enabled him to tide over troubles and

disappointments which would otherwise have

driven him to despair.

    In 1849, not l°ng after ms engagement,
my father began practice at 124 Tachbrook
Street, Pimlico. After practising for six

months he had earned the magnificent sum

of five pounds, and upon this --supplemented
it need hardly be said by his patrimony --

he was married on 1st January 1850 at
St. John's, Westminster, a gloomy, four-

pinnacled church, said to have been designed

on the model of Queen Anne's footstool
28 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

when overturned by Her Majesty in a

rage.

    The practice prospered sufficiently to
allow of a move, after two or three years, to

a larger house, 18 Bessborough Street, and
some twelve years later to 36 Claverton Street,

the house which most of those who knew my

father, after his position as a leader in science
was assured, will remember best, and where

he remained until his retirement from practice
in 1883.

    I have no doubt that had he given his

mind to it he might have been a very successful
practitioner : his keen insight and unrivalled
manual dexterity, as well as his sympathy for
suffering and the almost boyish cheerfulness
of his intercourse with those who were not
too ill to be joked with, made him very
popular with his patients, and would, with
ordinary precautions, have indefinitely in
in  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  29

creased their number. But he made no
attempt to attract a paying class of patients.
Instead of a well-appointed waiting-room,
patients were shown into an uncomfortable

little " surgery " at the back of the house

with nothing to amuse them but medicine

bottles and jars of anatomical specimens.
The consulting-room table, instead of being

loaded with mysterious instruments and the
latest editions of imposing medical works,

bore only birds' skeletons, embryos in pro

cess of examination, watch-glasses of fora-
minifera, and the various appliances for dis
section and microscope work. It was the

same with his library : at the time I remem

ber the place of honour was assigned to

Clarke's Commentary in six quarto volumes
near were Bishop Butler's Works, Howe's

Sermons, Bacon's Essays, Shakespeare, and

the publications of the Royal and Zoological
    it it,
                                                                                                      ;
30 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                 in

Societies ; while on the upper shelves re

posed a few ancient medical works, never

disturbed except at spring cleaning. In fact,

his strictly professional reading was almost

confined to the British Medical Journal.

Thus his practice always came second to

research and was never very large or lucra

tive. It included  a considerable number of
                   " Kingdom of Heaven
what he called     these -- principally old
patients ; to

women who came for ether mixture for

their spasms --he was just as kind, sympa

thetic and chatty as to those who contributed

to his income. In the patients themselves,

in fact, viewed as human beings and not as

mere " cases," his interest was immense. His

first impulse with new-comers was always to
try and guess their native county by some
peculiarity of speech or manner, and nothing
delighted him more than to find he was
m         WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                                                                                 31

right. His interest in the ethnology of the

British Isles is well shown by the fact that
the annual task of examining medically

large numbers of candidates for admission to

a training college was always a pleasure and

not, as many would think    piece of rather
          by

                                    a

                                      it,

                                                a

                                                                                                              1
disagreeable routine work.

   He made one attempt to escape from

practice  becoming        candidate, in 861,

for the conservatorship of the Hunterian

Museum, on the death of Professor Queckett.
The temporary disappointment at his want of

success soon gave way to the conviction that

the Council of the College of Surgeons had

acted wisely in electing Mr. (now Sir)

W. H. Flower, and the successful rival soon

became the life-long friend. He wrote in

"If1863 to Mr. Flower,      your big farm lay

close to my little garden should often put
                    I

my bony legs over the fence and be your
32 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

voluntary assistant from mere love of the

place and the work : the pleasure would

moreover be intensified by your presence."

    His self- training in biology was carried on

during his early married life on very broad
lines. He studied, with characteristic intensity,

not only Vertebrata, but Protozoa--especially

Foraminifera, Hydrozoa, and Polyzoa. Of

the last three groups he mounted many

hundreds, if not thousands, of slides, but
it was only in the first of them -- the
Foraminifera -- that he was destined to get

beyond the mere mounting and naming stages.

It is curious to reflect how thoroughly,

at this period, his work was to all outward
seeming that of an amateur. He even spent
a considerable time in preparing and mount
ing, with exquisite neatness and effect, great
numbers of skeleton leaves, a task which in

most hands would have been utterly unscien-
in WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 33

tific and trivial, but in his case served to
give a conception of individual variation
which was turned to excellent account in

one of his earliest papers on the Foraminifera.

    From what I know of his character, I

believe he might have gone on in this way
for an indefinite time, making preparations

and accumulating stores of knowledge, with
out any thought of publishing his results or
of using his knowledge for any purpose but

self-culture. Of course he was bound to

become known to other workers in time,

but his retired habits might have made this

a work of years if he had not fortunately
been discovered by Mr. T. Rupert Jones,

who in the early fifties lived near him -- in
Bessborough Gardens -- and who by his

genial and kindly influence supplied the
liberating energy which converted him from
a mere learned amateur into a scientific

                                                D
34 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  in

worker with a definite object for his work.
Henceforward he worked consciously for the
advancement of science, starting with a
capital of accumulated knowledge on nearly
all branches of biology such as few naturalists

ever acquire.

   My father's first paper, " Description of
some Foraminifera from the Coast of Nor

way," was written in conjunction with his

friend Rupert Jones, and was published in

the Annals and Magazine of Natural His

tory for April 1857 ; and in the following
year his first independent paper, " On the

Miliolitidas," appeared in the Transactions of
the Microscopical Society. The latter shows

very clearly how thorough was his grasp of

the subject, and how far he had advanced

beyond the limits of the dilettante or the

species-maker.  The following sentence is
iii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 35

noteworthy as occurring in the first inde

pendent utterance of a self-trained worker in
the days before Darwinism.

   " Indeed those who have honestly and
earnestly set themselves to the task of dis

tinguishing species have found that they are
dealing with an ' unbound Proteus ' in a
thousand shapes, who must be distilled to his

native form ; the true morphological idea of

each species being attainable only by a long
labour of observation and comparison, not only

of the varieties of one species, but also of
species with species, and of genus with genus."

    For many years he continued to devote
a considerable share of his time to the

Foraminifera, the result being the large

series of papers written in conjunction with

Professor Rupert Jones, between 1857 and
1872, the most important of which is the

large memoir on the Foraminifera of the
36 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

Atlantic and Arctic Oceans, published in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1865. Later
papers on the same subject were written in

collaboration with the late Dr. H. B. Brady,

and the standard general work on the

group -- Dr. Carpenter's "Introduction" --

owes much to the labours of the two men,

then almost unknown, whose names appear

on the title-page with that of the author.
From first to last my father wrote more
than thirty papers on this branch of Zoology,
either alone or with one of his fellow-

workers, and, taking the quality as well as
the quantity of the work into consideration,

the record would have been a very good

one if it had stood alone.

    But in the meantime he was devoting

much attention to the subject he was to

make especially his own -- the Vertebrate
skeleton -- and in i860 published his first
in WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 37

paper on this branch of Zoology, a mono
graph on the skeleton of that extraordinary
bird, the Balaniceps of the Nile Valley.
This gave him at once a high rank among
comparative anatomists : it is certainly a
remarkable maiden effort ; no mere piece of
descriptive anatomy, but positively bristling

with illustrations and comparisons, and show

ing a knowledge of the subject equally wide
and deep. The key to the complicated
question of affinities had, however, not been

grasped ; he had apparently not read the

Origin of Species, which appeared about seven
months before " Balaeniceps " was read at the
Zoological Society, and he expresses a doubt
as to " whether this network of affinities

owes its present incompleteness to losses in
the past, or is to be filled up by future
creations" : the question is evidently looked
upon as one to be decided on metaphysical
38 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

grounds, by an appeal to the argument from

symmetry.

    In his next paper, on the " Osteology of

Gallinaceous Birds and Tinamous," his point
of view has undergone a marked change :

although anxious not to rank himself among

evolutionists, the following passage shows

clearly enough the tendency of his mind.

   " At the dawn of the very day on which I

received from Dr. Sclater the priceless skeleton

of the Tinamou, I was ruminating upon

the possibility of the existence of a bird in

which the gallinaceous and struthious natures

should be blended. The unmistakable evi

dence of a certain struthious tincture (such as

I had seen in no other bird) in the skull of

Syrrhaptes, combined with the mingling of
the blood of various types in that mixed
bird and in the Hemipode-- these things put

together caused me to have the day-dream
in WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 39

of some cock-and-ostrich mule. On that

day my dream came true. I foresee that

there will be opposition in the minds of some ;
for there are cultivators of zoology, as well
as of theology, who have the greatest powers
of disbelief ; but shall their unbelief make the
truth of none effect ? "

    Another passage is significant as showing
that, in spite of his adherence to the theory
of creation, his extensive studies had forced

upon him the conception of a natural classi

fication as a genealogical tree.

    " To assist my own imagination in group
ing the members of the bird-class, I compare

it as a whole to a low spreading tree ' with
a shadowing shroud,' and having 'his top
among the thick boughs.' Such a tree will
have his ' little plants ' (its phytons) very
small and extremely numerous amongst the
closely interwoven mass of its twigs ; but
4© WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER             in

where the twigs culminate in open space and

end upwards and outwards, there will be a
much fuller expansion of the spreading leaf-
form. Yet down amongst the grass, at the
very roots of our imaginary tree, we shall
find the most inordinate growth of leafy
individuals. Essentially the base of the

trunk contains all the rest ; and, essentially,
at each bi- or tri-furcation we have all that

is above that particular forking ; at the
extremities of the twigs we cease tracing,

and if we would run up another branch we

must return to the forks and begin our work

from an old point."  similar  papers  were
    While these and

passing through the press, he was engaged

in one of the most justly celebrated of his

Aworks,  Monograph on the Structure and

Development of the Shoulder- Girdle and

Sternum in the Vertebrata, in which the
in  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  41

various bones and cartilages which serve for
the support of the fore-limb are traced from
their earliest and simplest condition in the
lower fishes, and in the embryos of the

higher forms, up to the complete and com
plex form assumed in the full-grown reptile,

bird, and mammal. This book of some 250
folio pages of letterpress and 30 tinted
plates was published by the Ray Society

in 1868, and was well described at the time

by the late Professor Rolleston as " only less
vast than valuable." Unless I am misled by

my feelings towards its author, it will always
rank high among the major contributions to

animal morphology.

    The first germ of this memoir is a short
paper published in the Proceedings of the
Zoological Society for 1864, and it is charac
teristic of my father that although Gegen-
baur's work on the same subject appeared in
42 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  in

the interval between the publication of the
preliminary communication and that of the

finished monograph, he makes no allusion

to the labours of the great German anatomist,
of whose memoir it is safe to say he had
never heard : he read neither French nor

German, and was far too much absorbed by
his own researches to care about taking up
his time in the barren, though as most people

think necessary, labour of ascertaining the

precise share taken by his predecessors
in solving the problem at which he was

engaged.

    One of the chief results of this work was,
by demonstrating the true homologies of the
various bones of the shoulder-girdle in fishes,
to overthrow, once for all, Owen's theory of
the nature of limbs. Every one who has
examined a bird's skeleton with any care
must have been struck with the little flat
m  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER              43

bones which spring from the margin of each

rib, and pass backwards overlapping the

next following rib ; these are the uncinate

processes, or, as Sir Richard Owen called them,

" diverging appendages." Arguing from the
condition of things found in bony fishes, in
which certain of the shoulder bones are

attached to the hinder or occipital region of

the skull, Owen advanced the theory that the

bones of the shoulder-girdle were the ribs of
the so-called " occipital vertebra," and the

fore -limbs its diverging appendages.  My

father showed that the true shoulder-girdle
never has any direct connection with the

skull, of which it is from the first totally

independent, and that the bones by which the
two are brought into connection in those

highly specialised vertebrates, the teleostean
and ganoid fishes, are modified portions of the

skin-skeleton, having the same morphological
44 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

value as the scales of a perch or cod, or the
armour-plates of a sturgeon. He further
demonstrated the futility of judging the
simple fin of a fish by the standard of the
complex limb of a reptile or mammal, and

introduced the custom, now universally

adopted, of calling the supporting bones of

the former "rays," and not, as Owen had

always done, toe-bones or phalanges.
     Naturally, discoveries of this kind shook

his faith in the great system of transcendental
anatomy which Sir Richard Owen had done

so much to establish, and even in the pre

liminary paper his revolt from the anatomical

orthodoxy of the day is complete. He says--
   " I do not mention this part of the fish as

if no other region of its body had suffered

from being dragged into harmony with that

mischievous piece of fancy work, ' the verte
brate archetype.' It is high time for us to
in  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  45

have ceased from transcendentalism ; of what
value is it ? Our proper work is not that of

straining our too feeble faculties at system-
building, but humble and patient attention to
what Nature herself teaches, comparing actual
things with actual."

    Now and then, indeed, he shows a little of
the intolerance of the convert : in reference

to Owen's useful and now widely adopted
reform in the nomenclature of the parts

of a vertebra he writes with characteristic

hyperbole : --
    " I hope never again to use that mis

chievous word ' apophysis ' with its ninety and

nine prefixes ; it was a cloudy and dark day

for anatomical science when the tran-
scendentalists ' with their enchantments '

brought this swarm upon the land."

    Many of the discoveries in this memoir
have now become the commonplaces of the
46 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  m

text-books. Among them is the demonstra
tion of the fact that the keel of the breast
bone in birds of flight is developed from a

separate centre of ossification, while in the

flightless struthious birds, such as the ostrich,
emu, and kiwi, this characteristic keel-bone is

absent. The demonstration of the complex
character and relations of the clavicle or
collar-bone of mammals is also very thorough,
and, like everything else in the book, sup
ported by a cloud of witnesses in the shape
of artistic drawings of the author's exquisitely

perfect dissections.
                        IV

But my father's greatest work is un

doubtedly that on the skull, for, although
published at intervals during a period of
twenty-five years and in various publications,
the entire series of papers on this subject is

really a single colossal contribution to one of

the most difficult and intricate problems in

morphology --a contribution the magnitude

of which may be partly measured by the fact
that it consists of nearly 1 800 pages of letter

press and about 270 plates.

    To enable the reader to appreciate the
   48 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

   value of this series of monographs it is
   necessary to give a short sketch of the
   history of the subject up to the time when
   my father took it up.

       Until nearly the end of the last century

   the skull had been studied simply as an
   exceedingly complex assemblage of bones ;
   little or nothing was known of its develop
   ment, and no theory had been advanced to
   account for the curiously regular way in

   which its constituent bones are arranged.
   But in 1790, as Goethe was walking in the

   Jews' cemetery at Venice, his servant picked
   up and handed to him a broken sheep's skull,

   and the idea flashed upon the poet's mind

   that the structure and mutual relations of the

   occipital, sphenoid, and ethmoid bones were

   explained by supposing them to be greatly

   modified vertebras, so that, as the brain is an

   enlargement of the spinal cord, its containing

i
iv  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  49

case is the specialised anterior end of the

backbone.

    But this fertile conception, as Professor

Huxley says, " dropped still - born from

Goethe's mind," and nothing more was heard

of the vertebral theory of the skull until it

occurred afresh to Lorenz Oken, of Jena,

who enunciated it in his inaugural dis

sertation in the year 1807. He demon
strated very thoroughly the segmentation of

the skull, i.e. the fact that it is composed

of similar parts -- the so-called cranial verte
brae -- arranged in a single series from before

backwards, like the joints of a backbone or
the divisions of a lobster's " tail " ; but this

signal service to science was almost crowded
out of sight by a mass of crude and un

supported theories, such as the extraordinary
notion that the nasal cavity is the thorax

of the head and the mouth its abdomen, the

           E
50 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

lower jaw its legs and the teeth its toes.

In fact, in Oken's own summing-up of his

position " the entire man is only a vertebra."

    Oken's views were developed and modified

by several continental writers, but in England

they made little headway until they were

taken up by the then Hunterian Professor,
Richard Owen, till a few weeks since the

venerable doyen of English zoological science.
In 1846 he presented to the South
ampton meeting of the British Association
his once -famous " Report on the Arche
type and Homologies of the Vertebrate

Skeleton," in which his views on philosophical
anatomy are set forth in great detail. The
skull is considered to be formed of four

vertebrae, the occipital, parietal, frontal, and

nasal vertebras, between which are intercalated

three pairs of sense - capsules, the turbinals

lodging the organ of smell, the sclerotic that
iv  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  51

of sight, and the petrosal bone that of
hearing. The upper and lower jaws, tongue-
bone, and shoulder -girdle are pressed into
the service as the ribs of these vertebrae, and

even the fore -limbs, as already mentioned,

are forced to take their places as " diverging

appendages." Every difficulty was settled

by reference to an ideal plan or archetype

-- a bed of Procrustes to which the most

awkward facts were by judicious manipu
lation compelled to adapt themselves. The

whole theory was, in fact, as Owen's greatest

critic said, an " attempt to introduce the

phraseology and mode of thought of an

obscure and scholastic realism into biology."

Nevertheless everything was set forth in

such clear and forcible language, and was

supported by such a wealth of carefully

selected facts, that the very general accept

ance by English anatomists of the Owenian
52 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

version of the vertebral theory is hardly to

be wondered at.

The weak point of the theory was that

it was based almost exclusively upon the

higher or more specialised skulls, and even

in these it took no notice of the earlier

Ifembryonic stages.  the skull really con

sists of a number of vertebras, we should

naturally expect the vertebral structure to

be more obvious in the lower species than
in the higher, in the youngest embryo than

in the fully developed animal. Owen ignored
the lampreys, sharks, and skates, in which

the brain -case consists of an undivided mass
of cartilage, and he makes no reference to
the researches of Rathke, who had shown in
1839, in his work on the development of
the snake, that there was no indication of the
four vertebras in the early embryo. It was
by following up these two lines of argument
iv  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  53

that Huxley was able, in his Croonian
Lecture, delivered before the Royal Society

in 1858, to deal the vertebral theory a

blow from which it never recovered. He
showed from a study of the early stages of
development of the stickleback and frog, and
from the anatomy of the lower fishes, that
the segmentation of the skull in the higher

Vertebrata is a secondary process, quite inde

pendent of vertebration, that the farther the

skull is traced back the less appearance is

there of vertebrae, and that " it is no more

true that the adult skull is a modified

vertebral column than it would be to affirm

that the vertebral column is a modified

skull."

    The main points of Huxley's thesis have
never been shaken, and are to-day the
common property of the text -books. But

the embryological evidence he brought for-

                                               "
54 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

ward, though strong enough as far as it
went, rested upon a somewhat narrow basis :
the early history of the skull was known
only in some half-dozen animals, and in
these only the outlines of the process had

for the most part been made out. What

was now wanted was a careful, unbiassed

study of the whole process in the largest
possible number of vertebrate animals, so
as to find out precisely what was common

to vertebrates as a whole, what characteristic

of each class -- of fishes, amphibians, reptiles,
birds, and mammals -- and what special to

the particular animal under discussion.

    This was the task my father set himself to
do, and the measure of his success is best

understood by comparing the Croonian Lec
ture, which gives a very full account of the
state of knowledge of the subject up to 1858,
with the chapter on the skull in Balfour's
iv  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  55

Comparative Embryology, published twenty-
three years later. In the interval he had
traced the skull back to its first beginnings in
the dog-fish and skate, the salmon, the frog,
the turtle, snake, lizard and crocodile, the
fowl, and the pig, and had made less elabor
ate studies of numerous other forms.

    In estimating both the magnitude and the
importance of this work, it must not be for

gotten that my father must be compared, as
an embryologist, with Duges, Rathke, and
Huxley, not with Dohrn, Balfour, and
Wiedersheim. Except in his later researches,

when he had the assistance of younger men,
his methods were those of a past generation.
Nowadays when the skull of an embryo is

to be investigated the head is hardened
with chromic acid and alcohol, embedded in

paraffin, and cut by machinery into slices not
exceeding the one-thousandth of an inch in
56 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

thickness. The sections are mounted in order,

the various structures read off, and the skull
reconstructed from the absolutely exact data
thus obtained. Before the art of mechanical

section-cutting was invented, the embryo-
logist had to rely upon the ordinary methods

and instruments of anatomy, and it was here

that my father's unrivalled manual dexterity

and keenness of sight came into play. His

only tools were a microscope, a student's

box of dissecting instruments, none of them

specially small or fine, a razor, a few needles
mounted in handles, a pocket magnifier, and
an old foot-rule. He never used a simple
microscope, or even improvised a stand for
his pocket-glass. He would take a tadpole's
head, not more than an eighth of an inch
long, between his finger and thumb, and
either cut it into slices with a razor, or
dissect off the superficial tissues with needle
iv WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 57

and scalpel until the delicate bars and

plates of soft cartilage forming the skull

were exposed.  Then examining partly

under the pocket-lens, partly under a low

power of the compound microscope, occa

sionally verifying some matter of detail

under a ^inch object-glass, and measur
ing with the foot-rule, he would com

bine his results into the exquisite drawings
with which his papers were illustrated. By

constant practice his hand and eye became as

unerring as those of a skilful painter, and he
could make more of a single badly-preserved
specimen than the majority of competent
anatomists of a dozen well-preserved ones.
To appreciate the feats of skill performed

in his earlier work, the modern embryologist
has merely to try and repeat, with his appli
ances, his observations on the early stages
of the tadpole and the chick.
58 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  iv

    In his later investigations he worked with
the thin sections of to-day, but these were

always cut by his second son : in his methods,

as in most other things, he was conservative

to a degree, and nothing would induce him
to learn the use of the microtome or the

embedding - bath. As he wrote to Dr.
Huggins acknowledging the gift of a new
pocket-lens : --

    " I should have gone on with my old one

until it was worn out, or until my hand

couldn't hold it. All my forefathers have

been unchanging formers ever since the old

Aryans came over here, and we all from time

immemorial have gone on mending old
ploughs and wheelbarrows until all their

primary substance was replaced by new, but

buy a new one --no ! that wasn't in our line.

These old husbandmen had 'great patience,
waiting for the former and the latter rain,'
IV WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 59

and that I've got into my protoplasm ;

otherwise I fear that a third of a century

in London has ' evoluted ' me very little

indeed."
                              V

Further researches will doubtless add, and

indeed have already added, much to my
father's work on the skull, especially as

regards the earlier stages of development, in

which his imperfect methods and his tendency
to consider everything but the skull itself as

of secondary importance prevented a really
exhaustive treatment. But there can be no
doubt that the entire series of papers is a
unique work, and of permanent value. And
this in spite of his most obvious fault as a

scientific writer --his lack of lucidity. He
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  61

spared no trouble in working out his results
and in making his drawings ; but when it
came to writing the paper, he seemed to
think that the sooner a comparatively unim
portant task was got over the better. He
wrote without system, putting down every
thing as it occurred to him, and continually

going off on side issues. He never revised :
it was always the first draft of his MS. that

went to the printer, and none but minor
alterations were made in proof; and such
methods of assisting the reader as abstracts,

careful descriptions of figures, etc., always

seemed to him superfluous, or at least not
worth the trouble.

    Professor Huxley, who was his constant
correspondent and fellow-worker at the skull
for many years, and whose advice and
criticism he valued more than those of any
other man, did his best to train him to a
62 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  v

more systematic way of recording his results.
As early as 1865 he wrote, a propos of the

paper on the skull in the ostrich tribe : --
    " Very few pieces of work which have

fallen in my way come near your account of

the struthious skull in point of clearness and
completeness. It is a most admirable essay,

and will make an epoch in this kind of

inquiry." Professor Huxley then gives some
suggestions for the improvement of the

paper, which was at that time in manuscript,
and continues : " You start subjects enough

for half a dozen papers, and partly from the

compression thus resulting, and partly from

the absence of illustrations, I do not believe

there are half a dozen men in Europe who

will be able to follow you. Furthermore,

though the appendix is relevant enough --
every word of it--to those who have dived
deep as you and I have, to any one else it
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                  63

has all the aspect of a string of desultory

discussions.  As your father confessor, I

forbid the publication of the appendix. After

having had all this trouble with you, I am

not going to have you waste your powers for

want of a little method--so I tell you.

    " What you are to do is this [then follows

a programme for future work]. I will give

you two years from this time to execute these

four memoirs ; and then, if you have stood

good-temperedly the amount of badgering and

bullying you will get from me whenever you

come dutifully to report progress, you shall be

left to your own devices in the third year to
publish a paper on ' The General Structure
and Theory of the Vertebrate Skull.'

    " You have a brilliant field before you,

and a start such that no one is likely to

catch you. Set deliberately down over against

                   it,
                                       it
the city, conquer  and make                your own,
64 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  v

and don't be wasting powder in knocking

down odd bastions with random shells.

    " I write jestingly, but I really am very

much in earnest."

    The like sound advice was given when

the Ray Society had decided to publish the

monograph on the shoulder-girdle : --
    " You will make a most valuable book I

am sure, but mind when you are busy with

the text that between the points A and B
the shortest course is a straight line thus --

gPectoral Arch

and not [here follows a line of marvellous

complexity, meandering all over the page and

produced into five offshoots marked : -- a,

homologies of little finger ; b, homologies of

great toe ; c, thoughts on basi-occipital ; d,

Foraminifera regarded as terrestrial Nirmi --
reasons for and against --lines from Herrick
v     WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  65

a propos of this subject ; e, affinities of
Archasopteryx with Ursa major], however

tempting the side issues a, b, c, d, e, may

be."

    But remonstrance was in vain : in spite of
a keen sense of his own shortcomings and of

repeated attempts to amend, my father con
tinued to write in his own style, and in

1870 the "father confessor" returned to the

charge.

   " I read all the most important part of

your frog paper last night, and a grand piece

of work it is -- more important, I think, in

all its bearings than anything you have

done yet.

    " From which premisses I am going to

draw a conclusion which you do not expect,

namely, that the paper must by no manner of

means go in to the Royal Society in its

present shape --and for the reasons following.

                                                 F
66 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER         v

    " In the first place, the style is ultra-
Parkerian. From a literary point of view,
my dear friend, you remind me of nothing
so much as a dog going home. He has a
goal before him which he will certainly reach
sooner or later, but first he is this side the

...road and now on that ; anon he stops to
scratch at an ancient rat-hole ;  or may

be he catches sight of another dog, a quarter

of a mile behind, and bolts off to have

a friendly or inimical sniff. In fact his

course is [a very curly line] not [a straight

line]."
    There is no doubt that the want of

definiteness in my father's writing lessens
immensely the value of his researches on
the skull, but in another department of his
work it is a still greater drawback. Besides

the monographs on special types, he published

several papers dealing with the skull in
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER             67

certain whole groups of vertebrate animals,

such as the frogs and toads, the tailed

amphibians, and certain orders of birds and
of mammals. Here more than anywhere
a strictly logical mode of treatment was

required : it was necessary above all things

to bring out clearly and precisely the

evidences of affinity of order with order,

family with family, and genus with genus,

and to avoid putting those who consulted

the paper for purposes of systematic zoology

rather than of detailed anatomy into the

unfortunate position of being unable to see
the wood for the trees. The matter is

specially regrettable in the case of birds, with

which my father's acquaintance was extensive

and peculiar. Professor Huxley once said in
"Ia lecture at the School of Mines :
                                      know

of only one man who knows all about birds,
and that is my friend Mr. Parker." With
   68 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  v

   a little more sense of proportion, a little

   more disposition to sink the special in the

   general, he would have been remembered as

   one of the few great scientific ornithologists.
        From the strictly scientific point of view,

   then, my father's style was a bad one, and as
   a natural result his works are to a great

   extent a sealed book to all but specialists.

   As I once heard Professor Huxley say at the
   Royal Society, " It was said that Shelley
   wrote poetry for poets : Mr. Parker writes

   anatomy for anatomists." But from the

   purely literary standpoint the case is altered :
   he was one of the very few modern
   writers on biology who can be said to have
   a style at all. Scattered up and down his
   writings are passages of great beauty, of

   true and sincere eloquence, and of quaint
   whimsical humour. I cannot but think that

   the following extracts have a literary value

k
v       WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  69

quite apart from the matters of which they

treat.

    " This is a new kingdom of science, this
embryology, but you have to enter it
through a strait gate and a narrow way;
there is no royal road to it. For here
unless a man stoops his head he will bruise
it ; unless he enter silently he will learn
nothing. It is not nature revealed in a

strong wind, or an earthquake, or a fire ;

it is the still small voice of the growing

cells he must train his ears to hear."

    " When the eyes of the prophet's servant

were opened, he saw no longer barren rocks
with mist resting upon them, but the whole

mountain was full of chariots of fire and
horses of fire. The vestments and ritual
of nature may take up all the attention
70 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                      v

and use up all the energy of her votaries;

these superficial observers fail, however, to

find the real religion of nature --the beautiful

but awful omnipresence which every flower
and every insect reveals. The phenomena

of nature are all mere fading pageants, and

the really cultivated mind only finds lasting
satisfaction in meditation upon the recognis

able forces that underlie all sensible appear

ances."

   " I shall leave the Quadrumana in their

awkward and disagreeable contiguity to the

ruling race. Nothing is so unpleasant as to be

pestered with poor relations, especially if they

be foul in feature and rude in manners.

Surely these old people of the land have been

left among us--nature not driving them all
out at once from the human Canaan --that

they might be as thorns in our sides, and as
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  71

goads and snares, that we may be pricked on

to high courage and strong resolves in our
moral work of extinguishing all that is ape

like in our nature. For my own part, when,

as a biologist, I walk abroad for pleasure, it

is not into the ' back-slums ' where these

mammalian satyrs live ; and if it be my lot
to undergo metempsychosis, I shall pray

to be transformed rather into a barnacle

than into an ape, ' with forehead villainous
low.' "

   " If the Megatherium, or his somewhat

more modest-sized relation, the Mylodon
(another extinct sloth), did find their supply

of food in the way palaeontologists suggest,
their mode of dining must have been a sight
worth seeing. That delightful, typical Eng

lishman, the late Rev. Sydney Smith, once
reviewed Waterton's Wanderings, and de
72 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER               v

scribed the strange, grotesque, weird, un-

thought-of creatures of the New Tropics.

Would that he held the pen here, now !  a

    "Let us, however, try to imagine

Megatherium waking up after lazily dozing

a month or two during the dry season, and

then, hungry and wet, in the heavy

downpour of the beginning rainy season,

setting to work to break his fast. As far as

can be judged by the tools he had to work

with --paws a yard, and claws a foot, in
length --the first thing to be done was to

throw out a few hundredweights of earth
from the roots of some large tree.

    " Now he changes his tactics ; he has good

collar bones, and well-shaped arms for em

bracing ; so, bear-like, he hugs the tree upon
which his desires are set, and, busily digging

still, not now with his fore, but with his

hind, paws, his great weight resting upon his
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  73

haunches and his tail, he, with many groans,
sways the big tree to and fro ; at last with a
great crash it falls, not, however, without

giving him some sense of its weight, for it

was a tree worthy to grow in a forest trampled
upon by this Atlantean sloth.

    " That large crack in the outer table of
his skull is of no consequence ; his small

brain is a long way off, and there are many
empty cavities to be found in a head like his ;
those broken tiles over the empty spaces of
his head will soon be mended, and what

would be pain to us is to him a pleasant

sense of tickling.
    " But sloths live in trees, climbing from

branch to branch, supine, with strongly bent

wrists and hooked fingers ! Yes, I admit,

such sloths as live in these degenerate days,

but not the sloth I am speaking of. Think,
if you can, of a sloth half as thick again
74 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  v

round the wrist as an elephant ; with a tail

as bulky as a dray-horse's chest ; and feet as

large as the many-knotted roots of a gum-
tree ; think, I say, of such a sloth climbing

trees. No, lit is your poor little dwarfed

modern sloth who climbs -- not the large

Megatherium.

     " Our gigantic Prosper o has plucked up

his cedar by its spurs ; his millstone-like

teeth --he also is a Mylodon --and strong

jaws will do the rest ; he need not hurry and
he will not. He has ' blessed his maw ' to

this good hour, and will now enjoy himself.
The sorrow of it is that he is not to this day

digging up, pulling down, and eating the
trees of the forest, for us to see the sight.
For death has gnawed upon these huge

beasts; they are laid in the grave -- their

eternal dwelling.

    " Speaking of such an one going down to
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                     75

the nether parts of the earth, we are re

minded, by way of contrast, of the poet's

account of the slow but sure fossilisation of
the rude forefathers of the hamlet --

   ' Each in his narrow cell for ever laid.'

Seven feet of earth is enough for the biggest
of these undeveloped, mute, inglorious

Miltons of the little lone country place.
    " When, however, the General Sexton gave

the Megatherium his seven feet of earth, this

was merely the measurement crosswise, for

he was nearly that breadth across his loins

with his flesh and his fell on ; his length was

Ifdouble that and more.  time had not

failed me, I would have described his parts

and his power and his comely proportion.

I might have dilated upon his feet, to the

extent of filling a chapter ; the spoor which

they made, being filled by timely rains, made
76 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER               v

a pond in which the Axolotl might have dis
ported, and in which the largest of frogs

did, undoubtedly, take their pastime.

   If" the reader will visit the great Natural

History Museum at South Kensington, and
the Hunterian Museum in Lincoln's Inn
Fields, and look at the remains of the fossil
sloths, he will make this discovery, namely,

that the writer's attempt at the rejuvenescence

of these beasts is dull and flat, and that not

half the truth has been told him."

The foregoing extracts show one peculi

arity which runs through all my father's

writings -- his habit of interweaving biblical

ideas and expressions.  The following

passage -- the last I shall transcribe -- is

a very happy instance of his faculty for

apt illustration : he himself thought rather

highly of and was delighted to hear thatit,
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  77

it had been praised by Charles Kingsley.
He is describing how in his work on the
fowl's skull he had traced the develop

ment backward, from older to younger

stages.

    " Whilst at work I seemed to myself

to have been endeavouring to decipher a

palimpsest, and one not erased and written

upon just once, but five or six times

over.

    " Having erased, as it were, the characters

of the culminating type --those of the gaudy
Indian bird -- I seemed to be amongst the

sombre grouse ; and then, towards incubation,

the characters of the sand-grouse and hemi-

pod stood out before me. Rubbing these
away in my downward work, the form
of the Tinamou looked me in the face ;
then the aberrant ostrich seemed to be

described in large archaic characters ; a little
   78 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  v

   while and these faded into what could just
   be read off as pertaining to the sea -turtle;
   whilst, underlying the whole, the fish in its
   simplest myxinoid form could be traced in

   morphological hieroglyphics."

        Both in its merits and its demerits,

   " le style, c'etait l'homme." Fervour, poetic

   feeling, insight ; combined with indefinite-

   ness and inability to perceive that a state
   ment of the subject as it occurred to himself

   was not all that was necessary to those who

   came fresh to it. In a word --he was a seer

   but not an expositor.

        On several occasions he appealed to a larger

   audience than is in the habit of reading the
   Transactions of the learned societies. In
   1877 he published, in conjunction with Mr.
   G. T. Bettany, a text -book on the Mor
   phology of the Skull. This work is valuable
   as giving a clear and adequate abstract of

V
80 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  y

acquaintance with the whole subject, he knew
more of certain departments of it than any
other man. But he missed his opportunity.

Out of twenty - nine pages seventeen are

devoted to the skull, and eight more to the
rest of the skeleton, while the remainder

of the subject is disposed of in about three
pages consisting mostly of extracts from

Huxley's Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals.
His idea was to write his best and fullest

on those portions of the subject he had
thoroughly worked up ; he quite failed to
see the necessity of working up the rest in
order to write about it.

    At one time he contributed several short

articles on popular science to the Globe, and
more than once attempted to write for one of
the Reviews. But, as he was perfectly well

aware, his articles were not a success. He

"Iwrote in 1890 to Mrs. (Lady) Flower:
v  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  81

cannot write readable articles : my natural

vanity and self-consciousness--which 1 am
always praying and fighting against --has had
some most wholesome snubs. I have written

two articles in my time for the Reviews ; the
editors have never asked for a second. No !

I blurt out things in conversation and in
letters at a white heat of feeling, and then I

am ' silent and astonied,' and have no more

to say. I can't formulate things."

     Lastly, in 1885 his Hunterian Lectures
for the preceding year were published in
book -form under the title of Mammalian

Descent, a book which is unsatisfactory

enough if one goes to it with a view of

getting a succinct statement of our present

knowledge as to the mutual relations and

phylogeny of the Mammalia, but which is

in great part very charming reading, full
of quaint fancies and suggestive illustrations,

                                                G
82 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

and breathing throughout a fresh, youthful,
intense devotion to nature and nature's God,

not unworthy of Wordsworth or of Izaak

Walton.
                         VI

The value of my father's scientific work

soon began to be recognised by those best

able to judge of it. In 1864 the Zoological
Society paid him the compliment of electing

him a Fellow without the usual payments,
and in 1865 he was one of the fifteen
candidates selected by the Council of the
Royal Society for election to the Fellowship
of that learned body. In the following year

he received what he always considered -- at

least apart from the Hunterian Professorship

--as the greatest honour of his life, one of
   84 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

   the two Royal Medals given annually by the
   Queen on the nomination of the Royal Society.
   In presenting the medal at the anniversary

   meeting on 30th November, the President,
   Lieutenant -General, afterwards Sir Edward,

   Sabine, referred to my father's work on the

   Foraminifera, but stated that what the Society
   particularly designed to honour were his con

   tributions to Vertebrate Osteology, and went

   on to say, " In these elaborate and beautifully
   illustrated memoirs Mr. Parker has not only

   displayed an extraordinary acquaintance with
   the details of osteology, but has shown

   powers of anatomical investigation of a

   high order, and has made important con
   tributions towards the establishment of the
   true theory of the vertebrate skull."

       At the anniversary dinner in the evening,
   my father had to reply to the toast of the
   medallists, and as Mr. Bettany says, "those

V
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  85

who knew his constitutional nervousness and

especial horror of great public functions
were in some anxiety as to the result. We

have learnt from several sources that the new

medallist's speech was a complete success,

telling mainly the story of his own life and

study, with such modesty, candour, natural
ness, and indescribable interest, that it has

always been a subject of regret that it was

not taken down in shorthand."

    In 1 87 1-3 he held the office of President
of the Royal Microscopical Society, and during
his term of office communicated several short

papers and addresses which were published in
the Monthly Microscopical Journal, then the
organ of the Society. In 1876 he was elected

an Honorary Fellow of King's College,
London, where he had worked under Todd
and Bowman so many years before. He also
received the Fellowship of the Linnean
86 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

Society ; the Honorary Membership of the
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia,
of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of
Moscow, and of the Cambridge Philosophical
Society. And in 1885 the Baly Medal of
the Royal College of Physicians was awarded

to him.

     But the most important distinction he
received, and the one which marked most

emphatically his scientific position, was his

appointment, in 1873, to the Hunterian Pro
fessorship at the Royal College of Surgeons.
Before he could hold office he had to become
a member of the College ; and, as already
mentioned, he had hitherto been content with
the minimum qualification of L.S.A. As the

College grants no honorary diplomas, it was

necessary for him to submit to a viva voce
examination, which must have been quite a

unique thing in its way. I believe he was
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  87

asked the name of some process in a human

vertebra and replied that he really could not

remember, but that in the crocodile -- and

then launched out into a discourse on the

general morphology of the vertebral column.
    He delivered altogether ten courses of

lectures at the College on various branches

of vertebrate morphology.  As far as I

can judge, his lectures were most appreci

ated by those who knew nothing about

the subject but enjoyed listening to a dis

course which was always fresh and breezy,

and sometimes eloquent. But the anatomist,

who went to learn the latest views of a

master on one of the most difficult problems

of morphology, was sure to meet with a good

deal of disappointment. My father usually

began very nervously, and with the most

studied and unnecessary simplicity. Once,

for instance, he took a considerable time in
88 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

describing in great detail, and in popular
language, the method of embedding an embryo

for section - cutting. Soon, however, he

warmed to his work, and then anything like

elementary treatment was abandoned once

for all ; he spoke as if every one in the room

knew all his own and Professor Huxley's
papers by heart, and considered cranial
morphology as the one thing worth knowing.
The lecture was supposed to be, let us
assume, on the skull of birds : before it was

a third over, some point would arise requir
ing reference to the Amphibia for its elucida
tion ; this produced a digression, in the course
of which birds were almost forgotten, and at
the end of the hour it would be found that the

subject he had undertaken to lecture on was

hardly begun. Again and again he made vows
of amendment : on one occasion his second son
helped him to draw up a complete syllabus of
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  89

his lectures, arranged so that he might see at
a glance how far he had got and how much
remained to be said before the clock struck.

But it was all to no purpose : after the first

few minutes the notes were utterly forgotten.
As he himself said in a letter to Professor

Flower : " I got over my work in a chatty,
old-auntish kind of way-- extempore, you

know, for reading like a parson isn't in my
line." In fact, his lectures were marked by

the same characteristics as his writings--pro

found knowledge and intense enthusiasm,

combined with and largely marred by want
of system and of a due sense of proportion.

    Up to the age of fifty, my father, while
producing more original work than any other
English anatomist, was entirely dependent
on his practice for a livelihood, and was
subject to all the uncertainties, all the daily
90 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

and hourly worries, inseparable from the life

of a general practitioner. Twice --in 1856
and 1874 --he suffered long and serious ill
nesses, resulting not only in weeks of enforced

idleness, but in an inevitable falling-ofF of
practice and consequent diminution of in

come. Even when he was supposed to be

well, he never passed a day without pain or

enjoyed an unbroken night's rest. It was

not until 1874 that some relief came, and
the variable income of his profession was

supplemented by one or two small but fixed
sums, the certainty of which was of far

greater importance to him than the amount.

     Besides his Professorship he was appointed

in 1874, through the thoughtful kindness

of some city friends, a director of the Star
Life Assurance Association. Of course

the incongruity of turning an enthusiastic

scientific recluse, with the most elementary
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                 91

notions of business, into a " guinea-pig,"

struck every one who knew him. Professor

Huxley wrote : " I congratulate you on be
coming a city man--thou dove among the

hawks! But I am really rejoiced that the

Aetomorphs feed the Peristeromorph instead

of reversing the process." The appointment
was, however, one of the greatest blessings of

his life : apart from the remuneration, he was

once a week taken out of himself, and away
from the cares of life and the almost fierce

joys of research ; while the intercourse with
his fellow-directors -- many of them valued
and dear friends --was a thing he always looked

forward to and was always the better for.

    In 1876 a sum of money was voted to my
father from the Government Grant Fund of

the Royal Society for the encouragement of

scientific research. This continued what the

Hunterian Professorship and the Director
92 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                                            vi

ship of the " Star " had begun --ensured him a

certain if temporary income, and so delivered

him from the constant anxiety which the un
certain receipts of his practice always produced.

There never was a man more obviously

intended to live on a small fixed income. He

had absolutely no extravagances, lived plainly,

dressed as shabbily as was allowable to a

professional man, and cared little for general

society, and nothing at all for amusements.

But debt, or the prospect of reduced him
to such state of nervous prostration that he
      a

                 by

                        a

                                         it,
was able only        strong effort to continue

his work, and all my mother's calmness and
power of soothing were necessary to convince

him that ruin was not close at hand.                                 no
      a
                                               aa

                                               It

                                                                 is
exaggeration to say that he would have been

happier all his life with settled income of

£400  year than with  variable one of

thrice that amount.
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  93

    A letter written to Sir William Flower,

at the time when the Government Grant

was first talked of, contains a characteristic

passage : --
    " I've had my chat with T. H. H., and

he has had my application for money assist

ance in my work, and a list of post-medal

papers. I am not agoing to be humbugged
if nought comes of that : ' a man's a man for

a' that,' and ' as is the man so is his strength '

--mine principally lies in patient, long-
suffering, slow, unremitting work : and if the

Iscientific world lets me slip whilst alive,

mean so to live that it shall respect my

Imemory when am dead : that'll do for me."

    Delivered from the uncongenial work of

medical practice, he moved in 1883 to a
pleasant house in Trinity Road, Upper
Tooting, where he remained until circum

stances obliged a final move into a smaller
94 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

but equally suitable house in Hendham Road.

It is quite characteristic of him that although

the reduction in income which necessitated

this step caused him at the time absolute

mental torture, yet when everything was

settled, the certainty of what was left --

including a small Civil List pension awarded

to him in 1889 --made the end of his life

calmer and freer from worry than all his
previous years had been. For the short time
left to him his life was that of the devout and

earnest student, neither hasting nor resting,
but adding daily to the sum of human know
ledge, and finding his keenest joy in the
consciousness that his work was faithfully

done.

   A letter to Mr. F. W. Lucas, written

when the move to Hendham Road was in
contemplation, is very characteristic. The

transport of his large collection of spirit
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  95

specimens was a matter of serious anxiety

under these circumstances--so serious as to

make real work impossible for the time.

   " I hope we shall all shake together again

at Michaelmas and become a pleasantly con

gruous plantation of colonists. I feel rather
1 dree ' here, for I have done no proper work

since midsummer, and there is no end of

work waiting. But I've got to endure the

agonies of 'flitting' before any more work

can be done, and my heart is in those bottles,

downstairs and up, and if they are cracked,

it will be torn and lacerated, and divellicated

"...and permanently ruptured.
               Then there are my 300 kinds of
birds' wings, and all the other bird-work, and

the opossums and kangaroos, platypuses and

echidnas, in doing and still to be done. All

this with the chilly hand of old age retarding
the genial current in my soul and assuring
96 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

me that very soon --too soon for my ambi
tion --I must lay down my tools and give up
the joys of research for ever. Anyhow, if I

can once wriggle out of this vertebrate

organism I may find myself seeing better

without these fleshly spectacles than with

them ; I only see now because there is some

thing behind my eyes." One is reminded of

IWilliam Blake : " question not my cor

poreal eye any more than I would question a

window concerning a sight. I look through

it and not with it."

    Considering the amount of work he did, it

is curious to notice that his daily life was by

no means that of a hard-worked man. He
always -- except when quite young --rose late,

went to bed early, and dozed after dinner.

His actual work was mostly done in the

morning, and until the last few years he
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER      97

wrote for two or three hours in the evening.

He never made a spurt, never seemed in a

hurry, but owing to his long self-training
he concentrated into an hour what would

take most men several hours to do : he

might have said, like Andrea del Sarto,

"No sketches first, no studies, that's long

past."                          was very

    His power of concentration

great. When a medical student he used to

read philosophical books as he walked along

the Strand to and from King's College.

During his early married life he constantly

carried on his researches in the room where

his children were playing or quarrelling.
And in old age he used to say that a crowded
railway station was an excellent place for
meditation.

    His memory, in everything connected

with his work, was, up to the very last, little

                                          H
98 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

short of marvellous : he never catalogued his
preparations, and the few notes he made of
his work were of the most sketchy descrip

tion and were seldom referred to; but he

seemed to remember without effort every

fact he had ever observed, and the place in

his cabinets of every slide and skeleton he

had ever prepared.

He was a great talker, and delighted in

nothing so much as in a long evening with

some good listener interested in his pursuits.

Attempts were always made by the rest of

the family to make the conversation general,

and to exclude science during the evening

meal and in the drawing-room, but to no pur

pose ; something invariably suggested skull,

and then my father's eyes would brighten, and

he would begin a learned, sparkling, discursive

monologue on his beloved topic, interspersed

with quotations, personal anecdotes, and refer
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  99

ences to literature, religion, history, and indeed
almost every subject under the sun except
politics and business. On the earliest oppor
tunity he would carry off his visitor to the

study, where his remarks could be illustrated

by the production of endless specimens and

drawings, and by rough sketches scrawled

on half-sheets of notepaper, or the margin of

an Athenaum, often with coloured pencils.

All this time his interlocutor could barely

succeed in getting in a word edgewise, and
every question or statement of a difficulty
was instantly overwhelmed rather than
answered by a fresh flood of illustrations,

fact following fact and comparison compari

son with bewildering rapidity. At ten or

half-past he would accompany his guest to

the door, where there was always another

ten or fifteen minutes "in conclusion,"

and then, after bidding him good-bye, would
   100 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER          vi

   sink into a chair and exclaim, " That's a

   most intelligent young man, but I thought

   he'd never go ; I'm dead tired."

       His friend James Smetham, the painter,
   gives an account of an evening spent at his
   house in 1863, in which, with the touch of a

   true literary artist, he gives a vivid and
   accurate picture of my father's style of con

   versation.                          Mans-

       " Spent yesterday with Parker.

   ford was there. P. talked in generals as

   long as he could abide, and then he gave
   us such a furious storm of ornithological

   anatomy about a bird that was an ostrich

   and a crocodile and a grouse and a crane

   and a hen. Do you understand? all of

   them together, each of them separately, and

   was going to be published in eight quarto

   plates, exquisitely tinted, the cartilaginous
   bones one colour, the solid bones another. Do

-
vi WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 101

you see ? And Owen has put his foot in it

   [Here is a draw-   ^(crossing his in imitation of
ing of Professor      the mess  professor Qwen
Owen with legs
                      is in -- executed on his own
crossed and re-
                      ~legS fr°m whl.ch 1 gather
crossed, ending in a
diminishing tail of

crossings.]           that Professor Owen is just

like this, as near as I can make out) ; and as

to the ' crocodile bird,' why that is a net, you

perceive, but not spread out. It is a net

all in a lump, the reticulations crossing (like

Professor Owen's legs) through countless

ages. It is evident that Professor Owen's

legs are in a mortal twist, and it is impos

sible that he can ever stand upright again ;

and so, as I was saying, there is no doubt that

the reptilian character of this bird and its

intricate relations to the 'mound-makers' --

birds that peck their way out of the shell

and dig their way out of the dunghill --is

also established.     Besides this --now look
102 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                    vi

here ! there are three (grin) distinct (shakesit

finger) bony, bony plates (ready --present) on     is !),

each side of the spino-occipital basis (fire
and Professor Owen-- I'll tell you what

-- that man rather than confess an error

would build up hollow system (get his legs
             a
                      !!
more and more twisted). Well, he says

there are only two                  (Stare, Boswellian

pout, solemn appealing look, first at Mans-

ford, then at me Mansford horrified, --
         by                                   I

               a
                              ;
express      shocked look the sentiment,

'  like his imperence.')

     " This good fun, butis         it      really grand
                                        is

to listen to P., even when one only catches

glimpses of his subject."        1

    My father's faculty for interesting people,
almost in spite of themselves, in some little

point of anatomy, excellently illustrated in
   1

                 of
                           S is
the foregoing extract. In fact his talk could

   Letters   James met ham. London, 1892.
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  103

hardly fail to impress any one, gentle or
simple, learned or illiterate, it was so in

tensely fresh and unconventional. As Dr.
Johnson said of Burke, one could hardly go

with him under a shed to shun a shower

without seeing that he was an extraordinary

man.

    His interest in the outer world was

singularly small ; the only newspapers he
read were the Athenaum and the British

Medical Journal : a daily paper was as rare

in his house as an edition de luxe. I have a

very dim recollection of the house in Bess-

borough Street being illuminated on the

declaration of peace after the Crimean War,
and of hearing references to the Indian
Mutiny, but can hardly recall a single con

versation on the more recent wars ; while as

for home politics, if he knew whether the

Liberals or Conservatives were in, and who
104 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vi

was Prime Minister, that was quite the
extent of his interest in the matter.

Besides a talk with a congenial spirit, his

only recreations were reading and an occa

sional visit to one of the commons, which

he enjoyed with the ardour of a schoolboy.

Amusements, as generally understood, he

had none : I doubt if he ever played a game
of any sort in his life--at least after boy

hood ; and the only theatrical entertainment

he ever went to was one of Mr. and Mrs.
German Reed's. He enjoyed it immensely,

laughing to tears at the fun, and pointing
out all the jokes to one of his sons who
considered himself an habitue of the Gallery
of Illustration and felt rather offended at

being treated as a novice. Strangely enough,

considering his abiding love of the beautiful,

he was never inside St. Paul's, only once or
twice in Westminster Abbey, and hardly
vi  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  105

ever went to either a picture gallery or a
concert.

    He was a great lover of the best litera

ture, a fact which is obvious enough in
nearly all his writings, where his apt but too
numerous quotations are often very effective.

His two chief books were the Bible and
Shakespeare, both of which he knew almost
by heart. He was also very fond of Milton,

Spenser, and Tennyson, and was a fervent

admirer of Bacon and of two theological
writers --Bishop Butler and John Howe ; the
sermons of the latter painful divine were for

many years his regular Sunday reading. But
he also read all the best new books, obtaining
his supplies from Mudie's with great regu

larity. He was especially fond of biography
and theology, and of the heavier Reviews,

especially the Quarterly and Edinburgh :
fiction he cared comparatively little for : he
106 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

loved Scott, but positively disliked Dickens
and all but the earlier works of George
Eliot, and he rarely read any of the
second-class novels. After retiring from
practice his time for reading was much

increased, and he made full use of it. His

love for general literature never declined, his
experience in this respect being a marked
contrast to Darwin's, who in his later years
could not endure to read a line of poetry,
and found Shakespeare intolerably dull.
                       VII

My father has more than once been com

pared, both in character and in personal
appearance, to Faraday : his earnest piety
gives him a still stronger resemblance to

the great physicist. To dismiss the matter

by saying that he was a Wesleyan who in

his latter days went to church instead of

chapel would be to make a statement mis
leading in its baldness. For more than fifty
years he lived an intensely religious life, the
central fact of which was his firm conviction

that on a given day his sins had been for
108 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vn

given, and he had been received into the

Divine favour. Mr. Bettany records what,

in substance, every one who knew him inti

mately must have heard from his lips : " You

believe in conversion? Thirty -eight years

ago this night (30th December 1876) at

eight o'clock I knew that my sins were
forgiven -- as surely as I know anything."

From his fifteenth year to his death he

kept undimmed by illness or sorrow an

abiding sense of the Divine presence and
of his own acceptance ; and the spiritual
life of prayer and communion with the

Unseen went on concurrently with the active

life of the medical practitioner and the con

templative life of the man of science. I
borrow once more Mr. Bettany 's record of
his own words :--

   "I pray in everything; before beginning

anything. When I sit down to my work
vn  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  109

in a morning, I feel that God has a perfect
right to do with me as He will for that

particular morning : and I am content what
ever happens. All through I see His glory
and His handiwork. I commune with God

as with a dear friend, telling all my

thoughts and all my ways to my ever-

present Counsellor and Friend. He lifteth

me up when I am cast down; and at times
I rise into an ecstasy of spiritual joy and

feeling, and am almost beyond the earth."

    To a man of this kind it was a matter of

little importance whether he was associated

with this religious body or with that : he

was brought up and received his first

spiritual impressions among Methodists ; a

different religious environment would have

made him a Quaker, a Molinist, a Church
man of the type of Herbert or Ferrers,
or a Roman Catholic of the type of Faber.
n0 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vn

     Naturally, to one whose religion was so

intensely subjective, the points at issue
between orthodox Christianity and Ration

alism were matters of very minor importance,

since, to his mind, there could be no doubt

on which side the final victory would be.

His own spiritual experiences were to him
the proof of Christianity, and all the rest
-- the inspiration of the Bible, the occur
rence of miracles, the truth of prophecy --
followed as a matter of course. Yet,

although his faith in essentials was unshaken,
it cannot be said that his views on minor

matters were unaffected as his knowledge

of Nature grew ; and it was characteristic of
him that when he himself had abandoned

an outwork he was quite unable to sympa
thise with those quixotic persons who con
tinued to defend it. In one of the numerous

digressions in Mammalian Descent he quotes
vii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER m

an account of a Buddhist creative miracle,

and then says:--           is scarcely  greater
    " This creation -feat

than the one supposed to take place in the

case of the first creation of every tree and

every animal, by those who are unversed

in Biology, and who interpret, literally, the

account of the Creation given in the first

chapter of Genesis.
    " But some of those who have a little

knowledge, even of Biology, have very misty
notions of the origin of living creatures.

    " One such suddenly startled the writer

by a hurried utterance of his cherished creed,

which was as follows : ' I believe that God

created Wellingtonia gigantea, 400 feet high,

in a moment.'

    " This speaker, whose power of mental

deglutition was so great, was one of our own

calling, and therefore had undergone a bio
112 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER                vn

logical training ; surely we may hope that

better days are in store for us, when no

educated man will be in danger of falling

into such a deep pit of belief as this."  of
    In this and like matters his want

logical power produced a certain inconsist
ency in his views, and caused him to adopt
a via media which was satisfactory only to

himself. He once shocked some Wesleyan
friends by saying that in the miracle of the
loaves and fishes there was no creation of
matter, only a re -combination of elements

already existing in the atmosphere : it
would have distressed him deeply to be
told that the refusal to believe in the

instantaneous production of starch, gluten,
and striped muscle was not one whit more
sceptical than his own refusal to credit the
formation de novo of the actual chemical

elements.
vii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 113

    But, in spite of a tendency to restate many
of the Biblical miracles in a way calculated to
diminish their stupendousness, he disliked
and distrusted all elaborate attempts to " har
monise " Science and Scripture. He persist
ently refused to join the Victoria Institute, on

the unassailable ground that there is no point

of contact between the things of Nature and
the things of Faith, and that the two should

be kept in what Renan calls distinct water

tight compartments of the mind. On one

occasion, when pressed to become an active

member of the society referred to, he wrote
to this effect : " Let your society try and
explain the swimming of Elisha's axe- head

by the laws of hydrostatics ; I believe the

axe-head swam, but I don't believe it can be

explained."

    Up to middle life his orthodoxy was of
the strictest : he once objected to some of his
114 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vh

children going to hear a clergyman who
believed in the annihilation instead of the

eternal punishment of the wicked. But in

later years his views underwent a great

broadening, and he made no objection to

secessions on the part of various members of
his family, on the one hand to the church of
which Canon Wilkinson --afterwards Bishop
of Truro --was vicar, and on the other to

Mr. Stopford Brooke's proprietary chapel.

    For nearly thirty years he was, like his
friend Smetham, a " class-leader " among the
Wesleyans. But by the age of fifty or there
abouts the members of his class gradually fell
off-- probably finding their leader too tran

scendental, and preferring the more conven
tional advice and consolation of lesser men.
As long as he remained in Pimlico he con
tinued to attend the chapel in Claverton
Street, only relieving his feelings by audible
vn  WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  115

comments on the sermon while it was going

on, and by trenchant criticisms of it during

dinner or supper. But many things in

Methodism --the want of culture of some of

the ministers, and especially the intermittent

revivalism -- distressed and irritated him ;
and although his innate dislike of altering his
habits kept him to his accustomed place of

worship, it was quite evident that the more
decent and orderly ceremonial of the Church
of England had greater attractions for him.
And when he moved to Upper Tooting he
began at once to attend the neighbouring

church of St. Mary Magdalene as if he had

never gone anywhere else, and without the
slightest sense of break in the continuity of
his religious life. In fact, although he was a
Methodist up to old age, he was never, at

least as far as his own feelings went, a dis
senter, and disliked nothing so much as to be
u6 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vn

called so. He had a horror of the " political
dissenter " ; for him the " dissidence of dissent "

had no charms, and he always retained the

original Wesleyan view that the members of his

communion were Churchmen driven by the

blindness and want of spirituality of the hier

archy into separation from the larger body.

He was most Methodist in his love of

Wesley's hymns, which he almost preferred to
the Book of Common Prayer, accepting them

frankly at their compiler's valuation, and

firmly refusing to admit that they contained

any taint of doggerel. The only other

religious verse he was specially fond of was

that of George Herbert : Keble he considered

mawkish. He liked quoting his favourite
hymns, and would recite " Thou hidden love
of God, whose height," or " Come, O Thou

traveller unknown," with wonderful energy

and fervour.
vii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 117

    His biographer in the Athenaum referred
to the intense happiness of his life. But

there was another side to the picture : with
him periods of exaltation and of almost
boyish spirits alternated with times of the

deepest depression. A new discovery, the

gift of a longed-for specimen, a word of
praise of his work from one whose opinion he
valued, would send him into the seventh
heaven of joy : an attack of the digestive
trouble from which he constantly suffered, the
arrival of an unexpected bill when the ex
chequer was low, and, above all, the illness
of his wife or children, sank him into the
deep waters of despondency.

     But ill or well, depressed or exalted, his
beloved work was never absent from his
mind. He writes, in 1877, to Professor

Flower : " I should come and talk to you

about things, but you are bothered enough,
n8 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vn

...and my strength and spirits are very poor.
       I shall never work properly until I live

in a world where there is no change and no
sorrow : to have to die to get into such a state

is a very small matter. Nevertheless, if I
can pull myself together anyhow, I should

just like fifteen or twenty years more at the
Vertebrata."

     Combined with his nervous, excitable,

almost feminine delicacy of organisation, he
had a fund of independence and uncompromis

ing honesty which was liable to be overlooked

by superficial observers. Mr. Bettany men

tions that on the rare occasions when he hired

a carriage for some social function he would
never, on leaving the assembly, allow it to be
summoned in his own name, but always gave

that of the livery stable keeper : to speak of

"Mr. Parker's carriage" seemed to him a

piece of unwarrantable ostentation. An old
vii    WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER         119

friend, the Rev. John Philp, tells that some
patient had left him because he made light of

her malady and gave her no medicine ; his

friend asked why he could not have pre

scribed some harmless nostrum rather than

risk the loss of a patient, and goes on to

say, " I see him now as with a contemptuous

frown  he  exclaimed  ' Bosh    '  "  I believe he
                              !

would have risked starvation rather than

have condescended to anything, however
harmless, which he considered a mere trick

of the trade.

   Of his relations to his family little need
be said --

   "... Those best portions of a good man's life,

          His little, nameless, unremembered acts
         Of kindness and of love,"

are just those which it is most difficult and
least satisfactory to write about. His intense

devotion to his wife and family ; his terrible
120 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vn

distress during the illness of any of us ; his     I

excellent qualities as a playfellow for the
younger ones and as a companion for all ;
the righteousness of his dealings with us, and
his keen anxiety for our welfare both of soul

and body--are not all these things written in

the hearts of his children ?
    As to personal appearance, he was above

the middle height--nearly 5 feet 10 --large

boned, but sparely and rather loosely built,

and with a slight stoop. His head was of

moderate size and well shaped, with a square
forehead ; his complexion dark ; his hair sparse
and lank, nearly black, and brushed well back
from the forehead ; he became decidedly gray
and rather bald at fifty or thereabouts, and
by sixty was nearly white. He had a large
mobile mouth with slightly projecting lower
lip, and very white and regular front teeth ; his
chin was rounded and deeply cleft or dimpled.
vii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 121

His smile was singularly sweet and winning.

Both mouth and chin were always exposed

as he never wore either moustache or beard.

His eyes formed the most noticeable feature
of his face ; they were dark brown, and

wonderfully bright and expressive.  His

hands, though long and bony, were slender

and slim - fingered. He walked rapidly,

swinging both arms and legs a good deal :

all his movements were quick and nervous.

The frontispiece gives a fair notion of

his appearance in later life; the best por

trait I have ever seen of him is a large

full-length photograph taken by Hering

of Regent Street, when he was about forty-

five years of age : the head of a somewhat

less satisfactory likeness is reproduced in

photogravure in the Journal of the Royal
Microscopical Society for 1885. But in most

cases photographs give him a strained and
122 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vii

unnatural appearance, and many of them are

absolute caricatures. All fail to show the

animated expression which was so character
istic of him, and in particular the brilliancy
of his eyes.
                      VIII

There is little to be said of my father's

life after his final settlement in Hendham

Road. His habits became more retired, and

almost his only outing was an annual visit

to his friend Mr. W. H. Budgett, of Stoke

House, Bristol. But in spite of advancing
age and undiminished weakness, his spirit
was the same as ever, and the following ex
tract from a letter to Miss Blanche Leppington
shows how the old man of sixty-five retained
all the fresh, ardent enthusiasm for God and
12+ WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vm

Nature which had been the chief character

istic of the youth.

   " I am often, through pain and weakness
and sorrow, a terror to myself, and yet I
feel that, if I had but just a little more
bodily strength, I could set the Thames on
fire in a twinkling. I can see things some

times through the horrid cracks in this old

mud house that give me a sense of power

that seems to have no limit, and the evolu

tion of which, in proper surroundings, will be

the work of eternity ; and yet again and
again I am ready to lie down and cry like

a sickly child when chidden -- ' a worm and

no man, despised of the people.' . . .

    " ' Faint yet pursuing them '-- it always

was so with me ; dragging weary legs over
clay fields, with a pound of clay on each

foot -- that was my early experience as a

farmer's son ; and yet the sight of the wild
vin WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 125

flowers, the settling of a speckled metallic-

feathered starling close to me, and the song

of the lark above head, made the weariness

a mere trifle. Largely that has been the
case in after life: the joy of research has

been the wine of my life, and even now it is

[so], although often sorely hindered through

debility and attacks of care.
   " All through these last fifty years 'the joy

of the Lord has been my strength,' and the

supposed old wives' fables and cunningly-

contrived deceptions of the four Gospels,

which according to  it is immoral to

believe, these supposed inventions of those

old Jews have been the strength of my life
--they have lifted up my mind. As for the

knowledge of modern science, it is only

ignorance with its eyes open. Constructive
geniuses, like the fine fellow just mentioned,
can build you any number of Summer Palaces
126 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vm

of thought, but they are as thin and weak

as gossamer.

    " The smallest organic creature has the
stamp of infinity upon it. I shall know what
a Primrose is when I see it in the light of
the face of its Maker. Now, it is a nor

mally-miraculous link in a practically infinite

chain of normally-miraculous living creatures.

   " All that glamour about protoplasm,

morphological law, evolution of types, etc.

etc., is big tall talk: not one of us could
fathom the life of a red-flowered Pimpernel,
even in a hundred years. We have ' nothing
to draw with, and the well is deep.' "

    On the ioth of March 1890 my mother
died; and only those who know how my
father had leant upon her for support in
all the daily cares of life for more than forty

years, can guess what the loss was to him,
vm          WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER              127

and how poignant were his sufferings during

her painful illness.

    Not long afterwards he wrote : " There is

no gospel in organisation ; it is done by

means of a ' decree that cannot pass.' Please

don't try and comfort me from the scientific

side of life : I won't take that poor drug :
I know of something better--infinitely better
--it is the old-fashioned ' Balm of Gilead.'

    " The beauty of living forms has, you

know, been the joy of my aesthetic and

mental life ; but these phenomena of loveli

ness are all shadows, and from me even now

they are passing away. . . .

    "       .  .  But  these  two  eyes,  that  have
         .

certainly served me well hitherto, are only

clay tools and will be of no use soon !

There ! if you will, do preach science to
me, and say that I and my eyes have had
their day and I must be willing to ' move
128 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

on ' and let a new generation do the mor
phology.

     " Thank you, ma'am ! But I've got an
old Book here that tells me of a spiritual
body and of victory over death and of
everlasting life. Thus when my reason
faints and dies, my faith lives and more
than conquers. I have got nothing now
to do but to die myself and that will be
a mere spasm : already as to bodily personal
pain I've had my share (my wife once said
that it was forty times the share of an
average man), but I'm in a position to
defy it."

    The last sentence was prophetic. A few

weeks later he had a slight attack of angina

pectoris, but soon recovered and felt no alarm.

Towards the end of June he was well enough

to pay his usual annual visit to Mr. W. H.
viii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 129
Budgett, and on the 2nd of July con
tinued his journey to Cardiff in order to
spend a few days with his second son.
He' had recovered much of his wonted
cheerfulness, and was as full of enthusiasm
and of plans for future work as ever. On
the following day, after lunch, he lay
on the sofa in my brother's study with
The Talisman in his hand, now reading a
little, now dozing for a minute or two, now
chatting in his old bright way. Suddenly he

began to breathe heavily ; before my brother
could reach him he was unconscious, and in
a few minutes he had passed away without a
word or a sign.

    On the 7th of July he was buried by my

mother's side in Wandsworth Cemetery.
They rest beneath a recumbent cross of

                                    K
130 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER  vin

red granite surrounded by a low coping

with the inscription :--

                  Jn Cocino iEemorg of

            William Kitchen Parker, F.R.S.
     Born 23rd June 1823 ; Died 3rd July 1890.

                              For fifty years

     A devout and unwearied student of Nature.
                 And of Elizabeth, his Wife,

Born 1 8th February 1825 ; Died 10th March 1890.

    My father's character and scientific posi

tion are summed up, in the Obituary Notices

of the Proceedings of the Royal Society, in
a paragraph which will form a better con

clusion to the present brief and imperfect

sketch of his life than any words of my

own.

    " An unworldly seeker after truth, and

loved by all who knew him for his upright
ness, modesty, unselfishness, and generosity
to fellow -workers, always helping young
viii WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER 131

inquirers with specimens and information,
he is lost to sight as a friend and father,

but lives in the minds of his fellow-workers,
of those whom he so freely taught, and of

his bereaved relations, as a great and good

man, whose beneficent influence will ever
be felt in a wide -spreading and advancing
science by thoughtful and appreciative men."
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS

A.-- On the Foraminifera

1. On the Miliolitida.    Micros. Sec Trans., vol. vi.,
        1858, pp. 53-59.

     ( The following twenty-nine papers were written in con

junction with Professor T. Rupert Jones, F.R.S.)

    2. Description of some Foraminifera from the Coast
           of Norway. Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol.
            xix. (series 2), 1857, pp. 273-303 ; 2 plates.

    3. On the Nomenclature of the Foraminifera. Annals
           and Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol. iii. (series 3), 1859,

            pp. 474-482.
    4. Do. do., vol. iv., 1859, pp. 333-351.

             Do. - do., vol. v., i860, pp. 98-116.
             Do. do. do. pp. 174-183.
             Do. do. do. pp. 285-298.
            Do. do. do. pp. 466-477.
            Do. do., vol. vi., i860, pp. 29-40.
134 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

1 0. On the Nomenclature of the Foraminifera. Annals
        and Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol. vi., 1860, pp. 337-

347-

11. Do. do., vol. viii., 1861, pp. 161-168.

12. Do. do. do. pp. 229-238.

13- Do. do., vol. xi., 1863, pp. 91-98.
14. Do. do., vol. xii., 1863, pp. 200-219.
'5- Do. do. do. pp. 429-441.
16. Do. do., vol. ix. (series 4), 1872, pp. 211-230.

'7- Do. do.  do.  do.  pp. 280-300.

18. Do. do., vol. x., 1872, pp. 184-200.

19. Do. do. do. pp. 253-271.
20. Do. do. do. pp. 453-457.

21. Note on the Foraminifera from the Bryozoan

Limestone, near Mount Gambier, S. Australia.

         Journal Geol. Soc, vol. xvi., i860, p. 261.
22. On the Rhizopodal Fauna of the Mediterranean

         compared with that of the Italian and some

        other Tertiary Deposits. Journal Geol. Soc,
         vol. xvi., i860, pp. 292-307.
23. On some Fossil Foraminifera from Chellaston,

         near Derby. Journal Geol. Soc, vol. xvi., 1 860,

         pp. 452-458 ; 2 plates.
24. On the Foraminifera of the Crag. Annals and

         Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. xiii., 1 864, pp. 64-68.
25. On the Foraminifera of the London Clay. Geo

          logist, vol. vii., 1864, pp. 85-89.
26. On some Foraminifera from the North Atlantic
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS                   135

         and Arctic Oceans, including Davis Straits and

         Baffin Bay (1864). Phil. Trans., 1865, pp.

           325-441 ; 8 plates.

27. On the Foraminifera of the Chalk of Gravesend
         and Mendon, figured by Professor Dr. Chr. G.

         Ehrenberg. Geol. Mag., vol. viii., 1871, pp.

          506-511 and 563-565.
28. Notes on Eley's Foraminifera from the English

         Chalk. Geol. Mag., vol. ix., 1872, pp. 123-126.
29. On the Foraminifera of the family Rota/inte,

          Carpenter, found in the Cretaceous Formations,

        with Notes on their Tertiary and Recent Repre
         sentations. Stuart. Journ. Geol. Soc, vol. xxviii.,
         1872, pp. 103-13 1 ; Phil. Mag., vol. xliii.,

          1872, p. 543.
30. On Ovu/ites margaritula. Annals and Mag. Nat.

         Hist, (series 4), vol. xx., 1 877, p. 77.

    ( The following Jive papers were written in conjunction
with Dr. H. B. Brady, F.R.S., and Professor T. Rupert

Jones, F.R.S.)

31. On the Nomenclature of the Foraminifera.

Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. xv. (series 3),

1865, pp. 225-232.

32. Do. do., vol. xvi., 1865, pp. 15-41.

33. Do. do., vol. viii. (series 4), 1871, pp. 145-179.

34. Do. do.  do.    do. pp. 238-266.
136 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

 35. A Monograph of the genus Polymorphina (1869).

           Trans Linn. Soc, 187 1, pp. 197-254 ; 4 plates.

(The following paper was written in conjunction with

J.Professor T. Rupert Jones and Mr.  W. Kirkby.)

36. On the Nomenclature of the Foraminifera. Annals
         and Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. iv. (series 4), 1869,

pp. 386-392.

    (The following monograph was written by Dr. Car
penter, with the assistance of Messrs. Parker and T. Rupert

Jones.)
  37. Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera.
             Ray Society, 1862 ; 22 plates.

 B. -- On the Vertebrate Skeleton generally

38. Abstract of Notes on the Osteology of Balaniceps
         rex. Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1860, pp. 324-330 ;
        Ibis, July 1862.

39. On the Osteology of Balaniceps rex, Gould (1860).
          Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. iv., 1862, pp. 269-351 ;

           3 plates.

40. On the Osteology of the genera Pterocles,
         Syrrhaptes, Hemipodius, and Tinamus (Abstract).
         Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1862, pp. 253-260.
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS  137

41. On the Systematic Position of the Crested

          Screamer {Palamedea chavaria). Proceedings
          Zool. Soc, 1863, pp. 5 1 1-5 18; Annals and Mag.
         Nat. Hist, (series 3), vol. xiv., 1864, pp. 144-

            150.

42. On the Osteology of Gallinaceous Birds and Tin-

          amous (1862). Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. v., 1866,

           pp. 149-241 ; 9 plates.

43. Remarks on the Skeleton of the Archasopteryx,
         and on the Relations of the Bird to the Reptile.

          Geol. Mag., vol. ii., 1864, pp. 55-57.
44. On the Osteology of the Kagu {Rbinochetus

         jubatus). Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1864, pp. 70-
         72 ; Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 3), vol.
          xiv., 1864, pp. 385-387 ; Trans. Zool. Soc, vol.
          vi., 1869, pp. 501-521 ; 2 plates.
45. On the Sternal Apparatus of Birds and other
          Vertebrata. Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1864, pp.

          339-341-
46. On the Osteology of Microglossa alecto. Proceed

          ings Zool. Soc, 1865, pp. 235-238 ; Annals and
         Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 3), vol. xvi., 1865, pp.

47. A Monograph on the Structure and Development

         of the Shoulder-Girdle and Sternum in the

          Vertebrata. Ray Society, 1888, pp. 1-237 , 3°
           plates.
48. Preliminary Notes on some Fossil Birds from the
138 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

          Zebbug Cave, Malta. Proceedings Zool. Soc,

          1865, pp. 752-753 ; Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. vi.,
         1869, pp. 1 19-124; 1 plate.

49. Article " Birds " (Anatomical part). Encyclopedia

         Britannica, 9th edition, vol. iii., 1875.
50. On the Evolution of the Vertebrata (Abstract of

          Hunterian Lectures). Nature, vol. xx., 1879, PP*

           30, 61, and 81.

51. On the Morphology of Birds. Proceedings Roy.
         Soc, vol. xlii., 1887, pp. 52-58.

52. On the Structure and Development of the Wing
         in the Common Fowl. Philosoph. Trans^ vol.

         clxxix. (B), 1888, pp. 385-398 ; 4 plates.
53. On the Secondary Carpals, Metacarpals, and

         Digital Rays in the Wings of Existing Carinate

         Birds. Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xliii., 1 888,

     pp. 322-325.

54. On the Vertebral Chain of Birds. Proceedings

     Roy. Soc, vol. xliii., 1888, pp. 465-482.

55. On the Presence of Claws in the Wings of the

     Ratitae. Ibis, 1888, pp. 124-128.

56.  Note on Long-Faced Birds. Ibis, 1888, p.   217.
57.
     On the " Manus " of Phcenicopterus. Ibis,  April

     1889, pp. 183-185.

58. On the Systematic Position of the Swifts.

          Zoologist, 1889, pp. 91-95.           Pro
59. On the Osteology of Steatornis caripensis.

     ceedings Zool. Soc, 1889, pp. 161-190 ; 4 plates.
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS  139

60. Note on the Anserine Affinities of the Flamin

          goes. Science, 1889, pp. 183-185.
61. On the Morphology of the Duck and Auk Tribes.

        Cunningham Memoirs, No. 6 ; R. Irish Acad.,

           1890, p. 132 ; 9 plates.

62. Notes on the Morphology of the Hoatzin (Opis-

          thocomus cristatus). (Abstract.) Proceedings Zool.
          Soc, 1890, pp. 44-46.
63. On the Morphology of a Reptilian Bird (Opis-
         thocomus cristatus). Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. xiii.,

          1 891, pp. 43-86.

        C.-- On the Vertebrate Skull

64. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
         of the Ostrich Tribe. Proceedings Roy. Soc,
         vol. xiv., 1865, pp. 112-114; Philosoph. Trans.,
          vol. clvi., 1866, pp. 1 1 3-184 ; 9 plates.

65. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
         of the Common Fowl (Gallus domesticus). Pro
         ceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xvii., 1869, pp. 277-280;
         Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 4), vol. iv.,
         1869, pp. 67-69; Philosoph. Trans., vol. clix.,

          1869, pp. 755-807 ; 7 plates.
66. On the Mode of Working out the Morphology of

         the Skull. Monthly Micros. Journal, vol. v.,

          1 871, pp. 201-204.
1 40 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

67. On the Form and Use of the Facial Arches.
         Monthly Micros. Journal, vol. vi., 1 87 1, pp. 211-

           213.

68. On the Structure of the Eel's Skull. Nature, vol.

          iv., 1 87 1, pp. 146-148.
69. On the Structure and Development of the Skull

         of the Common Frog {Rana temporaria). Pro

         ceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xix., 1 87 1, pp. 246-248 ;

          Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxi., 1 87 1, pp. 1 37-2 1 2,
         8 plates ; Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 4),

          vol. vii., 1871, pp. 297-299.
70. On the Structure and Development of the Crow's

         Skull. Monthly Micros. Journal, vol. viii., 1872,

         pp. 217, 226-253 ; ^ plates.
71. On- the Structure and Development of the Skull

        of the Salmon. Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xx.,
        1872, pp. 360-362; Philosoph. Trans., vol.

         clxiii., 1873, pp. 95-145, 8 plates; Annals and
         Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 4), vol. x., 1872, pp.

          222-224.

72. On the Development of the Skull in the Tit

          (Parus) and Sparrow -hawk (Nisus vulgaris).
         Monthly Micros. Journal, vol. ix., 1873, pp. 6-

          11 and 45-50 ; 3 plates.
73. On the Development of the Skull in the genus

Turdus : the Thrushes.  Monthly Micros.

Journal, vol. ix., 1873, pp. 102 - 107 ; 3

plates.
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS                                                 141

74. On the Development of the Face in the Sturgeon

         {Acipenser sturio). Monthly Micros. Journal,

         vol. ix., 1873, pp. 254-257 ; 1 plate.

75. Morphological Elements of the Skull. Journal
         of Anat. and Physiol., vol. viii., 1873, pp.

          62-73 ; 1 plate.
76. On the Structure and Development of the Skull

         in the Pig (Sus scrofa). Proceedings Roy. Soc,
         vol. xxi., 1873, pp. 402-407 ; Monthly Micros.
        Journal, vol. x., 1873, pp. 140-144; Philosoph.

          Trans., 1874, pp. 289-336 ; 10 plates.
77. On CEgithagnathous Birds (Part I.). Proceedings

          Zool. Soc, 1873, p. 196 ; Trans. Zool. Soc, vol.

          ix., pp. 289-352 ; 9 plates.
78. On the Structure and Development of the Verte

         brate Skull (Report of Hunterian Lectures).

         Nature, vol. ix., 1 874, pp. 424, 467; vol. x.,

1874, PP- 9, io7» l67, 249, 444 ; vo1- xi-, l874i

          p. 9 ; and vol. xviii., 1878, p. 255.
79. On the Morphology of the Skull in the Wood

peckers (Picida) and Wrynecks (Tungida).

Nature, vol. x., 1875, p. 173 ; Trans. Linn. Soc

(series 2), Zool., vol. 1875, pp. 1-22
i.,                                                                     plates.
           i.,

                               ;
                                     8

                                                      ;
                                                                     5
80. On the Structure and Development of the Bird's

       Skull, Part II. (1875). Trans. Linn. Soc (series

2), Zool., vol. pp. 99-154  plates.

81. On the Skull of CEgithagnathous Birds (Part II.).

Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1876, pp. 256-258;
Hz WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

           Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. x., 1878, pp. 251-314;

            9 plates.

 82. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
         in the Batrachia (Part II.). Proceedings Roy.
           Soc, vol. xxiv., 1875, pp. 136-143; Philosoph.
           Trans., vol. clxvi., part ii., 1876, pp. 601-669 ,

            9 plates.

 83. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
         in the Urodelous Amphibia (Part I.). Proceed
          ings Roy. Soc, vol. xxv., 1876, pp. 333-337;
          Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxvii., part ii., 1 877, pp.

            529"597 ; 9 plates.

84. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
          in the Common Snake (Tropidonotus natrix).
          Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xxvii., 1 878, pp. 13-16 ;
          Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxix., 1878, pp. 385-418;

           7 plates.

85. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
        in the Lacertilia (Part I.). On the Skull of
         the Common Lizards (Lacerta agilis, L. viridis,
         and Zootoca vivipara). Proceedings Roy. Soc,
         vol. xxviii., 1878, pp. 214-217 ; the Croonian
         Lecture, Philosoph. Trans., part ii., 1 879, pp.

           595-640 ; 9 plates.

86. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
         in Sharks and Skates. Proceedings Zool. Soc,

           1876, p. 699 ; Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. x., 1878,

          pp. 189-234 ; 9 plates.
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS                                               143

87. On the Development of the Skull and its Nerves
         in the Green Turtle {Chelone midas), with
         Remarks on the Segmentation seen in the Skull

         of various Types. Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol.

          xxviii., 1879, pp. 329-345.

88. The Development of the Green Turtle {Chelone
         viridis). Scientific Results of the Voyage of
       H.M.S. Challenger, Zool. part v., 1880, pp.
;
1-58 13 plates.
                                     i.,

                                                                    ;

                                                        8
                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                  5
89. On the Morphology of the Skull in the Amphibia

Urodela (1879). Linn Soc Journal, Zool., vol.

xiv., pp. 717-719; Trans. Linn. Soc (series

2), Zool., vol. ii., pp. 165-212  plates.

90. On the Structure of the Skull in the Chameleons.

Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1880, p. 188 Trans.

Zool. Soc, vol. xi., 1881, pp. 77-105;

           plates.

91. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
          in the Urodeles. Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1880,

         p. 544; Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. xi., 1882, pp.

171-214  plates.
         ;

             6

                                     i.,

                                                                1
                                                                  1,

                                                                ;
92. On the Structure and Development of the Skull

in the Batrachia (Part III.). Proceedings Roy.

Soc, vol. xxx., 1880, pp. 435-438 Philosoph.

Trans., vol. clxii., part         88 pp. 1-266;

          44 plates.
93. On the Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus

         osseus. Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xxxiii., 1881,
   144 WILLIAM KITCHEN PARKER

   pp. 107-112; Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxiii.,

            part ii., 1882, pp. 443-491 ; 9 plates.

   94. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
           in the Sturgeons (Acipenser ruthenus and A.

   sturio). Proceedings Roy. Soc, 1881, pp. 142-
   145 ; Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxiii., part 1882,
                                                            i.,
   pp. 139-185             plates.                                       ;; ;
   ; I. ;
   95. On the Structure and Development of the Skull
                 ;
                      7in the Crocodilia. Proceedings Zool. Soc, 1882,

            p. 77 Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. xi., 1883, pp. 263-
           310; 10 plates.
   96. On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes.

           Part -- The Myxinoids (Myxine and Bdello-
          stoma) Part II. -- Petromyzon. Proceedings Roy.

             Soc, 1882, pp. 439-443, and 1883, pp. 1-3
            Philosoph. Trans., part ii., 1883, pp. 373-457;

              10 plates.

   97. On the Structure and Development of the Skull

          in the Mammalia. Part II. -- Edentata. Pro

            ceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xxxvii., 1884, pp. 79-82
            Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxxvi., 1885, pp. 1-119

                   plates.

   98. On the Structure and Development of the Skull

         in the Mammalia. Part III. -- Insectivora. Pro
   1
      5
                       ',
   ceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xxxviii., 1885, pp. 129-
   138; Philosoph. Trans., vol. clxxvi., 1885, pp.

              121-275 24 plates.

   99. On Remnants and Vestiges of Amphibian Struc-

'
LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS               145

tures found in the Skull of Birds, both Carinatae
and Ratitae. Proceedings Roy. Soc, vol. xliii.,
1888, pp. 397-402.

     D. -- Books and Miscellaneous Works

100. Addresses before the Royal Microscopical Society.
          Monthly Micros. Journal, vol. vii., 1872, pp.
            89-97, and vol. ix., 1873, pp. 97-102.

101. The Morphology of the Skull (in conjunction

         with Mr. G. T. Bettany). London, 1 877.

102. Article "Carnivora Fissipedia" in Cassell's Natural

        History, vol. ii. (in conjunction with T. J. Parker).

           London, 1877.
103. Mammalian Descent. London, 1884.
104. On the Origin of the Higher Animals. Con

          temporary Review, vol. xlvii., 1885, pp. 841-859.

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.
1

