Michael Faraday : man of science / by Walter Jerrold.

Jerrold, Walter, 1865-1929.
London : S.W. Partridge & Co. ..., [1893]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89016173320

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
visco,
                   3..*
          ;*
NOV 2 7 toº
M FA Y,I

       C
       H
       A

       E
       L

       R
       A
       D
       A

                      ----              |×

          §ÊtS\ \,          |-§...ÊRMN
                             ÈÈÊ
          -S`NÈ`NÑ`~`È``s

                                            -...

           `NÑÑ

          NN`
           WAYANÈ`

          Ñ

             \\ZZZZ \\^^\ \!\\N

                      ----RNA}N\

                                \\\\\
MICHAEL FARADAY.

                   11(an of Science.

                   Cºrea",

           WALTER" jERROLD.
                                                                      **

    "Whose work was wrought for love, and not for gain."
   "One rule his life was fashioned to fulfil ;

          That he who tends Truth's shrine and does the hest
      Of Science, with a humble, faithful will,

          The God of Truth and Knowledge serveth best."

                         -º-o-º

                   El GH TH THOUSAN D.

                           LONDON :

           S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.,

                             9, PATERNOSTER Row.
&C 1473.911

                    PRE FA C E.

                     ­4­

   I"lyNDALL, must remain plain Michael Faraday

            to the last." In these words, with which he

     replied to Professor Tyndall's urgent appeal to him
     to accept the Presidency of the Royal Society, we
     have a key-note to the character of the illustrious
      yet modest scientist, the good and great man, whose

   Ilife-story have attempted to tell in the following

      pages.

       A life-story such as that of Michael Faraday is

     both easy and difficult to tell--it is easy in that he
     passed a simple and unadventurous life; it is diffi
     cult, partly, perhaps, for the same reason, and partly
     because the story of his life-work is a story of the
     wonderful advance made in natural science during
     the first half of the present century. Any detailed
     account of that Scientific work would be out of place in
     a biography such as the present, which aims at show
vi PREFACE.

ing by the testimony of those who knew him and by
an account of his relations with his fellow-men, how

nobly unselfish, how simple, yet how grand and useful,

was the long life of Michael Faraday.

  Besides this, we are shown--how many an illus

trious name in the bede-roll of our great men brings
it to mind--that with an enthusiastic love for

a particular study, and unflagging perseverance in
is
                     it,pursuance ofthe most adverse circumstance  of of

birth and fortune may     be

                                       of
                             overcome, and he who

has striven take rank among the great and good

whose names adorn the annals                       their country.

Such lives are useful, not alone for the work which

    done, but for the example which they afford us,
that we also--to use Longfellow's well-known, yet

beautifully true lines--

               "May make our lives sublime,

               And departing, leave behind  of us
               Footprints on the sands
                                                 time."

   "The true scientist," says Mr. Robert Buchanan
       recent work, "should
in                         a      patient like Darwin
                              be
     a
           to
and reverent like Faraday." The latter, indeed,
               me have been truly typical scientist.
seems          a
                  to
Never have we seen an instance of less selfish
                                                   a

devotion to man's chosen work. Born the son

a  journeyman blacksmith, brought up amidst the

most unpromising surroundings, with but the scantiest
schooling, we find Michael Faraday educating himself

during his spare time, and gradually acquiring, by

indomitable perseverance, that scientific knowledge
               in he
                                                      in
                                                                a
for which      thirsted. We find him seeking employ

ment, even     the humblest capacity,                              place that
PIREFACE.  vii

must have appeared to his youthful mind as the
very home of science. Once there, we find him
advancing with marvellous rapidity not only in the
acquirement of knowledge which had been gained
by others, but, yet prouder position, we find him
ever adding to that store of knowledge the discovery
of new facts. The patience of the true scientist was
assuredly his. We find him acknowledged by his
great contemporaries not only as an equal but as a
leader among them. We find him with wealth and

high social position within his reach. All this do

We find--and not this alone; for we find him at
the same time unspoiled in the slightest degree by
his success; caring not in the least for the wealth
that might be his, and declining honours which
most men would have considered as but the fair

reward of work which they had done. We find him
also the object of love and admiration, not of his
family and intimate friends alone, but of all persons

with whom he came into contact. We find him ex

ploring all the hidden workings of nature--making
known discovery after discovery in the same modest
and enthusiastic manner; and despite all these
inquiries into the secrets of nature, we find him
retaining unshaken that firm faith with which he
had started--that beautiful and unquestioning trust

1In

                         "A far off divine event

                       To which the whole creation moves."

   Much of Faraday's kindliness and good nature,
his considerateness and his simple earnest faith could
be revealed only by his letters and by the records of
 viii PREFACE.

Ithose who had known him personally--on this account
   have found it necessary somewhat freely to make
use of illustrative quotations. After studying his

life, however, the kindliness, nay more, the true
brotherhood of the man with all men is the feeling

which most firmly clings to us; we do not alone

remember the great electrician, experimentalist, and
lecturer, but we have an ever-present idea of the
Sterling goodness of the man.

   "A purer, less selfish, more stainless existence,

has rarely been witnessed. At last came the voice

which the dying alone can hear, and the hand which
the living may not see, beckoned him away; and then
that noble intellect, awakening from its lethargy,
like Some sleeper roused from a heavy dream, rose up
and passed through the gates of light into the better

land, where, doubtless, it is now immersed in the
study of grander mysteries than it ever attempted to
explore on earth."

  IIn closing this preface have much pleasure in

recording my deep indebtedness to Miss Jane Barnard,
a niece of the great Professor, and for some two and
twenty years a member of his household, for several
reminiscences of her uncle; and also for her kindness

in allowing me to look through the many interesting

manuscripts of Faraday's which are in her posses
sion.

                                    WALTER JERROLD.
              LIBRARY, R O YAL INSTITUTION

              C O NTE NTS

                             CEI APTER I.   PAGE

As CHILD-N EWSBOY AND BookBINDER .             11

                   CHAPTER II.                 27

THE TURNING POINT                              36

                        CHAPTER III.           53

"HoME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD ''

                   CHAPTER IV·

BACK AT Work
X CONTENTS.                                   PAGE

                                  CHAPTER V.    71
                                                80
I"SCIENCE WHICH LOVED "                       107
                                              127
                               CHAPTER VI.    140
                                              150
As TEACHER AND PREACHER

                              CEIAPTER VII.

OVERWORK­THE END . -

                           CHAPTER VIII.

AS FRIEND AND LECTURER .

                              CHAPTER IX.

NoTEs on HIS WoRK. - -

                                  CHAPTER X.

ABOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION
 M I C H A E L FAR AD AY.

                            CHAPTER I,
        AS CHILD-NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER,

                                   ---->''<----
        "APAunvrdeirtfuleiovauerisrnsghwoGuesroeedh;othldte,hyetahvloelu,rgyahucshteeixlrdceereeandnindtgagurpgaovhoet,r l

            Stern self-respect, a reverence for God's word,
            And an habitual piety."

                          ---> <---- WORDSWORTH.

A". those of our greatmen who, born in humble cir
      cumstances and unfurnished with the benefits of early
cducation, have yet secured for themselves honourable
positions in the history of the world's progress, Michael
Faraday holds a remarkable place. Born the son of a
journeyman blacksmith, Michael yet gained for himself
a conspicuous position among the very first scientists of
his day, and at the time of his death was acknowledged
as one of the leading philosophers--electricians--
chemists--of this nineteenth century.

   Our interest in a great man makes us always inter
12 MICHAEL FARADAY.

ested also in his family--we become anxious to know
who and what he was apart from that which has made
him great. Who were his parents? from where did
they come? what were they like P what did they do 2
and a number of similar questions are at once started
as soon as we commence considering the lives of our

"great and good." In the case of Faraday we have

only scanty information as to his family, but thus much
we have gleaned:--

   During the whole of last century there was living in
or near the village of Clapham, in Yorkshire, a family of
the name of Faraday. Between the years 1708 and
1730 the Clapham parish register shows us that
"Richard faraday, stonemason, tiler, and separatist,"
recorded the births of ten children, and it is probable
that he had in his large family yet another son, Robert.
Whether, however, Robert was his son or only his
nephew is a matter of doubt, but it is known of him
that he married Elizabeth Dean, the possessor of
a small though comfortable house called Clapham
Wood Hall, and that he was the father of ten children,
one of whom, James, was born in 1761, and became the
father of Michael Faraday.

    Robert and Elizabeth Faraday's six sons were each
of them brought up to some trade or craft, and were
thus all of them fitted to go out into the world and
fight the battle of life. One son became a grocer and
(as his grandfather, "Richard faraday," had been)
tiler; one a farmer; one a shoemaker, and so on. The
third son, James, to us the most interesting member of
this large family, although he appears to have been of
somewhat weak constitution and unfitted for so laborious
a vocation, became a blacksmith, served his apprentice
ship, and exercised his craft for some time in the

neighbourhood of his birthplace. When he was five

and-twenty years old (in 1786), James married; his
wife being Margaret Hastwell, the daughter of a farmer
living near Kirkby Stephen, a place some few miles away
AS CHILD­NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER.                                                   13

from Clapham, over the Westmoreland border. For two
years or thereabouts did the young blacksmith and his
wife remain in the neighbourhood of Clapham; but after
that time had elapsed they determined to come up to
London, and seek their fortunes in the great metropolis.
To the young men and women of our rural places the
very name of London has about even to-day, ring   of it,
                                                                      of         large
it asgenuine coin, that tempts them                       A to  leave     in in a
                             their childhood that they may
     ofnumbers the homes     of
                                 of
              asplunge into the vortex city life.               hundred years

ago this strange attractive power                         the metropolis was

probably much greater,       owing            to  tthoelddifficulwtyealthre. acThhienyg
   and the vague stories     that were                    or of
                                                              to its
who had "been            to  London'' were looked upon rural

places veritable travellers, and were                                 their "home
keeping" friends objects greater curiosity than anyone
                             of

who to-day returns from the farthest wildest portion                               up of
the earth's surface. The old story "the London streets
                                                  of

being paved with gold"--the story that had buoyed
the spirits              the youthful Whittington--seems yet
the last century  in of
is in                        have gained some credence.
Whether they were inducedat  of               to
                                  to be to          do                promises     it of
          or                            a to              as so
                                                            a by
work, merely attracted London                                         centre where
                             plentiful, we cannot say; but
work would probably
any rate certain that the Faradays removed from
the Yorkshire village
                                            London suburb some time
before the autumn 1791. For was on the 22nd                                        of at of
                                                  it

September              that year that there was born them             to

Newington Butts their third child, Michael, the future
illustrious chemist and philosopher, upon the story
whose life we are now about enter.
                         he
                                           to

                                                                a
                                                                         to
Of Michael's early years we have but very meagre
account. When was about five years old his family
removed from Newington Butts, and went                                             in
                                                                             live

Jacob's Well Mews, Charles Street, Manchester Square,
where they occupied rooms over coach-house. James
Faraday found employment                      at
                                                  a

                                                                  in

                                                                        as
                                                  this time               Welbeck
Street, while his young son passed his time, children
14 MICHAEL FARADAY.

so circumstanced generally do, in playing in the streets;
in after years, indeed, that son, become a prominent
man, would point out where in Spanish Place he
used to play at marbles, and where in Manchester Square
he had at a later time been proud of having to take care

of his younger sister, Margaret. It was from Jacob's

Well Mews, too, that Michael went to school, and
received such scant education as was to be his before it

became necessary that he, as a youth of thirteen, should

step into the ranks of the workers and begin the battle
of life in earnest; such education as he received was of
                               at
the "most ordinary description     a             use his own words),
consisting
                                            (to
                                               at
                  little more than the rudiments reading,
writing, and arithmeticof of                 common day-school. Myof
                                                        a of
hours out           school were passed              home and      in in    the
streets."

When Faraday was boy nine years                             age, the
                               a
                                        :

                                         of
first year the present century, there was time
    as                                                                         at of

          of of

                    as
much distress, when the rate wages was very low, and
             food very high corn, indeed, which
the price                                                                  is

the present time about forty shillings per quarter, cost
then much £9 for the same quantity. The distress,
was felt very generally throughout the country, and the
Faraday family severely felt the hard times; Michael,
we are told, was allowed one loaf each week, and,
            by                                              to
                                 !),
                                                                      it
                                       at                                  is
added (poor Michael                      that the loaf had  last him
that time.

Near         where the Faraday family lived
                                             he 2,  In            Jacob's

                                                          on

                                                            in

                                                                         as

                                                                           an a
Well Mews there was, No. Blandford Street,
worthy bookseller named Riebau.
Faraday was boy thirteen,                                   1804, when

             as bya                                 was employed
                           of
errand boy Mr. Riebau, "for one year                        trial"--a
trial that,         we shall shortly see, proved highly satis
factory. Michael's duty errand boy, when as         up                     com

                                                            it

                                                                    so he
menced, was carry round the newspapers which were
            by
                   to
lent out his master. He would get very early each
Sunday morning, and take the papers round,
he           be                                                            that
                         to
    might able call again for them while was yet
                                                                                    ==

THE HOUSE IN JACOB's wer.I, MEws.
    16 -             MICHAEL FARADAY.

    fairly early; frequently he would be told that he "must
    call again," as the paper was not done with. On such
    occasions he would beg to be allowed to have it at once,
    as the next place at which he had to call might be a
    mile off, and he would lose so much time going twice
    over his rounds that he would not be able to get home
    and make himself neat, so that he might go with his
    parents to their place of worship. Mr. Riebau's shop,
on it

        of

               be

                     of of

                            it

                                    is
                                         is

                                                        a
                                                            a ...
      may noted, has changed but little since the early
    part this century,                  still stationer's business, and
      the front the house placed plaque bearing the
    simple inscription "Michael Faraday, Man Science,"
    with the date his apprenticeship there. This plaque             of of

    has furnished the simple yet sufficient title for this
    volume.
                                                      --

                it                                         noted, had joined the

                                or
                                          be
      His father, may here
    Sandemanian Church,                        the followers                    Robert
    Sandeman, who, with his father-in-law, the Reverend
    John Glas, had seceded from the Scotch Presbyterian
    Church, and with him had started the sect which
                                                           they are still called
    was named after Sandeman, or,
                                        In
                                                       as
a in  Scotland, Glasites.                      joining the Sandemanian
    Church, James Faraday was following the family tradi
    tion, for the large family Clapham Faradays, whom
                                        allof
                                                           of

                                                                               to
    we have referred, were                     members the same body.
    Michael's mother, although she had not formally become
                the Church, used regularly                          a to               as
      member    of                                                            attend

                                                                as
    one the congregation. Michael, we shall learn,
    joined the Church later on, and continued devout andof
            he  a                                     of
    sincere member                      as to  the time his death.
                    of                                   a
                        it                                 a

                               up                             of
      For about year did young Faraday continue Mr.                                as

    Riebau's errand boy; for about year,                            of        Professor    fail
                                                                         in as
    Tyndall puts "he slid along the London pavements,it,                                   W( ha Ill all hº lit |a

a     bright-eyed errand boy, with load brown curls                                            !

    §upon     hiWs ehelaedarnanfdromaa  packet he of  his  newspapers         under his
                                        one                nieces that          his later
    arm."
    ears        rarely saw newsboy, without making some
         remark about him;                                 on
                                                      said one such occasion,
            AS CHILD­NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER.                     17

"I always feel a tenderness for those boys, because I
once carried newspapers myself." He was reproached,

he says, as a boy, with being a great questioner. "He

that questioneth much," says Lord Bacon, "shall learn
much;" but this truth is too often forgotten by their
elders when children are "inquisitive," and, as in
Faraday's case, what is but the natural questioning of
an awakening mind is put down to idle curiosity, and
the child is told (as we may often hear) "not to ask so
many questions."

Although Faraday says he was thus "charged with
being a great questioner," he could not recall what kind
of questions he put; though he tells one story against
         at
             a

                               is
                                      to to all
                                                be

                                                           a
                                                                  he

                                                                              of

                                                                                                a
himself which shows that questioning, even that
young philosopher,           not necessarily wise. He had

called        certain house                   leave   newspaper, and

whilst waiting for the door                   opened         put his head

between the iron bars that separated the house from the
next, and while that position asked himself, somewhat
      so                     the railing
           as
                to

                  he
                     he

                       in
                                  of
                                                        he
                                                              he
                                                                   all
                                                                       o?n
                                                                           it
strangely, which side                                 was        No
sooner had started the question than the door behind
him opened,         drew suddenly back, and, hitting him
              make his nose bleed,                   forgot
self                                                         about his
question, which, without being answered, was yet
would seem somewhat definitely settled.

When his year       to       errand boy expired, Michael
was apprenticed          as
                         Mr. Riebau learn the trade              of
bookbinder and stationer. His indentures are datedin

October 7th,      1805,                          to   weOf
testimonial         his  cahnadraccotnetra:in"Inonceonlsiindeeratioenxcoefllehnistan
             of to
faithful service    no   premium given."                     atthe earlier
                             of in
part                              is is

                                             to
                                                 a
        of   his seven years' apprenticeship                 know but
little. His father wrote 1809
                                                     brother the old

home Clapham, "Michael bookbinder and stationer,isat
and very active learning his business. He has beenat
most part four years his time out seven. He
has very good master and mistress, and likes his placeaat of
well. He had hard time for some while first going;
                    a
                                           C
18 MICHAEL FARADAY.

but, as the old saying goes, he has rather got the head
above water, as there are two boys under him."

  In that he was placed within reach of many and good

books, which should go a great way towards deciding his
scientific and speculative bent of mind, a position such
as that in Mr. Riebau's shop was as good a one as he
could have had. Not only were many scientific books,
that had hitherto been unavailable, now placed ready to
his hand, but he had in Riebau a kind and considerate
master; he was allowed, and it was a valuable privilege,

 º Tººlº|im
                                                -

      "MICHAEL FARADAY, MAN OF scIENCE, APPRENTICE HERE."

to be out occasionally of an evening that he might attend
the lectures on natural philosophy which a Mr. Tatum
was delivering at that time at his house in Dorset Street,
Fleet Street. Michael saw bills announcing the lectures
in shop windows, and became anxious to hear them,
which he was enabled to do owing to the kindness of his
master, Mr. Riebau, and the generosity of his elder
brother Robert, who at the time was following their
father's business, and made Michael a present on several
occasions of the shilling which was charged for entrance
to the lectures.
AS CHILD­NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER.           19

   Towards the end of the year 1809 Faraday's family

removed from Jacob's Well Mews, where their home

had been for thirteen years, and went to live at 18,
Weymouth Street, near Portland Place, and there, on
October 30th of the following year, James Faraday died.
He had been out of health for some years, and seems
indeed to have been quite physically unfitted for so
laborious an occupation as that of blacksmith. In 1807
"Ihe had written to a brother at Clapham,  am sorry to
Isay have not had the pleasure of enjoying one day's
Ihealth for a long time. Although am very seldom off
Iwork for a whole day together, yet am under the
necessity (through pain) of being from work part of
almost every day." He then concludes his letter in that
spirit of simple yet earnest devotion that appears to have

been characteristic of the whole family: "But we,
perhaps, ought to leave these matters to the overruling
hand of Him who has a sovereign right to do what
seemeth good to Him, both in the armies of heaven and

hºamongst the inhabitants of the earth."
Michael's strong affection for his parents became, as
                                          features of his
he grew older, one of the most
character; his great love for his mother is shown in
many ways, notably in every letter which he wrote to
her. The following story illustrates, as do many others
that are told of him, Faraday's depth of feeling with
regard to his family. After he had become recognised
by the world as the great man that he was, and when
sitting to Noble for his bust, it happened that the
sculptor, in giving the finishing touches to the marble,

made a clattering with his chisels: noticing that his
sitter appeared moved, he said he feared the jingling of
the tools had distressed him, and that he was weary.

"No, my dear Mr. Noble," said Faraday, putting his
hand upon his shoulder, "but the noise reminded me of

my father's anvil, and took me back to my boyhood."
   Gradually Faraday's interest widened in those matters

which later on were to entirely engross his attention.
20 MICHAEL FARADAY.

His apprenticeship at first gave him many opportunities
aß.loved," he
"Iof reading philosophical and scientific works.
                                  wrote, referring to this time, "to
read the scientific books which were under my hands,
and, amongst them, delighted in Marcet's Conversations
"Iin Chemistry, and the electrical treatise in the Encyclo
paedia Britannica.                made," he adds, and the item is
                                                   by
interesting as giving us a first glimpse at          a in      experi
         "I     made such simple experiments                 chemistry'
ments,                                                    his
              be
as  could           defrayedas      their expense        few pence

per week, and also constructed in    an  electrical machine,

first with glass phial, and afterwards with real
cylinder,    as a                                              a
                    well          other electrical apparatus
                                                                 of
                                                                      he a
corresponding kind." Watts' On the Mind, was,
said, the first thing that made him really think; while
                                         in

                                              an
                                                   by
                                                         an
his thoughts were directed towards science                     article
on                        to
                to           us
    electricity, which lighted upon                encyclopædia
                                he
entrusted him bind. Such glimpses into the early
reading--showing                  how the bent his genius de
                                    byin                       is
                                               of                     as

                                                     of
cided--are always interesting the life one who,
Tennyson says, "Has made force his merit known."
Into Faraday's early reading--or that part                     of
                                                                     his
reading which bore upon the science with which his
                intimately connected--we have indeed some
name  is                  a
           as so
                                  in
              a
                                                      he
                                                               to a

                                                                         he
                                                                                 of
thing more than glimpse, for             compiled (during

1809­10) note book                  which he wrote down the
names of such books and articles connected with the

sciences interested him. This note book                        called,

"The Philosophical Miscellany: being                     collection
notices, occurrences, events, etc., relating the arts and
sciences, collected from the public papers, reviews,
magazines, and other miscellaneous works; intended
                                     thinesotrriuesctiwonh,icahndaraelsocon
    promote
corroborate
to
                                      he

                                             a of

                                                                     to
                                                                   as a
                                                                               an
                                                                                     of to
                both amusement and
                or invalidate those

tinually starting into the world science."
    Thus ambitiously did Michael Faraday, youth
not yet twenty years, start upon his career
                                                               investi
gator; thus early did evince desire "corroborate
As CHILD­NEWSBOY AND BookBINDER.                    21

or invalidate those theories which are continually starting
into the world of science." Among books and articles to
which reference is made in the interesting Miscellany, there
are papers by Dr. Darwin, papers on a "Description of a
Pyro-pneumatic Apparatus," and "Experiment on the
Ocular Spectra of Light and Colours," frequent refer
ences to "lightning,"   "electric fish," and other
phenomena, showing     his early leaning towards    tehleisctrpicaarl

ticular branch of investigation. There is a reference to
the short essay on the Formation of Snow, which forms

the reading for December 5th, in that interesting, and
at the present time neglected, work, Sturm's Reflections

on the Works of God. This book has perhaps been
supplanted in a great measure by the many popular

treatises on science and natural history which recent
years have produced, but which, nevertheless, have not
taken the place of the Reflections, the simplicity and
directness of which give to the volume a perennial charm

such as but few books can maintain. Other papers, such

as that on "How to Loosen Glass Stopples," included

in the Miscellany, show us Faraday's interest in the
science of everyday life, to which in his later years we

owe those delightfully interesting lectures on "The
Chemical History of a Candle," lectures to which fuller
reference is made later on in this volume. One other

reference in the Miscellany is at any rate worthy of

passing note for obvious reasons, or for reasons which
are obvious as soon as we learn how closely connected is
the career of Faraday with that of his great benefactor

and predecessor in the field of research, Sir Humphry
Davy. The reference is from the Chemical Observer, to

the effect that "Mr. Davy (he was knighted in 1812)

has announced to the Royal Society a great discovery in
chemistry--the fixed alkalies have been decomposed by
the galvanic battery."

   From the lectures at Mr. Tatum's house our young

  * Erasmus Darwin, author of The Botanic Garden, Loves of the
Plants, etc., and grandfather of the more famous Charles Darwin.
22 MICHAEL FARADAY.

philosopher gained something more than a knowledge of

the subjects discussed--he gained several friends, inter

course and exchange of ideas with whom were to form
no inconsiderable part of his education; that he might
illustrate the lectures, too, he set to study perspective,
being kindly assisted in his work by Mr. Masquarier, a
French refugee artist who was lodging at the time at
Mr. Riebau's, and whose kindness to him Faraday never
in after years forgot to acknowledge. About a dozen
lectures at Mr. Tatum's were spread over rather more
than eighteen months (February, 1810­September,

1811). At them, Faraday became acquainted with
Benjamin Abbott, a confidential clerk in the City--

an acquaintance that ripened into life-long friendship;
here also he met Huxtable, a medical student, to whom
he addressed the earliest note of his which is extant.

Other kindred spirits with whom Faraday entered into
friendly relations at the Dorset Street lectures, were
Magrath, Newton, Nichol, and many more. There is
                                           Faraday's
a perverted and ridiculous story told of  "Magrath    hfiarspt
hearing Davy lecture, to the effect that
pening, many years ago, to enter the shop of Mr. Riebau,
observed one of the bucks of the paper bonnet zealously
studying a book which he ought to have been binding.
He approached; it was a volume of the old Britannica,
open at `Electricity.' He entered into talk with the
journeyman, and was astonished to find in him a self
taught chemist, of no slender pretensions. He pre
sented him with a set of tickets for Davy's lectures at
the Royal Institution; and daily thereafter might the
nondescript be seen perched, pen in hand, and his eyes
starting out of his head, just over the clock opposite

the chair. At last the course terminated; but Faraday's
spirit had received a new impulse, which nothing but
dire necessity could have restrained." This circum
stantial yet exaggerated story, couched as it is in the
worst of tastes, is yet quoted with approval in a recent
work supposed of some authority.
AS CHILD­NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER.              23

   Magrath, as we have seen, Faraday had met earlier,
and, as he tells us himself, the kindness of giving him
tickets for Davy's lectures was done him by Mr. Dance."
The story quoted above says also that he might be

seen daily, and that "at last '' the course terminated.
To show us how garbled is this account and in what
it is true, we will turn to an account of this incident--
this important incident--in his life, which Faraday
himself wrote out later at the request of a correspon
"Ident. "During my apprenticeship," he says,
                                              had
the good fortune, through the kindness of Mr. Dance,
who was a customer of my master's shop, and also a
member of the Royal Institution, to hear four of the
last lectures of Sir H. Davy in that locality. The
Idates of these lectures were February 29th, March 14th,

April 8th and 10th, 1812. Of these made notes, and
Ithen wrote out the lectures in a fuller form, inter
spersing them with such drawings as  could make.
The desire to be engaged in scientific occupation, even
though of the lowest kind, induced me, whilst an
apprentice, to write, in my ignorance of the world and
simplicity of my mind, to Sir Joseph Banks, then
President of the Royal Society. Naturally enough,
`no answer" was the reply left with the porter."
   The four lectures which Faraday heard during the
spring of 1812 were, as we shall see in the next chapter,

to mark an epoch in his life. At each of these lectures,
we are told, the delighted youth listened to Sir
Humphry Davy, from a seat in the gallery immediately
over the clock directly facing the illustrious lecturer;"

both speaker and listener being unaware of the close
inter-connection there was destined to be between their

two careers. But of this in the next chapter, for

  It* may be noted here that there are several spurious stories told

of Faraday's first visit to the Institution and his introduction to

Davy. The story as told here is as Faraday himself told it to Davy's

biographer.

  * It is interesting to note that Sir Humphry Davy was only

thirteen years the sellior of Michael Faraday.
24 MICHAEL FARADAY.

between Faraday's hearing Davy's lectures and his cor
respondence with that great man, there are one or two
other interesting facts in connection with the life of our
                        apprentice and would-be              philosopher.             In
bJuoloykbionfdethr'iss                                         commenced
                        year it was that Michael                                      his
long and interesting series of letters to Benjamin Abbott,
letters that show us how keenly alive Faraday was to
all                                                                            he

              to
things connected with the work with which                                             was
                  become more intimately connected, and
anxious                                                              on               at
                                                                        of up
the same time how anxious                 wasin              make              for his
deficiencies education.
In                                            he
            his letters we find                  a                   the simple
      all
            in of of                                       to

                                                                in
                                                   charm
                        the man,          his straightforward search
earnestness
for truth,
                        the unreserved openness which charac
terised him when corresponding with one whom                                   a
only called friend, but treated                    no in as                      he   not
                                                                             all occa
if                              in                         such
                                  of its
                 in a
sions. Simplicity,                        best and highest meaning, was,
                                          all up
we can                  one word sum           ofthe character                     man,

the chief feature                         Faraday            all   his relations
                                                                 to
throughout life. Through                  his letters his intimate
friends, too, there runs vein                      unaffected pleasantry
                                a

no                              once that he was "mere scientist,"
                  by us

                           at
which shows
"dry-as-dust" philosopher, which
                                                           is      character too
                                                              a

often given             thoughtless and careless persons                       is tomen
                                          any special field
who earn their laurels          of in                                of  research.
                                    a

                                           he
                                              is or

                                                                as
We find that the great chemist                       philosopher not

only great scientist, but that                     also, Faraday un
of
      a

            of a

                             a
doubtedly was, man                        simple, earnest, reverent
nature,           man whose married life was one series

years                   love-making, who was cheerful, pleasant
                                                   a

friend and companion, and intense and earnest lover
of children.

Perhaps cannot better conclude this chapter than
by

       aI

                          It

                                             of
                                                  in of

                                                               to
                                                                is

                                                                      he in
giving few passages from his early letters, passages
that will fully bear out much
                                                   what said                          the
                                          was July, 1812, three
preceding paragraph.

months before the articles                         his apprenticeship ran
out, that Faraday began his letters Abbott;
                                                                                      was
               AS CHILD-NEWSBOY AND BOOKBINDER.                                              25

       not as yet twenty-one years of age, his early education,
       as we have seen, had been chiefly the three R's, yet we find
       these letters eminently remarkable for their correctness

       and fluency, not less than for their kindness, courtesy,
       and candour. His first letter to Abbott                                    is,  indeed,

              on of
                         of

                               he
                                 he

                                   it

                                                      to
                                                        us

                                                                 be
       doubly interesting, for gives the earliest account we
       have any his experiments. After writing good
                                                                                       a

       deal        what          "Iconsiders                         the advantage         of
                                   continues:                        have lately made
       correspondence,                                                                         aa

       few simple galvanic experiments, merely                             of        illustrate
           myself the first principles the science.                           . to           of I,
       I to                      I,                                                    .
                                                                                    .    ..
                                                of
       sir, my own self, cut out seven discs                                      the size
                                 sir, covered them with seven half
       halfpennies each
       pence, and interposed between seven, rather six,
       pieces|        paper soaked                                         of or             of
       soda    |
                     But laugh longer,
                 | of            no                     sdoelaurtioAn.;       muriate
                                                                           rather wonder
                 I                     in
                                           a

       at  the effects this trivial power produced.                        of     was suffi

                                                                             It
       cient   to  produce the decomposition                                  sulphate       of

       magnesia--an effect which extremely surprised me;

       for did not, could not, have any idea that the agent
       I

                      to
                             to
       was competent the purpose."
         Again,          the same friend,               he           writes: "What?

       affirm you have little    |     say, and yet philosopher?           a
       What contradiction
                                   to  What paradox 'tis cir
A                                                       aa                    I
                                       to it no                                              any
            a                                              of,                     on
                                                                                     at a
       I

                           to
       cumstance till now had idea nor shall
       time allow you advance                                 plea for not writing.
           philosopher cannot fail abound        to as                     subjects, and
                                                                     a in                    of a
       philosopher can scarcely fail have plentiful flow
       words, ideas, opinions, etc., etc., when engaged them;
           least, never had reason                      suppose you deficient
a so at        of I      by                      to
                    ?'
       there. Query Abbott: `Then pray, Mike, why have
       you not answered my last before now since subjects are
           plentiful     `Tis neither more nor less, dear A., than

       want time. Time, sir,     I
                                         is

                                        it of allI
                                                  be I

                                                                         a
                                                                     require, and for
       time will cry out most heartily. Oh that could
purchase       at I      cheap rate some                             our modern gents'

                      a

spare hours, nay, days; think would                                                       good

bargain both for them and me. As for subjects, there
26 MICHAEL FARADAY.

I Iis no want of them.
                     could converse with you, will
not say for ever, but for any finite length of time.
IPhilosophy would furnish us with matter; and even

now, though have said nothing, yet the best part of
a page is covered."

  A little later he writes, acknowledging a letter from
his friend, a letter which found him paper-hanging--
"but what a change of thought it occasioned; what a
concussion, confusion, conglomeration; what a revolu
tion of ideas it produced--oh 'twas too much; away
went cloths, shears, paper, paste, and brush, all--all
                     was too light
was too little,  he                            to  keep my thoughts
                   all
from soaring high, connected close with thine."
                         he
                            on

                                       be
This letter, after referring               to  his friend's electrical

experiments,     finishes somewhat sadly, "You know
                                                      it
shall shortly enter                                       in is

                                                           I
                     the life              of      journeyman, and

                                               a

then suppose time will more scarce than               even
I

now." Little did dream how great change               his
                                                   a

prospects one short half year would make.
                      CHAPTER II.

                     THE TURNING POINT,

                           -- <----
                                 is -->
            "And Nature, the old nurse, took
                                     a
                     The child upon her knee,
            Saying: `Here                story-book
                     Thy Father has written for thee."

            `Come, wander with me,' she said,
               `Into regions yet untrod;
            And read what still unread
                                 is
                                           of
                     --In the manuscripts      God!'"
                               --"Bº"                  LONGFELLOW.

                     story told  Sir Humphry Davy, that,
HERE                  as on
      he on                a
            is                 of
                  a                                          to
         being asked
                                                                    he
                                 certain occasion enumerate
           considered his greatest discoveries,
what                                                                    named
first one thing and then another, now his wonderful
safety-lamp, then some electrical discovery, finishing
up with "but the greatestof                  my discoveries was the
                                 of

                                     as all
discoverya In       Michael Faraday."

                 ,    1812,                we have seen, Faraday

          of
       the autumn                                                       at at
was bookbinder, whose apprenticeship was just                                 in an
end, and who was contemplating,                 he as  the only thing
possible, the taking  up                        journeyman the
                          of     life           had been working;
                                       as
                                          he a
craft which for seven years
indeed,at   journeyman bookbinder                      became, for
         a
28 MICHAEL FARADAY.

October of that year he engaged himself to a Mr. De
la Roche, who, though a quick-tempercd, passionate
"Iman, seems to have really cared for Faraday, so much
so, indeed, that he said to him,                  have no child, and
if you will stay with me you shall have
                                                he                      have

                                                        to allI
                                                                              to
                                                                                    as be
when am gone." But Michael was not thus
to he

  I

                    to
tempted from the path which                       desired              tread,
                                   Davy's biographer,
wrote afterwards                   in toI                         "My desire
                                                  thought vicious and
escape from trade, which                       I
selfish, and            enter into the service             science, which
                                                       he
                        its                               of

                                                        aI
                                                                     of
                                                                 if to I
imagined made pursuers amiable and liberal, induced
me last take the bold and simple step writing
an

    H. at

            at
                 to
Sir Davy, expressing my wishes and hope that
opportunity came                         his way  would favour my
views;         the same time, sent the notes had taken

of his lectures."

Shortly after Sir Humphry received Faraday's
inapplication, speaking
                                   he toIis a  friend--the honorary
spector the models and apparatus--he said, "Pepys,
        ofI                                     letter from young man
what am                        Here          a             at a
                to
                     do

                            P

named Faraday;                 he  has been attending my lectures,

and wants me                   give him employment                the Royal
          if if 2"

                 he he
                      is to
Institution. What can do?"

"Do was Pepys' reply, "do? put him                                    to
                                                                           do

                                                                              it
bottles;                       good for anything,          he     will  wash

directly;               refuses,         is    good for nothing."
"No, no," said Davy, "we must try him with
something better than that."
Notwithstanding the fact that his similar application
                                           Sir Joseph Banks had met
some months beforeof               to
        of no  answer, Faraday,       in
with                                           his desire  of to  leave trade
for science, had thus addressed another the leading
men the day. Davy's reply was "immediate, kind,
and favourable."               It  was this--

                                         "     December 12th, 1812.
                                         displeased with the proof you
"To Mr.        Faraday,
   "Sir,         am far from
          I
THE TURNING POINT,                            29

have given me of your confidence, and which displays
Igreat zeal, power of memory, and attention.
                                              am
Iobliged to go out of town, and shall not be settled in

town till the end of January; will then see you at

Iany time you wish. It would gratify me to be of any

service to you; wish it may be in my power.

     "I am, Sir, your obedient humble servant,
                    "II. DAvy."

                                        SIR HUMPHRY DAWY.

   The young bookbinder's delight on receiving the great
and kindly-natured man's note may easily be imagined,
as also may his anxiety for Davy's return. Five weeks,
however, are soon passed, and Michael duly met Sir
Humphry "by the window which is nearest to the
corridor, in the ante-room to the theatre' at the Royal
Institution. Davy was much impressed by the sincerity
and modesty of the applicant, but yet advised him to
30 MICHAEL FARADAY.

continue at his bookbinding, going so far, indeed, as to say
that he would get the Royal Institution binding for him,

and would recommend him to his friends." With this,

for the present, Faraday had to be content. He re

turned to his binding, delighted that he had met and
conversed with the greatest chemist of his time, but
still anxious for an opportunity to leave that trade to
which, as he had said, he was so averse, and to become
wholly the servant of that science to which he was so
attached.

The change in his vocation was to come far more
rapidly than he could have anticipated. He was still
living, at this time (early in 1813), at 18, Weymouth
Street, and one night, not very long after his interview
with Davy, just as he was undressing to go to bed, there
came a loud knock at the front door. Michael went to

the window to see if there was any evidence as to
whom the unwonted visitor might be. A carriage was
there, from which a footman had alighted and left a

note for "Mr. M. Faraday." It proved to be from
Sir Humphry, who had already an opportunity of
serving the young enthusiast, The note requested .
Michael to call on Davy the next morning. This he
did, and learned that an assistant in the laboratory of
the Royal Institution was required at once, the former
assistant having been dismissed the day before.
Michael instantly expressed his willingness to accept
the position; he was to have twenty-five shillings a
week salary, and two rooms at the top of the Institu
Ittion building.

        was not long before arrangements were
pleted.   meeting         the managers          of                com
                                                      is

                                                             all
         A        March 1st; the followingof        the Institution
                        to                                         he in
was held     of on                                        entered

the minutes that day's proceedings:--"Sir Humphry
Davy has the honour inform the managers that

   Some the books which Faraday bound for the Royal Institution
*        of
              ;
are there now kept carefully with other relics  of  the great chemist.

See the chapter entitled ``About the Royal Institution."
                    THE TURNING POINT.                                                81

has found a person who is desirous to occupy the
situation in the Institution lately filled by William
Payne. His name is Michael Faraday. He is a youth
of twenty-two years of age. As far as Sir H. Davy
has been able to observe or ascertain, he appears well
fitted for the situation. His habits seem good, his

indisposition active and cheerful, and his manner

telligent. He is willing to engage himself on the same
terms as those given to Mr. Payne at the time of
quitting the Institution. Resolved:--That Michael
                in
                      of on

                                   in fill

                                    It

                                                      is
                                                                a

                                                           of
                                                                     of

                                                                                  by
Faraday be engaged to              the situation lately occupied
in by  Mr. Payne the same terms."
                         the assistant were specified
     The duties                                                                       the
managers            the following manner, his work being

something other than the washing                   bottles, which
Pepys had recommended.
                                           fact, also, that
Faraday, almost from the commencement                                        his en
gagement, was concerned more important work than
that herein particularised. He was "to attend and
assist the lecturers and professors        preparing for, and
                                   to
                                        in

                                             to
                                                        or
during, lectures; when any instruments                                       apparatus

may    to be  required,  attendto        their careful removal
                               or
from the model room                laboratory the lecture-room,

and           clean and replace them after being used,
reporting the manager such accidents shall require
                to                         by
                                              as
repair,   in a  constant diary being kept          him for that
purpose. That, one day
                    in             in    each week,         he                        em
                                       in                         be

ployed          keeping clean the models   in      the repository,

and that all the instruments               the glass cases                            be

cleaned and dusted at least once within              a                       month."

As has been said, Faraday's work was almost from the
       of

            a
                                              he

                                                is
                                                                         to
first           higher nature;           reported                            have set

       order the mineralogical collection soon after his
arrival.

But very short while elapsed between Michael's
of

            a
                      as
                                on
                                                 of
                                                                        he up
                                                                                            to
appointment         assistant and his taking                the duties

       his post, for,    the 8th           March,                            writes

Abbott, dating his letter from his new home, the two
82 MICHAEL FARADAY.

rooms at the top of the Institution. His letter tells us
that he was already concerned in the active duties
"Itof his post, as the following passages show:
                                                 is
now about nine o'clock, and the thought strikes me
that the tongues are going both at Tatum's and at the

Ilecture in Bedford Street; but fancy myself much
Ibetter employed than should have been at the lecture
Iat either of those places. Indeed, have heard one
Ilecture already to-day, and had a finger in it (I can't

say a hand, for did very little). It was by Mr.
Powell on mechanics, or rather, on rotatory motion,
and was a pretty good lecture, but not very fully

attended.

  I"As know you will feel a pleasure in hearing in
I Iwhat have been or shall be occupied, will inform
Iyou that have been employed to-day, in part, in ex
tracting the sugar from a portion of beetroot, and also
in making a compound of sulphur and carbon--a com
bination which has lately occupied in a considerable
degree the attention of chemists."
                                                                  -

About a month after writing the letter of which the
above forms a part, Faraday again wrote to his friend
Abbott, giving him an account of some experiments,
in which he had been assisting Sir Humphry Davy,
on "the detonating compound of chlorine and azote,
and of four different and strong explosions of the
substance, explosions from which neither he nor Davy
Ihad altogether escaped unhurt." "Of these," he says,

"the most terrible was when was holding between
my thumb and finger a small tube containing 7% grains

Iof the compound. My face was within twelve inches

of the tube; but fortunately had on a glass mask.

It exploded by the slight heat of a small piece of
cement that touched the glass above half-an-inch from
the substance, and on the outside. The explosion was
                                 of     part

                                    so
                                                 off

                                          Ia
                                                                of
so rapid as to blow my hand open, bear
one nail, and has made my fingers
yet use them easily. The pieces     thseoretutbheatwerceanpnroot
                          THE TURNING POINT.                                83

IJected with such force as to cut the glass face of the

mask had on." In the other three experiments also
they each of them got more or less cut about by the
explosion of the "terrible compound," as Faraday calls
it,  Davy, indeed,                the last one, getting somewhat
                      of
seriously cut.                in
He writes thus frequently                                    Abbott during
                          1813, giving him            in to
the summer                                                   the later letters
some well thought-out ideas lectures and lecturing,on

which we shall have occasion                      to  glance      at  when we

are considering Faraday himself                     in  the capacity        of
lecturer,-one                                                                   a

                          of      the most popular and yet truly
                                of    any time.         In      this year, his
scientific lecturers
twenty-first, Faraday joined the City Philosophical
Society, which had been founded about five years
         to by    Mr. Tatum,                 whose house the meetings
earlier                               in at                  some thirty
were held. The Society consisted                                            or or
forty individuals,              "perhaps      all
moderate rank                                       in       the humble
                                life;" and
                                                       of

                          a of                    certainly all       a of  them
                                                                  their know
anxious improve themselves and add
                                                   a
                                                      by

                                                              to
ledge scientific subjects. Once week the members
gathered together for mutual instruction; each membera so of
opening the discussion                                       reading paper
                                           his turn
       literary philosophical nature, any member failingor
Into of
                  at  his proper time being fined half-a-guinea.
   do a
       addition, the members had what they modestly
called "class book," but probably very like what we
should now call manuscript magazine;
                                                                  in  this each

member wrote essays, and the work was passed round
from one to another.

   Michael,       of it   will seen, was not neglecting anybe
opportunity
                          educating himself;      In in           had saidof
                                                                            to in
starting his correspondence with Abbott, one           he of as             his
                                                              he
objects was               improve himself             composition and
         he hea
                  to

                      to
acquire clear and simple method                              expressing that
                          say. Yet another method had                       he
which             had                                                          of

furthering his self-education.                          the scanty notes
                                                                says, "During
which             wrote about his own life

                                           D
34 .                           MICHAEL FARADAY.

Ithis spring (1813) Magrath and                                 established the
mutual improvement plan, and met at my rooms up
Itin the attics of the Royal Institution, or at Wood
Street at his warehouse.                             consisted, perhaps, of
half-a-dozen persons, chiefly from the City Philosophical
Society, who met of an evening to read together, and
to criticise, correct, and improve each other's pronuncia
tion and construction of language. The discipline was
very sturdy, the remarks very plain and open, and the
Itresults most valuable. This continued for several years."
is a matter for wonder how Faraday, with                                    allthese

                                                                                       to to
attempts               improve his language and method, and
              in

                  to

                    of all
avoid even the slightest peculiarity, managed yet
                                                 remarkable simplicity and
retain                      his work     to
naturalness style.                         an a
On September 13, 1813, Faraday wrote his uncle
and aunt, giving them                                         of
                                                                         to

                                                                                  by
he  had nothing else                             account        himself because

                                               say, and was asked                      his
                       write the account:--"I was formerly
mother        to                                                                          in a

bookseller and binder, but am now turned philosopher,
which happened thus: Whilst                          in of a    apprentice, up I,I
                                                         an                            for
amusement, learnt little chemistry and other parts
of

                                   a

                                       an of
    philosophy, and felt                         eager desire   I           proceed

that way further. After being journeyman for six                     to to
months, under disagreeable master, gave                                                my
                       of
business, and,              bya  the interest               Sir Humphry Davy,
                                                                            the Royal
filled the situation chemical-assistantof ofI
Institution                    Great Britain,               which office          now
                                                                                       ob
remain, and where                        am constantly engaged              to
serving the works                        nature and tracing the manner
                                                                                of in
    which she directs the arrangement and order the
I be If inI          have lately had proposals made                                       by
world.    as  go I                                                           me
Sir Humphry Davy                         accompany him, his travels
                   at            to                             in
                                                                   all in
through Europe and into Asia, philosophical assistant.                  is
                       all, expect               willas         October next,
                         I               it                 be

about the end, and my absence from home will perhaps
              long three years. But, yet,
                     as                                I as                 uncertain,

have repeat that, even though may go, my pathto
                TIIE TURNING POINT,                                                 85

Iwill not pass near any of my relations, or permit me

to see those whom so much long to see."
   This Continental trip with Davy forms one of the

chief episodes in Faraday's life. He had, though two

and-twenty years of age, never before been further
than a few miles out of London. The country
through which he passed, the sea, and the mountains,
all came to him as a revelation. The letters which he

wrote home from abroad, and the journals which he
of
        of allkept,express his wonderthe strange sights, and
                          a
                           at

                                             an
                                               to

                                              at
                                                     in

                                                              an
                                                                             of to
all breathe the kindliness of nature and affection for

home and those home which all his life long were
strongly marked characteristics. His letters
                                                                                    his

mother are especially pleasing. He was away for but
little over eighteen months, yet
                chapter              account                                        his

travels merits             itself. The commence
                                  his life, the close
ment   1813 marked       epoch

the same year marked another.
             CHAPTER III.

"HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."

             ---->{----

"One rule his life was fashioned to fulfil:
             wwhiothteandhsumTbrulet,h'sfaisthhrfiunle,wailnl,d
   That he                                                       docs  thc  host
Of Science,
The God of Truth and Knowledge serveth best."
             ---->;----

Wgº EDNESDAY, October 13TH, 1813.--This morning
           formed an epoch in my life."
   Thus commences the first entry in that journal, in
which, all the while that he was away, Faraday noted
down particulars of what he saw and thought. And,
indeed, the young traveller's remark is by no means an
exaggeration, as we recognise when we consider that he
had never been out of sight of the metropolis, that he
was accompanying one of the leading chemists, and that
he and Davy, Englishmen both, were allowed free pass
ports through France, although this and that country
were at the time at war with one another. The fact

that Davy was a scientist overshadowed the fact that
he was an Englishman in the eyes of the French
authorities; as the former, he was permitted to travel
anywhere, and to use libraries, museums, etc., at any
                "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                                       37

    time; as the latter, he would have been instantly taken
prisoner. This was an early and pleasing recognition
    of the .niversality of science, of more than political
        national interest, nay,is is         international importance.
    or      minute are the descriptionsof of                 things scen,
        So                               as of to its

    clear and simple                                its
                                                     of

                                                                    so
                                                                         as

                                                                            he of in

                                                                                              so so
    Faraday's journal                        the language employed, that
                                    most delightful reading; while
    the letters written home and                      his friends are no less

    pleasing; perhaps, indeed, they are more                             they are
    eminently characteristic                 the man. They are remark
    able for the unaffected spirit affection which breathes
    through them, and show us, indeed was shown all
    ways throughout his life, the keen sensitiveness
    feelings and the genuine earnestness with which                         his

    to at   times seeking for self-improvement.                             was

        be all

                    to
                         by
        On reaching Plymouth, Faraday gives expression                             of in
    his diary the wonder which moved him seeing the
                                                             of at
    country for the first time. The journey, course, had
                             road,  as       was long before the time
            done                             carriage riding, during fine
    railways; but coach               or it

    autumn weather, through some                      at of  the most delightful
    scenery rural England, must                              ofany time     prefer
        by
    able        to,though lessexpeditious than, railway         it       travelling;
    and            ofthat Michael                                   is be      shown
                             felt the full benefit
        the following passage from the journal:--
        "Friday, October 15th.-Reached Plymouth this after
                                             the scenery to-day thanby      to
    noon.       was more taken                    of                             by
           I
                                                  It
                I
    anything else have ever seen.                     came upon me unex

pectedly, and caused kind                             revolution my ideas
                                    of of a                  bya
                                                                  an

                                                                        in
    respecting the nature the earth's surface. That such
        revolution was necessary             to is,I  confess, not much my
of acredit; and yet can assign myself very satisfactory
                       I

reason, the habit ideas induced                              acquaintance
            no
with            other green surface than that within three miles
              in

    London. Devonshire, however, presented scenery veryto    of
different this; the mountainous nature the country
continually put forward new forms and objects, and the
landscape changed before the eye more rapidly than the
38 MICHAEL FARADAY.

organ could observe                  This day gave me some idea
                     of                                                              of of
                                it.
the pleasures        travelling, and has raised my expecta
tions future enjoyment                                    very high point."
If                                          to
                                               a
      of
                     of
          the surface the earth gave our amateur traveller
cause for wonder, what must have been his feelings
                                                                         when, on
when he first went down the sea-shore?                         at as on
the night            of                                            a he
                                                                                  mid
                                              to                        or
                                                      he                      in
                     October 17th,                        was  board
channel, with the "immense waves,"                                       graphically

          "striding one after another
puts      it,                                                            considerable
                     or
                                                  to
distance P"          when, again,                     use his own words, the

vessel "sank down into the valleys between the great
waves, and we had nothing
                         of of on                         view but the wall
                                      in                                   on

                                         of
waters around us." He carefully observed,                                         this
occasion, remaining                  deck all night for that purpose,

the phosphorescence                  Mthoerlaseixa.,        The next day they
reached the harbour                                       on the French coast,

where, after much examination                             luggage, and search
          in
              byall
ing possible and impossible places for contraband
                                                                         on
                                                                                          up
goods                the French Customs' officers, they took

their lodging for couple nights. And the 22nd,
the carriage having been successfully put together (to
ensure comfortable accommodation Sir Humphry had
                     a

                                   of

brought his own with him), the party commenced their
tour, reaching Paris, where stay
length was made,     So to to        of                        three months'
                             on         to
                                             us a

                                                 of in
                                                         of

                                                           in
                                     the 29th. Faraday's observant

nature    to is      made evident                              every page  of     his
               he                                                                 of
journal, and the light, humorous style                                   which much
          it--that part which admits
to of of                                                       such treatment--is
written, gives evidence                     the abiding cheerfulness

his disposition.

        On the road Paris there was temporary stoppage,
owing                the breaking                         of a
                                     an of  one                  athe horses' traces.

                                                                     by  the postillion,
While the accident was being repaired
Faraday found, his great delight, glow-worm, the

first that           had seen, and which gave him much food
                     great impression did the first sight
for reflection.                                           on
          the luminous little grub make him, that, writing
          his mother six months afterwards, and enumerating
            "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                                        39

"Isome of the more important things he had scen in his
travels, he says,                have seen a GLow-worM               l'"
    In
                                                                                   he
        ofParis Davy stayed some three months, and
Taraday records the great disadvantage under which
laboured through not knowing the French language.
Despite this, however,           attended lectures with Davy,on he
                                      of

                                               to
and accompanied him visits the laboratories                                     the
                                                          as

                                                                     of of
                                                                               to
various French chemists                 the day, among others
            Chevreul, who was even then (he was three
that
years older than Faraday) well known one the
rising chemists                                  was well for Davy, and
                   of        the day."  It

his assistant too, perhaps, that the Paris authorities did
not read the entries which the young Englishman "with
round chin, brown beard, large mouth, and great
he a                             to                he            as
                    he in a          as              of
                                          of                          a
                                                                               a
nose," made his journal, for records          a                      follows
                                                                            is,"
:-"Itvisit which paid the Galerie Napoléon
    wrote, "both the glory and the disgrace                          of   France.
As being itself, and             containing specimens                   of
                                                                            those
things which proclaim the power
                                                          man, and which
point out the high degree refinement which has                              he
                                                          to

risen,  it      unsurpassed, unequalled, and must call forth

            is

the highest and most unqualified admiration; but when
memory brings mind the manner which the works
        he in                                    as
             an
                                                      in
                     he                                             of
                         to
came here, and views them only the gains violence
and rapine, she blushes for the people that even now
glory
                act that made them nation thieves."
                                        he
                                          a

                                              in
                                                          by of
Although                     thus discoursed       his journal about

what        saw and thought,                     did not         any means
neglect his favourite science, and his journal during the
stay Paris contains frequent reference                               the experi
* * in *                                                      to to

      de in

                     to
                        of

                             in
     Chevreul, many readers will remember, lived celebrate hisof
hundredth birthday 1886, and all his life continued experiments

   his fascinating science. He died on the 10th April, 1889.

    So was Faraday described     the passport issued him Paris.to         at
                                 in
    The works art which Faraday refers are the Laocoön, the
Venus Medici, the Dying Gladiator, and other sculpture broughtatof to
from Rome Paris by Napoleon after one his Italian campaigns.
Faraday must have been gratified their return             to  Rome the year
after his words were written.
40 MICHAEL FAIRADAY.

ments which Sir Humphry was carrying on with a new

substance which had been discovered a short while

before by a French chemist--M. Courtois. This sub
stance, now known as iodine, was the source of much
                                                               it
interesting research. Not only about the time of
discovery, but during the whole                   the century         its
                  to                                             has
                                              of
afforded scope      chemists for much speculation and

useful experiment.
The race-prejudice, which early the present century
affected English opinion   of          things French,          is
                                all                               on to
                                     all in
traced even Faraday,who, with his fairness and open                       as be
           to in
mindedness, seems always congratulating himself                  not
belonging                              in
                  the people among whom      he   finds himself.
This insular spirit finds expression
                    in                            such passages
                        he

                            to
                                   do
the following, which wrote after staying indoors all
day with nothing better
                                       than note the differenceto
between the rooms Paris and those he was accustomedup

to     England. He sums his views thus:­"French

   in

apartments are magnificent, English apartments are
comfortable; French apartments are highly ornamented,
English apartments are clean; French apartments are
of to     seen, English apartments enjoyed; and the style

      be
     each kind best suits the people              the respective
countries."
                    of
                            to

                                       in

                                                       of

                                                                  of
                                                                        of
From Paris the small party--which consisted                          Sir
Humphry and Lady Davy and Faraday, whose nominal
position was that "assistant           chemistry and experi
                           Montpelier, near the coast
ments"--went south
the Mediterranean and some seventy-five miles from Mar
seilles. After about six weeks' stay they again started
at on  their travels; and after
                                       cold and adventurous
             on of
                       at he

                                on

                                  in

                                           a
                                                              on
                                                           of

                                                             by in

                                                                               on
                                                                                     at to to
journey across the Alps, reached Turin February 22nd,
       the close the Carnival. From Turin they went
Genoa-where Faraday was much interested
water-spouts which saw the bay--and then                       several

Florence. Various experiments were made                        Davy

each place,       iodine,  the electricity        the torpedo

fish, etc.; while          each place Faraday found some
            "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                            41

opportunity of helping to satisfy his craving for
improvement. . Of the stay at Florence the journal

gives but little account other than of Davy's ex

periment to find out of what a diamond is composed,
and of the various

attempts which were
made with the assist
ance of the "Duke's

burning glass" to burn
diamond. After noting
I ---these
            experiments,

Faraday concludes:                         TOIRPEDO FISH

"As yet it appears

that the diamond is

pure carbon. 33
From Rome, which was the next halting-place on
their travels, Michael wrote home to his mother a long
"Iletter, every line of which breathes a spirit of true
affection.          trust that you are well in health and
be

         .
             .
                ..
                      .

                         all

                   I
spirits, and that         things have gone right since left
you.         Mr. Riebau and fifty other friends would       to all I
                                                                 it
inquired after, could but have                       of ananswer. You
                                           as kind                    of isgeneral one,
must consider this letter
addressed that knot of friends who are twined roundIa
             in to
my heart; and trust that you will let them                      know
                    of I      is of of donot forget them, and that
that, though distant,     to I

not from want regard that                       do   not write each
singly, but from want                      convenience and propriety;is

indeed, appears               me that there more danger
         it

my being forgot than my forgetting. The first and
last thing          my mind                England, home, and friends.
         the point        which my thoughts still ultimately
It                  to

     is

tend, and the goal which, looking over intermediateto
things, my eyes are still directed. But, the contrary,
                                                       on

London you are all together, your circle being little
or in                                      my absence; the small void

                                 on
                                      by
nothing diminished
                              my departure would soon worn  be
which was formed
out, and, pleased and happy with one another, you will
42 MICHAEL FARADAY.

seldom think of me. Such are sometimes my thoughts,

I Ibut such do not rest with me; an innate feeling tells

me that shall not be forgot, and that still possess
the hearts and love of my mother, my brother, my

Isisters, and my friends . . . . Whenever a vacant hour

occurs employ it by thinking on those at home. In

short, when sick, when cold, when tired, the thoughts
of those at home are a warm and refreshing balm to my

Iheart. Let those who think such thoughts useless, vain,

and paltry, think so still ; envy them not their more
refined and more estranged feelings: let them look
about the world, unencumbered by such ties and heart

Istrings, and let them laugh at those who, guided more

by nature, cherish such feelings. For me, still will

cherish them, in opposition to the dictates of modern
refinement, as the first and greatest sweetness in the life
of man."

  It is in his letters such as this that we get to under

stand Faraday, and to appreciate how it was that his

friends, members of his family, nay, even persons who
casually met him, were always struck by the simplicity
and lovableness of the man. Altogether, Michael got
much pleasure, and a great deal of experience, both of
life and of science, during his Continental tour, although

it was not a source of unmixed delight. His engage

ment was to accompany Davy in the capacity of secretarial

inand scientific assistant, but some work certainly not

cluded under that head fell to him owing to Sir Humphry's
valet not accompanying the party at the last moment.
Had he been with Davy alone this would have been of
little matter, for Davy was a kind and considerate man,
and would have dispensed with a servant's attendance,
and have recognised in Faraday the scientific assistant
only; but--unfortunately for Michael­Lady Davy, as
has been mentioned, accompanied her husband, and she
was not so considerate; and, in consequence, Faraday
was treated at times almost as a servant. This, occasion
ally, was very trying to him; but Michael was too much
                  "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                                          43

of a philosopher to give in because circumstances were
not as he could wish, and he wrote to his friend Abbott,

that though he had to sacrifice much, "the glorious
opportunity he enjoyed of improving in the knowledge
of chemistry and the sciences continually determined

him to finish the voyage with Sir Humphry Davy." A
decision of this nature is characteristic of Faraday at                                 to all
       to         rarely                                                 having care
times:      he             istta;rtbeudt,  any work without                     was not
fully considered                            having started        of it,  a he
one take his hand from the plough before the furrow
                                                                               it is
was completed.
This quality well illustrated
of     Faraday when        is              a                  story which told
                                he                    a in
                                                           a
                                    had become well-known chemist.
He was arranging some apparatus with
                                                                              scientific
instrument maker, when small piece glass fell
the ground; Faraday made several unsuccessful efforts
       pick up, when his companion said that
by to           do it                                                                 was
not worth troubling over. "Perhaps not," said Faraday;
"but                   not like fail accomplishing anything
that have attempted."us of I I      a to   in in
                                               on                         by
     The months May and June were spent the small
                       in                         of to
                         of
party mostly Italy--first                   Rome, then Naples, and

afterwards travelling from place place. At Naples                                       a

stay              some days was made, and Faraday's journal

gives             an   interesting account               two visits           Mount
                                                                              to
Vesuvius. On the second day the party, largely increased                            on

       other visitors, had picnic                       the Mount. "Cloths
were laid              on  the smoking lava, and bread, chickens,

turkey, cheese, wine and water, and eggs roasted                                        the
mountain, brought forth, and species dinner taken
     this place. Torches were now lighted, and the wholein        of of
at
     a                                            a
had singular appearance; and the surrounding lazza
roni assisted not little adding the picturesque
                             a                                to

effect the scene. After having eaten and drunk, Oldof
England was toasted, and `God save the king and
`Rule, Britannia' sung and two very entertaining                              !'

                  of                       ;
                         by                          a
Russian songs                    gentleman, native that country,
                              a
the music which was peculiar and very touching."
44 MICIIAEL FARADAY.

From Naples the journey is continued up north
through    all    the magnificent scenery            Italy; the
                     us                           in is
journal giving           occasionally delightful word-picturesof of of

of  the landscape, and recording the young traveller's         he in

observations      on  various natural phenomena. Now,                 by as

we have seen, glowworms attract his attention, then

waterspouts, and the magnificent spectacle presented
Vesuvius; and again his attention occupied with the
beautiful fire-flies that appeared "in innumerable quan
tities;or at    distance they covered the side the mountain,
            us a
and near they passed over the fields, hovered                         onthe
                                                                             to
edge crossed the road, often attaching themselves
the harness, and emitting their bright and harmless
flashesJulylioguhrt          rapid and beautiful manner."
In                   party found themselves settled Geneva,in
                        a
       of

where some three months were passed very enjoyably                    la in
congenial society. Davy was the guest the elder De
Rive, with whom       he
                           experimented           chemistry, and with

whom, they both being ardent sportsmen,                             went out
fishing and shooting. "On these occasions," says
Professor Tyndall, "Faraday charged Davy's gun, while
De Rive charged his own. Once the Genevese
in                    a                              Faraday, and
      la                  be
philosopher found himself                  the side  of
                              no It                              a

                                      of by
    his frank and genial way entered into conversation
with the young man.               was evident that person
ossessing such                               manner and such high
intelligence could         charm  mere servant. On inquiry

De Rive was somewhat shocked
    la                                               find that the
          of                                         to
soi-disant domestique was really preparateur            he            the lab
oratory the Royal Institution; and
                                                              in
                                                     immediately

proposed that Faraday thenceforth should join the
masters instead of the servants their meals. To this
                     an
                                of
                                              at
Davy, probably out         weak deference                           his wife,
                                                  in

                                                          to
                                                               to
objected; but arrangement was come that Faraday
thenceforward should have his food his own room."
For reasons such as these we can well understand

that Faraday's life during his Continental journeying
                         as
                                             as
                                                   he

                                                                    it
was not altogether pleasant                       had anticipated
     Fººl                                             -

     º ºsºE. tº-      1- ºf:

ººjººººf';| |ºº- -          -                     -
                            t                         ::

                                                      -

                                                          ºl

} t|

  º|| ºººº º º- :--             Fºll
        ·
                      ºº- | |

||º%º-          º-    -                               | | Hº -
*/ º º
        º     º º:       -                             |Hºº|: -
                                                                º
|#                    ºà.

                                            |

º |º *
  º,º º| ºF    ºil.
        º) - Fi             |
   It! #       º:

     Wººlºf*||- Rºmill                                             ºº%%||º| % % %%
  º lºººººl||||||ººill ||| º- º º |-º          |                        - % %%%--   -

      - - .º             -              -          -
        -|                           -
     º                --:-***- a-                             º;        .| º
  ºfº º #.º º--    º                  -            |-                          º
        (4!       H.                     -     -      -       t
              º-                                -
                         tºll                                 -:
              Fº                                              ||||Wilº
                                                                                       -
  º
        -
          º    sº     :
46 MICHAEL FARADAY.

would be. In his letters his reserve on this matter

is marvellous, for it is only twice, and in writing to
his intimate friend, Abbott, that he refers at all to
his, at times, uncomfortable situation, and then it
is to give point to what he has been saying in reply
to his friend's complaint as to the sordid and unintel
lectual surroundings amid which he is compelled to live.

In his journals also Faraday's reticence with regard to

those with whom he travelled is noticeable; he wrote

impressions of what he saw, and of what he thought
that was worth record, and this was done merely for his
own future use and pleasure--he would never wish to
recall any petty humiliations which circumstances com
pelled him to suffer, and they were very properly allowed
to pass unrecorded, Indeed, in the note quoted above,
particulars of which were given Professor Tyndall by
M. De la Rive, we learn more of the discomforts of his

post than Faraday himself ever allowed to escape. It is
indeed  a great pity        for his own good    ftaomheisthwatifDe'avtyo
should  have allowed        a "weak deference

influence him in such a matter, as it was a great pity
when a few years later he allowed a petty spirit of
jealousy to make him oppose the election of Faraday as
a Fellow of the Royal Society.
   From  Geneva many
mother   and friends.       letters  iswecrehawraricttteernisthico:me"Htoerhei,s

                no all      This

dear mother,                          am perfect health, and
                        goes well.      in
                            to
almost contented, except with my ignorance, which
                             In I   me every day, though en
becomes more visible                to              of It
deavour much possible remedy it."
         of as          as                              isstrange

                                                        I
how different we find the Faraday the letters and theof

Faraday the journal.                 the first case the cheerful.
kindliness, the affectionate, sympathetic side the man's
nature once strikes us; while the journal the clear
        at                              inby
                                            at
and simple description, uncoloured              personal feeling  or

prejudice,  is        less remarkable.              end, the small

The three months' stay Geneva                   an
                            to at   their hospitable and kindly
party, bidding farewell
               "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                       47

host, De la Rive, turned south again. In De la Rive,

Michael, by his intelligence, his scientific enthusiasm,

and his unassuming cheerful disposition had won a life

long friend. The route south may well be described
briefly in Michael's own words, from a letter to his

mother written early in November at Rome: "On
leaving Geneva we entered Switzerland, and traversed
that mountainous and extraordinary country with health
and fine weather, and were much diverted with the

curious dresses and customs of the country . . . From
Switzerland we passed through the States of Baden, on
the Lake of Constance (they are very small), across an
arm of the kingdom of Wurtemburg, and into Bavaria.

In this route we had seen, though slightly, Lausanne,

Vevey, Zurich, Schaffhausen and the falls of the Rhine,
in Switzerland, and Munich, and many other towns in
Germany. On leaving Munich we proceeded to and

Iacross the Tyrol, and got to Padua, and from Padua to

Venice. You will remember very well, have no doubt,
the picture which hung in the parlour over the fireplace,
I Iand which represented the Rialto and the Great Canal

of this town. The first have had the pleasure of
crossing several times, and the second have partly
traversed in a Venetian gondola . . . After seeing Venice
for three days we left and came towards Italy, passing
Bologna and Florence."
                       in to
Before reaching Florence the two philosophers wentit,
out their way inquire into phenomenon
       of                                 to to of a    of at  Pietra
Mala which was much talked about. From certainofbe
                                                    as
tracts         ground  the neighbourhood sheets flame
       various sizes were said burst out; the fire was said
to of                               to

       burn anything combustible, although the ground
where the flames were was not even heated; locally,
was said       it to  be the remains      an ancient volcano.     I it

"Though was raining hard, yet that would not deter
Sir Humphry from visiting those places; but, the
                                                        as
                                                              at
same time, made        us           wish                quick possible.
               it

Sir Humphry therefore went                the first place, and
48 MICHAEL FARADAY.

went to the Acqua bollenti, conducted by a man of the
Ivillage, who carried some fire, some straw, and some
water.                 found the place in a cultivated field, not far
from a mountain, apparently of limestone. It was simply
a puddle perhaps formed by the present showers of rain.
Much gas rose from the earth, and passed through the
water, which made it appear boiling, and had given rise
         its

          I

                     up
to name; but the water and the ground were quite
                       made another puddle with the water we
cold.
brought, near the one found there, and saw that the
                         in                            it
                                                          of I
                             it I
                         through also                                          to
                                                                                     be
gas rose                                   a;  and appeared
continually passing off from
                                                   surface             more than

eighteen inches                 diameter. The soil appeared deep,
and close the spot supported vegetation readily. The
              to

man inflamed some straw, and then laid                                 it  on the

ground; immediately the gas inflamed, and the flame

spread some distance from the straw over the surface
              to
                                                                   of
a of of  the earth, waving about like the flame weak spirits
         wine; this flame burnt some moments. On putting
       light           the bubbles which rose through the water
            so or in
they inflamed, and sometimes flame ran quickly fromas to
                   it.              I              the water.              filled
                                            a
                                               of
them over the whole surface                            of to a                     it by a

bottle with the gas, but could not distinguish any       Init I
                         of In  pouring water into the bottle, andas
smell                                                       aI
lighting the jet gas that came out, large clear flame
was obtained. The whole this flame was very pale
blue, like spirits wine.            It ofinflamed paper and matches
                         of
                           be
                              it,
readily, might expected; and when held dry
                                                                           a

bottle knife over they appeared become dim
condensing water: but this was uncertain, the weather
                                                   no
was rainy. The water had taste, and appeared
pure rain water.                    brought some            and the gas
away, and returned       I          the village."
                                                            the "almost
                             of to
deserted laboratory the Florence Academy" experi
ments with the Pietra Mala gas convinced Davy that
was "light hydrocarburet, pure."
The second stay Rome extended over nearly four
                                in

months, during which time the grand Carnival took place.
                  "HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                                  49

Faraday had at this part of his tour a great deal of his
time to himself, and earnestly devoted himself to con
tinuing the study of the French and Italian languages,
on which indeed he had been working                  he                  at
had been away from home. But                                         the while    he
                                                            all
                                                           also continued his
    to of

          be
              on

                        of at on
observations men and manners, for during the Carnival
                                              on                     domino, besides
week he twice attended masked balls
                                                    in

                                                         a
being present the horse-races the Corso, and other
      the events the Carnival. He was, however, anxious
             his way home England, and his letters occa
                                  he to
sionally show how sad felt not knowing how soonat
the return would be.

         was, however,            in to                               anticipated.

On January 25th, 1815,                 a hebe
in I                                                    to
                                                                  he
    It                                        earlier than
                                              wrote Abbott: "Now for
news! We shall partit                     few weeks (pray write quickly)
for Naples, and from thence proceed immediatelyin is
                                                                         to
                                                                                    to
Sicily. Afterwards our road doubtful; but this much
                                              to is
                                                       to
    know, that application made for passports travel
                                          is

      the Turkish Empire, and reside Constantinople;
                  Sir Humphry's intention                  in be inamong the Greek
that
islands March, and Athens early the spring
                                  at                                     .
Adieu, dear friend. With you have
                                                                           .
                                                                              .

                                              I                      no  ceremony.

The warmest wishes that friendship can dictate are formed
           of by                                           ! he
               M.                                                   he

                                                                             of to
                                                                                       be
for you                  Faraday." Thus had written towards
the end             January--within three months was
shaking hands with his friend home
      While         the road Naples, Faraday heardon at
           of                                                                   the

                  on

                      in

                                      to
I itescape Napoleon from Elba March 7th, and records

     7ththus briefly his journal: "Tuesday, March
      heard for news that Bonaparte was again                            liberty.
                                                           of
Being of noI
                It it I                                       it;

                                  is                              at
                                                                     a

                                                                          at
                                                                                   on

                                                                                       it,
                    politician, did not trouble myself about
though suppose will have strong influence
                                              a                                 the

    affairs Europe."                      strange how quietly Davy and
his "assistant" passed through Europe
war was convulsing nearly the whole                                  quiettilmy eanwd haepn
    parently unconcernedly they went their way, seeing who
                    to
                         be

                                  E at
                                         in
                                                                             of
    and what was                  seen the various stopping-places,

prosecuting their researches                         different branches
50 MICHAEL FARADAY.

chemistry, and adding in many ways to their stores of
knowledge, seemingly unaffected by

                      "The time that tried men's souls."

At Naples Faraday again ascended Vesuvius, and on
this occasion had the grand experience of seeing it in
active eruption. He writes a full and graphic account
in the journal, from which one passage, descriptive of the
eruption itself, may well be quoted. This time Faraday
had ascended with a guide only, Sir Humphry having
"Istayed part way up the mountain to see Monte Somma;
      saw a large shower of red-hot stones in the air,"
writes Faraday, "and felt the strong workings of the
mountain; but my care was now to get to the crater,
and that was soon done. Here the scene surpassed
everything. Before me was the crater, like a deep gulf,

appearing bottomless from the smoke that rose from
below. On the right hand this smoke ascended in
enormous wreaths, rolling above us into                             25It as at all  forms;        be on

the left hand the crater was clear, except where the fire
burst out from the side with violence,              in              product rising
                                                         its
and increasing the volume                       of  volatile matter already

raised the air. The ground was continual motion,
and the explosions were continual, buta of in
                                                                                  times more
powerful shocks and noises occurred; then might
seen rising high the air numbers red-hot stones and
                                in                  of
                                                       so of
pieces lava, which times came near
of us                               at                                              threatenlb. to
                                       of                                               or in at
       with blow. The appearance the lava was once
sufficient satisfy one                     its  pasty form.
                    to . to                                                         rose the
air lumps various size, from                        3
       in                    a ofI                                                         more.
                                                        lb.
                                                            to

The form was irregular, but generally long, like splashes
       thick mud; piece would often split into two more
                                                                                    or

pieces     . in            the air. They were red-hot, and, when they

fell down, continued glowing for five, ten,                                         of a orfifteen
                                  was there during one explosion very                   of
minutes                    a..

great force, when the ground shook                  of              with strong
earthquake, and the shower                                  at

                                                                as
                                                    lava and                               stones

ascended                       very great height, and this moment the
                * HOME THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD."                                         51

smoke increased much in quantity. The guide now said
this place was not safe, from              exposed situation theits
                                                 of                               to

melted lava and the smoke, and because oftentimes
                 a                                                      it
                        to
                                                                             is
                                of
happens that portion the edge the crater shaken
                                           to                           at            of a
down into the gulf below. We therefore retreated

little, and then sat down, listened, and looked."

   We have seen from the letter Abbott the end

January that somewhat lengthened tour had been
        to
                   a

                            of
                                at
planned out. On March the 21st Faraday's journal
says, "We left Naples five o'clock." From that time
the return was rapid. At Rome there was some delay
owing                               post-horses; the French troops
                the lack
under Murat were advancing, and everybody was leaving
the city; the Pope had fled, and the cardinals were
flying. After delay
                                           couple days carriage-horses
              on                           of
                   at   great expense, and the travellers pro
were hired            aa

                           as

                                 of of

                                        a
ceeded           their homeward flight. At Mantua delay
                                                                        "signed, re
                                                           to
                                                                 be   says Faraday,
saigganiend,ocacnudrrecdo,untertshiegnpeadss."port"sAhtaldast,"
o"uwrewsiallw,                             town, having,                         against
                 the outside          the   and a-half                  much
                remained two        hours                  of as is is                  on on
                                                                in      it."
    Faraday's last letter home written from Brussels
April 16th;                                it be isI
ing: "My very         is       his  Mmootthhere, r,a-nIdt  well worth read
                I I it      dear
                          to

                                                                      with  a     small
                 write you my last letter from                                no foreign
pleasureto of I

country, and hope will                     with                       much pleasure
you will hear am within three days England. Nay.I it
more, before you read this letter hope
                                                                        to  tread

British ground       ..                    am not acquainted with the

                            .
                our sudden return;               at it. is,
reason                                                  of however, sufficient

for me that has taken place. We left Naples very           at of
                 it

hastily, perhaps because the motionsof                                  the Neapo

litan troops, and perhaps for private reasons. We came
rapidly Rome, we rapidly left  as                          We ran up Italy,

we crossed the Tyrol, we stepped over Germany, we
entered Holland, and we are now Brussels, and talk
     leaving           to-morrow for Ostend;
ofcmbark, and   at it                                                   Ostend we

                       Deal we land        on    spot earth which                  I
                                              a
52 - MICHAEL FARADAY.

I Iwill never leave again. You may be sure we shall not

creep from Deal to London, and am sure shall not
creep to 18, Weymouth Street; and then--but it is of
Ino use.         have a thousand times endeavoured to fancy
Ia meeting with you and my relations and friends, and
Iam sure have as often failed: the reality must be a
pleasure not to be imagined or described . . . . You
}. Ifmay be sure that my first moment will be in your com
                 you have opportunities, tell some of my dearest
to

   I

       toI
                     to do
                   it
                                   .
                                  .
                                          .
                                         be .
                                           on
                                                 by
                                                       to
                                                                    is,
                                                                       an do
                                     I
                                                                                     to do
 riends, but     do  not  tell  everybody--that              not trouble
yourself                                          wander from one
                                   My thoughts

another, my pen runs                          fits and starts;                              not
know what say, and yet cannot put                              end my
                                 talking you, but must cease.
letter.          would fain
Adieu till see you, dearest mother; and believe me
ever your affectionate and dutiful son,
                                              "M, FARADAY."

   "'Tis the shortest and (to me) the sweetest letter              I

ever wrote you."

Thus ended Faraday's wanderings--

                                "But who may tell
                     What forms he brought away,
                 To stand reveal'd            mem'ry's spell,
                     And glad some distant dayup
                                   of             he !"
He returned home better equipped for continuing the
                                          at
work chemical research, for which
a                                                              so
                                                         had intense
liking, with his stores knowledge vastly increased,in he of
and his energy and application not one whit abated.
How again took                                                                              be
                                the thread his work mustof

told           another chapter.
CHAPTER IV.

BACK AT WORK,

--->''<----

"A choice that from the passions of the world
Withdrew, and fixed me in a still retreat;
Sheltered, but not to social duties lost,
Secluded, but not buried; and with song
Cheering my days, and with industrious thought;
With the ever-welcome company of books;
With virtuous friendship's soul-sustaining aid,
And with the blessings of domestic love."
                                           WoRDSWORTH.
--e-Sé---

     Is friends and relations having had due attentions
        from him, Faraday at once began to cast about

for work. On going abroad with Davy he had re

linquished his position at the Royal Institution, though
Sir Humphry had promised to befriend him on their
return; this promise was, much to Faraday's gratifica

tion, duly fulfilled. Within a fortnight of his return
Michael found himself re-engaged at the Institution in
the capacity of "assistant in the laboratory and minera

logical collection, and superintendent of the apparatus,"
a high-sounding office that carried with it the none too
substantial honorarium of thirty shillings a week, and,

as before, rooms in the building. It was, however, a

distinct rise, both in position and in wage, and Faraday,
54 MICHAEL FARADAY.

we may be sure, was pleased to get back to his well

loved Institution on such terms.

A life spent in scientific research
                      its                                         generally,
                          to

                                  as of
                                        a

                                               in
                                                  it,is is,
                                                                   as an
                                                                       be a
                                                                           to of an
apparently uneventful one. Faraday's life, far from
being  of anexception           this rule, was rather accentua
            it.
tion                  The story             his life     indeed highly
interesting; but interest lies
                                                         not story

action and change, but                      life that may said
have realised almost wholly the ideal which was set
                   From the very first moment when Faraday
before   it.
              on as
gave expression              his hate for trade and his love for
                      to
                             he

                                         a
                                           on

                                                                          of
science, his whole life was practical illustration his
feelings;                                     following him through
                      we shall find
his great and honourable career, there were many
                                refused not only titles and such
occasions            which
like honours, but pecuniary benefits which might fairly
on be  considered his dues--no, "his work was wrought for
love and not for gain," the line which have placed
       the title page this little book well expressesin in asso
The tour on the Continent,on of                         a                        it.
                                         on
                                              in as  has been noted, wasin is he I

the most striking episode Faraday's long life. From
May 7th, 1815 (the date                                           rejoined the
                                              which
Institution), onwards, his life was                                      no ofsteady
                                                         time                in
intellectual growth, spent
                                            chemical research,                   the
explaining                                                          on by
       to             phenomena, and               what                    means
             as be           our regard, the popularisation
his least claim                                                   his early cor     he of
scientific knowledge. We have seenhe of
respondence with Benjamin Abbott how,                                      his very
earliest acquaintance with lecturing and lectures                          at
                                                                                 the
Royal Institution,          he  began study the different styles
                                  of to
in of  the various lecturers,          to to note their peculiarities, and
       what lay the secret                  their success; we have seen,
                      was striving
too, how                                    improve himself                of    com

                                                                             in
position--in the clear and intelligent method stating
things. He was preparing himself betimes for what
            part             his true vocation; how eminently
felt                  of

successful--beyond his wildest imaginings--he was, will
be                                                       by
       seen we follow his life-story year year.
                        BACK AT WORK.                                            55

It was, as Faraday frequently acknowledged, his good
fortune to assist Sir Humphry Davy in his experiments
not only, while abroad, but after their home-coming.
                                                         all
One of the most important of Davy's discoveries was
             the year their return. On August 3rd
made    in              of                               to                   hehe
                  by a                                     he
acknowledged            letter which                            had received from Dr.of he

Gray, directing his attention the awful destruction
                        explosions
human life                            in                 coal mines. On October

31st, Davy   on a   an"nsoaufnecteydlamph;i"sor to       oncorrespondentthat  had
discovered                                                    November  2nd   read
                    fire-damp before the
paper
aRoyal Society, and
    a                   to          December
                          on  Dr. Gray
14th submitted
                    lamps and lanterns
models       on ofthe principle       of

made                                                     his
discovery, "that fire-damp will
       explode
not    certain      in
of                  smatllubdeias meterfe."edeIrns

his experiments,        in    connection

with this discovery, Davy received
considerable help from his labora
tory assistant, who must have
* -reat discoverer expressed himself
;
                 in

       inº
                                             by
                                                     on
been much gratified                                    that
*"safety lamp,"
passage             Davy's paper                         the

                                                         the

     "****"indebted
                        Mr. Michael

Faraday, for much able assistance." This was "Mr.
Michael Faraday's" first public recognition, and must
have been very delightful                                him, especially coming
                              of                                              in
                                                                                      as
                                     to
did from the man                      all others for whom,                       his
no it
scientific capacity, Michael had the most profound
admiration.is

Davy gained,                   well known, much honour and
                        as
                            is

                                    of of
                                            it

                                           It is in

                                                         is to
                                                                   be
     inconsiderable amount                               money for his discovery.
There are, however, circumstances                               which the safety
lamp not safe; Faraday, and,
                                                                        presumed,

Davy himself, was aware                                  this.  illustrative     of
56 MICHAEL FAIRADAY.

ºFaraday's stern regard for truth that, although he was

at the time Davy's own assistant, he did not, and would
not, attest before a parliamentary committee to the
universal safety of the Davy lamp.

   Early in 1816 we find Faraday beginning to put into

              those ideas on lectures and lecturing which he
ad so carefully considered before. On the point of
giving his first lecture, though, he seems to doubt him
self, and in a letter to Abbott occurs the following
Ipassage--"I intend making some experiments on that

subject (lecturing) soon; will defer it (his letter on
lecturing) till after such experiments are made. In
Ithe meantime, as preparatory and introductory to such
a course of experiments,         will ask your opinion                          of of,I
and observations on, English composition--style, de
livery, reading, oratory, grammar, pronunciation, per

spicuity, and         general all the branches into which
of                                                                        asking

     I
                      in
                                                                 on

                                                if

                                                                      by
the belles lettres divide themselves; and
procure, shall congratulate myself, the acquisition
much useful knowledge and experience."
The first lecture--on the "General Properties
Matter"--was duly and successfully delivered before
the City Philosophical Society                      January 17th.
Before trusting himself          to
                                        go

                                                on
                                        upon the platform,
Faraday carefully wrote out his lecture, word for word,
            to                          plan which                as he
inas   was        be  delivered  ;                                        followed
   it
the case of each                     a

                      of    the other six lectures which he

gave before the same Society during the year. These
            have had the pleasure seeing, they are
lecturesI                               by
                                           in of
neatly written out and bound                    their author. They
are, with many similar treasures,
                                                    the possession                of

Miss Jane Barnard, niece Faraday.of
                      an a
This year was             important one           in              several ways;

not only did Faraday give his first lecture, but also his

first printed paper appeared            the Quarterly Journal
of                                              Mr. Brande, who

                                        on
                                           as

                                              an

                                           in
                                                     of by
                                                              of
Science, which was edited
succeeded Sir Humphry            chief the Royal Institu
tion. The paper was              analysis
                                                                  native caustic
                      BACIK AT WORIK.                                       57

lime, which had been undertaken at Davy's instigation
That his scientific friends and patrons were beginning
to recognise something out of the common in their
laboratory assistant is shown in various ways, notably
by such a passage as the following, taken from Faraday's
note-book: "When Mr. Brande left London in August,
he gave the Quarterly Journal in charge to me; it has
had very much of my time and care, and writing,
         it,

                on

                                            of of
through has been more abundant with me.                              to It  has,

however, also been the means                          giving me earlier

information  some new objects science."
Faraday's common-place book--a kind continua
                                                             of

tion his Philosophical Miscellany                        six years earlier
of
      us
           a
                       at
                              of

                                    it

                                                 of
in--gives
             good deal                  information          as  to  his
                                                               us
tellectual progress             this time;            shows        not only
what scientific subjects were interesting him, but also
             he
                     of
how zealously was continuing his study composi
                                expressing what          he                 say
tion and the mode
                                                             of
                                                             had
clearly and definitely. There are passages from the
                                                                   descrip
Spectator, alongside                tests with arsenic,
an                                                           a
       of
             a

                 of
                           to
                               a
                                of
tion visit silk-ribbon dresser's, along with
account Zerah Colburn, the American calculating
boy. Sir Humphry Davy wrote                              Faraday, saying,
                                        of
"Mr. Colburn, the father                          of to
                                            the American boy who
has such extraordinary powers                            calculation, will
explain      you the method his son uses
        toI                                                  be        confi

                            to                                     in
dence.       wish               ascertain   if           can practically
used."
                                                it

It                                          Faraday that his was

                                        of
       has been remarked                                                    he a
poet-nature expressing itself through science; and this
estimate seems largely true, but the verses which
         his common-place book, "On Love," they
bewrote                                                            if
         in

                    by
                                                   a
his own composition, are extremely poor; there are
other verses though which will merit quotation. They
                   Mr. Dryden, fellow-member                       of
are written                                                           of    the

                                                                             of
City Philosophical Society, and are entitled "Quarterly
Night," October 2nd, 1816, being descriptive
                                                                       one
the periodical gatherings the Society. The followingof
58 MICHAEL FARADAY.

passage is of especial interest to us, as it shows how
Taraday impressed a young contemporary:

"But hark | A Voice arises near the chair!
 Its liquid sounds glide smoothly through the air;

  The listening Muse with rapture bends to view
The place of speaking and the speaker too.
Neat was the  tyhousu,thPhinilosdorepshse,r-iinn-gpraeirnson;  plain;
His eye read
EOxfpuenrdt etrostaanpdpirneghencdle,ar,anredflesctrtoionng  deep;
                                                             to keep.
His watchful mind no subject can elude,
Nor specious arts of sophist e'er delude;
His    pmoiwnedrsf,roumnshearcrkolredf,reer,anfgroemfrogmuiltpohleis  to pole;
His                                                                   soul.
Warmth in his heart, good humour in his face,
A friend to mirth, but foe to vile grimace;
A temper candid, manner unassuming,
Always correct, yet always unpresuming.
Such was the youth, the chief of all the band;
His name well known, Sir Humphry's right hand.
With manly ease towards the chair he bends,
IWith Watts' logic at his finger-ends,

* rise (but shall not on the theme enlarge)
IfTo show my approbation of this charge:
Or     proved it be,   the censure should                    be passed
                      be neither worst nor                    last.
       this offence

A precedent will stand from year to year,
And 'tis the usual practice we shall hear.
Fxtreme severity 'tis right to shun,
For who could stand were justice only done?
And yet experience does most clearly show
ICxtreme indulgence oft engenders woe.

In striving then to hit the golden mean--

To knowledge, prudence, wisdom, virtue seen--
Let Isaac then be censured, not in spite
But merely to evince our love of right.
Truth, order, justice, cannot be preserved

IUnless the laws which rule us are observed.
   for the principle alone contend,
Would lash the crime, but make the man my friend."

Paraday's progress during these first few years after
his reinstatement at the Royal Institution was rapid :
his lectures to the City Philosophical Society, his
p".lished papers, and his letters,
In

                 as

                  in

                            It

                                              is
                                              all

                                                              he
                                                                     to

                                                                         of
                                                                                     it.
                                                             give evidence
       the previous year, delivered six lec
1817,

tures before the Society.  interesting find that
                        BACK AT WORK.                                            59

instead of being written out word for word, the lectures
were now delivered from notes, showing how the young
lecturer was becoming so assured of his own command
of language as to make the earlier method no longer
necessary. His common-place book for this year continues

to show a wide range of reading and thoughtfulness. In

the summer, when the lectures at the Institution had

ceased for the recess, Faraday availed himself of an
invitation from his friend Huxtable, who was living at
South Moulton, and spent a month holiday-making in
Devonshire. His early impressions of that county,
when he passed through it with Davy on their way to
the Continent, must have made him especially delighted
to visit it once more; more particularly as he had an

opportunity   osntutdhyisingoc"cwasaivoenlloitfe,mahkyidnrgarggeeollliotgei,caalndexscuuchr
sions and of
hard things." A letter which he wrote from Barn
staple to his mother during this holiday is interesting,
referring as it does to those country occupations amid
--"Iwhich she, in her girlhood, passed her time
j.never more merry; and must say                                               have
Iseen a great deal of country life since left town, and
                  to
                                 it,

                                I
                                     I

                                                                 by
                                                                           no
am highly pleased with though should                                           means
be be                   live away from town.
       contented                                                      have been  at

sheep-shearings, merry-makings, junketings, etc., and was
                                                     of               the country
                        I at I                          all
     eople (of Devonshire, least) that they are the most
                  could imagine.                                      your pro
         Iall of I                          have seen
           threshing, winnowing, cheese and butter
cesses
making, and think could now give you some instruc
tion, but               to I                on

                                        to
                    have say you these subjects shall
       said verbally."
     Each year his life this period Faraday found
                  of
                                    at

himself becoming busier than the previous one. Another
five chemical lectures (on the metals, well known and
little known) were given before the City Philosophical
Society during 1818, completing                 course, extending
           no
                         of

                                                        aa
                                                                  on
over three years, seventeen lectures                                  the chemical
science, mean accomplishment for young man from
00 MICHAEL FARADAY.

twenty-three to twenty-six years of age. So much was
his time now becoming occupied that we find a great
falling-off in his letters this year, a falling-off not only
in number, but also in length. The correspondence with
Abbott, commenced six years earlier, practically comes

to an end in 1818; there was not, it is necessary to
mention, the slightest abatement in the warmth of affec
tion of the two friends; it was that, to a great extent,

  erhaps, the correspondence had done work, and what
    undoubtedly the more powerful reason, our young

scientist was beginning find his time well occupied
of is                      of            he

   it                             to                  its

         to                                                  so
with his favourite work that could not devote enough
            the writing long letters. Abbott was yet, and
always, sure
               of  the heartiest hand-shake and the most
unaffected welcome from one who the end of his life
                                                    to

was the staunchest of friends.
On July 1st, 1818, Faraday read highly interest.
                                                      a                             of Ig

paper before the members                 an on    the City Philosophical
                                              of
Society, "Observations the Inertia the Mind,"
in                                                           of
          is
which          drew,                            able manner,          an  analogy
              to a on
                  he                                             the physical
                           the mind and what                 in
                       a as of
                                  in                           It
between state                                                             to
                                                                               be
                                                of                    may
world known the inertia matter.
interest note few passages from this lecture illus
trate the thoughtfulness and thoroughness                             Faraday's
                                                                 of

work         this time, and also                  give   an  example       of       his
         at                              to
                    as
                     a
early style              lecturer.
 Unlike the animated world around him, which re
"

             the same constant state, man                             continually
mains    in                                             in
varying, and  of in it                                     a
                         one the noblest prerogativesto                    he of  his
                     is                                        to is              has
nature, that the highest earthly distinctionsof of
the power raising and exalting himself continually.is as of
The transition state                            he                    up
                                                  toman has been held     to  him
                                                                              may
be as                    his weakness; man degraded
  so a
             ;

                    in of
      memento                                                             it

         with justice; man                          ought             be  it        be no

                                                                               is

reproach and               knowledge that man only                        of is

                                                                                to
contemned and despised who not                              state tran
sition.                                                  life, mean ad
         .

             .
                 .

                 .
                                     on
"Dy advancement                          the plain    of

                                                          I
                    BACK AT WORK.                                               61

vancement in      thoasdevatnhcinemgsenwt.hichItdiisstinngout ishhe   men      from
                                                                       who       has
beasts--sentient

soared above his fellow-creatures in power, it is not he

who can command most readily the pampering couch or

the costly luxury; but it is he who has done most good
to his fellows, he who has directed them in the doubtful

moment, strengthened them in the weak moment, aided
them in the moment of necessity, and enlightened them
in their ignorance, that leads the ranks of mankind. . .
"There is a power in natural philosophy, of an influ
ence universal, and yet withal so obscure, in                         of       nature
unobtrusive, that for many ages                         is is no
It so                                                        at in       it its
                                                                                in
    is                                                          of
                                                                                      its
                     It                                 idea               existed.

                                                    to
called inertia.           tends retain every body
present state, and seems like the spirit                            constancy im
                                                                           is
pressed upon matter. Whatever                                     motion        by
            motion, and whatever
retained  in                                                                      at it
               its                                                rest remains

                         It

                                    Is
rest under        sway.         opposes every new influence,

strengthens every old one.                              there nothing      in   the

human mind which seems analogous this power?
                                                        of toI                 .   is a .
                                                                                  .

"Inertiait                                                        matter;

  I
              to is

                 it an

                        is
                                    on

                                    in
                    essential property                                     is  it
                                                                            is; for
never-failing  attendant  full        the mind? hope                  it
                                      force whenever the                   mind
as seems          be in

passive, trust           also power when she actively
engaged. Was the idle mind ever yet pleased                           to is    placed

                                                                           be

activity Was the dolt ever willing resign inanity                 to
in
    a

            ? to ?

                   ?

                                    as

                          if

                                                  to
for perception      Or are they not always found con
                          they were satisfied with their
tented      remain
situation They are like the shepherd Magnus: although
on barren rock, their efforts remove are irksome and
                                                                to
unpleasant; and they seem chained                                   of

                                                                                      by
                                                                                           a
be                                                                the spot
                                                                      which they
       2

         no
                is to

                        in

                                                  :

                                              in no
power over which they have                              control,

have perception. Again                                  activity, what intellec
tual being would resign his employment                                Who would
                                                                is or P
                                                                       in a

                                                                          it

                                                                                    is
                                                                                     in a
content forego the pleasures hourly crowding upon
him Each new thought, perception, judgment
                         itself for his past labours, and all
sufficient reward
                  pure enjoyment. There
the future                                                            labour
thought, but none who have once engaged
                                                                               would
62 MICHAEL FARADAY.

willingly resign                    it.  Intermissions speak not
                                                of                                  'tis
the general habit and tenor
                                                   I

                                                                          to

                                                                             ;of
                                                                                    by
                                                                                        a
                                                     the mind that concerns
us, and that which has once been made
                               its                                          taste the

pleasures            of of of       own voluntary exertions will not

slig"hInt ecratuisae,        be  made forego them.
                                     regards matter,
                             as          to                     term sufficiently
                                             a          to is
                               it                           a

                                                                 a
                                                                    of

                                                                           of
well understood both in state of rest and                                      motion.

As  it       not my intention                   to   attempt description            at of

         is

functions the mind according                                 strict mathematical

terms, shall resign the exclusive use                                the word
      I

present, and adopt two others, which, according                                 to  the

sense they have acquired from usage, will, believe,
                                                                     I

supply  its                  place with accuracy. Apathy will represent

ºriathe                      a   passive mind; industry that           of       active

IIllil.01,                                                                  an

"It curious                              consider how we qualify ideas essen
        is

               toI
tially the same, according                                          or
                                                                                 to of

                                                                                    it a to
                                                the words made use
                                                to
                                                        of
represent them.                          might talk         mental inertia for
long time without attaching either blame
                                                                       praise

--without the chance even                       of   doing so; but mention

apathy and industry, and the                             tmheindothseimr.ultaYneetoutshlye
censures the one and commends

things are the same, both idleness and industry are
habits, and habits result from inertia.
                                                         at in .
                                                             .    .

"Inertia has sway absolute natural philosophy
is
         in

                           a
                                   as
                                      or as
over moving bodies over those                                rest.   as It  therefore
                                                                          frequently
does not retard motion                          change, but     is

active continuing that state                        as  2" inopposing     it.   Now,

this the case with mental inertia

These passages from Faraday's early lectures serve                                  of to
    a
         us

            to
                      on

                        in

                                       he
                                      he
show         not only how                       was attaining the art
                                                                          It

                                                                             is he
expressing himself clearly, but how thoroughly went
into subject which had once entered.
                                                               on                   not
possible follow detail the work                                    which Faraday
was engaged. We have seen him learning assiduously,
and essaying teach the friendly circle the Philo                    of
                     on
                         to
                                      in
sophical Society. His work during the next few years
continued very similar lines those which we have
                                                     to
                               BACK AT WORK.                                               63

been regarding. Year by year, about this time, his
scientific writing increased--his work was increasing, his
friends were increasing--he was beginning to be "some
body," though as yet but in a small world. He had

commenced a correspondence with Professor G. de la
Rive--the gentleman who at Geneva had been so
struck by him when he was acting as Davy's travelling
factotum--a correspondence which on the death of De la
Rive was continued with his son, Professor Auguste
de la Rive.

   In 1821 Faraday married. Before, however, we treat
of this important step in his life,                                 of let  of us  glance  heat

the journal which              he  kept        at          it of awalking tour
                                                  a of of
          Wales during the summer                                                1819. This
took  of in                                                       the genuine enjoy
journal givesin of  heus
                          further evidence
             at of                           scenery and nature
ment which                found    at of a in                                      in      her

wilder and more impressive aspects; also gives further
                    his simple yet direct way
evidence                                                                           describing

things, that true descriptive power which his Con
tinental journal was often                   Jugloyod10iltlhu,stratiomno. untAedtof
o'clock the morning                                                  he                    five
                                                                                           the
top the Regulator coach the White Horse Cellar,
Piccadilly, and     at    ten o'clock the same evening was
set down Bristol. Not all bad coach-ride for one

day's journey. He afterwards visited Cardiff, and went
                                                           Merthyr; thence
over the Dowlais Ironworks       of on                                           a

and his companion wandered about        a                  so at    their own sweet  of
will, unconfined    or         any artificial circumstances. They
                           by               at                                              of
walked that manner which adds great charm
      in                                                                                    is

                                                                                                  a to he
a  walking tour, never knowing one day whither they

should bend their way              the next. The following
delightful bit descriptive                     visit the Fall Scwd
yv-hén-rhyd,                                               byto
                    Glentaree, formed                             the descent the
River Hén-rhyd.
   "Monday, 19th.-Proceeding onward into Brecknock
shire, we suddenly heard the roar
                    it,

                                            on
                                                     of

                                                              of
                                                                      a
                                                                    water where we

least expected            and came             the edge                            deep and
woody dell. Entering among the trees, we scrambled
       64 MICHAEL FARADAY.

       onwards after our guide, tumbling and slipping, and
       jumping, and swinging down the steep sides of the
       dingle, sometimes in the path of a running torrent,
       sometimes in the projecting fragments of slate, and
       sometimes where no path or way at was visible. Thein
                                                            all
thorns opposed our passage, the boughs dashed the drops
a by inour faces, and stones frequently slipped from beneath

       our feet into the chasm below, places where the view
       fell uninterrupted the perpendicular sides the preby
                                                                                  so of
       cipices. By the time we had reached the bottom                                 in     the

                                                                                         of
       dingle, our boots were completely soaked, and slippery
             no                    be
       that reliance couldby           placed        of its a of on  steps taken them.
       We managed, however, very well, and were amply re
                      the beauty the fall which now came                                     of in
       warded                      a                                      of by
                                      of                                      of
       view. Before was chasm enclosed high perpen
       dicular and water-worn rocks slate, from the sidesIna us

                            its
       which sprang luxuriant vegetation                                        trees, bushes,

       and plants.               bosom was basin                                  water, into
       which fell from above stream divided into minute
                                   a

       drops from the resistance          of its of                deep fall. Here, and
       there lay trunks trees which had been brought down
                      of                                             its
                          of
         the torrent--striking marks                                      power--and the
       rugged bed              shingles and rocky masses further
       heightened the idea other objects were calculated
                                                                                  by         to

       give  it of  the force  it  possessed when swelled                           no ofrains.

       We stepped across the river                   on              few tottering and
       slippery stones placed                            on a
                                   in                bed, and passing beneath

       the overhanging masses ran round                              projecting points,
       until between the sheet
                                                   water and the rock over

       which descended; and there we remained some time
       admiring the scene. Before
                                                     it it it uswas the path                 the
                                                                                  this place;
       torrent, after the fine leap which made                              in

       but the abundancebe         wood hid ere had proceeded
       many yards from the place where fell. No path was             to it
       discernible from hence, and we seemedof                            .       enclosed on

                                                                            be

          spot from whence there was                 of no  exit, and where cry
       for help could heard because                           the torrent-roar."
                                                          be      quoted from this
         Yet another passage should
                     IBACK AT WORK.                                                     65

journal; a passage descriptive of an ascent of Cader

 dris during a thunder-storm. A thunder-storm was, all
hItis"sSleiefuemnedlodanyga,,lwoJaunyelsyotof26tqhtuehic.km-Aeonssctehmnimtoviinontfgo  things to Faraday.
                                                                                         new life.
                                                                                        Cader Idris. The
thunder had gradually become more and more powerful,
and now rain descended. The storm had commenced at

                       C.A.D E R ID RIS,

the western extremity of the valley, and rising up Cader
Idris traversed it in  in its  length, and then passing over
rapidly      the south-east, deluged the hills with rain.
         to

The waters descended torrents from the very tops
                                                                                        its
                                                                                                  of
the highest hills places where they had never yet been
             a

                 in
observed, and river which ran behind the house into

the lake below rose momentarily, overflowing                                            banks,

                               F
     66 MICHAEL FARADAY.

     and extended many yards over the meadows. The storm
then took another direction, passing over our heads to
the spot in the west at which it had commenced, and
a be
                                to
                                              its

                                                                                by
                                                                                      its to
     having been very violent in               course, seemed there

      exhausted and die away. The scene altogether was

     very magnificent one--the lightning's vivid flash illu
minated those parts which had been darkened
humid habitation, and the thunder's roar seemed the

                              expiring clouds
     agonies     of     the                          they dissolved into
                          atthe
     rain; whilst
                                              in
                                                           as

                                                                 of
                              mountains echoes mocked the Sounds,

     and laughed              the fruitless efforts                       the elements

     against them."                                  to on
                                                          to

                                                                                   to
        The journeying was continued                             Dolgelly and
     Llangollen; and then back again                        London, and
               on      his old indefatigable manner. Sir Humphry
work                                    1818­19, investigating the ques
                  in
                     in
     Davy was              Italy
                              of
     tions with regard           to inthe unrolling  In of  papyri recovered
                                                            February, 1819,
     "Ifrom the ruins Herculaneum.
is he  wrote     of to  Faraday saying,        have sent report                            heas a on
                                                                          a

     the state          the MSS.  of       our Government, with plan
                                       to                                           of a
     for the undertaking unrolling; one part the plan
               employ         chemist for the purpose                     to at of  Naples;
           to              a

     should they consent, hope shall have                                           make
                                  on I     of to I

                                                    it.
                                                        to
     proposition you the subject." At the end theto

     same year Davy again wrote his protégé                               in        similar
                                                                             a

     strain, but nothing ever came                        And delighted
     Faraday would doubtless have been re-visit Italy,
     probably would not have undertaken the few months'
work Naples                             had meant,
               at                                                         would doubtless

                          if

                                it

                                                                      as

                                                            it

have done, his severing his connection with the Royal
Institution.

     of byA  much more important step was aboutby                                   taken
                                                     of a

                                                              in
                                                                     to
                                                                          be

                                                                            by
           Faraday. He had friend, also member and elder
                                      a

           the Sandemanian Church,                   name Barnard. Mr.
     Barnard was silversmith who lived                                    Paternoster
                           a

     Row, and thither Faraday often went, attracted                                       the
     charms Mr. Barnard's third daughter, Sarah. Faraday
           at
                of
     was this time twenty-nine years                        age, the lady who
                               BACK AT WORK.                                   67

       was to exercise so great an influence over his life was
       but twenty, and what is more she did not favour his

       advances. At last, in July, 1820, he wrote to her, and

       in a letter characterised by the depth no less than the
       warmth of his affection, begged at any rate to be heard.

       Such letters, intended for the eyes of but one person,
       are, as a rule, and it is well they should be, too sacred
       to be freely reproduced fora
                                                            read. The
                                           all
                                                        of

                                                                     to

                                                                      it
                                    the world
       letters have, however, before been printed, and                         may

       assist  us      forming correct picture Michael Faraday

                  a in
       --of the earnest, affectionate nature which was his--to

       re-peruse passage such this:--
                                 I
                                         as
                                                       to
       "Again and again attempt say what feel, but
       cannot. Let me, however, claim not                   that selfishto
to by I
                                                              beI

                                                                  it

                                                                           to
       being that wishes         bend your affections for his own
               or         by to

                    I In         if

                                by I

                                             to or

                                                        be
       sake only.        whatever way can best minister your
                                 assiduity by absence, shall                        a a be
       happiness, either
       done. Do not injure me withdrawing your friend
       ship, punish me for aiming
                                                            more than friend
                                                            a

           making me less; and you cannot grant me more,

       leave me what possess, but hear me."
          Miss Barnard showed the letter from which this

       passage quoted her father, whose reply was merely
           the effect that "love made philosophers into fools."isup
                     of      to     a                       momentous ques
Doubtful her own decision                    on             to an
                                                   so            of
tion this, involving the life-long happiness twoas
                                                                   a of a
persons, Miss Barnard postponed making                      immediate
                   by
decision                accompanying married sister Ramsgate.
Faraday made                   his mind "to run all risks
                                                                               kind
reception                Ramsgate." He went there, and after
               of
                     at
week delightful holiday-making, returned London
       on                                                   of to
           August the 7th, having won the consent her for
                   he               strong passion. Within
whom                   had evinced  so

                                                   a

twelve months (on June 12th, 1821), Michael Faraday
and Sarah Barnard were married, and took                           up
                                                                               their
residence the Royal Institution. The union proved
                   in
                         of

                            a
                                                 of
perfect one, and wedded life nearly half-a-century's
duration and             unclouded love was the result. From
68 MICHAEL FARADAY.

this time forward the kindliness, the affection, the love
of home and of those persons forming "home," which
had been earlier so marked in Faraday's letters to his
mother, become even yet more marked in the letters
written to his wife any time between his marriage and
his death. Some of these we shall note as we come to

treat of the period in which they were written.
The year 1820 was an important one to Faraday for
other though less significant reasons: in it his first paper
was read before the Royal Society, and he was also en
gaged with a Mr. Stodart, surgical instrument maker, in
experimenting on alloys of steel with a view to improving
its
         to
    quality. For many years after, we are told,                 Taraday

used present his friends with razors made                            par
                                                                of
                                                                   a

ticular alloy discovered      of        this time. The paper em
                                    at
bodying the results these experiments                    in inalloys was
duly published the Quarterly Journal Science.     of
                    of of in
      description           our hero (for hero    by
A                                                    a he  was--one           to of

           of
our true "heroes peace"), written                          friend about
the time his marriage, interesting assisting                           to us
                              in of               as
                                    of is
"Arealise what manner man                  in hereally was the flesh.
      young-looking man                       aabout thirty years
                                                                is of       age,

well made, and neat           his dress, his cheerfulness                     be of

disposition often breaking out                    short crisp laugh, but
thoughtful enough when something important
done."

We find Faraday now young man thirty, happily     of
                    a
                           to of
                                    of a

                                           of
married, with large circle friends who are finding
     him something            that genius which year            by     year
henceforward was
in                            manifest itself; we find him not
only gaining the goodwill these friends for his talents,to in
but gaining their affectionate regard             by
                be                                his unselfishness
                                                       it

                                                                       to

                                                                          a be in
and unremitting good nature. After their marriage
June, 1821, Mr. and Mrs. Faraday took up their resi
dence the Institution, where they continued
                                                                            live
for close upon forty years. Although fortune seemed
                    smiling upon Michael Faraday must not
thus
supposed that his position the Royal Institution was
                              at
.
º-ººº

ºº

       -

From a drawing by] MRS. MICHAEL FARADAY.  [Alexander Blaikley.
70 MICHAEL FARADAY.

highly remunerative one, his position was yet nominally
that of laboratory assistant, and the return which he
received for his services was a salary of one hundred

pounds per annum, a suite of rooms, and coal and gas.
One month after his marriage Faraday made his
                            Iptroifsescshioanracotef risfatiicth
confession of sin and                                               before the
Sandemanian Church.                                               of his whole

attitude towards religion, and the great and serious
regard which it demands from every individual, that
when his wife asked him why he had not told her what
he was about to do, he simply yet earnestly answered,
                                                                  of be all
                                                                              to
"That is between me and my God." Truth in things
            he              and his whole life mayat,
was what aimed to                                                 said
be                            a in
   a      seeking after truth the various branches knowit he

ledge;                half know thing was never sufficient for
him, could not rest there;                 its hemust test its truth, and

                                                it
either cast away, having proved worthless,                        is       accept
                                                                       or
with delight, having proved truth. This evidenced
. in in itall his life-work, his social intercourse no less than
   A                        in                                    no
                              in
          his scientific work, his letters and journals                    less

than his lectures and published papers.
            in

            circumstantial account has appeared                   to insome
                                                                      it.
                                                                         in

                                                                                 of
the newspapers Faraday's secession from the Sandeof

manian Church, and his penitent return                                     Not
having seen any reference              to
                                               to                          the

                                                    a
                                           such        secession
                        Faraday wrote                Miss Barnard, who
biographies
is of of in
       of

                  he
                   of

                          a

                          in

                                    a

                         I
          the following note, most emphatically denies the truth
          the story:--"Faraday never seceded from the Church
                        became member early
                                       in              life (1821).
          which                                    in             a

                                                                       It
true that for few weeks 1844 there was cessa
tion his communion with this Church, but the reasons
for this were absolutely private, and had nothing                          in to
with any conflict his mind between his faith                                      is do
Scriptures and his scientific work. The statement                          the

altogether without foundation, and neither the scene
described nor anything like ever took place.
                                       it

"10 Aug., 1891.                            JANE BARNARD."
                      CIHAPTER V.

"SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."

"If IIIfThe                   ----3%----

             would    strive  to bring back   tismimesp, liacnitdy;try
             world's   pure   gold, and wise

             would virtue set as she was young,
And hear her speak with one, and her first tongue;

If holiest friendship naked to the touch,

I would restore and keep it ever such;
I need no other arts but study thee,
Who prov'st all these were, and again may be."
                                                                   BEN JONSON.

                              ·-3%--

Tº: year of Faraday's marriage which, as we have seen
       in the previous chapter, was also important to him
in other ways, was marked by one unpleasant incident
which was talked about for some time afterward; but
although Faraday was then spoken of in no measured

terms, it has been conclusively shown that far from

any blame being attached to him, the facts of the case
are much to his credit. To put the matter shortly

it was this. Dr. Wollaston had an idea as to the possi

bility of electro-magnetic rotation; he expected, in other
words, to be able to demonstrate that the "wire in the
voltaic circuit would revolve on its own axis." He was

at the Institution one day in the early part of 1821,
and was making an experiment in the laboratory with
72 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Sir Humphry Davy. Faraday, who was not present
during the experiment, came in in time to hear the
conversation that followed. He afterwards made various
experiments on this subject, and was invited by the

editor of the Annals of Philosophy to contribute an his
torical sketch of electro-magnetism. This sketch appeared
in the Annals of the same year; Faraday repeating
nearly   in           the experiments                          he
             all                                to  which          referred.
                  of                                             in
These experiments Faraday's led him the discovery,
                         of of                           a to
early September, the "rotation                      of       wire voltaic

current round magnet, and                       of     magnet round the
                      a
                                                    a

wire." He could not make the wire and the magnet
revolve their own axis. "There was not the slighteston
indication that such was the case."he

    Before          published the paper descriptive            an         theso
"new electro-magnetical motions," Faraday essayed                  to of
see Dr. Wollaston that might get permission referhe                       of of to

to     Wollaston's experiments. The doctor was out
town, and the paper was published "by
judgment" without any reference                                    error

                                                    to   his opinions and
intentions. Directly afterwards Faraday was extremely  he
distressed hearing rumours which "affected his honour
and his honesty." He wrote once, not only Stodart,at
                to                          at                 to

but directly Dr. Wollaston, whom                           met, and after
mutual explanation the matter dropped. Faraday,
however, continued his electro-magnetic experiments.
at It                                           to
                                                    do by
     is                                                    to

                                                             in

                                                                      do :

                                                               I
             he of                                         his brother-in
                P'
                       as

                                  is
         one these that referred
law, who was with him one Christmas Day when "All
             exclaimed, "Do you see,                     you see,         you
       once

see, George              the small wire began                  revolve.

shall never forget the enthusiasm expressed his face,
and the sparkling               his eyes."
    In                   of in
        the summer 1822 Faraday was Swansea for
fortnight with Phillips, the editor the Philosophical
                                                    he of
                                                        he at

                                                                             to
                                                                                   a
Magazine. Before starting, however, took his wife and
her mother down Ramsgate, whither addressed his
                      in in to

                                        to
wife three letters, which are evident the deep feelings
which were his regard                       their relations. The first
                           "SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                            73

          letter was written on his arrival in town after leaving

          I IRamsgate. After detailing what he has done, he breaks

          off, "And now, my dear girl, must set business aside.

            am tired of the dull detail of things, and want to talk

          Iof love to you; and surely there can be no circumstance

          under which can have more right. The theme was a
          cheerful and delightful one before we were married, but
          it is doubly so now. . . . Oh, my dear Sarah, poets may

          strive to describe and artists to delineate the happiness
          which is felt by two hearts truly and mutually loving

          cach other; but it is beyond their efforts, and beyond the
          thoughts and conceptions of anyone who has not felt                  a of
                                     do         it,  but neither nor any other        so of it.
on as to I  have felt andbe it            feel
          man can describe                nor         necessary. We are happy,
                                     it;                        I

                                                us is

                                                  it
          and our God has blessed with thousand causes why
                                                         a

          we should          of so.  Adieu for to-night."
                                                         of
          The letters from Swansea give                             account    his
                                                                an
          journey, and his host's house, work                       at   the copper
          furnaces, and other places;                    the many people thereup
                                                     of

          are Mr. Vivian's (with whom was staying), andathe he

          the late and long dinner, which                       made           his mind
                              possible. He stayed out walking one
            avoid
          evening, got back after dinner had commenced, andto up
                                     in                     might write long
          stole     to if  his own room thatof it

                                                   to
                                                               of he

                                                                at

                                                                 it he
          letter his wife, reply one which had received
          "Ifrom her.          could almost rejoic
          "ifyou,"                                              my absence from
                 an he                        were only that has produced
                        wrote,

such                    earnest and warm mark affection from you
            that letter. Tears joy and delight fell from my
eyes             on        perusal."

                   in its
          Early the following year Faraday was experimenting
            chlorine, subject that had attracted great deal                    of
                           a                    it

                                                                    a
                                                                           he
Davy's attention. At Davy's suggestion                                         enclosed
                                     in         hermetically sealed glass tube,
Some             he of  the gas          by an
                      might "work with under pressure, and see
that                                          heat." What "happened" was

what would happen
that several occasions the tube exploded, twice doingon
injury Faraday's eyes. On one the occasions whento       of
74 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Faraday was at work, Dr. Paris happened to enter the
laboratory, and seeing an oily liquid in the tube rallied
him on his carelessness in using dirty vessels. When,
afterwards, the end of the tube was filed off, there was
an explosion, and the oily matter disappeared. Early
on the following day Dr. Paris received this note:--

to
     be

                          oil
"Dear Sir, The                 you noticed yesterday turns
out liquid chlorine.

                          "Yours faithfully, M. FARADAY."

He had                                           converting chlorine gas
an
      a

            in
                    by
                                  of
                                       itsin

                                                            to
into liquid     fact succeeded                   own pressure. This was

                    means                                       numerous experi
important discovery which led
ments with other gases, and with like results.
On May 1st, 1823, Faraday's certificate                         as
for fellowship                                                     a   candidate
                                                                      a
                    a inthe Royal Society was read for the
first time. Such distinction was no doubt coveted

one Faraday's eyes, and must have been extremely
in                               It it

      to                                is
painful him when found that Sir Humphry Davyhe

was opposed his election.                        interesting observe,
                to                                              on
                                                                          to
however, that the very first signature
                                                                          in it
                                                                his certificate

that Dr. Wollaston. Such being the case seems
to is

         so

         it of
impossible that the old charge against Faraday regard
   electro-magnetic rotation could have been revived, and

yet was. Wollaston himself had expressed per
fect satisfaction, and the matter seemed definitely settled.
to
             as                                  untrue charge must have

                a
                      of
                          all of

                                    of
                                             an
Much this revival
distressed man Faraday's uncompromising integrity,
find Davy,
                          men, opposing him must have been
yet more distressing. That Davy's opposition was active
may surmised from the following, which told by
to                                               as I
       do be
                                                   it
      it I
                                                    I
                                                              is
Faraday himself: "Sir Davy told me must take
down my certificate.heI I      replied that                     had not put
                                                                was put          up
                             I, it H.
                                   as I                                              it byit
up; that could not take down,
my proposers. He then said must get my proposers
                          answered that knew they would
take down.                                       I

not so. Then              said,                  President, will take
           - "SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                      75

I Idown.
           replied that was sure Sir H. Davy would
do what he thought was for the good of the Royal
Society."

This attitude of Davy's naturally pained Faraday
exceedingly;    many years                               aollfusitio;n Fbayraa
friend to his  early life led  afterwards some
                               up to a mention
day rose abruptly from his seat, and took a rapid walk
Iup and down the room, saying, "Talk of something
else, and never let me speak of this again.                wish to
remember nothing but Davy's kindness." There were
tears in his eyes as he spoke, showing how deeply the
man was moved. Faraday also said that Davy had
walked for an hour about the courtyard of Somerset
House, arguing with one of his proposers that Faraday

should not be elected. We know none of the reasons

for Davy's opposition, and his attitude in this affair
must ever remain a cloud on his fair fame; that he, a

self-made man, who had risen to the first position among
modern chemists, should oppose at this stage of his
career a man somewhat similarly circumstanced, who
was also moving upwards step by step to one of the
highest positions among modern philosophers, as he loved
always to be called, is indeed as strange as it is regret
table. The fact, sad as it has he is,     to             noted; but we
will not dwell upon it; more gratifying        is be           learn how,

                                                it

                                                       to

when the ballot was taken, Michael Faraday was almost
unanimously elected Fellow                the Royal Society,
                     a                    of
                                                  in
there being but one black ball. This, after years,           a he

inproudly mentioned, was the only one among his
numerable honours that               had sought for. Scarce
year passed afterwards but some fresh distinction was
conferred upon him.
                                       -

Early 1824 John Wilson Croker, with Sir Thomas
           in
                   he F.

                                as
                                                                      to

                                                                               a

                                                                            in be
Lawrence, Sir Chantrey, and Sir H. Davy founded
the Athenaeum Club, which still flourishes. For short
while Faraday acted honorary secretary the Club;
but his more congenial scientific labours could not

neglected, and soon retired from the secretaryship,
76 MICHAEL FARADAY.

which he was succeeded by his friend Magrath, who
continued to hold the post for many years.
Faraday's notes and papers contributed to the scien
tific journals and other periodicals were frequent, but it
would profit little here to detail them. One discovery he
made about this time is well worthy of mention as it has
had an important effect on a particular industry--the
discovery was that of benzol, benzine, or as Faraday
     in                             hydrogen." This prepared
        it,                         of
named "bicarburet                          at                  in
                                                                  is
                                               of
now        large quantities, being employed                         the manu

facture of aniline colours.

We have       it       the authority Sir Roderick Murchison

                   on

that Faraday's first lecture the Royal Institution was
delivered the following circumstances. Brande, who
           in

had succeeded Sir Humphry Davy                      of as  the Professor        is of
Chemistry, was delivering course lectures; one day
the lecturer, owing             to
                                    illness         some other cause, was
                                   it

                                         a

                                        In

                                                or
absent, but his assistant (Faraday) took his place, and
                                                    he  won the complete
lectured withof               much ease that
              to                                  this connection too,

                      so
approval his audience.                                                  in
interesting note that was towards the close                               of
                                                                              this
                                                                            it
same year that Faraday began his experiments                              mag

netic electricity, the particular branch research which    of

was occupy great part his later life, and which
     to                                                               in
                   a
                            to
                                        of
he was destined                 make some of his most brilliant

discoveries.

It         pleasing   he in to  find that whatever may have been

     is

Davy's object                 opposing Faraday's election into the
illRoyal

will;
     Society,                 did   not bear       him any continued
                                    not only          Davy's expressions
     this shown                 us  of                                          in of
           in is                      by
               in of                          by               of as    entry
goodwill his letters, but such things                               an
                       meeting      the managers                      the Royal
the minutes         a

Institution           February, 1825. From this entry we
learn that Sir Humphry Davy, "having stated that                                of he
                                                        to of  Mr. Faraday,
considered the talents and services                        of
               the laboratory, entitled
assistant  in                                                  some mark

approbation from the managers, and these sentiments
having met the cordial concurrence                             the board;
INSTITUTION.  ROYAL  LABORATORY,     THE

    -----------|T-|-|E|-|T||E    ae                          ±
IiË---t---j ~~~-------                                       -iiti
                               itiiii !!
                                                DTritae

§±ST|£!!!±! !!#·#%#i#º#·|-#- #}¡¡¡¡                      |-
78 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Resolved:--That Mr. Faraday be appointed Director of

the Laboratory, under the superintendence of the Pro
fessor of Chemistry."

  It was after receiving this appointment that Faraday
occasionally invited members of the Institution to even
ing meetings in the laboratory, when he generally had
something new and interesting to show them. In these
meetings in the laboratory was the origin of those
regular Friday evening meetings in the theatre, which
commenced in 1826, which have had for many years a

world-wide reputation, and which have drawn together,
week after week and year after year, large numbers of
                                                     by     popular exposi
persons interested in science and in                   its
on          1826, the year which the first regular Friday
tion.                  of
     in                      of

       a In                            in
                                              at as
evening meetings took place, seventeen lectures were
delivered, six them being given Faraday himself,

   such variety subjects "Caoutchouc," "Litho
graphy," "Brunel's Tunnel                            Rotherhithe," etc. His
aim inaugurating these "Friday evenings" may                                      be

                                                     of
                                                                 he
gathered from the scanty notes which                                  made for
introducing one             of                             the lectures:­
                                the earliest
"Evening opportunities--interesting, amusing; instruc
tive also :-scientific research--abstract reasoning, but
        popular way--dignity;-facilitate our object                               of of
in

    a
                  to
attracting the world, and making ourselves with science
                      it."
attractive                              be

                                                   to at
                                                        us
                                                            an
    These notes, slight     of is,of    they are, give                  idea
                                 to as
what Faraday's objects were, and are                        the same time
      of               they may fairly                      represent the

          a
                   as
interesting,                                         said

aim large part his lecturing work throughout his
career, the aim that which always seemed                                   to behis,
                                        he
                                                                 to
to  make the subject which was speaking amusing,

interesting, and instructive. No other man had ever
                                        of                              making
                                             all

                                                 as, to
                                                    in

                                                         heas
                                                           is is
                                                                 of by
succeededas           attracting the world science
            of as                       them. High                    Faraday's
the science attractive
position       a in   scientist and philosopher,                                  of as be
                                                                     also
remembered with much gratitude                             point time
                   ability, the first                true popularisers
well
"SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                                            79

science. This may not at first sound a very high title to
bestow, but yet it is far from an insignificant one, and
one that must indeed have gratified Faraday; much as
he was pleased with the acknowledgment of himself as
one of their peers by such men as Davy, De la Rive, and
other scientists, the knowledge that he was interpreting
the wonders of Nature to a vast number of persons
hitherto ignorant, or in a measure ignorant, of her
marvellous ways, was yet more pleasing to him. We
can fully understand his echoing the sentiment which
the late James Russell Lowell, speaking of the poet,
expresses in the following beautiful verses:­

"It may be glorious to write
Thoughts that shall glad the two or three
High souls,                                              in  sight
      Once in  liakecethnosteurfyar;  stars  that  come

"But better far it is to speak
      One simple word,  which                       then
Shall waken their free   nature       noinw   and  weak
And friendless sons of men;                  the

   "To write some earnest verse or line,

      Which, seeking not the praise of art,
Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine

     In the untutored heart.

   "He who doth this in verse or prose,

      May be forgotten in his day,
But surely shall be crowned at last with those

      Who live and speak for aye."

  In 1827 Faraday's first book--On Chemical Manipula

tion--was produced. Faraday had published a short
while before an account of some discovery he had made
with respect to the existence of fluid sulphurs; in this

year he writes:--"I have just learned that Signor Bellani
had observed the same fact in 1813. M. Bellani com

plains of the manner in which facts and theories which
Ihave been published by him are afterwards given by
others as new discoveries; and though                     find myself
Iclassed with Gay-Lussac, Sir H. Davy, Daniell and

Bostock, in having thus erred, shall not rest satisfied
80 MICHAEL FARADAY.

inwithout making restitution, for M. Bellani in this

stance certainly deserves it at my hand." This is

inworthy of note as a slight illustration of the true

tegrity of Faraday's character; much as he valued any
original discovery he might make, he valued much more
that absolute truth which made him render honour to
any predecessor even at his own expense; this was
done, too, always as a matter of course, without the
slightest spirit of grudging. His behaviour on such
occasions, which are indeed too trying to most persons,
had perhaps a great deal to do with the feeling which
he awakened in all who came in contact with him.
Never, perhaps, was there a more unselfish, as there

was never a more universally beloved, man. "His

friendship," as Professor Tyndall says, "was energy
and inspiration."

   Faraday was appointed member of a "committee for
the improvement of glass for optical purposes;" one of
the results of his investigation was that when deliver
ing, in 1829, the Bakerian lecture at the Royal Institu

tion, he took for his subject, "The Manufacture of

Glass for Optical Purposes." For further investigation
of this subject a special experimenting room and furnace
had been built at the Institution in 1827, and a special

assistant--Sergeant Anderson-- engaged to assist Fara

day. One chief object of these experiments was to
improve the glasses of telescopes. This desired result
was, however, not attained, although some notable work
was done; the glass then manufactured, for instance,
became invaluable in some of Faraday's later researches.

In 1830 the glass-making investigation stopped, and in

the year following the committee presented their report
to the Royal Society which had appointed them.

   The recognition of Faraday's importance in the world
of science was now made more manifest each year; not
only were honours done him by various English and
Continental societies, but in 1826 the managers of the
Royal Institution "relieved him from his duty as
                        "SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                                       81

chemical assistant at the lectures because of his occu

pation in research." In 1829 he was invited to attend
the meetings of the managers. In 1827 he had been

offered the Professorship of Chemistry in London Uni
versity, but much as he felt the honour which was done
him, Faraday declined                  a
                                                    and from the noblest             on
                                             of in it,                                     of
motives, will seen      itI
              do as         a                       tothis passage from his letter
                                on be                ofthe subject.
to to  "IDr. Lardner                                duty and gratitude                 my
         think                       matter
part               what can for the good the Royal Institu
       in to                                                 of
tion          the present attempt                                  it     firmly. The
                                                       establish
Institution has been source knowledge and pleasure
       me for the last fourteen years; and though does not
                                                                        its doit
                                                                                  it,
pay me salary for what now strive                                             for yet
              in                             I               of it of to             to orI I
                                                                                         as it
possess the kind feelings and goodwill                                          authorities
and members, and all the privileges can grant
require; and, moreover,                            remember the protection
                                       I

In #.   afforded me during the past years                                 my scientific
     e."

       1829             he  was offered, and accepted,                    as  a it  did not

interfere with his Royal Institution work, post
lecturer chemistry the Royal Academy, Woolwich.
as     the same year died Sir Humphry Davy--the greatto inhe at
                                               he
  In
chemist whom Faraday owed much, and whom,                so                      to

       we have shown,                  remained deeply attached                        the
last. Davy had fought his way                                up         Faraday had
                                                                   as
                                                                    in
done, but, unlike Faraday, had been                                           a  measure
              by
spoiled              his success;                  had very little self-control,

and but little method and order, and was, perhaps, too
anxious about his fame, about how he would stand                                       in

the eyes men. With Faraday was far different--
he he  aimed truth his knowledge, and cared but littleto at ofit
                            to
                                                            as
for what the world might consider success. He wasof in
known say, referring his experiments under Davy,
"that the greatest all his great advantages was thatat to
       had model teach him what avoid." Faraday  G
         a                                                   to
                                                                    to
              of
and Davy were, nevertheless, friends                                    the last, and
                                                   the comparatively early age
the death               the latter
82 MICHAEL FARADAY,

of fifty-two must have been a great blow to the
younger man.

   The year 1831 is an important one in the life of
Michael Faraday, for it was then that he commenced

Ithis brilliant series of experiments in electro-magnetism.

    is on his electrical research that his chief claim to

be remembered as a scientist rests. He had earlier

experimented in the same connection, but hitherto with
out attaining the results which he had anticipated.
But                              ifdevoted much energy to
      from this time forward he
this  branch of research, with   such success that we

pick up any of the most recent works on electrical
science we inevitably find an important position given

in it to the name and discoveries of Michael Faraday.
This is not the place to enter into a description of these
experiments, though reference to them will of course be
made later on in this biography in the chapter devoted

to a consideration of Faraday's discoveries. In the
year 1833 Faraday was appointed Fullerian Professor
of Chemistry in the Royal Institution for life, without
the obligation of having to deliver lectures in connec-tion
with the professorship.

   In the year 1834 a boy living in a distant part of

England wrote to Professor Faraday, saying that he
                   taking up a scientific career.    Doubt
was   desirous of   his own beginning, Faraday     sent "by
less  remembering

return of post a kind and courteous reply," which that

J.boy, grown to man's estate, and known as Doctor
Scoffern, gratefully referred to in a graceful tribute

which he wrote after Faraday's death. It was during
this early part of Faraday's success that he once gave
evidence in a judicial case, when the scientific testimony
was so diverse that the judge, in summing up, levelled
something very like a reproach at the scientific witnesses,
saying, "Science has not shone this day." Faraday

would never again appear as a witness in a court
of law.

      is,
                                                             in
                                                                                    we
This  perhaps, the most fitting place              which
             "SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                              83

can refer to some slight account of Faraday's home-life
in the Institution, which is given by his brother-in-law
George (Mrs. Faraday's youngest brother) and Miss
Reid (her niece). George Barnard was much with the

IFaradays in these earlier times. "All the years was
Iwith Harding dined at the Royal Institution," he
says. "After dinner we nearly always had our games
just like boys--sometimes at ball, or with horse-chest

Inuts instead of marbles--Faraday appearing to enjoy

them as much as did, and generally excelling us all.
Sometimes we rode round the theatre on a velocipede,

which was then a new thing." . It is said "that some

times of an early summer morning the philosopher was

to be seen going up Hampstead Hill on this velocipede."

Darnard tells, too, of Faraday's unflagging good spirits
and his faculty for entering with keen enjoyment into
any fun that was going forward--pic-nics up the river,
with rustic cookery, charades, or anything else the
party seemed bent upon, Faraday would join in with
delight; how he used to attend Hullmandel's conver
saziones, where he met many of the leading singers and

artists of the day--Garcia and Malibran, Sir Edwin Land

seer, Clarkson Stanfield, J. M. W. Turner, and indeed
most of the members of the Royal Academy. The last
                                                                   all
innamed artist often applied to Faraday for chemical

formation about his pigments; upon Turner, and
artists who made similar requests, Faraday would
always impress the importance there was
prosecuting experiments with regard             to                 their
                                                            of in
                                                their colours
themselves, giving them hint                    put some
                             in a                                  their

                                  a
                                            to
colour and colour-washes            bright sunlight, covering
up
one half and leaving the other exposed, and thento
observing the effect  in     light and gases    on
                  or     of                                     the latter.
Mr. Barnard says that during their various country
trips Faraday was the habit just "rambling aboutof

geologising           botanising."

Mrs. Faraday's niece, Miss Reid, was peculiarly well
        give reminiscences          of
                                                            as
fitted                              her uncle,                  she was for
84 MICHAEL FARADAY.

nearly twenty years (from 1826) one of the family at
the Royal Institution. When she first went there Miss
Reid was only a little child; and when her aunt was
"Igoing out she was taken down to Faraday's laboratory,
where, as she afterwards wrote,                had, of course, to
sit
     or as
          all

                     as
                       a
                                              a

                                                 of
                                                                a
                                                                                 or
                                                                                           a
         still mouse, with my needlework; but my
uncle would often stop and give me kind word

nod, sometimes throw bit                      potassium into water
to amuse me."

    "In           my childish troubles," Miss Reid continues,
"he was my never-failing comforter, and seldom too
busy,             stole into his room,               spare me
       ifI                      he                                     a   few

minutes; and when perhaps         to I    was naughty and re
                                               to to
                                                   he
                                                           to
bellious, how gently and kindly                        would win me
round, telling me what
I he  was young, advising me          used feel himself when
                                                                 the reproof
                                          submit
    "Iwas fighting against.
          remember his saying that
                                        to to          found     a it  aa  good
                                            a
and useful rule               listen           corrections quietly,
       ifI        a                           all
                          to                      he
           he he
                                                         or
eve"nIf          did not see reason agree with them.
                had difficult lesson, word two from him

would clear away all my trouble; and many long
                     arithmetic became quite delight
wearisome sum     in

                         to
when            undertook explain it."
    The same lady gives some admirable notes
                                                                           of  in in a

holiday the small family party spent                             Walmer,
                              of
                                                 on
                                                             at
Rent. How they drove down                      the outside             of  the

coach,   and how     fuHllill,   fun Faraday was, when they
reached   Shooter's             over Falstaff and the men
buckram "not sight nor sound
         ;        a                                    interest escaped
                                      a

                                                 of

his quick eye and ear."               cottage to a in  a     field, and my
                                a
  "At Walmer we had                    a
uncle was delighted because window looked directly
                                                     cherry tree. He
into blackbird's nest built               in
      a
would      go     many times    in      day watch the parent
                                     a

birds feeding their young."
    Sunrise and sunset were never-failing sources de
                     to
                                     at
                                                                he

                                                                    of
lighted admiration            him;        such times                   was the
                  * SCIENCE WHICH I LOVED."                         85

best of companions, and it has been described as a great

treat to watch the glorious sight with him.

   "He carried Galpin's Botany in his pocket, and

used to make me examine any flower new to me as we

rested in the fields. The first we got at Walmer was
the Echium vulgare, and is                always associated in       my
mind with his lesson. For                 when we met with
                                                                    it a

second time he asked, "What is the name of that

Iflower ?' `Viper's bugloss,' said I. `No, no, must

have the Latin name," said he."
    On one occasion he called his wife and niece into his

room to "see a spectre." It was about ten o'clock in the
evening, a thick white mist had risen. He then placed
a candle behind them as they stood by the window,
and they saw two gigantic shadowy beings projected
on the mist and imitating, of course, every movement
they made. Faraday had gone to Walmer for rest and
refreshment, and his niece says that she, the young one of
the party, had to inveigle him away from his books
and papers to which he would return, and tempt him
out on some excursion to see or find something, on
which occasion he was nothing loth. We see, indeed,
heat times his life how keen was the delight                        he
                  of
    all                        of
       as in
took the company young people; how beautifully
could enter into the spirit which animated their
                  he
                              up
                                    to

                                        a
play, though       was still child himself, and this

valuable faculty was his                  the latest.
Of the Walmer excursion his niece further says:--
"One day          he
                    a

                       I
                  went far out among the rocks, and
brought home great many wonderful things show
me; for those days had never seen nor heard              ;
hermit crabs and sea anemones. My uncle seemedin               to   of to of

                   much delight
              he                                         did and how
                               as

                                       at
                                                     to

                                                     of

                                    asI
watch them with
heartily          would laugh
                                   some    the movements
the crabs' We went one night look for glow-worms.
We searched every bank and likely place near, but not
one did we see. On coming home                         our cottage  he
a

                     of

                                         on
                                                of to
espied tiny speck                  light   one the doorposts.
    86 MICHAEL FARADAY.

    It came from a small centipede; but though it was
    *I,put carefully under a glass, it never showed         in         light
      Q'aln.                                                      its
to a          uncle read aloud delightfully. Sometimes                     he he
                           Shakespeare's plays
    gave   of usone                           to            Scott's novels.
               all                                      or

                  I of

                                  in of

                           I to
    But             things used like hear him read Childe
    Harold; and never shall forget the way which
    read the description                       on
    took great pleasure            the storm Lake Leman. He

                                   Byron, and Coleridge's `Hymn
           Mont Blanc' delighted him. When anything
    touched his feelingsby

                               in
                                  of as

                                            he

                                            it

                                                               or

                                                         it

                                                                        by

                                                                            in

                                                                                             or
                                         read--and happened not
    infrequently--he would show not only tears his
    voice, but tears his eyes also. Nothing vexed him
    more than any kind                             prevarication,
                                   subterfuge

    glossing over things."
                    P

                                           on
                                                                         do a

                                                                                              a
           His niece mentioned     one occasion professor who
    had been discovered abstracting some manuscript from
    library. He instantly said, "What                       you mean by
    abstracting            You should say stealing; use the right

    word, my dear."        any kind Faraday could not bear; not

           Indecisionin
                it

                         of
                                             to

                                                           as
                                                             he
                                                                     on

                                                                 of

                                                                                he
                                                                                               to
    only should one decide, but quickly. Indeed thought
              trifling matters immediate decision was im
    that
    portant;                             decide incorrectly than
                       was better
    remain hesitating. As soon                     left his study and
    laboratory Faraday had the happy faculty being able
           throw aside his science, and would, going into the
    sitting-room, "enter into all the nonsense that wasto to
                           heartily any one; and we sat round
    going    he on  he as   in as                  as
                                                         or
                                                              he he

                                                                         at
    the fire               would often play some childish game,
                    was usually the best performer;
    which                                                             would
    take part tuopianI     charade, and well recollect his being
                           act the villain, and very fierce looked.as I
    dressed                           as
    Another time recollect him the learned pig."
           As we learn such things these about him we cease
           wonder that Faraday was the object
                                                            of         much

                                                                  so

    admiration and love from             all  persons, old and young,
    with whom he came contact. His wonderful work
                                                      AY'S FAIR
                                                 DA
             //
                                  STU
         
                                      D
|¡//%|
                                       x.
 =-\~~
                | //

               ±

                 ·
88 MICHAEL FARADAY.

as a scientist will, it is to be hoped, never be remem
bered as his only claim on our regard; for as one of
the best and kindest and most helpful of men, whose

singular modesty and gentleness of character endeared
him to all, he certainly deserves to be kept ever in our
recollection. We must not, as a friend wrote of him,

allow the name of Faraday "to be nothing but a peg

on which to hang discoveries;" but must also recollect
that his "time, thoughts, purse, everything was freely
given to those who had need of them."
                   CHAPTER VI.

AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.

              ---->''<----                EEATS.
"'Tis the man who with a man

     Is an equal, be he king,
  Or poorest of the beggar clan,

     Or any other wondrous thing
  A man may be."

y the commencement of the year 1835 we find
Michael Faraday, not yet forty-four years of age,
generally acknowledged as one of their peers by the
leading men of science, not only in England but also on
the Continent. We find him elected member of many
of the most important scientific and philosophical societies
                   countries; we        dheigmreehoonfouDre.dC.Lb.y;
of this and other  Oxford with    find
the University of                 the
and, as we shall shortly see, we find the Government

proposing to confer a pension on him in consideration of
the services which he has already rendered to science.
Truly a wonderful change to be wrought in the life of
a man who thirty years before was carrying round news

papers as a common errand boy. It however, always
to
                       he

                                             is,
                                                      to
gratifying note, and especially pleasing                  remember,

that however successful  might be, Faraday was never
90 MICHAEL FARADAY.

spoiled by the honours that were done him; he was
always the same kindly, helpful, simple man that he
had been. Those persons who had the great good
fortune to visit him at the Royal Institution, either at
the time of which we are treating or during his later life,

never failed to find a cordial welcome; "a friendly

chat in those quiet rooms was one of the greatest
pleasures it was possible to enjoy. The frugal simplicity
of the furniture was characteristic of Faraday."

   The Faradays lived quietly to themselves at the
Institution, though they often, after the Friday evening
lectures, went round to Berkley Street to tea to Mr.
Richard Barlow's house, that gentleman and his
wife always being at home to their friends after
the Friday evenings. On such occasions as these
gatherings, Faraday, we learn, used to be the centre of
much interest and delight; for he had, as may be
gathered from what has already been said of his cha
racter, that happy disposition which placed him at once in
sympathy with    any person with whom he  might be  speak
                  was this rare sympathy  his with
ing; especially                                     regard

to children, with whom he seemed at once able to place

himself on an equal footing; and this it was that made
his lectures to young people not only so interesting but
so widely popular as they were. This subject, however,
deserves fuller consideration, and will be found treated

in a later chapter.
   Had he chosen to do so at this period of his career,
Faraday might have heen in receipt of a pretty con

siderable income. In 1830, indeed, he had undertaken

several commercial analyses, and his income from this
source alone came to as much as a thousand pounds.

Such work interfered with his research, and was there
fore unhesitatingly given up, and two years afterwards
his professional gains amounted to but little more than
a hundred and fifty pounds for the year, and in after
years they did not reach even that sum.
   Early in 1835 Faraday received an intimation from
                         AS TEACHER AND PREACIIICR,                              91

Sir James South that had Sir Robert Peel remained in

office he had intended conferring a pension upon him.
Faraday wrote in reply, saying that he could not accept
a pension. The matter after this remained in abeyance
for a while. During the summer Faraday spent a short
holiday in Switzerland, whence he wrote to his old
friend Magrath: "The weather has been most delight
ful, and everything in our favour, so that the scenery

I Ihas been in the most beautiful condition. Mont Blanc,

above all, is wonderful, and could not but feel at it
what have often felt before, that painting is very far
beneath poetry in cases of high expression; of which
this is one. No artist should try to paint Mont Blanc;
it is utterly out of his reach. He cannot convey an
In                                             commonplace model
                         a
         of it,                                   or
                                                            a
                he                                                           to
idea of and formal mass
conveys more intelligence, even with respect the sub
limity the mountain, than his highest efforts can do.
          fact,                it he be

                                        to
                                              to

                                                                     in

                                                                                             to
                         must        able      dip his brush light and
                               can paint Mont Blanc. Yet the
darkness before
moment one sees Lord Byron's expressions come
mind,                    they seem         apply. The poetry and the
In

        as
subject dignify each other."
                                     the same year, shortly after his
          the autumn           of
return from the Continent, the subject         in
                                                   at a    pension for
                                                          he to

                                                            of

                                                                     a

                                                                     of
                                                                        in

                                                                                      as
                                                                                     a
I'araday was re-opened. The independence and open
ness of his character came out                 remarkable manner

of he in  this matter. He was asked                    wait upon Lord
Melbourne, the Prime Minister,                 the Treasury, which

          did October 26th. However may have spokenof
          Faraday personally, Lord Melbourne spoke literary
and scientific men with but scant courtesy, and effectno a to on
                         consider the awarding them pensions
seemed
piece State humbug. We have seen how Faraday
resented slur cast upon science                in      court law, and
                                                           in he of
                                                   a

he        was less indignant               on  this occasion; returned

home and wrote                 or a  letter, the tone  of  which though

dignified was very decided. This letter,                           which         he

declined accept even further consider the accepttoto
92 MICIIAEL FARADAY.

ance of a pension from the Government, Faraday
intended to forward at once to Lord Melbourne. He

finally, however, allowed somewhat wiser counsels to
prevail; his father-in-law, while justly proud of Michael's
scientific attainments, was also a shrewd business-like

man, and persuaded him to write a letter, which,
although it was not one whit less dignified in                                       its
                                                                                           tone
                              of its
was less decided            in        refusal the proposed pension.a to of

    After many fruitless efforts make Faraday change
F.P.his decision,     lady, who was                                                  of
                   a                                              friend both          of  the

                   and the Prime                                  Minister, asked the

  ormer what       he       would require                at       the hand               Lord

"IMelbourne make him change his mindto                                       he on   the sub

ject.        should require," replied, "from his lordor he

ship what have                  no    right reason expect that        to                     A of he
         I                                                                                per

would grant--a written apology for the words                                         he

mitted himself use me." To Melbourne's credit,as to
  beI        as                                he it,he
    it
                 in he as to
       said, that soon                                 knew this apologisedof

amply for,                  expressed the "too blunt and incon

siderate manner which had expressed himself."

    On December 24th                  be a of  the same year the pension
three hundred pounds year was awarded
Faraday for his services                                                   of        Michael
                                                                             onof
                                               to        the cause           science.
                                                                                 to
pension, may here                            mentioned, half                       which was
         it        the Professor's widow, and                                      her death
continued
             to

to  his niece, Miss Jane Barnard. He was not yet

forty-five, we must recollect, when                                   he   was thought
                                                                         in  as
have fairly earned this reward. Early 1836 further                               a
                                      by
honour was done him his being appointed scientific                                  at
         a to                                                                               to

                it

                         to
adviser the Trinity House; accepting the position
he  wrote characteristic letter,                         to in    which the following
                                                            of

                                                                   to
is    "Iportion; was addressed Captain Pelly, Deputy

   a

Master:            consider your letter                                me            great

compliment, and should view the appointment                                                the
Trinity House, which you propose,                                      the same light;
                                                                  in

but may not accept even honours without due con
             if In

                                                       is
                                                            of
                                                                of
sideration.           the first place my time                                great value
    me, and        the appointment you speak
to                                                                                   involved
                      AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.                                           93

Ianything like periodical routine attendances do not
Ithink could accept              it.    But              meant that con
Sultation,                                  if           proposed plans andis doat in
              in                               of it
                 in in  the examination
experiments,                  trials, etc., made         to as  my convenience
                        in

would allow, and with         of . I        honest sense            of     duty          to
                                       .                                a

in of be  performed, then              all. anthink  would consist with my
                                                   consequence the good
present engagements.                      In it                     of

will and confidence                         around me, can                             any
                                                              beofI I I I
moment convert my time into money, but                                                   not
require more            of
                                                     is
                              the latter than sufficient for neces

sary purposes. The sum, therefore,                                £200               quite

enough                itself, but not                               the indicator
                        it

                            so,of

                                    if

                                          it

                                                  is
          the character          the appointment. But think
you not viewdo                   and that you and understand

each other that respect; and your letter confirms me
          that opinion. The position which presume you
                                                   be to                standing

                                                    I

                                                              of

                                                                   a
would wish me hold analogous that
                        to       is                      what you pleased
                          to
                                   is it

                                            of
counsel. As the title might
almost. Chemical adviser too narrow; for you would
find me venturing into parts the philosophy light                          of

not chemical. Scientific adviser (the title afterwards
decided upon) you may think too broad--or
presumptuous--and                                  be a if                   me too

              all                so     would be,      of by        was under
                                                           no it
                                   it
                                                                 as in

                                                                         to a to
stood              science    .  .          The thought occurs                           me

                                   .

                                         .

whether, after all, you want such person                                   myself.

This you must judge                         but always entertain fear
                   an
                               in

                                      ;of

                              I

                                  I
of of     taking office which may                                   use those
who engage me."
                                                                                         -

     This letterto               have said, characteristic                     of to of  the
writer;       do it
                  all ischaracteristic           his sensitiveness                     any
honour done                 him, and             his unworldliness,                     his
                         to is,                    of as
                                                       do to to he
                    in asI

                                         to to he

                                          of of
conscientiousness making sure that will                                 of be  able      to
perform anything that may undertake, and
                                                                                 half
diffidence with regard                                                       he a
                                        himself                   whether was
able that was anticipated him. For nearly
thirty years, with credit himself and the Brethren                                       as

    the Trinity House, did Michael Faraday continue
their scientific adviser. Frequently
                                                                  we find him
94 MICHAEL FARADAY.

experimenting on lights and lighting--visiting the
various lighthouses round the coast, trying the electric
light for them, comparing the various lights, and report
ing to the Brethren--such work as this                    is,
       to       frequently noted                               a as  has been
            be                              looking over record
said,                                to in                           of on
            It of                                                          as of
the mass            work which during these years Faraday
                       is
was doing.                 pleasing         notice here that                                 her

husband's death. Mrs. Faraday presented such                                                 his
portfolios, well-ordered and indexed manuscripts,
             to ofthis part his work the Trinity House.
referred                   of
of So                                         to to
       carefully were these notes made and kept that                                         it

                                                                                                 is

possible now refer quite easily any particular piece
             on
                   to
       work       which Faraday was engaged during these
thirty years.

In     this same year (1836) there appeared the Life                                         to of

SInir   Humphry     Davy, by his brother, Dr. John Davy.
       this work
                    statements were made with relation

Faraday and his patron which were not true; and
painful indeed though must have been the former,
he                                                                                           long
          to

                             to

                           in
                           R. it

                                                                  he
                                                                of to

                                                                 in

                                                                                          a
       felt compelled deny them. This did
letter his friend,            Phillips, editor            the Philo
"Isophical Magazine,       which periodical the letter was
published.             regret," Faraday wrote, "that Dr. Davy

has made that necessary which did not think before
so; but feel that cannot, after his observation,of to
indulge my earnest desireto to II to                      on
          In              an           be I  silent       the matter,
              in        I                                   it I
without incurring the risk being charged with some
thing opposed              honest character. This dare not
risk; but answering for myself trust that will
                                            I                                                be

understood that have been driven unwillingly into
utterance."

The subject must indeed have been painful one;                                               to of to
             assert his own right    all
have                                      of to         the discoverer
                                                he be

                                                       a
certain chemical results which were being credited
Davy.                                                                to he
                one two cases, when found that hadin or
been preceded              the discovery     anything     he
                                                                     was the
             acknowledge that
first                                       honour was due                                   his

predecessor, and that strict regard for true honesty                                         in
           AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.                                         95

to of all                to I
                                to
                                     a
                                                to
                                                   on

                                                 of
                                                             in

                                                                       to

                                                itI I to be
           things very properly would not allow him
silent now. He concludes his letter Phillips these
words, "Believing that                have now said enough
preserve my own `honest fame' from any injury
might have risked from the mistakes                           Dr. Davy,
willingly bring this letter
                                             close, and trust that
                                             you          the subject."
shaItll    never again have address          that      another incident
           was at about this time

occurred which illustrates Faraday's absolute integrity
         character--integrity that would not wink anything    at

that was   in   the slightest degree not straightforward,
              it
even though was against his own interest, which,
indeed, rather shunned doing good deed that might
           of at         as
                     by      a

                                     a
seem dictated            mere self-interest. His brother was
working                               gas-fitter, and there was
           the time                                                             of in a in a
possibility his getting the Athenæum Club work
connection with his trade. Michael, writing                          is on
                                                                            the
subject, said, "Few things would please me more than
         help my brother his business, than know that
           to of                             orI              to to
                 do
                                                a                it
                      as

                     I in

                                         as

                                       of a
he had got the Athenæum work; but am exceedingly
jealous myself, lest should endeavour
                                                                  have that
done for him my brother which the Committee might
not like        for him                    tradesman, and                   this

which makes me very shy                      saying word about the
matter."

During these years Faraday was getting through
vast quantity     work, his experimental researches
electricity were takingof             great part       to of  his time, but
                   he

                              up
                                  aa
other matters were not neglected. He was frequently
lecturing before the Royal Institution                           the Royal
Society; while           wrote large number                 or
                                                               of  scientific

papers for the various philosophical periodicals                   to  which

he         contributed. Besides presenting series after series

his brilliant Earperimental Researches the Royal Society,
he had also attend his lectures              to             Woolwich, and
               to                              at
                             he to

                              it

                                      is
his work for the Trinity House. He must indeed, hard
working man that         was, have found his long day
very fully occupied; and                     scarcely         be
                                                                  wondered
      96 MICHAEL FARADAY.

at that in 1839 the strain began to tell upon him, and a
period of rest became necessary. As years went on,
such periods of rest were more frequent and yet more
vitally important.

  In 1837 the British Association held its Annual
                                                                he
      Meeting at Liverpool, and Faraday attended and wasa asIheas it,I "a
      made, put most responsible person," President                 it,
to ofI
          the Chemical section. From Liverpool wrote home
          his wife, "To-day think we made our section rather
      more interesting than was expected, and to-morrow
      expect will good also.               to In                          to at II
                     it be                         the afternoon Daniell and
                                                a
      took quiet walk; the evening                   of as he   dined with me
                                  I                  grand conversazione
                                       in
here. We have been since
the Town Hall, and have now returned my room
      talk with you                 the pleasantest and happiest thingtoI
      can do. Nothing rests me much communion with
you.                                       asI I   write; and catch myself
                feel even now                as
      saying the words aloud                     so                      you were
                                                   write them,  as

                                                                  by if
      within hearing. Tear girl, think me till Saturday
      evening.       find can get home very well that time;
      So

           I
                I
        you may expect me.

        "Ever, my dear Sarah, your affectionate husband,

                                                    "M. FARADAY."

        This reference              getting home     as onSaturday evening
of is
                                                       an all
                 on                                             of to
                    to
                               to                                      to
                                                                                as

                                                                           it
        especially interesting, for Faraday always took his
      wife home her father's house every Saturday evening,
      that she might see her family; they
                     the Sunday. This was                       went     church
      together                                                  unvarying rule

        Faraday's for very many years, long, indeed,
      was, possible.

        Faraday's mother, after having lived                             see "her
      Michael" come         to       one the great men                   his time,
                                 be        of
      died Islington
      1                     byin    March, 1838. The loss must have
      been keenly felt              Faraday, for between mother and
            at
      son the tenderest affection had always subsisted. She

            Founded  in  1831, for the purpose       of  stimulating scientific
      inquiry.
                 AS TEACHER AND PREACHEIR.                                       97

was justly proud of the position which her boy had won
for himself; and he ever retained that beautiful chival
rous kindness and deference to his mother that had

                      to
                              all

                                                of
                                                                               in
characterised him                along. The passages from his
                        his mother which have been given
earlier letters

previous pages are evidence                       this,  and  thheisdekaitnhdolyf
consideration was ever the same.                  Much    as

his mother, and, few years later, his brother Robert,
        in
                         a

                               to a
                                        a

                                         in
                                             of

                                                     of
                                                        in
                                                                              of

                                                                                    a
affected him, Faraday had his beautiful clear-sighted
faith his religion source inextinguishable solace,
and looking forward
                                 reunion hereafter could see
"beautiful and consoling influence
these troubles."                                        the midst all

Severe and long-continued mental work,                        asI  have
said, began tell upon Faraday                                       was
              by                               anin  1839, and     he
                  to                                                      of
              his doctor                             absolute rest. He
ordered                 of            take
                                  to
suffered from loss memory and similar symptoms
an overworked brain. His wife, her niece tells us,
                                                  as
used carry him offto    a to     Brighton,          or  somewhere down
into the country for
                                 few days when           he   became dull

and low-spirited, and the rest soon restored him.
During such sojourn Brighton, towards the close
              a                  at                                              of

1839, Professor Brande wrote            to        him, saying that the
                                              to
doctor said Faraday was                     remain thoroughly idle
for time; and           do       (Brande) kindly offered
    In a                   heanything          he             to                 the
                                                                    at
same time     of                                     could         relieve
                    to
Faraday          any routine work. He had indeed read

              Faraday's electricity lectures                  the Institu
some      of                                             in at

                        as                                     to
tion, although,              he  terms  of it     his letter Faraday,

"he began fear the fateto                    inPhaeton        the chariot

of      Phoebus." As yet, however, Faraday would not

take very long-continued rest, and                       he   was before
        he a
long back Albemarle Street working, although less
              in

than          had been doing.
          the year 1840 Faraday's health made necessary
                                        he
                                                    he be

                                                            it

                                                                             to
that his scientific labours should                      reduced, and just
about this time, although                was still adding
              Erperimental Researches,                                           his
                                                        was husbanding
series    of

                                      H
98 MICHAEL FARADAY.

in his  strength  as           possible. This year, too, deserves

                      forfar                    he
                                                   at
                        it as                        to he
especial      note,          wCahsunrocwh;  that                                elder
     the    Sandémanian                                                   onan  some
                                                            became
                                                      had before

occasions exhorted those present                      week-day meetings,

but now devolved upon him deliver regular
        it                          we

sermons. Faraday,              as           have already seen,                      on

more than one occasion, was not man undertake
                                            in
anything without doing                                                abilities;
                                                 a                    everyday
                                                      we

                                                         of
                                                             ofhisto

                                                                 it

                                                                            to
                                it so       the best
                                     to
and this was his character                            matters
        if

concern, how much more                 should         expect                        be,

        INTERIOR of THE old SANDEMANIAN MEETING-HotSE,

                                       PAUL's ALLEY.

and not without reason, his character                 it                vital       of it a
                                                          for in
question that concerning his religion. Or perhaps
            be as                                                   so
would                of                     say concerning the more

                           of
                                 all

                                           to
                                                  he
                  more correct
                               his religious faith,            the spirit
obvious exercise
a his   religion coloured          that did; was indeed the
moving force      his soul, and was not confined                                to  any

narrow circle.

     The flow and energy which characterised Faraday                                as
                                                               by
     lecturer were replaced        in  his sermons                    simplicity
                                                                   a
2 Peter iii. 1, 2, 14.     A prophetic warning to Christians.

F First, the power and grace and promises of the gospel.
i. 3, by His power are given great and precious promises,
4,  divine  nature   and brethren exhorted             to give diligence,
5,  whilst
            in this  life up to v. 8.                                                             -

efasclTla,hp8ee,nrs9c,forimof meththethyaefowcroagrrernuti--npgtaiosonfh,etih.es4t.isrtsatteheinmto   which   they may
                                                                                                     up, 12,
                                                                                                              13, 15, as

iii. 14. Wherefore, beloved, seeing ye Look                                                          for such things,
tiihie.,ir1,hbopyewaanydoefxrpeemcetmatbiorann--ceit--ihsatsotesntiinrgup
v. 12, awful as that day will be, 12, 7,                                                             their pure mind,
                                                                                                     the day of the,
                                                                                                     because of the
deliverance from the plague of our own heart.
    2 Cor. iv. 18, 17, 16, look not at things seen--temporal.

Titus 13, looking for the hope and glorious appearing.
      x. ii.

                      a
Heb.        37, yet little while, and He that shall come will

                          COIne.

   The world make His forbearance                plea                                                forget Him
deny Him.
    4,                                                                                                                                                        to or
        5,
                                          in

                                                          a
                                                                to
r1iHie4iis.,searmvnede,rcspyaelavrcnaedtiiovlanionnn,gdg1-5Hps,ruimeafsfneednrrvionelteg,arhanenndHctihelsoaowtkoHrkfeosr. kHnoiHswiseprtpohemoh-psoleew,  see
                                                                                                                                                           12,

      ii

            3,
               to 9,
                      be
they are not              slothful, Prov. xxiv. 30.

              nor sleeping­Matt xxv.                   Sleeping virgins
                                      v. 4.
              nor doubting iii.           7,
                                              8,
                                                    be 1.                                            up

                                                       3,
                                                         5,
              nor repining Heb. xii. 12,                                                             lift hands.
-men
                                  Jas. patient--husband
    waiteth, but waiting, Luke xii. 36, 37, 39. 10.
    of
        v.                refers days long-suffering.
Peter 41. 58,                         of
          of
                   58

                       is
                           at in

                               ye to
Wherefore, beloved,seeing             know these things, beware, etc.,
danger falling away                 many parts,
great pride the formal adherers,      2, ii.                                                         20, 21, 22,
                                           i.

                                                  9,

                                                    ii.
                                          19, 13.

But the assurance          iii. 18­i. 8.

COPY OF ONE OF THE CARDS FIROM WIHICH FARADAY I'I:EACIII.D.
100 MICHAEL FATADAY.

and earnestness that together are best described as true
devoutness. His sermons were always extemporary,
although the outlines of them were carefully prepared
sbiedfeoreohf aitndt,heahsemadasll          having
                                     card   elder's   noted down    on either
                                    of the           discourse and  reference

to such passages in the Bible as he wanted to quote.
One of these cards is given that it may show with what
slight notes the earnest and reverent preacher provided

himself. A friend, describing him officiating at the

chapel, which was situated in Paul's Alley, Redcross
Street, City, but which has long since been pulled down,
and the Church transferred to Barnsbury Grove, N.,

said, "He read a long portion of one of the Gospels

I Islowly, reverently, and with such an intelligent and

sympathising appreciation of the meaning, that thought
   had never before heard so excellent a reader."
   Another of his listeners said, "His object seemed to

be to make the most use of the words of Scripture, and
to make as little of his own words as he could. Hence

a stranger was struck first by the number and rapidity
of his references to texts in the Old and New Testa

ments, and secondly, by the devoutness of his manner."
Yet another friend, who had been privileged to hear
Faraday preach before his small flock, said of his

sermons, "They struck me as resembling a mosaic work
of texts. At first you could hardly understand their
juxtaposition and relationship; but as the well-chosen
pieces were filled in by degrees their congruity and
fitness became developed, and at last an amazing sense
of the power and beauty of the whole filled one's
thoughts at the close of the discourse."
This, his first period of eldership in the Church, con
tinued from 1840 until 1844, when a slight misunder
standing having arisen between himself and the
brethren, he for a time relinquished the office; oc
cupying it again, however, later on in life. . His earnest
religious feeling was an abiding source of consolation
           his trials; affected
to him in  all                                                   slight degree

                            it
                                               in

                                                             no
                   AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.                                       101

his life and life-work at points, although, his credithe              to

be        said, that was rather the spiritit. to                of  his religious
             to                          it, a all                            as by
   it              be                         a he
                       to
                                                                          not any
                        it
feeling which was thus manifested, and                          it

                                                                    is

                   understood that was even the slightest
means                                                 he in in
degree given cant, such thing being far from possible
with him. His religion was something too sacred and
too immediately between himself and his God,                                           in he

said, for him refer    of to              except when circumstances
especially called for                     Then,               the earnest sym

pathetic words comfort, which addressed
                                                                as                those

persons with whom                         was intimate when they wereof
                                                                        of

                                                                              to
trouble, we may trace the true deep current religion,
which was essentially part his nature.
              interestinga so  to             to of                       our philo
he to It                               a

                                         In
          is                              connect the name

sopher with great institution such                              the establish
          of   the penny post.                     1840 Sir Rowland Hill
ment
                 his autobiography that was sorely puzzledhe
tells     us

             anin
        finil ink that,                   "Inhaving obliterated the postage
"Istamps, should not               so be                        my anxiety,"
                                          removable.

        says,                             as
                       went               far trouble the greatest
               of                         Kindly giving me the needful
chemist            the age.
attention, though                    anI
health, the result            of in        extremely depressed state                   to of
                                   excessive labour, fact, course,
                                                          Ia

                                                                   be

                                                                     of
unknown            to  me when            made the application, Mr.

Faraday approved              an     the course which submitted
                                of
him: viz., that                   aqueous ink should                      used both

for the stamp and for obliteration."                      ..
Referring                this same year we find              ..           interesting
          in
                     to                                       a In It an
entry Crabb Robinson's Diary. "May 8th.--At
tended Carlyle's second lecture.                                        gave great
                                                      ..
satisfaction, for        it    had uncommon thoughts and was
                             by
delivered with unusual animation.                                       the evening
                                     Faraday. What
heard          lecture                                                  contrast       to
          !a
Carlyle                perfect experimentalist, with                      an  intellect
              A

so  clear Within his sphere,                  on un   uomo compito. How
             !
                .

                         as                               be                  on
                            as                                l'" as
                                 a be
great would that man who could                                      wise Mind
        its
and relations Faraday                     is          Matter

Faradays life                             scientific experimentalist and
102 MICHAEL FARADAY.

discoverer is divided into two periods by an interval of
four years, during which he did but little, or, compared
with his previous performances but little, work. Such
a time of rest was indeed rendered absolutely necessary
by loss of memory and giddiness, which had troubled
him occasionally before, and which now put a stop to
his experiments. This period of partial rest commenced
with a three months' trip in Switzerland, where he was
accompanied by his wife and her brother. Dr. Bence

Jones says, "In different ways he showed much of his

character during this period of rest. The journal he

kept of his Swiss tour is an image of himself. It was

written with excessive neatness, and it had the different

mountain flowers which he gathered in his walks fixed
in it as few but Faraday himself could have fixed them.
His letters are free from the slightest sign of mental
disease. His only illness was overwork, and his only
remedy was rest."
A few passages from this Swiss journal are                 all
                                                                                  that
can given. The first stay any length was made
at be                                 a                                             at
    of all                              of
Thun, whence many walking excursions were undertaken,
        insometimes indeed Faraday walking  of                   forty
                                                as   much  a as
five miles the one day, sufficient proof that      us          he
                                                                                    was
not bodily ill. The journal gives many word
picture the scenery and                       the people, with now and
then quaint observations and humorous reflections; let
the"Jfoullloywi1n8gthp.a-s-sTaogoeks
                                      speak for themselves:--
                                          long walk the valley
                                      a                                           called
                                         at

                                            ; It all

                                                    is
                                                              to

                                                   in asI

                                                                     in
                                                                                of
the Simmenthal, which goes off from the valley the
              The frogs were very beautiful, lively, vocal,
lake.  .
          .

           .

and intelligent, and not                      fearful. The butterflies,
too, became familiar friends with me,
trees on the river's bank.                             sat under the
                                                wonderful how much

intelligence all these animals show when they are
treated kindly and quietly when,                       fact, they are
                having their right and part
treated  of as                                             creation,

inst"eMaodndayb,ei1ng9tfhri.g-hVteenryed,fineopdpareys; sewda, lkanwditdhedsteraoryeSda.rah
                 AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.                              103

on the lake side to Oberhofen, through the beautiful
vineyards; very busy were the women and men in trim
ming the vines, stripping              off
                                             onleaves and tendrils from

                                                         or
                                                                  on

                                                                    a
fruit-bearing branches. The churchyard was beautiful,
and the simplicity the little remembrance posts set
   to
               up
                    an

                         of
upon the graves very pleasant. One who had been too
poor put              engraved brass plate, even painted

board, had written with ink                      paper the birth and
death the being whose remains were below, and this
        byat of                                                 btehinegtoppro
had been fasteneda             to      board and mounted                      of of
   stick the head                of a  the grave, the paper
a

tected           little edge and roof. Such was the simple
remembrance; but nature had added her pathos, for
                                 by    the writing         caterpillar had
under the shelter                                its
fastened itself and passed into                       a

                                                              its
                                                         death-like state
chrysalis; and having ultimately assumed final state
is it

                       of its
   had winged                  way from the spot, and had left the
corpse-like relics behind. How old and how beautiful
   this figure the resurrection surely can never
                                                 1

                                                            it

appear before our eyes without touching the thoughts.
   "Tuesday, 27th.-More pleasant rambles: fine. Now
we shall think                 move, and really the changing cha
   in
        !
        of
                     of
             I !I a
                                    of
                                               to to
                                                    be be
                                                  in
racter the table d'hôte and other things make me
love with the thoughts home. Dear England, dear                    or
                                     long                             is
                                 expect
                                                                            in
ahollm; eanddewahrerferiecnadns                                and among them
                                                         more happy, better
off anything? Dear home, dear friends, what all
this moving, and bustle, and whirl, and change worth
compared         you
          to
                    ?

   "August 2nd--Interlaken                 .  .  .         The Jungfrau has
                                                   .

been occasionally remarkably fine:                         in  the morning

particularly, covered with tiers                 of      clouds, whilst the

snow between them was beautifully distinct; and the
                                                               of
                                                                      in

                                                                               on
evening showing beautiful series tints from the base
to
                               a

                                             to

                                                  of
   the summit, according                   the proportion light
the different parts. At one time the summit was beau
tifully bathed                 golden light, whilst the middle part
                 in
                                         of
                                               its
was quite blue, and the snow                             peculiar blue-green
104 MICHAEL FARADAY.

colour in the clefts . . . . Clout-nail making goes on
Ihere rather considerably, and is a very neat and pretty
operation to observe.                    love a smith's shop, and any
thing relating to a smithy. My father was a smith."
     How beautiful is the following description of the
waterfall at Brienz Lake: "The sun shone brightly, and
the rainbows seen from various points were very beau
tiful. One at the bottom of a fine but furious fall was

very pleasant. There it remained motionless, whilst the
gusts and clouds of spray swept furiously across place,                 of
and were dashed against the rock.                                          its
                                                              It  looked like      to a

sswpiereitpsintrgonagcrossfaiitth;       in            the storm passions
       it                           and  steadfast   might fade and revive,
                                    and     asthough
                   on in
                          to                  in it hope, and giving hope,
still held                    the rock
                                                   in
and the very drops which the whirlwind their fury                     of

            they would carry all away were made
seemed  it

            as

             if

                    on

                       it
revive and give greater beauty."

  At length, September 29th, the small party reach
London again, and Faraday's journal ends thus:­
"Crossing the new London Bridge street we saw
M.'s pleasant face, and shook hands; and though we
separated   moment two, still we feel and know we
           in

              a
                           to to or
are where we ought be--at home."
     Faraday's allusion his father the extract above
     very pleasing and interesting. We are told thathe at in                       an he
he is       pay visits                                                his boyhood
used like                                                         of
       to                           he           the scenes
          to                               to
             a

                to
                    be to
                         of
and youth, and that                      "once went the shop whereto

his father had formerly been employed                             as    blacksmith,
                                                                     a

and asked   allowed look over the place. Whento

       got part the premises which there was
"Iopening into the lower workshop,                            stopped and said,
       very nearly lost my life there once.                           was playing
                                                              I

                                                                    at
                                                                       aa
     the upper room pitching halfpence into pint pot
in

     byI
                             at
                                             to
close      this hole, and having succeeded                                 certain
distance, stepped back try my fortune further off,
forgetting the aperture, and down fell; and
                                                    I                           had

                                                              on
                                                                 it,

                                                                   an if

                                                                         it
not been that my father was working over                                        anvil
fixed just below, should have fallen                                    broken my
            I
             AS TEACHER AND PREACHER.            105

back, and probably killed myself. As it was, my father's
back just saved mine."

   On his return from his Swiss trip, Faraday took up a
great part of his work again, and was fully occupied with
a few electrical experiments, lectures, and Trinity House

work. What has been termed his second great period of
research did not commence until 1845. He lectured

frequently at the Institution--so frequently indeed that
we cannot refer to them here, but must leave them to

the chapter on his lectures. Indeed, merely to detail
the work which Faraday did would take up considerably

more than the whole space of this little book.
In 1844 Faraday became one of the special commis
sioners appointed to investigate the Haswell colliery
explosion. In 1846 his brother Robert met with a
fatal accident, and Faraday writes to his wife, who was
staying at Tunbridge Wells:­"Dear Heart, . . . .
Come home, dear. Come and join in the sympathy an

comfort needed by many. . . . My sister and her
Ichildren have not forgotten the hope in which they were
                 I

                          in
                                                  in

                                                           in
                                                                    of
                                                                                its
joined together with my dear Robert, and         see

beautiful and consoling influence   the midst            all
                   and you, though joined
these troubles.                                  the same
trouble, have part
dearest.                    the same hope. Come home,

                 "Your affectionate husband,

                                    "M. FARADAY."

In 1849 he delivered his famous lectures on "The
                            Candle;" and the following
Chemical History   of               on
      he              of a              in
year gave series six lecturesa                           in a of
                                              a
             is a                   "Some Points
Domestic Chemical Philosophy--a Fire, Candle,
Lamp, Chimney, Kettle, Ashes." His work during
these years         a       his many published letters,

                        in
                   shown
                                    he
his correspondence which for years  maintained with
                                        in
many  of   the leading scientists, not only England but

abroad--with De Rive, Liebig, Humboldt, etc. His
                   la

                             be
work, however, cannot particularised, neither can the
106 MICHAEL FARADAY.

many honours that year after year were awarded to him.

We find that he was a man nearly sixty years of age, in

the front rank of the great chemists of his country,
and acknowledged as such on every hand, and yet we
find that he was still the same energetic and enthusiastic
scientist, the same kindly and unselfish friend, the same
honest and disinterested man that we have seen him

all through. Such, indeed, he continued until the very
last, his character but "deepening"--as he said of his love
for his wife--as the years passed by. His chivalrous
deference to women of all ages and ranks was also a
remarkable feature of his character, no less at this later
part of his life, than when he was a younger man; his
I

                                                            of
                                                                             to,

                                                                    it
chivalry has, indeed, been often referred but was,
learn from Miss Barnard, one  his most readily
observed good qualities.
         CHAPTER VII.

OWERWORK­THE END.

         ----3%----

"Have you found your life distasteful?
     My life did, and does, smack sweet.

 IWas your youth of pleasure wasteful?
     Mine saved, and hold complete.

Do your  joys  with          age  I'dllimcionmishpla2in.
   When  mine  fail         me
Must in death your daylight finish?
My sun sets to rise again."
                                        ROBERT BROWNING.
         ----3%----

Tº: year of the Great Exhibition was a busy one for
      Faraday; he was working in his old accustomed,
unremitting manner at his magnetic, and electric, and
general experiments, he was continuing to write those
Eagerimental Researches which he sent in to the Royal
                                                          upparht isofphrios
Society, and upon which     rests   so  large a
reputation as a scientist.         had   given
                             He
fessorship at Woolwich Academy the previous year.
He was lecturing, however, a good deal, and not alone
on his own account, for during the summer he delivered

a lecture on ozone for his good friend Professor
Schönbein. His health, however, was far from being
as good as it had been, and he had to take frequent
       108 MICHAEL FARADAY.

       rests; so that, although he was working as earnestly
       and enthusiastically as ever, it was, so to speak, only
       intermittently. That the loss of memory from which
       he had before suffered was still afflicting him at times,
       is made evident by such passages from his letters as the

       "Ifollowing pathetic one from a letter to Schönbein:
       Ihave no doubt answer your letters very badly; but,
       Imy dear friend, do you remember that forget, and that
       I can no more help it than a sieve can help the water
       is,

                I
                              it.

                                     I
                                                                            to

                                                   to Iallbe

                                                                                                   to
       running out of            Still you know me                            your old
       and obliged and affectionate friend, and                               can say
         the longer know you the more seem cling
       you. Ever, my dear Schönbein, yours affectionately."
                                                                the following remini
       he A  pathetic interest attaches                  he to
                      Faraday           his niece (Miss Jane Barnard);by
       scence  of                                 to an

       she was reading                  him                           of
                                                                                as
                                                                                      he

                                                                                            of
       Marlborough's intimation  to to                   anecdote     the Duke
                                                         the king that
                                                                                     felt
       that the time when his faculties would fade had arrived

           did not wish again           to       attend any Council meeting,

       and that he should attend he desired that no heed
               be if
       should         given             anything                said. Faraday after

       listening attentively            if to    asked Miss Barnard           to     read

       that anecdote      to     him        it,    any time she felt that his
                                               at

       judgment longer controlled his wishes.no

         So numerous were the honours which were showered

       upon Michael Faraday during the last forty years                              as
       his life, that enumerate them would                         be
                      of                                               he astedious    it of
                         all to
       would profitless; sufficein be         it         say that             was elected

                                                   to

of of amember                    the chief scientific and philosophical
       bodies Europe. Indeed
                                                 it        said that Continental
                                                                      a
                                                     is         him as "Professor
       Professor addressed                               to
                                        a   letter

       Michael Faraday, Member            of       of           the learned Societies
                                                        all

         Europe."     a                 worthy     of    note, however, that         he

                        It                                      as    the University
                                                                  of
                              is
       was elected member                     the Senate
         London, and was asked act examiner for the
                                                   to

same body, but declined.                      rest which his failing health
       During the periods
                                        of
                                                          go
                                                                     to
                                                                                        or
made necessary, Faraday would                                   off Brighton
OVERWORK­THE END.                                        100

Hastings with his wife, where he would spend a few

days in quiet idleness. In February, 1851, he was at

Drighton, where Mr. Masquerier, the French refugee
who had in early life given him lessons in geometry,

was living. In Crabb Robinson's diary the following

entry, which is of much interest to us here, occurs

against February 18: "(At Masquerier's, Brighton.)

We had calls soon after breakfast. The one to be

mentioned was that of Faraday, one of the most remark
able men of the day, the very greatest of our discoverers

in chemistry, a perfect lecturer in the unaffected
simplicity and intelligent clearness in his statement; so
that the learned are instructed and the ignorant charmed.
IIis personal character is admirable. When he was
young, poor, and altogether unknown, Masquerier was
kind to him ; and now that he is a great man he does
not forget his old friend."
An interesting story is told by Dr. Scoffern of an
itnhcaitdeinllut sttrhaatteshaipnpeanerdemdaurkrainbgle  this year; an incident
                                                           manner the unaltered

good humour and geniality which belonged to Faraday
as much during his later as his earlier years. Professor
Brande was lecturing at the time on a newly-discovered
method of purifying sugar by sugar of lead; while they
were in the laboratory Scoffern accidentally let fall a

retort of corrosive liquid. In an instant, he tells us,

Professor Faraday "threw some soda upon the floor;
then down on his hands and knees he went, slop cloth

Iin hand, like any humble housemaid. Laughing,

expressed my desire to photograph him then and there;

he demurred to the pose, begged me to consult his
dignity, and began laughing with a childish joyousness.
Hilariously boyish upon occasion he could be, and
those who knew him best, knew he was never more at

home, that he never seemed so pleased as when making
an "old boy' of himself, as he was wont to say, lecturing
before a juvenile audience at Christmas."

   I'araday, as has been said earlier, attended some of
110 MICHAEL FARADAY.

the annual meetings of the British Association; in this
J. "Iyear of 1851 the meeting was held at Ipswich, and on that
occasion Dr. H. Gladstone says he first met Faraday
to have any intercourse with him.                                  watched him,"
           is                       on                         admiring disciple,
                       all
he writes, "with the interest             of

                                                an
and there deeply engraven my memory the vivacity
his conversation, the eagerness with which                                 of he
                                                                                       of
                                                                                entered

into some mathematico-chemical speculations                                 Dumas,

and the playfulness with which, when we were dining
together,  he           cut boomerangs out               card, and shot them
                                                     of

across the table at his friends."

Yet another story                   Faraday's remarkable dis
                        is
                                        us of
                                            he by
                                                                       an
interestedness          given                        Dr. Scoffern, who, writing

the year 1852, says that had made abstract
a of                                                                            on
             to of of                                                                 to he of
course lectures which Faraday had delivered                                     the
subject                the non-metallic elements; this abstract

wished               embody      book which              at
                        of                                  to he  was about
publish. The kindly old chemist
                              a                                    once gave his
                                  in                               any proposal
                                        a

                                             he
                                              on of
permission, and would not even listen
as       sharing the profits                         the work. Scoffern im
     to                                                                                by

                                                     be
                                                           be
mediately suggested that would misunderstood
the publisher, who would not
                                                                      comprehend
                                                         able      to
                                                                        by
such piece              generosity                   the great professor's part.
"Oh," said Faraday, "we'll soon settle that writing;"he a
and wrote out formal letter assignment.
                                                     of

Despite the fact that his time was always fully
occupied, Faraday found time write many letters, not
only the long friendly, yet scientific letters such menin to
                                                                   of to
De Rive and Schönbein, but letters advice andso
in as
sympathy la             his nephews and nieces, and other friends.
                                                     kindly spirit that
                 be to
His advice was always given                                        a                   as it

could not taken amiss, and his sympathy was tendered
that rare manner--sincere and unostentatious--which

characterises this feeling          a in             highest manifestation.
                                          its

                                                  to
The following passage, from letter his nephew, Frank
Barnard, who was just starting life,                               an
                                                               is          illustration

this: "And you are hard work, and somewhat
of                                  ;
                    by                     at

                             so                 no
embarrassed your position but man can just                                  do
                           OVERWORK­THE END.                                  111

he likes, and in many things he has to give way, and may
do so honourably, provided he preserves his self-respect.
Never, my dear Frank, lose that, whatever may be the
                                                     is if it,

                                                          I
                                                                            of
alternative. Let no one tempt you to for nothing
can expedient that not right; and though someto be
              is do

                   so

                   it

                        is
                              of
                                of no is

                                       in
your companions may tease you first, they will respect
you for your consistency the end; and they pretendof at
not consequence. However, trust
the hardest part               your probation    so
                                                                over, for the
earliest usually the hardest, and that you know how
       take all things quietly."
in toAlthough have made but little special reference
                of I                                            it
                   on                                                         in to
the work             which our great hero was engaged when
treating             different periods             his life;
                                                                becomes
necessary here refer the part which Faraday took
                           to  to

     exposing popular delusion which was widely believed
           the time, and which yet has many supporters--theto as a
       at              to

     delusion              table-turning. He wrote long account
     fully exposing the error which                  to
                                                       a

                                                                  to
                                                                       be

                                                                          to in
                                                     many people were
     willing believe; and although his exposure convinced
     most persons who troubled themselves
                                                                follow him    dis
     his investigations, the popular mind refused
     illusionised, and the turning the tables was referred
                                           a of
     electricity, magnetism, spirits, new natural force, and

     other agencies. This occasion perhaps drew more
     emphatic utterance from Faraday than any other;                          in he
     at                                                         enlight
     had patience with people who would notno                   it be
     "Iened, and his feeling shown
                                                                     a at so
     July, 1853, Professor Schönbein:
                to                                            letter written
                                                                 have not been
                   in inI
                                is
                                      by

                             I in
                                                             a

                                                     all
       work except             turning the tables upon the table
     turners, nor should have done that, but that
                                                                            many

     inquiries poured upon me, that thought better                            to

     stop the inpouring flood              letting              know once

     what my views and thoughts were. What weak,
     credulous, incredulous, unbelieving, superstitious, bold,
                               of a
     frightened,--what                                          far
     concerns the mind                           it

                                                             is.

                                               I of
                                                                          is,
                                                                                    as
                                                                                            as
                               ridiculous world ours
                               man. How full inconsistencies

     contradictions, and absurdities                            declare that,
112 MICIIAEL FARADAY.

taking the average of many minds that have recently
come before me (and apart from that spirit which God
Ihas placed in each), and accepting for a moment that

average as a standard, should far prefer the obedience,
affections, and instincts of a dog before                is        Do not
whisper this, however,                                     it.
                                     others. There            One above
                he in          to
                      so all        to
who worketh                   things, and who governs even             to of in
the midst that misrule which the tendencies andof
           of
powers men are easily perverted."

   In his Juvenile Lectures, delivered
                                               to        Christmas
                                                        a at

                                                               to
the same year,  again referred                   this popular error,
giving the same time some sound advice his young
        at
friends. "In conclusion, must address few words
                               I

the intending philosophers who form the juvenile part
    my audience. Study science with earnestness--search
all of                                           on           and reject
into nature--elicit the truth--reason
                                                     it,
                                                             by it
        which will not stand the closest investigation. Keep
your imagination within bounds, taking heed lest run
away with your judgment. Above all, let me warn you
young ones      the danger                     being led away
        of                               of                            the
               to                            of
                  of
                           at
superstitions which this day                     boasted progress are
   disgrace     the age, and which afford astonishing
a

proofs       the vast floods         of  ignorance overflowing and

desolating the highest places.                                     of
   "Educated man, misusing the glorious gift reason

which raises him above the brute, actually lowers him

self below the creatures endowed only with instinct;
inasmuch as he casts aside the natural sense which

might guide him, and his credulous folly pretends
discover and investigate phenomena which reason would
not for moment allow, and which, fact, are utterly
absurd.
as
   a

    a of aI
                            in
                               in
                                                  be
                                             at
                                                    in
                                                         in
                                                            in
                                                                      it
                                                                             of to
   "Let my young hearers mark and remember my
             desire that      they   should dwell their memory
words.                         this
                                     Institution against the pro
        protest uttered                                                may
gress error. Whatever                    the encouragement
receive elsewhere, may we,                     any rate       this place,

raise bulwark which shall protect the boundaries
                         OWERWORK­THE END.                               113

truth, and preserve them uninjured during the rapid
encroachments of gross ignorance under the mask of
scientific knowledge."
Faraday's high position in the world of science and
his well-known thoroughness in investigating any subject
in which he interested himself, made his utterances
on the subject of spirit-rapping and table-turning
convincing to a large number of people. He was, how
ever, for many years occasionally pestered with questions
       it,         persons who thought they could prove
about      so he by  was wrong; perhaps             as in                of
                      he                                   no               at
him that                                                                          no to
                             so                                     matter did
Faraday nearly lose his patience                             over this;
                                 nearly exhibit that volcano fiery
other time did
passion which, according Tyndall, underlay the sweet
ness and gentleness              of   disposition which were his
                                   to

ever-obvious qualities. He had, Tyndall well puts
"through high self-discipline converted the fire into
central glow and motive power life, instead permit
ting                                    `is of                   of
    l' he to it  waste itself    in  useless passion. "He that      hehe
           to                                to as
                                                                             a is a it,
slow anger,' saith the sage, greater than the mighty,
and that ruleth his own spirit than                 he
                                                             that taketh
city Faraday was not slow anger, but
pletely ruled his own spirit; and thus, though                           com
no                               all                                     took
               he
cities, captivated                    hearts."
Miss Barnard, from her long and intimate acquaint
ance with her uncle, quite endorses what Professor
Tyndall says. She says that most fiery passion was
kept under         by  the most perfect master, and duringin he of a      all

the years she knew him she could not recollect above
two occasions when Faraday, even for moment, let
                                                             a
his passion get the better him.                                      as
Lightly          by as           by of
                     he  looked upon honours such                        are the
ones usually appreciated               more worldly men, Faraday
was always well-pleased and more than gratified when
recognised             leading men                           or
                                                    science      literature.
Many were the distinctions which had been and were
still being heaped upon him,a
          as     as                               would especially value
such one was offered him                            1854, when one who

                                     I
114 MICHAEL FARADAY.

in a measure had been his pupil--Henry Mayhew--
dedicated to him a volume on the Wonders of Science,
Iillustrating the life and progress in scientific
                                                   knowledge
of young Humphry Davy. This dedication
                                                   runs, "My

dear sir, inscribe your name on one of the fly-leaves
of this little book, with the same devotion as youths

are wont to carve upon the trunk of some forest tree
Ithe name of those whom they admire most in the
world; and      do so for many reasons." And in
concluding the dedication he shows us once more the
helpfulness and goodness of Faraday's nature: "And
now, my dear sir, let me, in conclusion, thank you for

Iyour generous encouragement of my labours when
was engaged in inquiring into the condition of the
`London Poor." Many know your wisdom, but none
are better acquainted with your goodness than yours
very truly,                                     HENRY MAYHEw."

   Never, when a success beyond the wildest imaginings
of his youth had crowned his devotion to science, did
Faraday forget the time of his early struggles, and the

humble beginning which he had made. As we have

before mentioned, he would frequently stop in the street
to speak a kindly word of encouragement to young
newspaper lads who were just starting in life in the way

that he had done over half a century earlier. An inci
dent such as that depicted in the illustration was, indeed,
a not uncommon one, for, to refer again to the Professor's
own words, he could not but feel a tenderness for such

boys, because he had once carried newspapers himself.

  In Miss Reid's recollections of her illustrious uncle,
from which we have quoted in an earlier chapter, there
was something said about the reading which interested
the scientist in his hours of relaxation. This is always
an interesting matter in connection with our great men;
we are always glad to know what they read, and, if pos
sible, why they read  At party about this time,
         on
              on

                        in

                                     ,

                            a it.
                                    of

                                             a
Faraday joined        discussion which was being

carried      the subject novel reading, and some one
         OWERWORIX--THE END.        115

of those present took a few notes of such works as he
mentioned as being specially interesting or entertaining
to him.  | |||He liked novels, he said, with some stir and

         |º                   -
          --- |               III.
                 º
                              i.
                              ill

                             FARADAY AND THE NEWSBOY.

life in them, such as Paul Ferrol, Jane Eyre, too--
although of this he characteristically said, "there's a
touch of mesmerism and mystery at the end which
116 MICEIAEL FARADAY.

would be better away." Of Scott's novels he was
always a great admirer, liking particularly Ivanhoe, Guy

Mannering, and Waverley; he also spoke admiringly of
Fanny Burney's novel, Evelina, a book that is hardly
among the generally read novels of to-day. Writing in
1858 to Professor de la Rive on the death of Mrs.

I IMarcet," Faraday mentions his early reading as follows:

"Do not suppose that was a very deep thinker, or was

marked as a precocious person, could believe in the
IArabian Nights as easily as in the Encyclopædia. But
facts were important to me and saved me.                                      could trust
a fact, and always cross-examined an assertion. So

Iwhen questioned Mrs. Marcet's book by such little
Iexperiments as could find means to perform, and found
I Iit true to the facts as could understand them, felt
Ithat had got hold of an anchor in chemical knowledge,
and clung fast to              heof it.Thence my deep veneration for
Mrs. Marcet."
When, 1857, Mr. Cyrus Field was England pre
               in                                            in

paring for the laying the great telegraph cable acrossof
                       of its          inquired      Faraday                  as
the Atlantic Ocean,                              of                             at to  what

he he  thought               practicability; the philosopher doubted

the possibility                transmitting message. Field saw
       an                                        an a
                                                      be
that objection from great authority would proveso

well-nigh fatal, and that must                            removed                    once;
                                         it

       therefore offered       to        pay Faraday sufficiently for his

services   if         would undertake such experiments                                 of as

                  he

were necessary. Faraday declined the money, but
                                             P" be
"Itundertook the experiments, and                            their completion
                                                         on
reported        Field,                   can done, but you will not
       an
               to

                            it
get instantaneous message."

"How long will take                              anxiously inquired the
engineer.
"Oh, perhaps
"Well, that's            second."
                      quick enough
a                                            for me."
   *
                   of

                            a
                              is

                                            on

                                       an

                                                    on

                                                    in

                                                                           a

                                                             in
The year 1858                            interesting one the life

       Author   Conversations            Chemistry, work which had had
                                Faraday his early youth.
considerable influence
                      OVERWORK­THE END.                                             117

     Michael Faraday; for over forty years he had lived in
     the Royal Institution, and during that time had risen
     from being a journeyman bookbinder with a small circle
     of friends, to being the first of living philosophers, with
     a fame known all over the world, and with friends
     wherever his fame had penetrated. In this year, how

     ever, while still retaining his connection with the Royal
     Institution, he removed with his wife to a house at
     Hampton Court, which had been kindly placed at their
     disposal by Her Majesty the Queen, at the instigation of
     the Prince Consort. Faraday writes in April to Prince
Albert's secretary acknowledging the extreme kindness
of Her Majesty, but expressing himself as doubtful

whether to accept or to decline. The house it appeared

wanted some repairs which Faraday felt doubtful about;
he did not feel that he would be enabled to undertake

them, but his mind was soon set at rest on this score,
for in the summer of this year, writing to one of his
nieces, he says, "The case is settled. The Queen has
                                thoughtsall                        the repairs, the
     desired me to dismiss           C.       of                                    as
               to be                            is
                                                                                       In
house  is             put into thorough repair both inside and
          to to
     out. The letter from Sir Phipps most kind."
     "Iwriting Sir Phipps himself Faraday said,
                      is to C.                                                      find
     difficult write my thanks express my sense the
at it                                    or                                         of

     gratitude owe Her Majesty; first, for the extreme
       I

kindness which offered me the use the house
                                in to    in                              of

       Hampton Court, but far more for that condescension
     and consideration which, respect personal rest and
health, was the moving cause                                       I of
                                             to of                 the offer.       feared
     I                                                                         I

           so                                                                           to

                to
                              be

                 an I
that might not able properly accept Her Majesty's
most gracious favour.           would not bring myself de
                                offer, and yet was constrained
cline honourable                         its
carefully
                 consider whether             acceptance was con
sistent with my own particular and peculiar circum
stances. The enlargement                 Her Majesty's favour has
I
                 all
                      I
                                               of

                                                            on to
removed          difficulty. accept with deep gratitude, and
     hope that you will help me                                    express fitly Her
                                                                               to

Majesty my thanks and feelings                                     this occasion."
118 MICHAEL FARADAY,

   Faraday's house, standing pleasantly on Hampton

Court Green, was, as will be seen from the illustration,

a delightful creeper-embowered place, and with open
aspect and surrounding greenery, must have afforded
great and agreeable change the tired philosopher and
                             to
                                                            its

                                                                         a

         ºs--.ºv-ºn
           FARADAY's HOUSE, HAMPTON COURT GREEN.
       to             ..

           in            .
                                  to
                   º                              to
his wife. For some years after his removal Faraday
         frequent runs  up              wortkheanIdnstaitlsuotiodne,
made      he continued  his       town
where                        research

livered many lectures, notably, several courses       of  the

                                                             to
now annual Juvenile Lectures. He was, however, not
         continue for long spells          work, but had
able                    of
                                       of
take occasional intervals rest. He still made frequent
reports             connection with Trinity House, but re
            OWERWORK­THE END.                     119

fused to take up any further work. He declined even

alto prepare his Juvenile Lectures for publication,
though other reasons than his own incapacity for
                                  him, as we see by the
sustained   work here influenced
following
            letter:
            "Royal Institution, January 3, 1859,

"Dear Sir, Many thanks both to you and Mr.
Bentley. Ir. Murray made me an unlimited offer like
I Ithat of Mr. Bentley's many years ago, but for the

reasons am about to give you had to refuse his
kindness. He proposed to take them by shorthand,

Iand so save me trouble, but knew that would be a

Ithorough failure; even if cared to give time to the

revision of the MS., still the lectures without the ex
periments and the vivacity of speaking would fall far
behind those in the lecture room as to effect. And

Ithen do not desire to give time to them, for money is
Ino temptation to me. In fact, have always loved
Iscience more than money; and because my occupation

is almost entirely personal, cannot afford to get rich.

   "I"Again thanking you and Mr. Bentley,
                           remain, very truly yours,
                                  "M. FARADAY."
I have had to insist once or twice upon Faraday's
deeply religious nature; it comes out very clearly in
some letters written about this time, when he was an

old man--having very nearly attained to the three
score years and ten of man's life. In his work and in
his conversation he never obtruded his religious con
victions, but the innate religious feeling of the man
coloured his every relation with his fellow men. In
that we have but few direct writings of his on this sub
"I Iject, a grave interest attaches to the following letter to
his niece:  never heard of the saying that separa
tion is the brother of death; think that it does death
an injustice, at least in the mind of the Christian;
separation simply implies no re-union; death has to the
120 MICHAEL FARADAY.

IChristian everything hoped for contained in the idea of

re-union. cannot think that death has to the Christian
anything in it that should make it a rare, or other than

a constant thought; out of the view of death comes

the view of the life beyond the grave, as out of the
view of sin (that true and real view which the Holy
Spirit alone can give to a man) comes the glorious hope;

without the conviction of sin there is no ground of hope

to the Christian. As far as he is permitted for the
trial of his faith to forget the conviction of sin, he
forgets his hope, he forgets the need of Him who be
came sin or a sin-offering for His people, and overcame
death by dying. And though death be repugnant to
the flesh, yet where the Spirit is given, to die is gain.
What a wonderful transition it is for, as the apostle

§.says, even whilst having the firstfruits of the

the people of God groan within themselves, `waiting
for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of the body."
Elsewhere he says, that whilst in the earthly house of

this tabernacle we groan, earnestly desiring to be

"Itclothed upon with our house which is from heaven.

           is permitted to the Christian to think of death;
he is even represented as praying that God would teach
him to number his days. Words are given to him,
"O death, where is thy sting P O grave, where is thy
victory 2' and the answer is given him, `Thanks be
to God, who giveth us the victory through our Lord
Jesus Christ.' And though the thought of death brings
the thought of judgment, which is far above                            of all
                                                                               the
trouble that arises from the breaking mere earthly
ties, also brings the Christian the thought HimI in
    it                    to
                                                    is
who died, was judged, and who rose again for the       it of
justificationas       those who believe Him. Though the

    of         if of  be  great thought, the hope
fear death                a                                        of  eternal
                             .
life far greater.              .      You see chat now and then
    is                          so .
       a

with you              my thoughts were running openly before
us                                           My worldly faculties are
    on  the paper, and    by        it  is.

slipping away day day. Happy                                  for  all
                                                                        of
                                                                              us
LECTURES.  JUVENILE  CHRISTMAS  HIS DELIVERING  FARADAY
     122 MICHAEL FARADAY.

     that the true good lies not in them. As they ebb, may
they leave us as little children, trusting in the Father
     of mercies and accepting His unspeakable gift."
     In 1860 Faraday became once more an elder in the
Sandemanian Church, and retained that office for nearly
four years, when he finally resigned                   in
                                                            as it.  The meeting        at of
                                                                               Oxford,
                                                                  he
the British Association was held this year                             of at
and Faraday was once more present,                                           to
                                                                       liked be,
this scientific gathering.                    friend, apropos this visit,
                                  A

wrote the following jeu d'esprit, which worth remem
                                                              is

bering--

     "`That        will change                         British tongue      true
                 Professor Phillips),                                  are few.'
       (Quoth                                           the instances
An entry     in P my journal      to              the                  is
     this day    dined with                   though                        he
                                   IF
                                          in                           parody,
                                                                     and nobbed
                                          I
                                                                   to
on `I    Pharaday.'"           Ftihlleipn s,  ventured thus                          with
                                              where hobbed

     This same year also notable being the nineteenth,
                        is                             as

     and last,   in  which Faraday delivered the Christmasin

Juvenile Lectures; for ten years succession                                            had

given them, the four lectures                     of   this, his final course,

being those well known and generally appreciated ones
     upon "The Chemical History                                  Candle." An
                                                       of     a

     earlier course having been given some years before
          the same subject. His failing health and memory
     made necessary for him
         of it                                A todiscontinue much  P                  his
work, and       is inthe following year his last experimental
     work was done, and (on June 20), his last Friday                   of
                              to                       touching and pathetic  he
     evening lecture delivered.                                                    of
                                  the slight notes which
     interest attaches                                                               made
for this, his last lecture. The notes are brief--but yet
how much there not expressed them
                                                       of in
       "Personal explanation--years happiness here, but
                retirement; LOSS              OF       MEMORY and physical
time
     endurance of the brain.

         "1. Causes--hesitation and uncertainty                        the con
victions which the speaker has urge.
                                                  to

       "2. Inability draw upon the mind for the treasures
                     it

                           to
     of  knowledge has previously received.
OWERWORK­THE END,                     123

   "3. Dimness, and forgetfulness of one's former self
standard in respect of right, dignity, and self-respect.

   "4. Strong duty of doing justice to others, yet inability

to do so.

   " Refºre."

Thus did the old man of seventy years touchingly bid
farewell to work which he had been carrying on for the
greater part of half a century--to that work which had
received from him the untiring devotion of a life-time.
In 1862 his memory, which had previously troubled him,
became even less trustworthy; though his cheerfulness,
faith, and innate optimism were never clouded for a
moment, as is well-shown in a letter which he wrote to
"Ithe wife of his old friend Barlow.  called at your
Ihouse," Faraday wrote, "and rejoice to think that your
Iabsence is a sign of good health. Our love to you both.
Iam enjoying the gradual decay of strength and life, for

when revive it is no great revival or desire to me, and
that cheers me in the view of death near and round us."
In 1863 his chief work was in connection with the

Trinity House, Faraday continuing to report upon the
value of the magneto-electric light for lighthouses, and
visiting yet again, as he had frequently done for years

past, Dungeness and other stations for the purpose.
Despite his incapacity for sustained mental work owing
to his failing memory, Faraday continued fairly hale in
body, and was yet active, for in February of 1863 he was
at Dungeness, and in the autumn of the same year he was
in Scotland for a fortnight, and wrote from Glasgow to
one who for over forty years had been his loving
companion, a letter breathing an affection unaltered by
the lapse of years, unless indeed it were, to use his own
expression, that it had grown deeper. We have seen the
letters which he wrote in the early years of his marriage;
it is fitting that we should quote from this one to show
"Ihow unchanged he was, despite the many years which
had passed over him.  long to see you, dearest," he
wrote, "and to talk over things together, and call to
124 MICHAEL FARADAY.

as

     to allI

               or
                         to

                              to

                I

                                          a

                                          be a in

                                                                             of
                                                                                    is

                                                                                        .
                                                                                            .a
mind      the kindness have received. My head full
and my heart also, but my recollection rapidly fails, even
        regards the friends that are
                                                      the room with me.
You will have       resume your old function
                                                                     being

pillow my mind, and rest, happy-making wife.
Dearest,    long                                      with you. Whether
                        see and
together separate, your husband, very affectionate,

                                                      "M. FARADAY."

in          he
                he
  In
                                        to
                                                   by
          1865 felt compelled relinquish the active work
        connection with the Trinity House, without altogether
retiring from his position, for after thirty years' work,
during which
                    had been treated                   the Brethren with
uniform kindness and consideration, he did not like
                                                                                      ; of to
altogether sever his connection with friends with whom
it In he            long and                        harmoniously working.
          had beento
                       so
                                                  so

                                         In
          accordance with Faraday's wishes Professor Tyndall
                                                       it,
                                                            to to

                                                                    be

                                                                         up of he
undertook this work for him.                          the same year felt
        necessary communicate with the managers
Royal Institution, expressing his desire                                           the

                                                                     allowed,

without severing his connection with                   give                        his
active work for the Institution.

        The last two years his life were thus passed "waiting"of

to as     once twice expressed                         he
          in or                             it.       To old friendan
  a I he
very many years' standing            to he  had said, "Barlow, youof to
                                                                     he in do
and are waiting--that          is  what we have                                now
and we must try         do     patiently." And again, reply
                    to           as
                          it

          friend who inquired               how        was,                  simply

replied, "Just waiting." Thus gradually and quietly the
                            of .
end approached. One his nieces writes her annual
upvisit in 1867:    at

  "I spent June Hampton Court. Dear uncle kept
     rather better than sometimes; but oh!, there was
always pain seeing afresh how far the mind had faded
away. Still the sweet unselfish disposition was there,

"Iwinning the love all around him.
         shall never look the lightning flashes without
                    of                                .
                         in at                            .
                                                             .
                                a
                                                              .
                                                                  .

recalling his delight                beautiful storm. How                          he
OVERWORK­THE END.  125

would stand at the window for hours, watching the
effects and enjoying the scene; while we knew his mind

was full of lofty thoughts; sometimes of the great
Creator, and sometimes of the laws by which He sees

"Imeet to govern the earth.

         shall also always connect the sight of the hues of

Ia brilliant sunset with him, and especially he will be

present to my mind while watch the fading of the
tints into the sombre grey of night. He loved to have

                               FARADAY's TOMB AT HIGHGATE.

us with him, as he stood or sauntered on some open spot,
and spoke his thoughts, perhaps in the words of Gray's
Elegy, which he retained in memory, clearly, long after
many other things had faded quite away. Then, as
darkness stole on, his companions would gradually turn
indoors, while he was well pleased to be left to solitary
communings with his own thoughts."

    On the 25th of August, 1867, he passed quietly away,

dying in his chair in his study at Hampton Court. His
niece, Miss Barnard, from whose recollections we have
126 MICHAEL FARADAY.

learned much in earlier chapters, had spent a good
part of her life with her aunt and uncle,
to nurse the latter during the last few        and had   helped
                                               months.
                                                          "My

occupation has gone," she pathetically wrote to Dr.
Bence Jones. On August 30th, the funeral took place,

everything being conducted simply and quietly; it was,
as Faraday had himself expressed a desire that it should

be, strictly private. A plain headstone in Highgate
Cemetery, with the following simple inscription,
of
                                       all
                                                                              of
marks the place where lies                     that was mortal
one England's noblest sons.

        "MICHAEL FARADAY,

        Born, 22nd September,

                       1791,

        Died, 25th August,
                    1867
                      to
                           to
                                     ''

                                           as
If      were necessary  add anything               these simple
                                               as to
    it                                               to

words that mark his resting-place, there might           be  put,

and would apply Faraday truly                            any man
it

that ever lived, the well-known line--

        "An honest man, the noblest work God." of
CHAPTER VIII.

AS FRIEND AND LECTURER,

--->|<----

"I thought these men will carry hence
Promptings their former life above,
And something of a finer reverence
For beauty, truth, and love."
                                     LOWELL.
--->{----

A" various periods of Faraday's life his genial good
      nature and kindliness have been brought home to
us in different ways. From that early time when he

used to take care of his little sister Margaret in Man

chester Square, up to the very latest course of Juvenile
Lectures which he delivered at the Royal Institution in
1863, he had always the same love for young people;
and, as is usual with persons of such a disposition, ho
was ever a great favourite of the children, whether of
those who used to hear his Christmas lectures, or with

those happier ones who met him more intimately.
Intimate seems perhaps a curious word to use with
regard to the relations of young children and an old

man ; but yet it is the only word that really expresses

what is meant; that really indicates that instant bond
of sympathy that seems to connect children with men
   º

128 MICHAEL FARADAY.

and women who possess the power of attracting and
delighting them by becoming from the first as one of

themselves. This quality, this delightful quality, be
longed to Michael Faraday in an eminent degree.

   Fortunate indeed were those children who listened to

his Christmas Lectures to Juveniles, and fortunate also

were those older people who were present on the same
occasions. Many people who enjoyed the pleasure and
privilege of hearing him at such a time recorded their
impressions, and pleasant reading is the result. Lady

Pollock, for instance, wrote: "When he lectured to
children, he was careful to be perfectly distinct, and
never allowed his ideas to outrun their intelligence. He
took great delight in talking to them, and easily won
their confidence. The vivacity of his manner and of
his countenance, his pleasant laugh, the frankness of his

whole bearing, attracted them to him. They felt as if
he belonged to them ; and indeed he sometimes, in his
joyous enthusiasm, appeared like an inspired child. He
was not at all a man for evening parties; he was
nothing of a ladies' man; but he was the true man for
the juveniles, and would go to see a domestic charade
               to
                      so

                           a
                                     he it,

                                            in or

                                                                   hea
when the boys acted in and suddenly appear behind
the scene offer little help suggest new arrange
ment; and then, while was front, would laugh
                 loudly, that his presence was the best
and applaud
encouragement which the young performers could have.
       of he
            a
Or would help the young people                                              at
               conjuror,  or       nowould joinwonder                              athe
                               he        all                            round game,
feats
and romp quite noisily. But                   in to

                                                    a
                                                         of
                                               was done with

natural impulse. There was assumption kindness,
no air  of     condescension."

   Another writer, who had the rare privilege meeting                   of

the great man socially, said: "Nothing indeed pleased
        a at of
             all

                  to
                        to
                              be
                               a

                                            on

                                      a if

                                                                to
                                                                       a
                          boy again, and mingle the
him better than                                                             in
            the young, especially they took turn con
sports                                                                             to

genial           his own pursuits. He has been known

to  join vouthful party            November evening
                    AS FRIEND AND LECTURER.                                        120

assist in a display of fireworks. There he might be
seen running to and fro in a garden at night, with
his pockets crammed with combustibles--now kindling
lycopodium or burning potassium--then letting off blue
fires, green fires, purple fires--sometimes dropping
ignited crackers at the feet of the boys with an air of
affected astonishment, or probably chasing the girls in
order to streak their cheeks with phosphorus."
                                                                                 par
   As a lecturer to children Faraday was indeed
ticularly successful and especially interesting. His first
course of Christmas Juvenile Lectures was given in
1827--his last, on "The Chemical History of a Candle,"
was given in 1863, and during that time he gave in                                    us or or all
nineteen     on of  these courses. The first consisted                       to    six
                                                                               of
lectures          chemistry, and the first lecture                to of  the course
                              it         fewer than eighty-six experi
was illustrated with
ments, which were,                is noscarcely necessary say, carried
out the platform. In his note-book Faraday made
         on

the following entry with regard this course, "The six
juvenile lectures were just what they ought          to
                                                                                 have
             to             matter and manner; but would notin
been, both                                                        it
                  in

                       of an
answer give extended course the same spirit."
                              Faraday's success            as     lecturer, both
One secret                                                     a

In heto  juveniles and others, was the carefulness with which
         always tried ascertain what was the best method.
         early years        he to  would have friend (Magrath,
                                                     a
                                                                   of

                                                                         to
some other) among the audience, who was                                      tell him
                            any peculiarities, either
afterwards        of                                                  manner

style, that wanted correcting; and Miss Reid tells
             the early years
that     in                                        the Juvenile Lectures her

                   to
                                        of

                                                 to
uncle used encourage her tell him everything that
struck her; and, when she did not fully understand
him, where her difficulties lay. He would then enlarge
he a

            it
                           in

                                      at
                                          in

                                                  to
                                                                   a
                                                                    ; on he

                                                                    if to
upon those points the next lecture, and thus made
                                                     making things clear
child's remark serve him
children. He used also, first, have card, which
was distinctly written the word Slow, before him and
forgot and became rapid, his assistant Anderson had

                                         K.
130 MICHAEL FARADAY.

orders to place it before him. Sometimes also when his
lecture hour was nearly expired, he would arrange to have
a card with the word Time on placed within his view.of a it,
       One his early courses for children treated
          of                                             he                          that
             in                                                        of
subject which always possessed great fascination forof
                    its

                   by heI
him, and which did much                                  his greatest work--
electricity. The slight notes which
                                                         made for the
first lecture this course are interesting. "An extra
ordinary power that have explain; not fear boldly
entering into consideration, because think ought
                                     to                  in I
                                        it,                         as it
                                           to                                      so
to to    understood       children--not minutely, but                                  of as
     be
       think reasonably about and such effects children
can produce, observe take place nature--simple
         by               power." This first lecture was illus
instances    of
                   itsor
trated        eighty experiments.

   We have dwelt upon his kindliness and sympathy with
children; but, may noted, had none his own,
                  it      of be                          of of
                                 is                           in
                     to
                                      or                          ;
                                           he                        of
though from almost the earliest year his married life
at a he  always liked have one other
                                                         his nieces with
him. His love for children well shown in an anecdote
which Dr. Gladstone tells of his later life. He was at

           at                        Mr. Justice Grove the eldest
       soirée the house

daughter having heard him express himself disappointed
    being too late see any the younger members

the family, brought down the little ones their night
gowns the foot            to       the stairs, when Faraday showedof
          to                 of
                                 by       in to
how gratified was saying her, "Ah! that's the
best thing you've done to-night."in
                   he he  would indulge           some slight practical
       Sometimes
jokes with the young people. For instance, nephew
visiting  him his study            one morning, Faraday said him,up
          Frank, what              tall boy you are growing; you can on
"Why,                     on
                              a                                           a
                                                                               a to
almost touch that brass ball--just try." Nothing loth,

the boy standing          tiptoe reached                 and touched the
ball with his fingers, when his playful uncle gave turn
to       wheel and the boy received slight shock, and with
   a                                           a

it        first, and somewhat unexpected, lesson         the nature
         electricity.
    a

of
i;
132 MICHAEL FARADAY.

   The Prince Consort was a constant patron of the
Royal Institution, and the young princes also were

present at many of the Juvenile Lectures. After attend
ing  such a course H.R.H. the Prince of   Wales,
lad  of fifteen, and his brother, H.R.H.  Prince      Athlferneda,

Duke of    Edinburgh, wrote      fFroamraWdainyd:sor  Castle  the
following  letters to Professor
I"Dear Sir, am anxious to thank you for the advan
Itage have derived from attending your most interesting
Ilectures. Their subject, know very well, is of great
Iimportance, and hope to follow the advice you gave
Ius of pursuing it beyond the lecture-room; and can
Iassure you that  shall always cherish with great
pleasure the recollection of having been assisted in
my early studies in chemistry by so distinguished a man.

           "Believe me, dear Sir, yours truly,
                                        "ALBERT EDWARD."

   Prince Alfred's letter was as follows:--

  I"Dear Sir, write to thank you very much for the

Ipleasure you have given me by your lectures, and

Icannot help hoping they will not be the last shall hear

from you. Their subject was very interesting, and your
clear explanations made it doubly

                 "Believe me, dear Sir, yours truly,
                                                            "ALFRED."
to

 It

        is
           in to

                               so
                                  to

                                  in is
                                           at no

                                                                  on so.
                                                                           be

                                                                                   to
                                                                                       to
                                                                                     be a
         interesting learn Faraday's own views with
           popular lectures, for never yet was there
regard

truly scientific lecturer who was more truly popular;
perhaps, indeed, there           other single man who,
           any degree lowering his work for the pur
without
pose, succeeded well popularising scientific know
                                        the subject: "As
ledge. These are his own words
     popular lectures (which the same time are

respectable and sound) none are more difficult                find.
                                          popular; lec
Lectures which really teach will never
tures which are popular will never really teach." His
                    AS FRIEND AND LECTURER.                                     133

own success as a lecturer was owing largely to the
                               to
                                      of

                                                          all
power he had of adapting himself to                                 minds, from
the deepest thinkers the liveliest youth; this power
gave him "wide range influence, and his sympathy
with the young among his listeners imparted more lifea
              to
and colour his discourses than they might otherwise
have possessed. He had the art making philosophy
charming, and this was due            in            little measure the
                                                                    at to
                                            no
                                               he of
fact that    of to  grey-headed wisdom,               united wonderful

juvenility spirit."
    "He was," quote once more from Lady Pollock's
               It to he of to  the illustrious lecturer, "completely
recollections  the situation;         an
        of                                   he
master                                            had his audience              his
                                                he                              It he
command,     as              had himself and all his belongings;

had nothing fret him, and could give his eloquence

full sway.                     was irresistible eloquence, which
compelled attention and insisted upon sympathy.
waked the young from their visions and the old from
their dreams. There was gleaming his eye which
e   painter
                                                    poet could describe.
 no     His
          of
                                 he
                                         he

                                                  a
                                                          no

                                                             on in
             could copy, and which                  carried him     to          the
              enthusiasm sometimes

point      ecstasy when               expatiated                    the beauty  of

nature, and when                      lifted the veil from her deep
mysteries. His body then took motion from his mind;
his hair streamed out from his head, his hands were
full nervous action, his light, lithe body seemed
of                                                  .
       of                                               .
                                                          .
                   its
                                                            A

                                                                                     of to
quiver with eager life. His audience took fire with
him, and every face was flushed.                                    pleasant vein
    humour accompanied his ardent imagination, and
occasionally, not too often, relieved the tension
thought imposed upon his pupils. He would play with
his subject now and then, but very delicately his sport
was only just enough enliven the effort                             of ;I
                               an                                            aattention.
                                  to
                                                                          iIf to
He never suffered                     experiment    of          allure him away
                                                          to
from his theme. Every touch
                                                              he
                                                    his hand was true
                        his argument." As
               of
"Ifillustration                                                   once remarked
    giving advice                     young lecturer:
in                             to                                   said
                                   a

my audience, "This stone will fall the ground       to
184 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Iopen my hand," should open my hand and                                       of let   fall.
Take nothing for granted known; inform the eye
a                                                                                 it

  It                                                                                        as at

         is
              of
                          he as
                                in
                                           on

                                                     as
the same time you address the ear."
                interest here--after seeing how Faraday
                                                                                  the re
    lecturer impressed others--to note some
                                                       the subject lectures, lec
marks which                  made                                    of

turers, and lecturing                  his early correspondence with
his friend, Benjamin Abbott. Several long letters                                      in
this matter passed between the friends, and Faraday                                        he a on
(he was twenty-one               at    the time) not only speaks

discriminating manner with regard                        he          lectures, but
also treats with his native good sense                      to       lecture rooms,

                                                              of
apparatus, etc. All his remarks, says his earliest
of he he                         the subject, are the result his own by in
letter Abbott                                                                 of
          to                                                                               a
                   of

                             on
personal observation. The most necessary quality for
lecturer, says the youthful Faraday,                                 good delivery;
                                                         of is

                                                              a
    then dwells upon the necessity illustrating lec.
                                                                                  a

ture with experiments wherever possible. (How well
     carried this rule into practice has been seen                                         of an
earlier part this chapter, where we learned                                       of
                                                                                     insome

    "Ahis Juvenile Lectures being illustrated upwards    he                   on
eighty experiments.)                   lecturer," goes                            to   say,

"should appear easy and collected, undaunted and
unconcerned, his thoughts about him, and his mind

clear and free for the contemplation and description                                       of of
his subject." He then says, and we instantly think
"Ithe "time card
             ''                     had placed before him later,
               of

                            he
disapprove          long lectures; one hour long enough
                                                         be
for anyone,                            they
time."                                                                 to is
                nor          shou- ld                    allowed              exceed that

*    is"Iinteresting here see what Tyndall says, referring Faradayto          to
                                to
 It

asa  lecturer:      doubt his unconcern, but his fearlessness was often

manifested.     It  used rise within him                 it.         wave, which carried

both him and his audience along with                         as
                                                                  a
                                                         On rare occasions also,
when he felt himself and his subject hopelessly unintelligible,                            he
suddenly evoked                                          thought; and without
         to                  certain recklessness        of
                          a                                      he
halting extricate his bewildered followers,                          would dash alone
tºº."through the jungle into which he had unwittingly led them; thus
                from ennui by the exhibition             of    vigour which, for the
                                                            a

time being, they could neither share nor comprehend."
             AS FRIEND AND LECTURER.                                     185

The last of this series of letters on lectures com

mences in a style of genial banter, which, as it illustrates
t"hDeelaigrhAtebrbositdte,"ohf eFawrraitdeasy, 's"Achsarwachteenr,
                                                                     merits quotation.
                                                                    on some secluded

branch in forest far and wide sits perched an owl, who,
full of self-conceit and self-created wisdom, explains,
comments, condemns, ordains, and orders things not
understood, yet full
                            of his importance                       sstcirllibbhloelsdsMfiokreth;
to stocks and stones       around--so sits and
so he declaims to walls, stones, tables, chairs, hats, books,
pens, shoes, and all the things inert that be around him,
and so he will to the end of the chapter."
This playful mood comes out, also, in one or two
anecdotes which are told of him, when his fame was

established. For instance, an old lady friend being
much troubled by some rancid butter, thought that she
had hit upon a method of improving   in of
by                                                  it,             which she did

                                                          of
                                                                     a
    mixing with   itbe of aquantity soda, she having some

what high opinion the purifying virtues that alkali,
although,                presumed, she little suspected the
uses whichit is     was applied the manufactures. By

                  to

    to       of it

this addition soda, she triumphantly claimed that her
butter "was greatly improved." One
Professor Faraday called upon her, the                              evoeldninlga,dywphreon
                           her "improved butter.                         merry
duced sample
    a                                                                              ex
                     of
                                             "

                                                as A

                                                                               he
laugh rang out from the philosopher's lips
claimed, "Well done, Mrs. W., you have improved your
bad butter into very indifferent soap /''
Good-humoured and good-natured Faraday habi
tually was,                                   he
    to            did not like         at be      asworried unnecessarily
over unimportant matters; and willingheof an A
                                 to                    as                was
                                   to                      noof he
place even his invaluable time the disposal                        onas  almost
anyone whe claimed his attention,                                        patience
                                                                       in tohad

with persons who came                him thoughtlessly,                             the
following story shows:               young man called                              him
one morning, and with        air great importance con
                                       of

fided him the result            some original researches
electrical philosophy. "And pray," asked the professor,
136 MICHAEL FARADAY.

taking down a volume of Ree's Cyclopædia, " did you
consult this, or any elementary work, to learn whether
your discovery had been anticipated P'' The young man
replied in the negative. "Then why do you come to
        mfoyrtytimyeeaarbs ouatgow?e"ll-kn"oSwirn,"               were pub
waste                                                facts  that   visitor in
lished                                                said   the
"Iself-excuse, and hoping to flatter the philosopher,
I "Allthought had better bring the matter to headquarters
immediately."          very well for you, but not so well

for headquarters," replied the professor sharply, and he
forthwith set his visitor to read the article in the

Cyclopædia,

   Yet another story is told of a grave old gentleman

who once waited upon Faraday that he might show to

him "a new law of physics." The gentleman asked for

a jug of water and a tumbler; they were brought, and

he then produced a cork. "You will be pleased to
observe," he then said, "how persistently this cork
clings to the side of the glass when the vessel is half

filled."

   "Just so," replied the professor.

  I"But now," continued the discoverer of a new law of

physics, "mark what happens when fill the glass to
the brim. There ! you see the cork flies to the centre
--positively repelled by the sides    1''

                                               in
                                                 ''

                                                        an
"Precisely so," answered Faraday                                  amused
tone, which showed that the "new law was more
                                      his visitor, who, somewhat
familiar           him than
to                 I
       a
                                a to
abashed, said, "Pray, how long have you known this?"he
"Oh, ever since was boy," was the reply; but theor to
innate kindliness of his nature must show itself even in

such case, for, seeing the old gentleman's disappointed
look,                 of              as to          grieved,       might
          added that     he  was not        be

                                                      of

                                                                he
possibly some day alight upon something really new.
The last course Faraday's Juvenile Lectures--on
"The Chemical History
                             of       Candle."--has been referred
                                a

once twice. These lectures are indeed very great
interest, not only themselves chemical illustrations,
                   in
             AS FRIEND AND LECTURER.                          137

but as being part of Professor Faraday's best known
works, and the only juvenile lectures of his which are
obtainable in the form of a book. The way in which he
introduced his subject will show us how simple, and yet
how explicit he was in explaining to his young audience

"Ithe phenomena which he brought before them.
          purpose," he said, to quote the beginning of the

initial lecture of the series of six, "in return for the
honour you do us by coming to see what are our
proceedings here, to bring before you in the course of

Ithese lectures, the chemical history of a candle.

Ihave taken this subject on a former occasion, and were

it left to my own will, should prefer to repeat it almost

every year--so abundant is the interest that attaches

itself to the subject, so wonderful are the varieties of
outlet which it offers into the various departments of
philosophy. There is not a law under which any part
of this universe is governed which does not come into
play, and is touched upon in these phenomena. There
is no better, there is no more open door by which you
can enter into the study of natural philosophy, than by

Iconsidering the physical phenomena of a candle. trust,

Itherefore, shall not disappoint you in choosing this for
my subject rather than any newer topic, which could
not be better, were it even so good.
    "And before proceeding, let me say this also-that
though our subject be so great, and our intention that
Iof treating it honestly, seriously, and philosophically,
yet mean to pass away from      I all those who are seniors
             claim the privilege      I of
amongst us.                                         speakingdo so
           as                                                     so on to
juveniles
            aI
                 II

                            if
             juvenile myself.         have done

former occasions--and,          you please, shall
again. And though stand here with the knowledge
    having the words utter given the world, yet that
of                                    in to

                                                to
shall not deter me from speaking the same familiar
way                                                     on
     to    those whom esteem nearest                me        this
             I

occasion.

    "And now, my boys and girls, must first tell you
                                I
188 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Iof what candles are made. Some are great curiosities.
   have here some bits of timber, branches of trees
particularly famous for their burning. And here you
See a piece of that very curious substance taken out of some
of the bogs in Ireland, called candlewood--a hard, strong,
excellent wood, evidently fitted for good work as a
resister of force, and yet withal burning so well that
                                                                     a

                                                                        it,
                                                                              of of

                                                                                     a
where it is found they make splinters of and torches,
since burns like candle, and gives very good light
indeed. AndI it           in

                               a
                                      of
                            this wood we have one the most

beautiful illustrations the general nature                                              candle

that can possibly give. The fuel provided, the means
       bringing that fuel the place chemical action, the
of of                              to                    of

regular and gradual supply air that place action
--heat and light--all produced                  of a of  by          little piece woodin of of
                                                            a to

       this kind, forming, fact, natural candle.
       by
          a

                              a
                                 of in

                                            of
       "But we must speak candles                            as        they are com

merce. Here are couple                                 candles commonly called
dips. They are made lengths cotton cut off, hung
                                                         of

up loop, dipped into melted tallow, taken out again
and cooled, then re-dipped until there                                        an
                                                         a so Inor In  of is     oraccumula
                                                                     order that you may
       of                                                                            he
                     of                                                                 by to

                    I
tion tallow round the cotton.                                                 these candles,

have an idea the various characters
you see these which hold my hand--they are very
Small and very curious. They are, were, the candlesin
used by miners
                            be in  coal mines.     as                  olden times the
miner had find his own candles; and was supposed
       a                                                               it
             of

               in to

                        as
that small candle would not soon set fire the

fire-damp                 the coal mines                     larger one; and for

that reason,                well   by     for economy's sake,                                made
             this sort--twenty, thirty, forty, sixty
candles                             asI                                                        to

the pound. They have been replaced since then                                                  the
steel-mill, and then the Davy lamp, and other safety
lamps various kinds.
       to It of                           have here candle that was
              of          the Royal George,     in
taken out                                             it               said,     Colonel

                                                       It is a

                                                                   it

                                                                          is by
Pasley.         has been sunk                            the sea for many years,

subject the action salt water.     of                                  shows you how

well candles may preserved; for though                                           cracked
                  AS FRIEND AND LECTURER.                                   189

about and broken a good deal, yet, when lighted, it goes
                                               a

                                                asI

                                                       by
                                                         of

                                                             its
                                                                          of
on burning regularly, and the tallow resumes natural
condition as soon as                  fused."
                           it

                               is
                                    to
We have not space                       quote further from these
delightful lectures, which however,
earlier, can      be                                              have said

                      got  as in      little volume  themselves.

These lectures were,           a    indeed were most Faraday's

lectures, beautifully illustrated with large number
experiments.

On one occasion, when suffering much                              health,
                                                   an
                                                          at

                                                             in
                                                                         he of
Taraday yet insisted upon taking his place the lecture
       on at  the Royal Institution; for
table                                                obstruction
voice, which was indeed too painfully apparent,
apologised, saying that "in             to an  engagement where the
contracting parties were one and many, the one ought
not any slight ground break his part the
engagement with the many, and therefore,                          he if of
                                                                            the

audience would excuse his imperfect utterance                     would
proceed." The audience murmured, and there were
              "Put off the lecture;" but Faraday begged
criesto it to     to
                       go
       beallowed          heon. medical man rose and said
          of
                              be A
              in  his opinion           dangerous for the Professor
would                                                as
proceed. Faraday still urged his desire                     by
with the lecture;                                               a off to

                                                                  all go

                                                                             on
                               could not give people                        the
trouble coming there, having perhaps put
          of                                                      other

engagements, for nothing. On this,                                single

impulse, the whole audience rose, and Faraday yielded
the generally expressed desire spare him the pain
It to                                          . to
                                                               a
and inconvenienceof he              lecturing. After fortnight's
            on it

                     a on
                               as

                               of of
rest reappeared, and continued the broken course,
carrying
                  later that his audience should not lose
any the eight lectures which they had anticipated,
                  reappearance such            as
was                                                this after illness

that "as soon              his presence was recognised, the
whole audience rose simultaneously, and burst into
                                                                            a

spontaneous utterance welcome, loud and long."
                             *

CHAPTER IX.

NOTES ON HIS WORK,

----3%----
I"So that draw the breath of finer air
Station is nought, nor footways laurel-strewn,
Nor rivals tightly belted for the race.
 speed to them 1 My   place  is here or there;
pride is that among  them     have place:
I IGod

My
And thus keep this instrument in tune."
                             GEORGE MEREDITH.
--->|<----

 IN treating of the life-story of Michael Faraday have
    let particulars as to his various experiments and dis
coveries interfere as little as possible with the continuity
of the narrative, and have thought it advisable to slightly
refer to them in a special chapter. The value of his contri
butions toourfund of scientific knowledge is made manifest

by the fact that whatever book on electricity and allied
subjects we may take up now--works even bringing the
science down to the very latest date--we always find the
name and experiments of Michael Faraday quoted with
great respect as a leader and an unquestioned authority.

Indeed, our debt to him for his electrical work is incal
culable; we are now seeing the electric light carried day
by day into more streets, lighting more public places,
nay, even being used in illuminating private buildings.
                  NOTES ON HIS WORK.               141

This light we owe, primarily, to Michael Faraday.
Writing nearly a quarter of a century ago Professor
Tyndall answers this question as to "What is the use of
it all?" thus explicitly and unhesitatingly--"As far as
electricity has been applied for medical purposes, it has
been almost exclusively Faraday's electricity. You
have noticed those lines of wire which cross the streets
of London. It is Faraday's currents that speed from
place to place through these wires. Approaching the
point of Dungeness the mariner sees an unusually
brilliant light, and from the noble phares of La Hève
the same light flashes across the sea. These are Faraday's
sparks exalted by suitable machinery to sunlike splendour.
At the present moment the Board of Trade and the
Brethren of the Trinity House, as well as the Com
missioners of Northern Lights, are contemplating the
introduction of the Magneto-electric Light at numerous
points upon our coasts; and future generations will be
able to refer to those guiding stars in answer to the
Iquestion, What has been the practical use of the labours

of Faraday ? But would again emphatically say that
his work needs no such justification; and that if he had
allowed his vision to be disturbed by considerations
regarding the practical use of his discoveries, those dis
coveries would never have been made by him."
In one of his very earliest lectures delivered before
the City Philosophical Society on the subject of chlorine."
Faraday referred to the question too often and too
"Ithoughtlessly put on hearing of a new discovery. "Be
fore leaving this subject," he said,        will point out the
history of this substance, as an answer to those who are
in the habit of saying to every new fact, `What isis
                                                        its
use Benjamin Franklin says such, "What the
is,                          of to

     of ?"

           an
use infant?' The answer the experimentalistto
    `endeavour make useful.'" Truly the infant
Electricity has already grown goodly proportions.to it
                             to                     It
                                        in
non-metallic element first discovered       1774 by Scheele, and
*

  A
              of
the subject much research succeeding chemists.
142 MICHAEL FARADAY.

is to his researches in connection with electrical science

that we must look for the chief result of Faraday's
work. His later years were almost exclusively taken
up in the investigation of this fascinating subject.

   The value of his contributions to the sum of know

ledge on this new branch of science was testified to in
a remarkable manner during the past summer, when the
centenary of his birth was celebrated in a fitting manner
at that Institution which had been a "home" to him
for so many years. It was indeed an unique incident
in the history of modern science, when on the 17th of
June, 1891, many of the leading living scientists met in
the theatre of the Royal Institution to hear a lecture
by Lord   Rayleigh              life-work of "one of England's
          worthies."  on   the  quarter of a century has not
greatest
                          "A
elapsed," wrote a contemporary journal," "since his
death, and yet we find the highest nobles of the land
vieing with the most illustrious professors of our own
and of foreign universities in testifying their admiration

for this man of the people, who rose to be a leader of
scientific men." "When the history of electricity
comes to be written," continues the same authority, "a
chapter of great extent and first importance must be
given to the prolific life-work of Faraday. He will be
pointed to as the man who in the middle of the nine
teenth century, waged an energetic and relentless warfare
against the two fluid theories in electricity and magnetism,
             its
                   to
and who dealt death-blow the theory action
                          show the powerful influence histoof ofof all at
a  distance. And                        to             of

master-mind exercised over contemporary science, the
historian may merely refer                  Clerk-Maxwell, Sir
William Thomson, Rayleigh, Tyndall, and others,
admiring disciples and professed followers      the great
Michael Faraday."

   The meeting that thus did honour the memoryto

Faraday, was probably the most fitting method              cele
brating the anniversary
                                of  his birth that could have

          *  Engineering for June 19th, 1891.
                             NOTES ON HIS WORK,                                    143

been devised; it was, we may feel sure, just such a
celebration as Faraday would have felt most proud                                    to of.
Wealth and social rank, we have seen throughout his
                     attraction for him; but he did likeof as
life, had      in of to he no               capable men, whose appre
                         of
receive the appreciation                                       to in
                found the highest honour
ciation                                                                 which was
                                                                            as it
possible        attain.

      Some           Faraday's earliest experiments,                               was
incidentally mentioned                 in     earlier part this little  of
                                             he an

                                                        at
book, were                   connection with chlorine, etc., and then
    of on
           the making glass for optical purposes; and was
                                                                            it

not, indeed, until he had been                              the Institution for
                                              really entered with any
    about eighteen years that
    degree success into his electrical research. Here

       interest note remark which he once made in this
           to of                                                            it       of of is
                   to to

                        a
                               a
    connection the effect that requires twenty years
                                     in
                                             it

                                                    of
work make man physical science, the whole
    the previous period being one                       infancy. Once, how
    ever,  he  had reached this scientific manhood his work

was done with remarkable rapidity;
the track,                             as of                            would, once  a on
                                           to a
                               speak,            be
                                                     of

                                                             he
           of                                 discovery, mature             it
                                                                                in
                    so
    space               so to  short          nothing less than mar
               time
vellous; and one after another                              his "experimental
    researches" were carried out, completed, described, and
    the resultant paper submitted the Royal Society with
                             at
                                                      to

                                                                    an
is arapidity, and the same time with accuracy which
    has never been equalled. He was asked once what was
                on of
                     be

                                it, in
                                                           to
    the secret       his success, and answered that the whole

    secret might               told    three words, they were these
    "Work--Finish--Publish." Perhaps the centre word
                     which Faraday would himself have lain
      the one
    most stress--he was always careful finish everything
    before he announced                which makes his almost unex

    ceptional accuracy, considering the rapidity with which
                to

                           of

                                                    to

                                           be It
                                                                  is,
                                                                       he
    he worked, even more remarkable.                                    however, not

inaccurate           say that the results which                             definitely

    announced, were never found                                wrong; further

developments have course taken place, but the result
144 MICHAEL FARADAY.

of a research as announced by him was never found to
be untrue, and has never had to be put aside.
  I IHe had said, in the early part of his scientific career,

"the thing that am proudest of is that have never
"Ibeen found to be wrong." And after the death of his
friend, Professor A. de la Rive wrote,  do not think

that Faraday has once been caught in a mistake; so
precise and conscientious was his mode of experimenting
and observing." Dr. Gladstone commenting upon this
says, "The extreme rarity of his mistakes, notwith
standing the immense amount of his published researches,
is one of those marvels which can be appreciated only by
those who are in the habit of describing what they have
seen in the mist-land that lies beyond the boundaries of
previous knowledge."

   The proper treatment of Faraday's discoveries could
of course only be undertaken by one who was himself a
scientist; the technicalities of the laboratory and the

lecture-theatre would be somewhat out of place in a book
such as this, which but aims at presenting in a popular
form the facts in connection with the life of one of the

greatest of England's scientists--one of the best of her

sons. It may, however, here be pointed out that to
those who would become acquainted with the details of
Faraday's scientific work, with particulars of his
numerous experiments, a delightful introduction has
been afforded by Professor Tyndall, who in his little
work on Faraday as a Discoverer, has summarised much
of the great man's work, and explains in a clear and
delightful manner much about the experiments which
were undertaken and the discoveries which were made

by his illustrious predecessor and friend. It is of interest
to notice here what discovery of Faraday it is which
Tyndall selects as the greatest--it is the discovery of
electro-magnetism, of which he says: "The beauty and
I Iexactitude of the results of this investigation are extra
ordinary.  cannot help thinking while dwell upon

them, that this discovery of magneto-electricity is the
                               NOTES ON HIS WORK.                                          145

Itgreatest experimental result ever obtained by an
investigator.                  is the Mont Blanc of Faraday's own

achievements. He always worked at great elevations,
but a higher than this he never subsequently attained."
         The following impromptu lines with reference to
Mayo:Faraday's great discovery of magneto-electricity were

written by Herbert

                    "Around the magnet Faraday
                     WaBsutsuhreowthtaot  Volta's lightnings play,
                                          draw them from the wire ?
                     He drew a lesson from the heart.--

                     'Tis when we meet, 'tis when we part,
                        Breaks forth th' electric fire."

         Of this same subject Tyndall wrote shortly after
Faraday's death:-``Seven and thirty years have passed
since the discovery of magneto-electricity; but, if we

except the eatra current, until quite recently nothing of
moment was added to the subject. Faraday entertained
the opinion that the discoverer of a great law or principle
had a right to the "spoils'--this was his term--arising
               its   illustration; and guided               in           the principleby
from                                                            a                he

                                                                    by
had discovered, his wonderful mind, aided                                                  his
wonderful ten fingers, overran                                           single autumn this
vast domain, and hardly left behind him the shred
                               is                                                          of
                                  of byas a                                                    a

fact       all to    gathered          by his successors."
                 be                         of he
as is, byThis indeed           quality which has been insisted upon

                               fellow scientists treated                 the work
           who have            Michael Faraday,+this quality, that       of
which was done                                                             to a of
               completion, thoroughness finishing that which                   of
           of                                                     to in                      to

he had commenced;                                seemed become aware almost
                    as its by
         though                intuition the full meaning                discovery,

and            of              true bearing with regard                  previous

knowledge.

         Great was Faraday's work the service science
                                                   at,            he in
he not only did not aim                                 but frequently declined
accept what many men would have considered but just
reward. He was chemist,                                           scientist, philosopher
(to give him the name which    a                            he a  best liked, and which
                                                                         as
he                                                                           a

                                                                                       of
           felt most proud), and did his work such from the

                                                        I,
146 MICHAEL FARADAY.

it,

     as
          he

                  he

                       it,

               asI

                                    of
purest love for                         have tried         of  show                  earlier

                                                                he he to

                                                                            no in
cahbaopvteerist.;      He did not seek worldly position--he was
                       did not seek for wealth, had                                use for
       his wants were the simplest; did not seek for
popular applause, for the suffrage the multitude; but
what did all his life long most earnestly and most
faithfully strive for was--Truth. He ever aimed
fulfilling what the Laureate has beautifully expressed                                 in at

his dedication         to                            in                 says--

                          In                               us
                                                                to
                                 of
                                                                    he
                                   Memoriam wherein
         "Let knowledge grow from more more,
                   And more          reverence               dwell,

                   That mind and soul according well
                   MaByutmwakaesteorn."e music  as  before,

He sought make knowledge grow from more more,
       it                                                                    to to
           is

                 to
                      to
but be recollected that he never for one more

moment swerved from his faithful adherence                                             his

Church.            In         his research among physical phenomena

                        all
                           in
he was never led doubt, some have done, the truth
                              ; to        he
                                   on
                                             as
of of  that religion which always maintained sincereas
and beautiful faith his religion was, indeed, always                         a
                                                                                  in      aa
something far above his science, something sacred and
                                        a
                                                    a
       moment himself,                          single soul. We saw                    his
reply                  on to            his formally entering the San
       to          his wife

demanian Church shortly after his marriage, what was
                              this question.           was,           to he  had said,
his attitude                                        It         a           thus we find
                                                      God;        as
matter between himself and                      his            and

in     what has written but very little about his religion,he

although one two his letters relations, where heor         to
                               of               to,
                                  of
has been directly appealed                           breathe the sincere and
                                     the man, and his true Christian
earnest devotion
spirit. His whole life was, however, practical expres
sion his religious faith                                                     in us
       of                                                  shown                       what
                         or                                                        by
                                                           who came
                                                        ;

                                            by
                                               as

                                               allis
has been said                  written                                               contact
with him.

       The following tribute his memory from Monsieur
       is
          a is

                                       to
                                                of
                                                        do

                                                                in
"IDumas yet one further proof                                the universal feeling
                                                               not know whether
which his friendship inspired,
                   savant who would not feel happy                                   leaving
there
                            NOTES ON HIS WORK.                                   147

behind him such works as those with which Faraday
Ihas gladdened his contemporaries, and which he has

left as a legacy to posterity; but am certain that
                                                               to
                                                                 to

                                                                            of
                                                                                     of all
those who have known him would wish approach that
moral perfection which        of to
an Inhim appeared                        attained              without effort.
                                     benatural grace, which made
       a                               a he

       in in it                            of
him professor, full ardour for the diffusion truth,
    indefatigable worker, full enthusiasm and spright
                 his laboratory, the best and most amiable
liness                        of  his family, and the most en

men            the bosom
lightened preacher among the humble flock whose faith
he followed.

    "The simplicity           his heart, his candour, his ardent
love the truth, his fellow interest all the successes,of
       of                       an in                    to

and ingenuous admiration all the discoveries others,of     in
his natural modesty               regard                                he
                                                             what         of ofhimself
discovered, his noble soul--independent and bold--all                         toof of to
these combined gave                    incomparable charm
"Iillustrious physicist.                                                                the
         have never known
                                  a    man more worthy                    being

loved,      . of  being admired,--of being mourned. Fidelity

to  his religious faith, and the constant observance the

moral law, constitute the ruling characteristics                                          his
life. There more than one useful lesson                                                   be
     .                      is

         .                                           of

learnt from the proper study                             this illustrious man,
whose youth endured poverty with dignity, whose
mature age bore honours with moderation, and whose
ºflast years passed gently away surrounded                         by
                                                                                  of
                                                                          marks
                  tender affection."
respect

    Several stories are told that illustrate the constant

habit   of     experimenting which seemed                      bya to     innate          in
                                                                   as
Faraday's mind, and also show how simple were the
                  of                                                  be
means which          of he  often adopted attain required end.
                                         to
                                                us
An example                the latter given                     Sir Frederick
                                  is

Arrow   to        describing  a   visit which he,                       one thein
                                                                             of
          in              the Elder Brethren the Trinity House,of
Committee
paid, observe the Dungeness electric light, June
1862. The committee accompanied Faraday, who had
148 MICHAEL FARADAY.

always been a most energetic worker in the cause of
"Ithe Trinity House.
                                                                   think at
   "We dined," says Sir Frederick Arrow,
Dover, and embarked in the yacht from there, and were
out for some hours watching                by             Faraday's great
                                              or it, it,
delight--(a very fine night)--and especially we didto to                         it so
from the Warne lightship about equi-distant between
and the French light                     Grisnez, using       all
                                    to of                          our best

glasses and photometers                    ascertain the relative value
the lights; and this brings me my story. Before
of

   `I
we left Dover, Faraday, with his usual bright smile,                             in

great glee showed me little common paper-box, and
                                    a
                                       of
said,     must take care this; it's my special photo

meter,'-- and then, opening                        produced                      lady's
                                                              at of
ordinary black shawl pin--jet, imitation perhaps--                 it, a
and then, holding
                                                                         it

                                                                                  a
                        I it it  a  little way off the candle, showed

me the image very distinct; and then putting
little further off, placed another candle near and the
                                           the size the image.
relative distance was shown
He lent me this afterwards when we were the Warne

lightship, and acted admirably; ever since have
                 as     very convenient mode observing, and        to I
used one             a                             of
                                                                         at
he                   but think that night and dear good
never            so                 be of                              I
  In
                                         to
        a he do                                by
Faraday, and his genial happy way                         of  showing how

even common things may made useful."
                                                              the laboratory
                     as                    work           in
Such men had occasion
with Faraday, were always struck his lively enthusiasm,
and the great activity with which                  if he
motions were wonderfully rapid; and                           worked--"his
                                                          he
                                                              had cross
                                    it,
                                               he
the laboratory for anything,                       did not walk                  an
ordinary step but ran for and when                        he  wanted any

thing spoke quickly."

       his methods working was most exact. Having
                         of      in

                                             he
                                                                       to
                                                                             be
carefully planned out his own mind work                                          done,

would enter the laboratory, and with his table
                                 to
                                     as

                                             in
                                                  a

                                                                                        as

                                                                                    he
unencumbered with anything beyond such things
was using, would set work                          grave, silent manner.

After time, however, the experiment proceeded and
                  NOTES ON HIS WORK.                                  149

the result which he had anticipated began to manifest
itself, he would begin humming a tune, and even speak
to his attendant of the expected result. On finishing
such experimental work for the day, everything had to
be put carefully away,            all
                                                                                       to
                                         bottles stoppered, open vessels
covered over, all instruments and materials returned
their various drawers, all rubbish cleared from the floor,
and the laboratory left ready for the Professor start
work again. Faraday would then           on
                                                           goupstairs               his
                                                                                    on as to as he
study, and think further                                      in he onthe subjectwhich
                  working.
A he |happened                                                               to
           at                                                                   to
                a                                           invariably
                     to
                           be
                              at
        his later years we are told that
carried about with him convenient sized cards on which

could jot down                    once--in the street,      the lecture
room,             friend's, indeed anywhere--such thoughts

should flash across his mind.

        few words deserve                to          said with regard
                                             at be
                                                        at
Sergeant Anderson, who for over thirty years acted
Faraday's laboratory assistant the Royal Institution.
In

                           of
1829, when Faraday was working experiments
the manufacture glass for optical purposes, special
                                                            a

furnace was erected               to at  the Royal Institution, and

Anderson was engaged assist                 at              After the glass
                                                it.

experiments were over, however, Anderson, who had
demonstrated his usefulness, was retained, and he

continued throughout the rest                        Faraday's life
                  of                                        at at                   his
                      all                                         of
                             on                                      to of as
                                        of
                                             of he of
assistant, having won the good opinion not only                                     the
                                                       had anything
Professor but                  with whom                                            do.
There one good story told Anderson, who had been
chosen for his posti.
           In is                  account              the habits strict
obedience, which his military training had given him.
His duty was keep the furnaces always
heat, and the waterhe to to       the ashpit always         the same

                               in                           the same
                                     he  was released; but one night
level.            the evening
Faraday forgot tell Anderson                he         could go, and early

next morning found his faithful servant still stoking
glowing furnace,                  as        had been doing  all       night
                                        he

Ong.
                        CHAPTER X.
      ABOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION,

                                     -3%----

      "The heights by great men reached and kept

            Were not attained by sudden flight,
        But they, while their companions slept,

           Were toiling upward in the night.

              Standing on what too long we bore,
              With shoulders bent and downcast eyes,
              We may discern--unseen before--

                A path to higher destinies.
              Nor deem the irrevocable past
              If,Asriswinhgolloyn  wasted, wholly   vain,
                                   its wrecks, at  last
              To something nobler we attain."
                                                           LoNGFELLow.
                            --->|<---

      Royal Institution, which for so many years was
Tº:"home" to Michael Faraday, must ever remain
Itintimately associated with his name.                     is not a hundred
years since it was founded, yet             be its  history the history
    Sir Humphry Davy, Michael Faraday, and John            it
of
         its                                                 a is
Tyndall--or perhaps                would                                    say
                       is                           more correct   to
                                                                         of
that          history      in it            large measure          history

                                  a
experimental research during the century. Before re
garding the Institution,
                 at                         is      especially connected
                     its
                                                                   be
                        of
                                     as
                                     it
with the life-story Michael Faraday, may well
    just glauce                    origin.
to
            ABOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                       151

Early in the year 1799 a party of noblemen and
gentlemen met at the house of Sir Joseph Banks for
the purpose of forming themselves, at the suggestion of

Count Rumford, into a "Society for bettering the con
dition of the poor." Count Rumford and his friends
were most anxious for the success of their undertaking;
and having once made a start did not remain idle, but
in January, 1800, succeeded in having their Society
incorporated by Royal Charter. The Society started
perhaps on a somewhat narrower basis than that on
          be

                                    its
which it now stands;                     original object was that              of it
should "an institution for diffusing the knowledge,
and facilitating the general introduction
                                                                   of  useful

mechanical inventions and improvements; and for
In

    a
          of
             by

                   to
                                 of

                                          of
                                                in
teaching           courses               philosophical lectures and

experiments, the application             science            to   the common
                                                               of
purposes life."                                             the early part
        guide London published
the present century, No. 21, Albemarle Street
                                                                       is  thus

referred         "Here also the Society's house for the
is
         in or to

                      :

                      by
                         of
                                   is

                                          in

                                                         a

                                                 to in
encouragement      improvements                             arts and manufac

tures, the Royal Institution. The front this house
                   double windows, prevent the entrance
barricaded
of cold winter and heat summer. Here                               up is   room
                                                                      a
for experimental dinners, and kitchen fitted                            on     the

late Count Rumford's plan. Adjoining this                          is      large

                                                                       a

workshop, which number                         coppersmiths, braziers,
          to       a
                      of
            of in          its of

                               It of
                                           a
etc., are employed, and over this large room for the
reception                                machinery may      as         be  pre
                 such models
sented      the Institution."                  has been said that

chemistry dates one                      chief epochs from the foun
            the Royal Institution laboratory.
dation  of

The large building          in  Albemarle Street cannot                        be

mistaken, for there are along the front                     of       fourteen

                                                               a it
great fluted Corinthian columns which give striking

appearance the premises. These columns were built
on
    to

                   to
                      of
                           by

                                           in
        the face the building 1838,                         at
                                                               a
                                                                           of
                                                                 cost five
hundred pounds, Mr. Lewis Vulliamy.
152 MICHAEL FARADAY.

        of it

                           so

                          by be
                                     to
                                                  is,

                                                         an
                                                                   to

                                                              is
                                                                        as of
That the Royal Institution             indeed, well worth
visiting               quite unnecessary  say. Even
              must
was there not much     be seen which                                           itself

interesting, the place would have attraction being
the place where much has been done for the advance
                       Faraday, his predecessors, Davy,
ment          science

From £hoto by) ROYAL INSTITUTION, ALBEMARLE STREET. [11. Dixon Son.
        to in
                 is
                     a of

                                    at
                                                of by

                                                      of
                                                               a

                                                                     in
                                                                         a
                                                                                 of &
Rumford, and Brande, and               Tyndall, and other

Success01'S.

On entering the building we find ourselves                                     lofty
hall; front us, the head
                       large portrait     short flight
                                       Sir Humphry Davy,
stone steps,
              the right we see Foley's fine and striking
while
           ABOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION,                    153

statue of Faraday, which was placed there as being the
most fitting memorial of the great man's connection with
                     On going   up the flight of steps to the
the Institution.  ourselves in   the well-appointed library,
right, we find
where we are shown under a glass case a beautiful little
statuette of Faraday, and also a large photograph

º

From *oto  ºwlLECTURE-THEATRE, Roy INSTITUTION. [II. Diron Sen.be&
                                                              of
            of                     AL
portrait the philosopher. We next visit the lecture
theatre, our eyes being immediately drawn the "seatby
                                           is at  as to
                        Michael Faraday               a
over the clock," where                                      boy first
sat, and listened and   marvelled                 the  wonders

chemistry, unfolded before him     the great Humphry
                                                       of
Davy. This theatre may noted one the best
                  it
154 MICHAEL FARADAY.

forpause haecroeu--stitchinprkoipnegrties         London. Well may         it
     in to its             It                                                     to of we
              onlectured here, and             the great men who have
                           the great men who have comeof
                           may         to be of
here          listen.                          mentioned that the lectures
                                           in
are not strictly confined scientific subjects, for was
here, 1812, that Thomas Campbell gave his course
                  poetry, and that another poet--Thomas
lectures
Moore--was also invited lecture.      to

       From the lecture-theatre we are taken downstairs

see the room where all the numerous instruments and

materials are kept. Here we are shown the primitive
electrical machine, which Faraday early constructed for
himself, and many the things which                         he
                           or of                                     used  of in      his
work; here, too, we have pointed outto of                  us        large glass
                                                       to     a                In

case running along one side                    of of  the room, and divided
into sections, each section containing the tools and appli
ances used one other the great men theof of
Institution, Davy and Brande and Faraday himself.
                   tothe smaller rooms through which we are
several                bypass, we notice among the many portraits

permitted

several the subjects this little work. And among
other interesting things especially pointed out
                                                       to                           there

                                                             in (it

                                                                      as
                                                                         to

                                                                               of us
is     locked glass-case "presented the Royal Institu
   a   of by

tion Michael and Sarah Faraday" was character
istic Faraday thus put his wife
                                                                     one the
donors). This case contains several books which
Michael had himself bound those days when, disliking
          he
                  of

                                      to
                                          in

                                                  of
                                                                     of
trade,        was seeking               enter the service                Science.

There are, besides, several books                      Davy's and several
manuscripts his also, which his assistant had carefully
ºldkept.
          not only         the building worthy visit                 on  account
              is                               to it
                      is                                of                of of
                                                                                 is its
                                                                a

                                                                 of
to of  the many interesting relics contains                          some our
greatest scientists, and   in on
                                        account the memoirs

many great men, but even                         the unscientific there
much that attractive the Friday Evening Lectures,
which since that year 1826, when Faraday may said
                                               up                          be
                                                   to
       have inaugurated them,                          now, have been regu
                 ADOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                              155

     larly carried on. No trouble is spared by the lecturers
     to make their matter understood, and innumerable

     experiments are presented on these occasions. The
     experiments, too, are such as often require a great
     Iexpenditure of time and trouble in their preparation.

     As an instance of this may mention an experiment
     which was made on the occasion of my latest attendance

     at a "Friday evening." The lecturer was Professor
     Harold Dixon; the subject of which he was treating was
     "The Rate of Explosion of Gases." To show the
     rapidity with which an explosion of a certain gas
                 of
                                        at

                                              of
                                                                               all
     travelled, the lecturer had fitted up a leaden piping
     round the theatre; the ends the piping rested upon
     either end the table                   which Professor Dixon was

     lecturing. The piping was filled with gas, and the Pro
     fessor applied light         at      one end;      sharp explosion
                 as                                     a
                                                             to
                      by a
                              an
     took place the gas was fired, and was followed almost

     instantaneously              explosion
                                            of         the other end theof
     pipe--the explosion having                 in                      in
                                                   atthat very short time    a no
     travelled through length two hundred and twenty
       of
          is

                               !

               in I a
     feet piping                quote this instance              show that
                                             an
                                                    be
     trouble spared preparing illustrative experiment,
     although such experiment may
     minute or less.                                    demonstrated

     It

                    of be
                                          to

                                                                     of
                                                                                       to
       may            appropriate, while considering the long

     connection       Faraday with the scene                     his many
     experimental triumphs, refer more particularly that
     unique meeting which took place last summer (June 8th,
     1891) celebration the hundredth anniversary the
       of in                      of                             is
                                     to                             of
     birth Faraday, and which slight reference made
       the last chapter. The meeting, appropriately enough,
of in                        gathering the theatre the Royal
took the form on of of                      in                   of
                      of                      of                                 an
                          a
     Institution many the most able and distinguished
                 the day; Lord Rayleigh deliveringby of
chemists                              inin           Faraday's discoveries.

     address     the developments
                                          His Royal Highness the Prince
     The chair was taken
       Wales, who referred                  his opening remarks
                                                                                           the
time when he had sat                                                  to
                                                                             to
                                            that theatre and listened
156 MICIIAEL FARADAY.

Faraday himself. The letter from H.R.II., which is

quoted on p. 131, was read, as was also the following
letter which the Prince wrote to Mrs. Faraday on the
occasion of her husband's death.

                         "Wiesbaden, September 10, 1867.

  I I"Dear Mrs. Faraday,+Although have not the

pleasure of knowing you, cannot resist sending you a

Ifew lines to tell you how deeply grieved and distressed
    am to hear of the death of your husband, Professor
Faraday. Having had the great pleasure of knowing

Ihim for some years, and having heard his interesting

lectures when quite a boy, can fully appreciate how
great the loss must be, not only to you, but to the
whole country at large, where his name was deeply
venerated by all classes. His name will not only be

remembered as a great and distinguished scientific man,
but also as a good man, whose excellent and amiable
qualities were so universally known. Pardon my
trespassing so soon on your great grief, and believe me,
dear Mrs. Faraday, yours very sincerely,

                                              "ALBERT EDwARD."

   A very interesting yet pathetic letter was read from
Dr Tyndall, which, coming as it did from a man who

had so well known and so thoroughly appreciated

Faraday, is of great interest to us. "As Faraday

recedes from me in time," wrote Tyndall, "he becomes

to me more and more beautiful. Anything, therefore,

Icalculated to do honour to his memory must command

my entire sympathy. But the utmost liberty can now
allow myself is to be shifted from my bed to a couch, and

Iwheeled to a position near the window, from which

can see the bloom of the gorse and the brown of the
heather. Thus, considerations affecting the body only
present an insuperable barrier to my going to London on
Wednesday."

   Not very far from Albemarle Street, is Blandford
            ADOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION,      157

Street, where it will be remembered Michael Faraday
began the battle of life as a newsboy. Mr. Riebau's
shop (No. 2) is yet standing, and is still a stationer's
and bookseller's. Over the shop front is now to be
observed a plaque, on which are the simple words,
"Michael Faraday, Man of Science, apprentice here,
1791-1867." Professor Tyndall tells us of a pleasing
story of a                he paid
this scene  visit which   labours.  with the  Feaxr-abdoaoykbainnddemr tyo
            of his early
                                      "Mr.
self quitted the Institution one evening together, to pay
a visit in Baker Street. He took my arm at the door,

Iand pressing it to his side in his warm genial way, said,

`Come, Tyndall, will now show you something that
will interest you.' We reached Blandford Street; and
after a little looking about, he paused before a stationer's
shop, and then went in. On entering the shop, his
usual animation seemed doubled; he looked rapidly at
everything it contained. To the left on entering was a
door, through which he looked down into a little room,
with a window in front facing Blandford Street. Draw
Iing me toward him, he said eagerly, `Look there, Tyndall,
that was my working-place.          bound books in that
               A respectable-looking woman stood
little nook.'
behind the counter; his conversation with me was too

low to be heard by her, and he now turned to the
counter to buy some cards as an excuse for our being

there. He asked the woman her name--her predecessor's

name--his predecessor's name. `That won't do," he
said, with good-humoured impatience; `who was his
precedessor?'  su`dMdre.nlRyierbeacuo,l"lecshtiengrephlieerds,elaf,nd`Himem, esidri,atwelays

added, as if
the master of Sir Charles Faraday!" "Nonsense !" he
Iresponded, "there is no such person l' Great was her

delight when told her the name of her visitor; but she
assured me that as soon as she saw him running about
the shop, she felt--though she did not know why--that
it must be Sir Charles Faraday!"
Turning to our right on coming out of No. 2, Bland
158 MICHAEL FARADAY.

ford Street, we shall notice on the opposite side of the
way a small turning down under an archway. That
turning is the beginning of Jacob's Well Mews, where
the Faraday family lived, and of which an illustration
has been given on an earlier page of this book. The
place is interesting and worthy of a visit, as showing
us that however poor and unpromising may be the
surroundings of a man's childhood, he may yet
win for himself an enduring name, as has Michael
Faraday, not only in the annals of his own country, but
in those of knowledge--whose annals are concerned not
with one, but with all countries.
A most interesting and pleasant trip, too, may be taken
to Hampton Court Green, where a visit can be paid
to the house, the use of which Her Majesty the Queen
so kindly gave to the Professor, and where he passed the
greater part of the last ten years of his life. Of the
Ivery many visitors to the famous palace and gardens of

Hampton Court, there are, fear, not a very large
proportion who notice the charming little house facing
the Green, and not far from the entrance to the Palace
where the Professor lived. "Faraday House," however,
appears much the same as it did when he whose name
it now bears was living there. With front
                                          in to            its       over
grown with ivy and virginian creeper, with creeper            its all
bowered archway from the gate the front door, withto a
its  trees and shrubs along the front, and with viewan to allits

across the Green               the trees              ofthe Palace grounds
beyond, the old-fashioned house has delightful aspect,
                               ideal spot                              to so in of
and seems indeed                           which man
                                                           a

Faraday's simple, unpretentious, yet nature-loving

character, could retire after long lifea                   arduous and
useful work.

The following "in memoriam" poem, which appeared
the pages  Punch shortly after Faraday's death,
beautifully sumsit of                     the man's life and cha
                             much  of of
                     of be up                        as
                                                        a
racter, that may fittingly quoted                          conclusion
this short account the life the illustrious philosopher,
             ABOUT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                            159

of
                                      all

                                                   of

                                                              it

                                                                                              as
a life which must impress                      who have studied

one the purest and most unselfish                               which we have
any record.

"Statesmen and soldiers, authors, artists, still
The topmost leaves fall off our English oak:
             green summer's prime, some        to to to  the chill
Some   in in                                       in
     Of autumn-tide, some by late winter's stroke.of of
               of of
Another leaf has dropped on that sere heap--
     One that hung highest; earliest                  invite
The golden kiss morn, and last keep
     The fire eve--but still turned the light.of if of

No soldier's, statesman's, poet's, painter'sto                  name           line;
   Was this, through which drawn death'sas                      last black
But one rarer, not loftier fame--  is
      priest Truth, who lived within her shrine.to
A
  A  priest Truth: his office expound

     Earth's mysteries             all who willed     to        hear--
                                   science sought and found,
Who          the book
     With love, that knew all reverence, but no fear.

A    priest who prayed             well  as    ministered:

KnWowhionggratshpeedligthhte   faith he preached,      and held         it itfast:
                              he followed never       stirred,                past.
     Howe'er might drive the clouds through which

And Truth's priest, servant Science too,
NoWt hoonseeofwtohroksewwashowsreoruvgehtbufot rtoloveensauned not for gain:

   Their private profit: lordship attain
     if

                       at
                                            in to of
Over their lord, and bind him green withes,
   For grinding the mill 'neath rod and cord;

Of the large grist that they may take their tithes--
   So some serve Science that call Science lord.

One rule his life was fashioned to fulfil:
              who tends Truth's shrine,
   That he     with humble, faithful                  wainlld,  does the       hest
Of Science,
     A

                     of
                             of a
     The God Truth and Knowledge serveth best.

And    from   his humbleness what              heights   he won         1
   By   slow                       induction,  pace on   pace,
              march                                                      in
Scaling the peaks that seem                    strike the sun,
                                         to
                                                   in
     Whence few can look, unblinded,                    his face.

Until he reached the stand which they that win at

       bird's-eye glance o'er Nature's realm may throw;
Whence the mind's ken by larger sweeps takes

   What seems confusion, looked from below.
2 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                                  3s, 6d, each,

*Skeleton Reef (The). A Sea Story. By Hugh St.
Leger, Author of "An Ocean Outlaw," etc. Large Crown 8vo.
*LaFdronytispCiecreo. omCleot'hs  extra, gilt top.
                                                        By Marie Zimmermann,
                                    Secret.
Author of "A Woman at Bay," etc. Illustrated. Large Crown 8vo.
      Cloth extra,  gilt top.
                                  "Kingfisher"              (The).          By Alfred E.
*Scuttling          of the
Knight, Author of "Victoria: Her Life and Reign." Frontispiece.
*MiLsasrgiengCrowMni8llvioo. nCl(oTthheext)r:a,  gilt top.
                                                            of Adventure       in  Search
                                                 A Tale
     of a Million Pounds. By E. Harcourt Burrage, Author of "Whither

      Bound P" Frontispiece. Large Crown 8vo. Cloth extra, gilt top.

*Come, Break Your Fast : Daily Meditations for a
Year. By Rev. Mark Guy Pearse. 544 pages. Large Crown 8vo.
Cloth extra.
*Crystal Hunters (The): A Boy's Adventures in the
Higher Alps. By G. Manville Fenn. New Edition. Illustrated.
      Large Crown              Cloth  extra, gilt top.
                        8vo.                                (The).             By George
Adventures                    Don     Lavington
                         of
Manville Fenn, Author of "Cormorant Crag," etc. New Edition.
HymIllusntratWed rbiyteWr.sRainaeny,dR.tI.heLairrge HCryowmnn8vso..  Cloth extra, gilt top.

                                                                        By Rev. S. W.
In Christophers. 390 pages. Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.

     Battle and Breeze. Sea Stories by Geo. A. Henty,
G. M. Fenn, and W. Clark Russell. Illustrated. Large Crown 8vo.
Cloth extra, gilt top.
More Precious than Gold. By Jennie, Chappell.
PilgWritihmIl'lusstrPatrioonsg. reCsrsow(nT8hveo.).  Cloth extra, gilt edges.
                                                                               Illustrated
                                                      By John Bunyan.
J.with 55 full-page and other Engravings, drawn by Frederick Barnard,

    D. Linton, W. Small, and engraved by Dalziel Brothers. Crown
Rom4toa. nCcleothoefxtLrai,n3cs.o6ldn. 's(GiIlnt endge(sA, )5.s.) By Sarah Doudney,
StoAruythoor foft"hLoeuieB'sibMalerried(TLhifee.").     Crown 8vo.   Illustrated. Cloth.

                                                           Arranged  in Simple Style

for Young People. One Hundred Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Cloth
SixexStrat,o3rs.ie6ds.  b(Gyilt"ePdgaesn, sbeyv.e"lled  boards, 4s.  6d.)
                                                                      8vo.     390 pages.
                                                         Imperial
Fully Illustrated and well bound in cloth, with attractive coloured
design on cover, and Six complete Stories in each Vol. Vols. 1, 2,
       3,  4, and 5, 3s.6d. each.
                                                     By Emma Marshall, Author of
Two         Henriettas (The).
       "Eaglehurst Towers," etc. Illustrated. Large Crown 8vo. Cloth
      extra, gilt top.

YWhite Dove of Amritzir (The): A Romance of Anglo
Indian Life. By Eliza F. Pollard, Author of "Roger the Ranger,"
etc. Large Crown 8vo. Illustrated. Cloth extra, gilt top.
         CATALOGUE OF WE WAND POPULAR WORKS 3
                                          2s. 6d. each,
                                                                               -
         ROMANCE OF COLONIZATION."
         *

                        of

                                              to
                                            on

                                             is

                                                                                            to

                                                                 of
                                                                                                                     its
         Special attention                requested        this well-written and up-to-date

         Series              books        the development                   British Colonization from
                                        the present day.
         commencement

         Crown 8vo.          UFnroitnetisdpieScet.at3e2s0  opafgeAs. mCelortihcaexttroa,t2hse. 6dT.imeaceh.

         *I.--The
         *II.--tThehPeilgrimUnFaittheersd. BSytatBeasrnettoSfmitAh.merica to the
         *III.-India.Present Day. ByIn of in ofG.

                                                   E. G.
                                          Barnett Smith.
                                        By Alfred Knight.

         *Victoria: Her Life and Reign. By Alfred Knight.
                                                                                   K.

                                                                                           ;

                                                                                               E.

                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                   or
         New Edition. Large Crown 8vo. 320 pages. Copiously Illustrated

         with most recent Portrait Her Majesty, and numerous other Illus

         trations. Cloth extra, 2s. 6d. fancy cloth, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. half
         morocco,            A          of
                                to or
                                              A of

                                                       ;

                                                                by
                                                                          1o

                                                                          by
                                     half calf, marbled edges, net 7s. 6d. full morocco,
         *John:calf, gilt edges, net Ios. 6d.
                                 Tale     the Messiah.                         By    Pearson Woods,

º        BroFurogntihsptiece.          Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.
                                        Jesus:
W. |.                                                      Bible Picture Book for Little
         Readers. Containing Twelve large New Testament Scenes, printed
                    colours,     with appropriate   letterpress                      G.      Morton, Author
                                     Jesus." Size,  13;                        Mrs.      E.
                    "Story
                                 of                                         inches. Handsome coloured
         BibbloeardPs iwcitthurcleotsh
!),                                     back.   Stories.           Old and New Testament.

                                        and

70, one Volume. Bound handsome cloth, with eighty-nine full-page
         Light LittleforIllustrations byof
               By the Author                          in

                                                                          or,
                                        EmineFnot oAtrtsisttes.ps;             BDibayles,"St"oArieRsidIlelustrPaictetudr.eto

                                           "Sunshine for Showery
         Land," etc. With beautiful coloured Cover and Frontispiece. Full
         of Pictures.                                                                                -

         Potters Their Arts and Crafts. Historical, Bio
                      :                                                           Sparkes (Principal the
                                    of
         graphical, and Descriptive. By John                                C.               G.
                                                                                                 E.
                                                                              A
                                                                                                      2s.

                                                                                                           ; of
y: |C)   Royal College                    Art, South Kensington Museum), and Walter

         Gandy. Crown 8vo. Copiously Illustrated. Cloth extra,                                       6d. art
         Stolrinyen,ogfiJlteesdguess, .3sF. o6rd.Little Children. By Mrs.
                                                                                             Morton,

lºft                         of  "tfhWoeeAreutSDhoohnroaldw,""eAertycR. idDeMaanyPyicsItllu:ursetraLtaioCnndhs,.i"ld"rLeImingp'hesrtiafPloirc1tL6uimtrtolee.
g.             Author
5.                                        of        by
         Sunshine
                                                          11
               Book. By
                                                               to
Spiritual ofued FcIIolo4otthsfteblºpasºc,ks"G.eertcaa. nsdpSizoeth, e1r5t%hEnegraEvpiningiscsh.telse. sCoCl(oouTlorheudreed)p;aFproeorrn,tbisopairedEcsep,,is-watilntedh
 gº. ºf                                                                              of
                                                                                                 an
lºft a-Sunday. By Rev. Charles A. Fox, Author "Lyrics from the
         UpwHilals,r"detc.anSmdall      Crown 8vo.         Cloth boards. (Not illustrated.)
                                                                   Thought Book for
                                        Onward.            S.                                           the

                                                              A
gº, Threshold Active Life. By W. Partridge. (Fourteenth Thouof

         sand.) Cloth boards, 2s. 6d. (Not Illustrated.)
4. S. JV. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                    2s. 6d, each (continued).

THE "RED MOUNTAIN" SERIES.

Crown 820. 320 Pages. Illustrated.                               Handsomely bound
in cloth boards. 2s. 6d. each.

*The Wheel of Fate. By Mrs. Bagot Harte, Author of

      "Wrongly Condemned," etc.

*A Polar Eden: or, The Goal of the "Dauntless." By

     Charles R. Kenyon, Author of "The Young Ranchman," etc.

*Mark:Seaworth : A Tale of the Indian Archipelago. By

     W. H. G. Kingston, Author of "Manco, the Peruvian Chief."
*Yashti Savage: The Story of a Gipsy Girl. By Sarah
Tytler.
By Sea-Shore, Wood, and Moorland: Peeps at
Nature. By Edward Step, Author of "Plant Life," etc.
Eaglehurst Towers. By Emma Marshall, Author of

      "Fine Gold," etc.
Eagle Cliff (The): A Tale of the Western Isles. By R. M.
      Ballantyne, Author of "Fighting the Flames," "The Lifeboat," etc.
Edwin, The Boy Outlaw; or, The Dawn of Freedom in

    England. A Story of the Days of Robin Hood. By J. Frederick
Hodgetts, Author of "Older England," etc.
England's Navy: Stories of
                                           of             Ships and      its  Services.
                                                 its
With Glance                                        the Ancient World. By        M.
         of a  of atsome Navies                                                F.
Holmes, Author "Great Works by Great Men," etc.
Green Mountain Boys (The): Story the American                                        -
                                                   F.            of
                                                                                   of of
                                                        A
War            Independence. By            Eliza       Pollard,  Author  of   "True unto
Death,"        "Roger the Ranger,"          etc.,  etc.                                              -
                                                                           of
Great Works by Great Men: The Story Famous
Engineers and their Triumphs. By M. Holmes.
                                                   F.

                                                          L.
                                                             T.
Lady of the Forest (The). By                                     Meade, Author
"Scamp and I," "Sweet Nancy," etc.
                                                                  g

Leaders Into Unknown Lands: Being Chapters

      Recent Travel. By Montefiore, F.G.S., F.R.G.S. Maps, etc.

Lion City of Africa (The): Story Adventure. By

     Willis Boyd Allen, Author "The Red Mountain Alaska," etc.
                           A.                      A      By
                                    by of                      of

                                                                   H. of

                                                                          G.
Manco, The Peruvian Chief. W.                                                 Kingston,
                                           Launcelot Speed.
New Edition. Illustrated
Olive Chauncey's Trust. By Mrs.
         "Lady Missionaries                                E.     Pitman, Author
                                                              R.

·                            Foreign Lands."
                           F.
     of                        in

Roger the Ranger:                A         Story Border Life among the
                                                   of of
Indians. By Eliza Pollard, Author "Not Wanted," etc.
  CATALOGUE OF NEW & POPULAR WORAS. 5

                    2ss 6ds each (continued).

THE *RED MOUNTAIN." SERIES (continued).

Red Mountain of Alaska (The). By Willis Boyd

      Allen, Author of "Pine Cones," "The Northern Cross," etc.

Slave Raiders of Zanzibar (The). By E. Harcourt
      Burrage, Author of "Gerard Mastyn," "Whither Bound P" etc. '

Spanish Maiden (The): A Story of Brazil. By Emma

      E. Hornibrook, Author of "Worth the Winning," etc.

True unto Death: A Story of Russian Life and the
      Crimean War. By Eliza F. Pollard, Author of "Roger the Ranger."

YWhither Bound 7 A Story of Two Lost Boys. By Owen

      Landor. With Twenty Illustrations by W. Rainey, R.I.

Young Moose Hunters (The): A Backwoods-Boy's

      Story. By C. A. Stephens. Profusely Illustrated.

2s, each,

*The Friends of Jesus. Illustrated Sketches for the
young, of the Twelve Apostles, the Family at Bethany, and other of
the earthly friends of the Saviour. Small 4to. Cloth extra.
Anecdotes in Natural History. By Rev. F. O.
Morris, B.A. With numerous Illustrations. Feap. 4to. Cloth extra.
Animals and their Young. By Harland Coultas.
With Twenty-four full-page    Illustrations by Harrison Weir.  Feap.
Cloth gilt, bevelled boards.                                          4to

Domestic Pets: Their Habits and Treatment. Anecdotal

      and Descriptive. Full of Illustrations. Feap. 4to. Cloth extra.

Natural History Stories. By Mary Howitt. With

      Thirty-two full-page Engravings by Harrison Weir, L. Huard, etc.,
      and numerous smaller Illustrations. Feap. 4to. Cloth gilt, bevelled

       boards.

Our Dumb Companions. By Rev. T. Jackson, M.A.
       One Hundred and Twenty Illustrations. Feap. 4to. Cloth extra.

Sunny Teachings. (New Series): A Bible Picture

      Roll containing Twelve beautifully Coloured Scripture Pictures
       selected from the New Testament. Mounted on roller.

Young Folk's Bible Picture Roll (The). Contains
       Twelve beautifully Coloured Pictures of Bible Subjects. Printed on
       good paper, and mounted on roller, with cord for hanging up.

Natural History Picture Roll. Consisting of Thirty
       one Illustrated Leaves, with simple large-type Letterpress, suitable to
       hang up in the Nursery, Schoolroom, etc.
6 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S
                     2s, each (continued).

THE HOME LIBRARY.

     Crown    8vDo.u3n2b0 aparg;es.  In or,Handsome Cloth Cover.               Z//ustrations.                E. F.
                                            Vengeance Mine.
"Esther                                                   J. S.                By Eliza
Pollard.
*Tangled Threads.                                             of is
*Ailsa's Reaping;                            By Esm Stuart.                    Thorns.                     By
                                           or, Grape-Vines and       a
      Jennie  Chappell.
                         or,                 Honour Bound. By                  F. T.  Corrie.
*Petrel       Darcy;

*Honor:                 Nineteenth Century Heroine. By                                              T. E.  M.
      Alford.
      :
         A

            A
Avice Story              L. ofImperial Rome. By Eliza                               Pollard.
Ben-Hur. By                   Wallace.
BBerottwenr ieP;art
                   or,  (The). By Annie                     Swan.          of F.  Pollard.

                        The Lady Superior.                By Eliza
Bunch of Cherries (A). By W. Kirton.
Cousin Mary. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author "Chronicles
DDor.roCtCrhaoyrlsi'nssg;foTrodrr,,"aTeitnrci.eind gan;d
of                                                        True. By Ruth    Sterling.
                                                          or, Wild-Flower        Weed?
                                                                           or                              By

EdiJetnhnieOCshwapapelldl. ; or, Living for Others. 224 pages.                            By
Florence Stanley;                    or,     Forgiving, because Much                   JKainpepeMn..

Forgiven.                                                                             }
FGoerraHrdonMouars'stySna; keo.r,
                                                          By Jennie Chappell.

                                             The Son                    Genius.                     By

GerHaarlcdourTt Bhuurrargleo. w; or, The New Marshal.                                 By                   M.

Browne.
Household Angel (The). By Madeline Leslie.
Her Saddest Blessing. By Jennie Chappell.
Jacques Hamon or, Sir Philip's Private Messenger
LivBiny gMary It Ropes.
                   E.
                                 ;Down.

                                         of
                                               a
                                By Laura M. Lane.
MLoaudiee'lsineM;aorrr,ieTdhe   Life.
Chappell.                                                 By Sarah Doudney.           By Jennie
                                Tale                         Haunted House.

Morning Dew-Drops. By Clara Lucas Balfour.
Mark  Desborough's
Mick                                       Wow. By Annie                   S. Swan.
      Tracy, the Irish                                                       By the Author
Naom"Tii;moDr,ooTlhane,                     Scripture Reader.
                         the Irish Emigrant."
                         Last Days Jerusalem.
of                                                                         By Mrs. Webb.
                                         of

                                                                                                           ~
CATAzog UE OF NEW & POPULAR WORKS

               2s, each (continued).

THE HOME LIBRARY (continued).

Pilgrim's  Progress                                (The)...  By John Bunyan.                  416

-

pages. 47 Illustrations.
Strait Gate (The). By Annie S. Swan.
Tom Sharman and his College Chums. By J. O.
      Keen, D.D.
Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Woman      at  TBhaoyu(gAh).t;                     By Harriet Beecher Stowe.

YWithout   a                                       By Marie Zimmermann.
Chappell.                                          or, Dora's Discipline. By Jennie

Way in the Wilderness (A). By Maggie Swan.

                                   By              "PAN.SY."

Chrissy's Endeavour.                                       Ruth Erskine's Grosses.
ATFhonurerEenGdPilreelossspaleCt.hCahina.utauqua.          Ester Ried.
TWhieseChaanudtaOutqhuearwGisier.ls at Home.
                                                         JEusltiear RRiieedd.. Yet Speaking.

                                                          The Man of the House.

Over 325,000 of these volumes have already been sold.

                          1s, 6d, each.

THE "WORLD'S WONDERS" SERIES.

A Series   ofWPoeplluwlarrittBeono, ksprtirnetaetidngonofgtohoedprpeaspeenrt,-daayndwfounldlyerislluosftSrcaiteendce.

and Art.
Crown 8vo, 160 pages. Handsome Cloth Cover.

*Romance of the               PoBystArchO. fGfi.cBeow: ie. .  By Its
       Wondrous Development.                                                     By
                                                                                    F.
                                                              Inception and

*Marvels of Metals. By M. Holmes.
F.

        of

                                  by

                                      F.
MinMe.rHsolmaens.d their Works Underground.
Triumphs the Printing Press. Walter Jerrold.
Astronomers and their Observations. By Lucy

     Taylor. With Preface W. Thynne Lynn, B.A., F.R.A.S.

Celebrated Mechanics and their Achievements.
By M. Holmes.
Chemists and their Wonders. By M. Holmes.
Engineers and their Triumphs. By M. Holmes.                   F. F.
Electricians and their Maryels. By Walter Jerrold.
Musicians and their Compositions. By                          J.
Naturalists and their Investigations.                                                         Griffiths.
                                                                   ByR.
                                                                                              George
Day, F.R.M.S.
8 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                       1s. 6d. each (continued ).

NEW SERIES OF MISSIONARY BIOGRAPHIES.

Crown 8vo. 160 pages. Cloth extra. Fully Illustrated.

*Captain Allen Gardiner : Sailor and Saint. By
Jessie Page, Author of "Japan,                    People and Missions," etc.
*Tiyo Soga   J.
                       The Model           Kaffir   Missionary.              By                                                                                      H.
      Cousins, Ph.D.,B. :
                       F.R.G.S.                                                                                                                                          of E. T.
                           :
                                              of

                                                          its

                                                           of

                                                   in
Amid Greenland Snows; or, The Early)
History of Arctic Missions.                                                                                                                                          By
AmZoenaglantdh. e Maoris; or, Daybreak New
Bishop Patteson, the Martyr of Melanesia.                                           Jesse
                                                                                    Page.

Congo for Christ (The): The Story the Congo Mission.
By Rev.           Myers, Author "William Carey," etc.
David Brainerd, the Apostle to the North
American Indians. By Jesse Page.
Henry Martyn His Life and Labours--Cam
     bridge,   India, Persia. By                   Jesse Page.
                                                                         By  Jesse    Page.
Japan:        Its People and                      Missions.
John Williams, the Martyr Missionary                                          of    Poly
     nesia. By Rev. James Ellis.
                                       J.                       to Dawn in Fiji.
James Calvert; or, From
      By R.  VCerhnoanl.mers,                     Dark

James                                  Missionary               and Explorer of
LadRyaroMtoisngsaionaandrieNsew
           Pitman, Author               Guinea. By              William Robson.  Mrs.

Madagascar: Its                        in Foreign                 Lands. By
                           "Vestina's Martyrdom," etc.

                            Missionaries and
E. R.                                                                    Martyrs.                                                                                    By
     R.

        J.

                             of
                                  of

                                              of
MReisgWsiiinlloiaanmlPaditmryaTnoH,wHenAsebuetnrehdoor, ir,nAeuBt"shiLsoarhidnoyp"MERiasososibotenfeartrrCienMsaolrcLrisuaFoontnrt,ed"aigse,nt.c.LAaunBtdyhso."Mr rs.
      "From  MGroeefnflaantd,'sthIcey  MMoiusnstaiionsn."aryBy  A.
                                                                     in
Robert                                                              Montefiore, F.R.G.S.

                                                                Hero of Kuruman.
SamByuDealvidCroDweatnhe.er, the Slave Boy who becameJ.

     Bishop   BofirthcehNiFgreer.emByaJnes,seMPaisges. ionary            Pioneer to

Thomas
YWiAllsihaamnti,CDaarheoym,etyh, eanSdhEogebam. akByeRrevw. hJoohnbMeilcumam, Fe.R.tGh.Se.
Father and Founder of Modern Missions. By Rev. B.Myers.
                                                                             J.
  CATALOGUE OF NEW & POPULAR                                    IPOAA.S. 9

                    1s, 6d, each (continued).

NEW POPULAR BIOGRAPHIES.

Crown 8vo. 160 pages. Maps and Illustrations. Cloth extra.

*Fridtjof Nansen: His Life and Explorations. By J.
Arthur Bain.
*Philip Melancthom: The Wittemberg Professor and
Theologian of the Reformation. By David J. Deane, Author of
      "Two  NobGleorLidveosn,",  etc.
                                        Christian  Soldier      and
General                            the
      Hero.  ByTGy.nBdaranelett ,
                                   Smith.   Translator          of the
William
                                       the
HerEonegslisahnBdibleH. erBoyinGe. sBaronefttthSmeitSh.cottish
                                                                                                -

                                                                Covenant
     ers. By J. Meldrum Dryerre, LL.B., F.R.G.S.

Canal Boy who became President (The). By
DavFrieddericLiTv. iGnamgmsotno. neTw:elftHhisEdiLtiaobn.ourTshirtya-nfodurthHiTshouLsaengda. cy.

      By Arthur Montefiore, F.G.S., F.R.G.S.

Four Heroes of India: Clive, Warren Hastings, Have.
      lock, Lawrence. By F. M. Holmes.

Florence Nightingale, the Wounded Soldier's
     Friend. By Eliza F. Pollard. ,

Gladstone (W. E.): England's Great Commoner.
      By Walter Jerrold. With Portrait and thirty-eight other Illustrations.

John Knox and the Scottish Reformation. By G.
       Barnett Smith.

Michael Faraday, Man of Science. By Walter Jerrold.
"One and All." An Autobiography of Richard Tangye,

      of the Cornwall Works, Birmingham. With Twenty-one Original

SirIlluJsotrahtinons bFyrFarannkk lHinewetta. nd(192tphaegesR.) omance of the
     North-West  HPaisssagCeh. amBypGi.oBnarsnett(STmhithe. ):
                                                                Sketches of
Slave and
Granville Sharp, Thomas Clarkson, William Wilberforce, and Sir T.
StaFn. lBeuyxton(.HeBynCr.yD.MM.i)c,hatehl. e African Explorer. By
TSTwphurBSoAotryratgurhDueNgaorovfohiMndbthoJelPne.(tCRreDfei.eisofLaorHnoreime,v.n.a)eFti:.os(GB2n:0.HSa8;i.sr,pJaOasnFgLd:.eHiRfsMe..TN)GhA.aSeRn.dWTLIiMNvICeinsLLisUIaFtnTrFdyHE.EL,aRBb,yothtuhJeeresssMReoeofforPJrnomaighneerng..
Howard and Elizabeth Fry, the Prisoner's Friends. By William H.

Render.

Over 375,000 of these popular volumes have already been sold.
IO S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                   Ms. 6d, each (continued).

THE BRITISH BOYS LIBRARY.

A Mew Series of                              6d. books for boys.
                      of
           Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.
                          a

                               A

                                        18.
*The Bell Buoy; or, The Story                        of     Mysterious Key

      By M. Holmes.                                      a

F.

   A
*Jack. Story                    Scapegrace. By M. Bryant.E.

*Hubert Ellerdale:                         Tale  of  the Days                                      of  Wicliffe.

      By W. Oak Rhind.

THE BRITISH GIRLS" LIBRARY.

ANew Series                                  6d books for girls.

                    of

                                              18,
                                                       :

                                          A

                                                             E.
                                                                  of

                                                                                     a
           Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.

*Sweet Kitty Claire. By Jennie Chappell.
*The Maid of the Storm
      Village. By Nellie Cornwall.                   Story                                             Cornish

*Mistress of the Situation (The). By Jennie
Chappell.

*Queen of the Isles. By Jessie M. Saxby.

nEW PICTURE BOOKS.

*Hapºpy and Gay:                Pictures and Stories for Every Day.

      By D., Author
8
       D.

       J.

                                    of
                                                       of
                                                                    9
                                                                                 by

                                                                                                7
                                "Stories         Animal Sagacity," etc. With
                                                                                                   inches. Hand
coloured and 97 other Illustrations. Size
                       covers,   paper
       some coloured                    boards  with cloth  backs.                                 Boys.  By
                      and       Joys
*Pleasures                               for     Girls      and
IIID. D., Author "Anecdotes Animals and Birds." With
8                     to                ` in of
                            of                   of
    J.
                                                      in
          in 57                                             D. by 9
              Io
                                                         J. 7

                                                                    D.

                                                                      A
coloured and                    other Illustrations. Size by inches. Hand

some coloured cover, paper boards and cloth back.
Anecdotes of Animals and Birds. By Uncle John.
With            full-page and other Illustrations           Harrison Weir, etc.
Fcap. 4to. 128 pages. Handsomely bound paper boards, with Animal
design            colours, varnished. (A charming book for the Young.)

Stories of Animal Sagacity. By                                                                            com
panion volume         "Anecdotes                Animals." Numerous full-page
Illustrations. Handsomely bound paper boards, with Animal subject
printed  in       colours, varnished.

            Io
CATAZOGUE OF ME W. & POPULAR WORKS. II

                   1s, 6d, each (continued).

ILLUSTRATED REWARD BOOKS.

   Crown 8vo, 160 pages. Cloth extra. Fully Illustrated.

Aileen; or, "The Love of Christ Constraineth Us." By

     Laura A. Barter, Author of "Harold ; or, Two Died for Me."
Claire; or, A Hundred Years Ago.
                                                  By T. M. Browne,
     Author of "Jim's Discovery," etc.
Duff Darlington;                or,
                                    of or,An Unsuspected Genius. By
   Evelyn Everett-Green. With six Illustrations Harold Copping.F. of by
Everybody's Friend;
                                          Hilda Danvers' Influence. By
   Evelyn Everett-Green, Author "Barbara's Brother," etc.
·

Fine Gold; or, Ravenswood Courtenay.                             By Emma
      Marshall, Author "Eaglehurst Towers," etc.
                    of
Her Two Sons.
                       AA

                                      of of
                                Story for Young Men and Maidens.
   By Mrs. Charles Garnett, Author "Mad John Burleigh," etc.
Jack's Heroism. Story Schoolboy Life. By Edith
   Kenyon.                                                                         of
Lads of Kingston (The). By James Capes Story.                                            C.
Marigold. By        L.                                      "Lady
                        T.      Meade, Author                                      the

   Forest," etc.
Minister's Money, The. By Eliza Pollard, Author
Nobly"TruPe launntonDeedat.h,"L. to ofetc.
                                          M.  B.  Manwell, Author                        of
                                   By

      "Mother's     MBoiyg,"hettcy. Yonders.      By Rev.        Dr. Newton.
                                                  Goldsmith      Cooper.
NNaetlulare; 'sor,  Not My Own. By Jessie
Our Duty to Animals. By Mrs.
                                                        Bray, Author
                                                  of to                                    of of of
                                                     C.

                                                                    to
                                                                            be
                                                                                a
      "Physiology for Schools," etc. Intended teach the young kindness
          animals. Cloth, Is. 6d. School Edition, Is. 3d.

Raymond and Bertha: Story True Nobility... By
                                ;
                                           .

                                      A

Rose PChiallippse, lA'suthSoracr"Fifriacnek ;Buorrl,eigh;Mootrh, eCrh'ossenLove.ofSoldier."
                      of        a
                                                                                  By Mrs.
                                        A
   Haycraft, Author "Like Little Candle," "Chine Cabin," etc.
Satisfied. By Catherine M. Trowbridge.
'Sisters-in-Love. By Jessie M.
                                                        Saxby, Author
                                                  E.

                                                             by
   Trust;"Dora Coyne,""Sallie's Boy," etc. Illustrated           W. Rainey, R.I.
Ted's               or, Aunt Elmerley's Umbrella. By Jennie
   Gill:Chappell, Author "Who was the Culprit?" "Losing and Finding."
Thomas Howard       of of                 His Life and Work. By Eliza
           Pollard, Author "Florence Nightingale," etc.F.

Tamsin Rosewarne and Her Burdens:                                A                 Tale

   Cornish Life. By Nellie Cornwall.
I2 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                            1s, each.

ONE SHILLING REWARD BOOKS.

         Fully Illustrated. 96 pages, Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.

*The Farm by the Wood. By F. Scarlett Potter,
Author of "Phil's Frolic," etc.
*His Majesty's Beggars. By Mary E. Ropes, Author
Alwoaf "yBsel'sHBaabpy,p" yet;c. or, The Story of Helen Keller. By
      Jennie   Chappell, Author      Oof r"Tdeed'aslT;ruosrt.,"
                                                                  God's        Ways      not  Our
Arthur          Egerton's
Ways. By the Author of "Ellerslie House," etc.
Birdie and her Dog, and other Stories of Canine
       Sagacity. By Miss Phillips.

Birdie's Benefits; or, A Little Child Shall Lead Them.
By Ethel Ruth Boddy.
Band of Hope Companion (The). A Hand-book for
Band of Hope Members: Biographical, Historical, Scientific, and
ICarAonle'csdoGtal.iftB;y
                 Alf.         G. Glasspool.                   am Afraid I will Trust in
                 or,
                              "What Time
Thee." By Jennie Chappell, Author of "Without a Thought," etc.
BraHvereoismB,"e"rHtiield.a;         By Edith Kenyon, Author
                                                                               of        "Jack's
                                     or, Life's Discipline," etc.
Children of Cherryholme (The). By M. S. Haycraft,
For;Author of "Like a Little Candle," "Chine Cabin," etc.
Cared            or, The Orphan Wanderers. By Mrs. C. E.
Bowen, Author of "Dick and his Donkey," etc.
Chine Cabin. By Mrs. Haycraft, Author of "Red Dave,"
      "Little  DMeotlhigerh,"te.tc.
                                     By  Jennie               Chappell,     Author of "Her
Dulcie
Frank Burleigh;Saddest Blessing," "For Honour's Sake," etc.
                                       or, Chosen to be                  a     Soldier.  By L.
Phillips.
Frank Spencer's Rule of Life. By J. W. Kirton,
      Author of  "BTuryeYaosururOewsn,Chearrnieds."
                                                              How        They        Helped
Grannie's
HHoawrHoerl.da ;BFyoarLr,.tTEhw.ioTnidgDdeiemMdaanf.odreMae.
         BtehstePoClicoyn."quBey rMorsr.;                     FoByrtLuanurea;  A. Barter.     is
                                                                                or, "Honesty

Jackthe                                    C. E.  Bowen.                 Overcome.       By the
                                             or,
                                                  Difficulties
JemAumthyor    oLf a"Dwicskoann;d    his Donkey."
                                     or, Beware               of  Crooked      Ways.     By E.

JenCn. yK'esnyoGne, Aruatnhoiruomf ";Jacokr',s   Heroism."        Flower       of a      London
Court.
                                                The Prize
CATALOGUE OF NEW & POPULAR WORKS 13

                          1s, each (continued).

SHILLING REWARD BOOKS (continued).

Jim's Discovery; or, On the Edge of a Desert. By
LLiotstTCli.onerMngw.BaBlaulr,onnAwducntehh, o'FArsuiontChf do"hrTiaanomfrggs";iDnea;wRsooosenrw,'TsahTrMnereua,"deMgeoett,oco".nesTttcro.unset.
                                      of                                                                                                            By Nellie
                                               or,                                                                                                Ring. By

                                                                                 P"
LittJelnenieWChoaoppdelml, aAunthoar nd"Whhios wDasotghe  Culprit                    etc.
Mrs. Sherweod.                                                                                                                                            By
                                                          Caesar                     (The).

Little Bugler (The): Tale the American Civil War.
LadByyGeBoregettMyu'nsroTe wRoiynces..  A  New
                                             By
                                                E.
                                                    of
                                                   Edition.                                                                                       A.
                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                        M. Waterworth,                                                                            Author
Mar"Mjoasrtyer;        Lionel," "Twice Saved," etc.
                         or, What Would Jesus do?         By Laura                                                                                Barter,
                       an"dHarAolud;guors, tTaw;o
MaAruiothnor;                                      Died  for Me."       Selfishness.                                                                      By
                                                    or,
                     of                                  Love and
MotEhmemra'sLesClieh, aAuinthor(Th"eE)ll;ersolire,        House," etc.

                                                         The Broken
                          of                                            Link.                                                                     By Emma

                               of of
                                                           F.
NanMarshall, Author "Fine Gold; or, Ravenswood Courtenay," etc.                                                                                           of

            or, The Power Love. By Eliza Pollard, Author
Old"AGvicoeg,"g"lHeosp;e   Deferred," etc.
                                                          Bairns'                    Mistake.                                                             By
                          or, The Brackenhurst
M. Haycraft, Author "The Children Cherryholme," etc.
            S.

                              E.

                                          of
                                                                      of

                                                                             of
Our Den. By                     M. Waterworth, Author                                                                                             "Master
RayLimoneol,ntdha'st TireRsoimveaCl;hildo."r, Which will Win? By Jennie
RonChaalpdpelKl, eAunthnoer dy"L;oosirn, g         and Finding," etc.
                                of                  Domestic Difficulty.                                                                          By Evelyn
                                       of

                                         A
Everett-Green, Author "Everybody's Friend," etc.
Recitations and Concerted Pieces for Bands Hope,
                                                                        of
                                                                                  of
STwweSiI,cu"ene"dtaAySNSBaacahynnodeocldsy, ;.Tehtcro.eBre,,y"CSoomemtpcei.lebdoMdbyey'asJdaemP,eeAts uaWntehdsotorNn.obod"yS'csamDaprlianngd.L.T.

TemByperMa.nWcaeterwSotrtoh,riAeusthorfor"Otuhr eDenY,"o"uMnasgte.rE.ofof                                                                         Lionel," etc.
                            of
                                                                                                                                                   By
      Arthur,                         Nights                                                                                                            T.
                RAuutnhoar wa"yTesn.               in    Bar Room."
Three                                     By          a                                                                                                      of of S.
                                                          Scarlett Potter, Author
                                                   F.
      "Phil's Frolic," "Hazelbrake Hollow," etc.

Una Bruce's Troubles. By Alice Price, Author
                         King's," etc. Illustrated by Harold Copping.

                         Blossom. By Margaret Haycraft,
·

   of

          it a of
                                        ;
Und"Heamr ilttohn e                                                                                                                               Author
tillWait"Like Little Candle or, Bertrand's Influence," etc.
                                                                                                                                                          of
                      Blooms. By Jennie Chappell, Author
GippitzWh"oHerwSaasddetsht eBlessing," etc.
                                                         By Jennie Chappell, Author
            "Her Saddest Blessing," "The Man the Family," etc.
of
                                                            of

                                                                                                                                                     .
I4 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                      1s, each (continued).

POPULAR SHILLING SERIES.

Crown 8vo, well printed on good paper, and bound in attractive and
tasteful coloured paper covers. Fully Illustrated.
;}The Better Part.
Louie's        Married  Life.         By   |  Living it      Down.             By Laura M.
                                                   Lane.
      Sarah  Doudney.                         WEaigthllmeOmhuautrMsaatrshTaoll.wers.     By Mrs.
The Strait Gate.                                                                              By.
                                   By
                                 Annie
Maº. Blessing.jd:Graannoddrm.FoPoretLhsuebcyro''srsoSuaCkgheh.i'lsd,w
                                 "..-." | Her saddest
                                 be

                                           in
                                                                          or,
                                 Swan.        Fine Gold;        By                  Ravenswood
                                                                             Emma Marshall.
                                                    Courtenay.

             The above can also       had     fancy cloth, price Is. 6d.

GHEAP REPRINTS OF POPULAR STORIES FOR THE YOUNG.

Crown 8vo. 160 pages. Illustrated. Cloth boards, 1s. each.

*Rag and Tag:                    Plea for the Waifs and Strays                           L.
Old England. By Mrs.       A                                                                 T. of

                                E.

                                 J.

                                                               F.
                                           Whittaker.

*Through Life's Shadows. By Eliza Pollard.
*Prue's Father; or, Miss Prothisa's Promise. By Ethel

      F. Heddle.

*The Little Princess of Tower Hill. By
       Meade.

*Clovie and Madge. By Mrs.                    it                Reaney.

                                                   G.
                                                         S.
*The Safe Compass and How                              Points.                           By
*The Best Things.
"Rays from the Sun.                                                            Dr. Newton

                                                                                      -

Ellerslie House: Book for Boys. By Emma Leslie.
                           A                           of        Two Apprentices.
                                   A                       F.Bertrand's Influence.
Manchester House:                             Tale
By Capes Story.
             a J.  Little Candle; or,
Like
YioBley tMrsM. aHaiytclaranft.d; or,
                                      By  Thorny Ways. By Laura M. Lane.

Martin Redfern's Oath. By Ethel Heddle.

Dairyman's Daughter (The). By Legh Richmond.
CATALOGUE OF NEW & POPULAR WORKS. 15

                        1s, each (continued).

PICTURE BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

     Fcap. 4to. With Coloured Covers, and Full of Illustrations.

*Frolic and Fun: Pictures and Stories for Every One.
      By Uncle Jack, Author of "Follow the Drum," etc. Four full-page
       coloured and numerous other Illustrations.

*Merry Playmates: Pictures and Stories for Little

      Folks. By C. D. M., Author of "Brightness and Beauty," etc.
      Four full-page coloured and numerous other Illustrations.

Follow the Drum : Pictures and Stories for Cheerful and
      Glum. By Uncle Jack, Author of "Bright Beams and Happy Scenes,"
      etc. Four full-page coloured and numerous other illustrations.

Off and Away: Pictures and Stories for Grave and Gay.

      By C. D. M., Author of "Brightness and Beauty," etc. Four full-page
       coloured, and numerous other Illustrations.

Bible Pictures and Stories. Old Testament. By D. J. D.,

      Author of "Pets Abroad," etc. With Forty-four full-page Illustrations.
      Coloured paper boards, Is. ; cloth gilt, 6d.
                                            Is.
Bible Pictures and Stories. New Testament. By ; Is.
                    J. D.
                        J. J.                     I;s. I;s.
                                                               Is.
                                 D. D.
                                                              A
                                                                                     1s.
                                                                                                ,
James Weston and                          With Forty-five beautiful full-page
Illustrations by W. Webb, Sir John Gilbert, and others. New
Edition. FCap. 4to. Illustrated boards,                cloth, extra,
 Bright                                                                                          6d.
                    and Happy
-         Beams                                        Scenes:               Picture
Book for Little Folk. By                  Four full-page coloured and numerous
other Illustrations. Coloured paper cover,                   cloth, Is. 6d.
Holiday Hours in Animal Land. (New Series.)
By Uncle Harry. Four full-page coloured and numerous other
Illustrations. Coloured paper cover,         cloth,
Merry Moments.                                               6d.

                    A     Picture Book for Lads and Lasses.

By M. Four full-page coloured and many other Illustrations.
     C.
         D.

Coloured paper cover, Is...; cloth, 1s. 6d.

             BOOKS BY REP. D.R. NEWTON.

New  and  Cheap  Edition. 160 pages.                         Prettily bound
                             cloth boards,|   Crown    8vo.
                                            Is, each.
                                                  to
     Bible Jewels.
                                                                                              in
                                                       Bible Wonders.

          Rills from the Fountain of Life.

            The Giants, and How Fight Them.

     Specially suitable for Sunday School Libraries and Rewards.

*Cicely's Little Minute. By Harvey Gobel. Long 8vo.
      Illustrated Title Page. Cloth extra. 1s. nett.
16 CATALOG UE OF NEW & AOAUZAR WORKS.

                              1s, each (continued).
The Master's Gifts to Women. By Mrs. Charlotte
TheSkinnMera. stSemra'sll 8voM. e1s12sapaggees.s  Cloth.
                                                                          By Mrs.
                                                   to Women.
       Charlotte Skinner.     o(fUnifCormhrwisitthiathne aboLvei.v) ing.
                                                                          Selections
Some Secrets
from the "Seven Rules" Series of Booklets. Small 8vo, cloth
Brabyoaerds.and True. Talks to Young Men. By Thain
       Davidson,   D.D.   Small Crown 8vo. Cloth.
                                                                   E. W. Moore,
Daybreak            in   the Soul. By the Rev.
M.A., Author                                                        Imperial 32mo.
                         of "The Overcoming Life."
My14G4 puaegess.t  Cloth.
                                or,               For  the Master's       Use.  By
                   Chamber ;
SteSpopshiatoM.    Nugent.       Imperial  32mLoi,fe1.44   pages. Cloth.
                                                            Selections from     the
                   the        Blessed
"Seven Rules" Series of Booklets. By Rev. F. B. Meyer, B.A.
ThoSrmoaull gCrhownnes8vso:,  cloth boards.
                                                  Young    Men.           By              -
                                 Talks to
Davidson, D.D. Small Crown 8vo. Cloth extra.                                  Thain

Women of the Bible. (Old Testament). By Etty
       Woosnam.  ofThitrhd eEdiBtioinb. leR.oya(lN1e6wmo.    Cloth.
                                                           Testament.)        By the
Women
same Author. Royal 16mo. Cloth.

                              9d., each.
NINEPENNY SERIES OF ILLUSTRATED BOOKS.

96 pages. Small Crown 8vo. Illustrated. Handsome Cloth Covers.
*The Babes in the Basket; or, Daph and Her
       Charge.
                         Penny  Became                     a Pound.       By Mrs.
*How Paul's
*HoBowwenP, eAtuethro'rsofP"oDuicnkdandBheics aDmonkeey."a Penny. By the
PABBBaoeeuylnFs'a'slljms,iagemBAFhAaurtiLtinbheitoywtnrlH..eidtoMshlBhtey'dtispihMaetBao(rroAS.yy)wEs. ,.aBylRaBloonyMpwdeJaesuss.dW.see hMBPaay.tgeEB.mTuthmleear.yMaDrsihdallf. or
      Him.  BoByy hthoeoAdu.thorByofth"eA   Candle     Lighted by  the Lord."
                                                                   the Conqueror."
Ben's                                      Author      of "Jack
Ben Owen : A Lancashire Story. By Jennie Perrett.
Cousin Bessie: A Story of Youthful Earnestness. By
       Clara Lucas Balfour.

Dawson's Madge; or, The Poacher's Daughter. By T.
      M. Browne, Author of "The Musgrove Ranch," etc.

Five Cousins (The). By Emma Leslie.
CATALOGUE OF WE W & POPULAR WORKS: 17

                             8t/- each (continued).

Foolish Chrissy; or, Discontent and Consequences. By
Meta, Author "Noel's Lesson," etc.      S.
                 of                                its
For Lucy's Sake. By Annie Swan.
Giddie Garland; or, The Three Mirrors.A                                             By Jennie

      Chappell.

Grandmother's Child.                    By Annie Swan.
                                          the Franco-Prussian War.
Jean Jacques: Story                     of                                          By
       Isabel Lawford.
                                                           S.

John Oriel's Start in Life. By Mary Howitt.
Little Mother. By Margaret Haycraft.
Left with Trust. By Nellie Hellis.
             E.
               of

                  a
                                    of
Letty; or, The Father the Fatherless. By
Author "Elsie's Fairy Bells."                                  of                   Clement,
                                                                      H.

                                                                               E.
Love's Golden Key; or, The Witch Berryton. By
Mary         Lester.

Master Lionel, that Tiresome Child. By M.
Waterworth.

Man of the Family (The). By Jennie Chappell.
Mattie's Home;               or,
                                  The Little Match-girl and her Friends.
Sailor's Lass (A). By Emma Leslie.

                                  6d, each,

NEW SERIES OF SIXPENNY PICTURE-BOOKS.

Crown quarto. Fully Illustrated. Handsomely bound                                   paper boards,
with design printed Eight colours.
                             in

                                              A

                                                                                in
*Sweet Stories Retold.                     Bible Picture-Dook for
      Young
             SFoclkhso. ol.             -
*After
*Doggies' Doings and Pussie's Wooings.
Under  the Umbrella, Pictures and Stories for                  Rainy Days.
Rosie  Dimple's Pictures and Stories
Folk.                                                          for Tiny

             .

                     of
                                                                 at in

                                                                               of
Playful Pussies' Book of Pictures and Stories.
Little Snowdrop's Bible Picture-Book.

This New Series  Picture Books surpasses,        excellence                         illustration
               and careful printing, all others  the price,
18 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S

                       6d, each (continued).

THE * RED DAYE" SERIES.

   New and Enlarged Edition, with Coloured Frontispieces. Hand

   somely bound in cloth boards.

Mother's Boy. By M.B.Manwell.                                            Snowdrops; or, Life from the
                                                                         DHeicrDtokbeaaePadcarin.ytd'tshheFiiRRsresDntt.oYnekaerya; toBr, rHaomw
A Great Mistake. By Jennie
Chappell.
FroJm. Ha#mailtnond. to Hand. By C.
§ºThat Boy Bob. By Jesse Page.                                           ford.
                                                                         Lost in the SnOW; or, The
                Own     Cherries.        By                              Kentish Fisherman.
Buy  W.                                                                  The Pearly Gates.
           Kirton.
   ...

                    A

                                              F.
oOwnleyne'Msst. ilFlyo;rtuonr,e.     By Mrs.                             Jessie DysOn,
                                                                         MFraieundde'lsesVsisBiotbt,oaSnadnodthyebr eStaocrihe.s.
     onn.                         Child's King

Shad's Christmas Gift.                                                   SCoymbiel   Home, Mother.
Greycliffe Abbey.                                                                   and her Live Snowball.
                                                                         §:ODnalyybraeaBku.nch of Cherries.
Red Dave           or,  What      Wilt Thou
                  do?                                                    Br Ben : The Story of a
      have Me to;                                                                  other's Boy.
                                     it
Harry's Monkey: How Helped
the Missionaries.

The AMARINGOLD ERIES.
                                  &
     An entirely new and unequalled         in                           series of standard stories, printed on
                                                    E.
     good laid paper. Imperial 8vo.                                       128 pages. Illustrated covers with
                                                                  |
     vignetted design printed EIGHT colours. Price 6D. each, NETT.

Pride and Prejudice. By                                                  The Wide, Wide World. By

      JANE AUSTEN.                                                              SUsAN WARNER.

From Jest to Earnest. By

      P. Rok.

                            4ds each,
The Turvy Lierary.

                        Books printed                                    large type. Cloth.
           a
                                    a                                    The Broken Window.
                                                 in                      JohSnelfishMneasds.ge's Cure
****LittFlientdCt.ClhearirslLstiooesn,s'sanadHnoodtlhideraSyt.orBieisg.                                for

WBohbabyt . Little Cripple Did.                                          The Pedlar's Loan.
Matty and Tom.                                                           Letty Young's Trials.
                                                                         LBirtatvleeJeBmoy,st.he Rag Merchant.
                         CATALOGUE OF NEW & POPULAR WORKS 19                                                                                                                         t

                                               4d. each (continued).

                         MEW FOURPENNY SERIES

                         ºf                                                         at the
                                                                                        |
                                      or,
  Hand.                  64 Cpalostehs-.bouWndellBoIloluksstrfaoterd.                                   Young. With Coloured Frontispieces.
 Om                                                                                                     Handsome Cloth Covers.

     How                 Poppy;      Bride's.  School               Days                                    #. jºboys.TSuhnenCysraidbe's CUomttabgree.lla.
 Bröm.
                              Saint
       The of            Carrie
beach.             the   Dandy       and the       Cobbler.
IStºi,
                                     Jim.                                                                   TWO Lilies.
wball,                   NPeitTrarro;yu'sblePAsimlogmorniemg tahTgereiBo.r.igands.                          The Little Woodman
iS,                      A                                                                                  RobHeisrt'DsogTCrauessatr..                        and

rinted                                  or,
       with
           of,           &Primeap ** PAMs          Y                SErnes.
NETT,
                                                        ""
     for
                         IFmivpeerCiaollou8vrso..*Mii.ºrºla #ºn*WilodtheBrrsytoornieise..64
chant
                         *Avice. Story
                                                             pages. Many Illustrations.                                        Cover printed
                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                   Hunter and
                                                                                                                                                         g

                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                            TTChiCupennonLKlienniwgnggias'WsnaonDrdakuemH-geehiscnthe.Lora.inmgp. .
                         AA                                                       -                     ||  Wise and Otherwise.
                                       ...A                                                                 Household Puzzles.
                                                                    Imperial                                The Randolphs.
                                                                 º                                          Mrs.OnS.olomon Smith Looking
                                                                                                            Links in Rebecca's Life.
                                                            of                                              TInhtreererupPeteodp.le.
           ld. ºrs ry    SpYuonRuoFnmrgeo. mGirFla'scWt. ooing.                                             The Pocket Measure.                      }
                             Sevenfold Trouble.                                                                                                             }
             ofº                                                                                                                                   Nets
                                                                                                                 Terwee. Graft on the Family
                   By a                                                                                     The Of the House.
                         kºiº#n ; ºThe Ogmhea. utauqua Girls at
                         CFWTrhhoiosrmiseHseatinDeBdi'f.osfWyeCsre.ihnnrit;stSmtaansT.dhpeoiMnatsst.er
                                     to

                                                        or,

                         Four Girls at Chautauqua.

                         Ruth Erskine's Crosses.                                    }}
                         JEusltiear  Ried.
                                     Ried.
                         Ester Ried yet Speaking.

                                                                    3d- each

                         LALE_PRELLTY_* GLT-B001: GERIES:
6
                                                                                                                          on
                                                                 in                                                                           ,

                                                                                                ...
                         With Coloured Frontispiece, and Illustrations                                                         every page. Paper
                         boards, Covers printed
                         boards, 4d. each.                                          Five Colours and Varnished, 3d. cloth

                         MBiyrdPiere'sttPyicPtiucrteureBoBooko. k.                                          £Barebtyt'ys BBiibbllee PSitcotruierse.  Book.
                         Baby's Delight.                                                                    EOtuhtelo'sf  Keepsake.
                         PMTaianpmyam'sTao'Pst'rsePsTreernettat.ysuSretosr.ies.                                           School.
                                                                                                            Pictures      for  Laughing              Eyes.
                                                                                                            Cheerful            Happy.
                                                                                                                          and
20 S. W. PARTRIDGE & CO.'S CATALOG UE.

  ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY PERIODICALS.

                                      ONE PENNY Monthly.

§. THE BRITISH WORKMAN.
  enAt,hneetcY.IlleuTaesrtmrlyapteeVrdoalnucmePE,ean,pgeawrranivdtihcnogTnCsht,oarlioinf1utinsr,.egd6,sdh.bopreriatagpchheBtrliy;o-gbwcrolroaaittprthhde,isnc,2aslc.lAo6trSdhtk.icebltecahscek,sanadondf SSftueollrlli-emosfadoen

                                   One HALFPENNY Monthly.

              THE BAND OF HOPE REVIEW.

ShoTTrthhSeetoYLreeieaasrdl,iynCgoVnoTclueemmrteped,eraRwnbeicatcechitka,CtPi1oeoslrn.oiso;u,drceicldPoartlhizCefgooviClrteo,trmh2espa.enetYdiatoicfouuhnn.lslg, ,ofectocEn.ntgarinavininggs,Secrlioatlh and

                                   One PENNY MonTHLY.
           The CHILJD.REN'S FRIEND.
The Oldest and Best Magazine for Children. Excellent Serial and Short
Sintocroielos,ursP,rizisegCivoemnpeatwitaioynws,ithPuthzezles, Musicn,umetbc.er.A charming  Presentation Plate.
                                                                                            6d.; cloth, 2s. ;
     The Year y Volume, Colouredgilpt aepdegrebs,oa2rsd. s6,d.cloth back, 1s.

                         ONE PENNY MonTEILY.

           THE INFANTS' MAGAZINE.

     Full  inoflacrhgaermtyipnge.  PAictsuprleesndiadndCoplloeuarseadnt   Rhymes to      delight the little ones.
Printed                                                                  Presentation     Plate given away with
            number.
he Yearly Volume,
{..".the                           -                                                     back, 1s. 6d.;                                                                  cloth,

                                   in Col2osu.re; dgilpt aepdegres,bo2asr.d6sd, . cloth

       - ONE PENNY Monthly.

THE FAMILY FRIEND and MOTHERS' COMPANION.

A beautifully Illustrated Magazine for the Home Circle, containing Serial and
Short Stories by the leading writers, of the day. Also crisply written Articles on
popular    sYuebajerclyts,VcolNoluothmteesb,aocwnk,itDh1rse.ns6sudmm. ae;kriocnulgos,t,h,eEtn2cgs..ra; vigniglts,edCgoelso,u2rse.d6dp. aper
     The                                                                                                                                                                 boards,

                                   ONE PENNY Monthly.
*Woº, .illustCTrohanteetadYi.nesarAlysntrViioknlviunamgluea,GbloeCsophleoelulprSetdtooerDdCiegoissevtser,riac,n2tdscV.loiA6sthdirtt.oicbrlsae,cskM,, iis1nss.iol6andrg.;e
           THE FRIENDLY VISITOR.
An ILLUSTRATED GOSPEL MAGAZINE FOR THE PEOPLE.

                                                                                             t                                                                             beautiffuullly
                                                                                            cloth,                                                                       as.; gilt

           8 & 9, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.g.
||& FDI, L. l, 7E EE[]
      -1

º(,!' ')

 tº
||||S$36 ic i Z3320
|**C1E1733ED
| |a501,L1733B D

 5890 15 3 320

