THE LIFE

                                                OF

RICHARD OWEN

                        BY HIS GRANDSON

      THE REV. RICHARD OWEN, MA.

      WITH THE SCIENTIFIC PORTIONS REVISED
                     BY C. DAVIES SHERBORN

ALSO  AN ESSAY ON OWEN'S POSITION IN ANATOMICAL                   SCIENCE

                                                          BY THE

              RIGHT HON. T. H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.

      PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

      IN TWO VOLUMES-- VOL. I.

                              LONDON               STREET
      JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE

                                             1894


                               DEDICATED

                          BY GRACIOUS PERMISSION
r

-, TO

           HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

1


        PREFACE

Sir Richard Owen's careful habit of preserving

every paper or letter that came to his hands has

rendered the task of preparing his ' Life ' more

difficult perhaps than it would otherwise have

been. Of his own letters, written chiefly to his

wife and sisters, no less than 1,200 remain; while
of the voluminous correspondence he received
during his long life more than 15,000 letters had
been preserved.

      Besides all these, both he and his wife were

in the habit of keeping diaries. His own journal
is of a more or less disconnected character ; while
that of his wife, which includes the years 1834 to
1873, is a full record not only of the important
facts but also of the trivial details of their joint
lives. It will, therefore, be readily understood

[8] PROFESSOR OWEN

that my chief difficulty has been to compress the
biography within reasonable limits.

     His general character stands out clearly, I

venture to think, from the material which has
been utilised ; and, although from our relative ages
it is impossible that I could have a personal
knowledge of his private life until his later years,
I can but repeat the unfailing testimony of his
friends in regard to his charm of manner, his

genial courtesy, and his kindness of heart. All

this and a great deal more I have seen for myself.

      I gladly take this opportunity of expressing
my sincere gratitude to the Right Hon. T. H.
 Huxley for the kind and generous contribution
he has made to this book, showing Professor
 Owen's position in the history of anatomical

 science.

      I have to thank Mr. C. Davies Sherborn for
carefully examining Sir Richard's correspon

 dence, for editing or revising the various scientific
 portions of the work, and for lending me much
 assistance throughout.

PREFACE  [9]

     I wish also to express my best thanks to Mr.
John Murray for many suggestions and revisions,

and for the interest he has taken in the work.

     It only remains for me to acknowledge my
indebtedness to Lady White Cooper, Sir William
Flower, Professor Jeffrey Bell, Dr. Pearson Lang-

shaw, and others, for valuable information which
has done much to enhance the interest of the bio
graphy, and to Dr. Henry Woodward and the

Rev. H. N. Hutchinson for the illustrations of
some extinct animals, the reconstruction of which
occupied so large a part of Professor Owen's life.

                                              RICHARD OWEN.

    Sheen Lodge, Richmond Park ;

                       October 1894.


                CONTENTS

                                             OF

           THE FIRST VOLUME

                                CHAPTER I                        PAGE
                                                                        1
                                                1 804-24
Parentage-- Childhood-- Youth

                 CHAPTER II

                 1824-33

Edinburgh University -- Prosector to Abernethy in Lon
    don -- M.R.C.S. and Assistant Curator of the Hunterian
Collection at the College of Surgeons, 1826-- Lecturer on

Comparative Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's, 1828 -- Cata
                                        1830-34 -- Introduction
logue of   the Hunterian Museum,        Memoir on the Pearly
to Cuvier  -- Visit to Paris, 1831 --'

Nautilus,' 1832                                                  26

                        CHAPTER III                              69

                                                1833-36

Eton in 1833--Professor of Comparative Anatomy at St.
    Bartholomew's, 1834-- F.R.S., 1834-- Marriage to Caroline
    Clift,. 1835-- Early Married Life

[12] PROFESSOR OWEN

                        CHAPTER IV

                        1837-38

                                                                                                                                                          PAGE

....Hunterian Professor and Professor of Anatomy and Phy                                                                                                  105
    sALiesosclootugcriyaetsiion--ntBhaeirttCNhoelwolefcgahesistloeSf,oSn1u,8r3gO8ec--otonVbs,eisri1t863t,o7 1--G83e7Hrm--isaTnChyoe,urB1s8re3its8is--ohf
     Death of his Mother, November 1838

                        CHAPTER V

                        1839-40

Foundation of the Microscopical Society -- Reconstruction
    of the ' Dinornis '-- Corresponding Member of the Insti

tute of France, 1839-- First Part of the Report on British

Fossil Reptiles read before the British Association at
Birmingham, 1839 -- Part I. of the 'Odontography' com

pleted, 1840  .                                                                                                                                           143

                        CHAPTER VI

                        1841-42

Hunterian Lectures -- Progress with 'Odontography' -- British
Association at Plymouth, 1841 --Report on British Fossil
Mammalia, 1842-43 -- Public Dinner in his Honour at
Lancaster, 1842 -- Offer of a Civil List Pension, 1843
                                                             .                                                                                            179

                        CHAPTER VII

                        1843-44

Further Evidence of the Existence of the ' Dinornis '-- Second
Series of Hunterian Lectures commenced -- Member of

the Commission of Inquiry into the Health of Towns,
1843-46 -- The British                  York, 1843-- Member
of the Literary Club,   Association at  on the 'Dinornis' at
                        1844-- Lecture
the Royal Institution, 1844
                                                                                                                                                          207

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME                                            [13]

                                 CHAPTER VIII

                                                                 1845   PACK
                                                                         248
Owen's "Opinion of the '' Vestiges of Creation '-- His Descrip
    tive Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia-- Election to ' The
     Club '--Refusal of the Offer of Knighthood-- Visit to
    Turner, the Painter-- Meeting of the Italian Naturalists
     at Naples

                                 CHAPTER IX

                                 1846-47

Owen's Proposal of a National Collection of Fossil and                  272
    Recent Comparative Anatomy --The British Association
    at Southampton, 1846, and at Oxford, 1847--Literary
    Work-- The Rajah of Sarawak at ' The Club,' 1847--
    Member of the Commission of Sewers -- Foundation of the
     Palaeontological Society, 1848

                                 CHAPTER X

                                 1848-49

' The Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton,'
1S8e4rp8e--ntT--heEmCeurmsoinng    Shell Collection -- The Great
                                 and Guizot -- Literary Work and   Sea
                                                                  Lec
tures -- Death of Mr. and Mrs. Clift, 1849--Prince
Charles Lucien Bonaparte-- Member of the Commission

on Smithfield Market                                                    309

                                 CHAPTER XI

                                 1850-51

The Megatherium -- Preparations for the Great Exhibition of
185 1-- The   Smithfield Commission -- Additions to the
Zoological   Gardens --Juror of Awards at the Exhibition --

Visit to Parisat the Invitation of the President of the

[14] PROFESSOR OWEN

tFerrelyncRhevRieepwu,'bliOcc--tobAerrtic1l8e51on--LTyheell'sCoWploeryksGionldtheMe' Qdaual r-- fAce
' Chevalier de l'Ordre Royal pour le Me*rite ' -- Sheen

Lodge, 1851                                                    351

             CHAPTER XII

                                                      1852-54  382

Delight in Country Life -- Hunterian Lectures, 1852-- Land-
    seer, Mulready, Fanny Kemble, Alfred Tennyson,
    Charles Dickens -- Love of Fishing -- Dinner in the
     Iguanodon, 1853 -- Literary and Scientific Work, 1854 .

      LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                       IN VOL. I

Portrait from an Oil Painting by H. W. Pickers-

gill                                       Frontispiece

Megatherium americanum, Cuvier  . . Tofacep. 190

Portrait from a Daguerreotype taken about    ,,  319
     the Year 1846

The House in Thurnham Street, Lancaster, where

Owen was Born                                    page 6

The Gateway, Lancaster Castle                      13
Femur of a Moa                                   145

dinornis (pachyornis) elephantopus, olven .      . 1 50
Sheen Lodge, Richmond Park                            383


it,    PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                     :

   ''                     CHAPTER I                                                         B
(V
       1. 5,
                                                                    1804-24

                                     Parentage -- Childhood --Youth

        Richard Owen, younger son of Richard Owen,
        formerly of Fulmer Place, Bucks, was born at
        Lancaster on July 20, 1804. His grandfather,
        William Owen, married Elizabeth, daughter of
        Richard Eskrigge. This Richard Eskrigge was
        High Sheriff of Bucks in 1741, and was the owner
        of Fulmer Place. In an old Family Prayer Book,
        dated 17 13, with a frontispiece portrait of Queen
        Anne, and further ' adorn'd,' as the title-page has
       entriwesithin50RihcihstaorrdicaEl sckurtisg,g' et'hserheanardewtrhiteinfgoll--owing

                Richard Owen, son of William Owen (who
        was free of the Fishmongers' Company) and of
        Elizabeth Owen. The said Richard was born in
        the parish of St. Matthew, Friday Street, De
         cember 1754, and baptized the Sunday follow
        ing. The sponsors were Richard and Elizabeth

             vol.

2  PROFESSOR OWEN                          ch. I.

Eskrigge and Mr. Beresford (Cashier in the
Bank of England).

     ' Elizabeth Owen died December 5, 1754.
     ' Elizabeth, wife of Richard Eskrigge, died
July 16, 1756. They were both buried in Wan-
stead parish, in Essex, in the vault of Elizabeth
Froysell, my wife's mother. Ann Froysell and Ann

Eskrigge, her niece, are buried in the same place.'
     Then in Sir Richard Owen's handwriting a

few explanatory remarks are added. ' The above

entries,' he writes, ' are in the handwriting of my
great-grandfather, Richard Eskrigge, of Fulmer
Place, Fulmer, Bucks, and relate to the birth of

his grandson and heir, my father, Richard Owen.

My father's mother died soon after his birth, and

he was brought up by his grandfather Eskrigge,
and his education was directed by the executors
or trustees after Richard Eskrigge's demise.'

     The following table makes the relationship
clearer --: .

                   Robert Eskrigge of Eskrigge

   Richard Eskrigge = Elizabeth  Froysell
   (of Fulmer Place), I

     High Sheriff of |
         Bucks, 1 74 1

   Elizabeth Eskrigge = William Owen
   (died the year after

        her marriage)

   Richard Owen = Catherine Longworth
      inherited
   Fulmer Place  {nde Parrin)

   Sir Richard Owen, K.C.B.

1804-24  THE PROFESSOR'S MOTHER  3

     There is also an entry in the handwriting
of Sir Richard Owen's father. ' Richard and
Catherine Owen were married at Preston, No
vember 8, 1792, by the Rev. H. Shuttleworth.'

     The Professor's mother was of French extrac
tion. She was of a Huguenot family of the
name of Parrin, who came over from Provence
at the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
Besides being a woman of great refinement and

intelligence she was an accomplished musician,
for her father had supported himself by the pro
fession of music, and she inherited his talent. In

appearance she was a handsome, Spanish-looking
woman, with dark eyes and hair. Owen himself
was never tired of speaking of his mother's charm
of manner, and of all that he owed to her early
training and example. His father was a complete
contrast. Tall, stout, and ruddy, his general
appearance bore a strong resemblance to the face
and figure popularly supposed to belong to the
typical John Bull. Nor was his character unlike --
bluff, burly, obstinate, and perhaps not particularly
brilliant, he was yet possessed of sound common-

sense.

     Honest and sincere himself, Richard Owen

the elder expected all with whom he had deal

ings to be the same, and never quite recovered
from the effects of a certain business transaction

which took place between Napoleon I. and him

self. He had already made a considerable fortune

4  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

as a West India merchant, and at the beginning

of the present century contracted for the supplies
of the French troops at St. Dominique, but
Napoleon I. afterwards repudiated all English
debts. Talleyrand, however, represented to him
that Mr. Owen's contract had been most faith

fully carried out, and that he was deserving of

some return at least. Napoleon thereupon gave
orders that the estates which he had confiscated

from the Bishop of Deux-Ponts should be offered

to Mr. Owen as payment.

      Before giving an answer Mr. Owen consulted
his wife. She was strongly of opinion, that, as

the title to the estates was so insecure, the best

thing to be done was to accept them, and then
sell them for anything they would fetch. The

place was accordingly sold, and without much

 difficulty, for the position was a beautiful one and

 the land productive. It so happens that the title

 to these lands has never been disputed, and the
 descendants of the original purchaser occupy
 them to this day.

     A letter from St. Bartholomew, dated July

 30, 1807, to ' Kitty,' from her husband, contains

 the following statement :--

      ' Yesterday I received a letter from Mr. Wars-

 wick, dated June 3, advising me that they had
 received 1,684/. gs. 2d. for the lands in France taken
 for the French bills. This is a heavy loss, but I
 am glad on your account that there is that sum in

1804-24 RICHARD OWEN GOES TO SCHOOL  5

the bank, as you may now call there for what

you want with more confidence.'

     The loss which this transaction entailed on
Richard Owen evidently preyed upon his mind.
Two years afterwards he died.

     In 1808, a year before his death, he wrote
again to his wife from St. Kitt's. In this letter

he refers to his losses, but, what is more impor
tant, he adds : ' I am glad to know James J and
Richard come on so well with their studies and

are so attentive.' In October 1809 Richard
Owen died at the age of fifty-four, according to

an entry in a little old note-book, tied up with a

faded pink ribbon, and headed ' Kitty Parrin's

Memorandum-book.'

     The next entry in this little note-book is that
of the death of Mrs. Owen's eldest son :--

    'April 22, 1827. -- My eldest boy, James

Hawkins Owen, died at Demerara of yellow
fever, and was buried there.'

     Long before that date Mrs. Owen was living
with her six children in a house in Thurn-

ham Street, at the corner of Dalton Square,

Lancaster, and this old house is still in existence.

After some preparatory instruction from an old
Quaker lady, Richard Owen, at the mature age of
six, was sent to the Lancaster Grammar School

to join his elder brother, James, by the advice
of his godfather, the Rev. Joseph Rowley,

                            1 Professor Owen's elder brother.

PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

who was curate of the parish as well as head
master of the school. There is nothing to be
seen of the old school now, except perhaps the

dated stone which used to be over the porchway.

                  THE HOUSE IN THURNHAM STREET, LANCASTER,
                                         WHERE OWEN WAS BORN

The New Grammar School was built in a dif
ferent part of the town. Whewell, the famous
Master of Trinity, who was Owen's fellow-towns

man, also received his education there, and
another schoolfellow, who was in the same class

1804-24  PARSON ROWLEY  7

as Owen's elder brother, was Higgin, late Bishop
of Derry.

     Richard Owen always spoke affectionately
of Mr. Rowley, or Parson Rowley as he was
called, and was also on good terms with two of
the other masters of the school, the Revs. E.

Morland and J. Beetham. How he got on with

his other tutors is not so certain. One of them

stigmatised him as ' lazy and impudent,' and

prophesied that he would come to a bad end.

This gentleman gave instruction in caligraphy,
but in spite of his dismal predictions he managed
to teach Owen to write a remarkably clear and
neat hand, which hardly varied till within a few
years of his death.

      Between twelve and two o'clock the boys left

school for dinner. It so happened that the
gardens belonging to Mrs. Owen and to Mr.

Rowley adjoined each other, and on one occasion
the carpenter, Whewell's father, was engaged in
repairing the division fence. Mr. Rowley was

walking in his garden before school began
again, and there met young Whewell, who was
assisting his father in his work. In the course
of conversation Mr. Rowley, who had evidently

been putting a few professional questions to the
boy, was struck with the real intelligence of his

answers, and the evident knowledge of mathe

matics which he displayed. He told Whewell's

father that he thought his son ought to be sent

8  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 1.

to the Grammar School. The elder Whewell,
who was a man of much good sense, objected
to the expense of such a proceeding, and the
loss of his son's assistance. But Mr. Rowley,
being of an exceedingly practical as well as
generous nature, offered to bear the expense of
books and fees himself. Young Whewell there

fore joined the school. Considerably Owen's
senior, he had been at the school some little time

when the latter entered.

     At that time Owen did not apparently ex
hibit any marked fondness for study. He would

speak feelingly of a day which recurred at regular
intervals, known as ' Black Monday,' when
the misdemeanours of the week, which were

allowed to accumulate until they reached a hideous
 climax, were expiated by the infliction of the

extreme penalty of the law. It was remarked

 that the pains and penalties had somehow or other
 increased since Whewell's advent to the school,

 and it was acutely surmised that his precocious
 relish for mathematics and study in general had

 considerably raised the standard of work. This
 was felt to be too much. Whewell was a big

 strong fellow, but Owen, deeming that there was
 safety in numbers and a big brother, was loud in
 his taunting expressions of disgust. Whewell

 thought it high time to administer a reproof to
 one so much his junior both in school standing
 and age, and upon the big brother, James Owen,

1804-24  'WEDDING MONEY'  9

thinking fit to interfere, Whewell proceeded to

administer to him a couple of black eyes. A

remark of Owen's mother is preserved, to the
effect that she thought it most ungrateful of ' that
boy Whewell ' to have ' blacked her eldest son's
eyes so shockingly.' But the younger Owen and
Whewell became the best of friends, and their

friendly intercourse existed without a break until
Whewell's death in 1866.

      Richard Owen remained at the school long
enough to be one of the first six boys. Among
the privileges at that time attached to those
favoured seniors was a curious institution known
as the ' wedding money.' Whenever a wedding
took place at the Parish Church, these six boys,

if they were in attendance, could claim a fee. It

seems that in pre- Reformation times the six seniors

were called upon to fill some minor office in the

Church--that probably of acolytes--during the

wedding ceremony, and, although the duties had

lapsed, the fees continued. This fee apparently
varied --sometimes it would only be a shilling or
half a crown between them, but it occasionally
rose in the case of county families to the sub
stantial sum of a couple of guineas. On one

occasion a farmer was about to be married, but,

as he was anxious to have something for his

money, he refused to part with a single penny
until one of the young ' gents ' would ' gie him a

homily.' The boys were somewhat dumbfounded,

io  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. I.

and were beginning to think they had better let
the question of fees pass and go off empty handed,
when Owen, displaying a considerable share of

ready assurance, stepped forward and coolly
began from the Latin Grammar, ' Propria quae

maribus tribuuntur mascula dicas,' &c That
was quite enough. The farmer handed over

his fee with great satisfaction, and Owen achieved

a cheap reputation amongst those who were
present as the classical scholar of the school.

     ' At this period of his life,' so his last surviv

ing sister would relate, ' Richard was very small

and slight and exceedingly mischievous, and he

hardly grew at all till he was sixteen.' His
family were evidently apprehensive -- like Mrs.
Wilfer's mamma-- that it would end by his being
a ' small man.' But he soon began to make up
for his early want of stature, and when he left

the Grammar School he was already a big

awkward lad.

     At the age of fourteen Richard Owen had

given no signs of a taste for the work to which
his life was afterwards devoted. Part of a manu

script treatise on Heraldry still exists, which he
wrote about this time, as well as an elaborately
painted coat of arms of the Owen and Eskrigge
family, with ' R.O. del., 1818,' in the corner. He
thus alludes to this work of art : ' My earliest
hobby was Heraldry, and a friend of my mother's,
by name Miss Taylor, who was sister of the then

 1804-24 APPRENTICED TO LEONARD DICKSON 11

Garter King of Arms, promised me a place in
Heralds' College.' In a footnote he added many
years after : ' Which luckily I did not get, Garter
dying before I was of age for such office.'

      Soon after leaving school he was apprenticed
to ' Leonard Dickson, of Lancaster, Surgeon and
Apothecary,' as his indenture, dated August 1 1 ,
1820, shows. According to the terms of this
document he was to be provided by his mother
with ' meat, drink, washing and lodging, and
also decent and suitable cloathes and wear

ing apparel,' and his master was on his part to
teach him the ' arts, businesses, professions,
and mysteries of a surgeon apothecary and
man midwife, with every circumstance relating
thereto.'

     Mr. Dickson died two years after, and
Richard Owen was ' assigned, transferred, and
turned over' by the executors to Joseph Seed for
the term of five years, the indenture of this trans
fer bearing the date of June 19, 1822. The
following year Mr. Seed accepted a post as
Surgeon in the Royal Navy,2 and Owen was
again transferred, by an indenture dated Decem

   2 It is probably from this    to sea, sir? You might just
circumstance that the idea of    as well go to the devil.' The
                                 Professor once assured the
Owen's entering the Navy ori-    writer that this story, though
ginated. The story has been      ingenious, had no foundation
extensively quoted and elabo-    in fact.

rated into an anecdote in which

Abernethy says to Owen, ' Going

12              PROFESSOR OWEN            Ch. I.

ber 13, 1823, to James Stockdale Harrison,
' Surgeon and Apothecary.'

     There is appended to the indenture to Seed a

certificate in Joseph Seed's handwriting which
reads as follows :

     ' Mr. Richard Owen became my pupil in conse
quence of the death of Mr. Dixon [«V],the gentle
man to whom he was an apprentice. From the
circumstance of myself being called upon by the
Service to which I belong, I had him transferred

to my respected friend Mr. J. Harrison, of this

town.

      ' Mr. Owen's general conduct during the time
he was with me has my highest commendation,
and at all times I shall be happy to bear testimony

to his most deserving merit, as well as to his res

pectability.                              'J. Seed,

                                  ' Surgeon Royal Navy.'

    Lancaster, January 10, 1827.

    During Richard Owen's apprenticeship at

Lancaster, two adventures befell him which he

often related.  They are given    in his  own words         3
                                                          ;

but they necessarily suffer by the change from

spoken to written language. They lose his own

indescribable manner of telling a good story,

especially when relating his own experiences,

   3 The substance of these       to Hood's Magazine, vol. ii.,
two ghost stories was contri-     1844, p. 442, and vol. iii., 1845,
buted by the Professor himself
                                  p. 294.

1804-24  THE COUNTY GAOL  13

which only those who may have heard him will
be able to recall in reading the two following

accounts of himself :--
     ' It happened during the probationary period

                              THE GATEWAY, LANCASTER CASTLE

of my apprenticeship4 -- we preferred to call our
selves " pupils," by the way -- to the worthy country
surgeon. He stood high in the estimation of the

good townsfolk, and was, moreover, surgeon to the

County Gaol. This imposing pile included all

                          4 His first, under Mr. Dickson.

14  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

kinds of architecture, from the square Roman tower

and baronial portcullised gateway and keep of the

early Plantagenets, to the fortress built in the
time of Elizabeth, and to those more modern

imitations erected according to the exigencies of
a model prison. The old square tower, with walls
of exceeding thickness -- Hadrian's Tower it

was called --was divided by four or five storeys

into as many spacious but low-roofed apartments,

which were accessible by a spiral stone staircase

lodged in a corner turret ; the top room of all,

being the highest and most airy, was used as the
hospital for the gaol. Here indeed we exercised

privileges, which the less favoured surgeon's
pupils of the town could only hope to enjoy in

their metropolitan career at the hospitals. The

inquests held over all the unfortunates who by
natural death are liberated from prison gave
us the opportunities of becoming early initiated
in practical anatomy. I eagerly embraced this
opportunity of initiation, to which I looked for

ward not without feelings of awe, such as might
well mingle with the scientific aspirations of a
youth of sixteen but three weeks emancipated

from the old-fashioned school, where super-

naturalism had always flourished. In my school

days no youthful sceptic had ever ventured
a doubt as to the raising of the devil by the
process of muttering the Lord's Prayer backwards.

The influence of a score of school myths of a

1804-24  POST-MORTEMS  15

ghostly character, and the natural awe which the
human corpse inspires, especially in the youthful
mind, damped considerably, I must confess, my
ardour for the acquisition of a knowledge of
internal structure, when, the sheet having been
withdrawn from the pale, cold, collapsed features
of the deceased, the half-opened eyes seemed to

deprecate what then struck me forcibly as being

a desecration of the sanctity of the dead. It was

in vain that my elder fellow-pupil drew my

attention to the various pathological signs in the
thoracic viscera on which our master learnedly
descanted ; my gaze would still turn to the pale

cold features, and the glassy staring eyeballs. He

had been a young man, imprisoned for a term,

and carried off by a rapid consumption. His was
the first case that I had attended, and I had taken

medicine to him in the hospital. Another prisoner,
somewhat older, had died the day after, and his
body was examined the same day. These post
mortem dissections were performed in the middle
room of the old tower, where the prison clothes
were also washed. I must say I quitted the scene

with both appetite and ardour for science some

what damped.

     ' A few fever cases had broken out in the gaol,

and I was charged to visit one that had reached a

critical height late in the evening, with medicines

to be administered if certain symptoms were pre
sent. On this errand I set out about nine o'clock.

16  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 1.

 It was late in November, and a storm was rising,

 obscuring the light of a full moon, which now and
 then burst from between the clouds. I entered
 the gloomy arch of the old gateway tower, let fall

 the ponderous knocker, and, having been recon

 noitred through a small grating, was admitted.

 The old turnkey, being apprised of my business,
offered to accompany the "young doctor" -- in
which title I already rejoiced -- to the hospital tower.

 But as my seniors were accustomed to dispense

/with this attendance I thought it infra dig. to re

quire it ; he might actually think was afraid of
going to the top of the old tower alone ; so, having
obtained the keys and a lantern, I proceeded to

the tower without him.

     ' The storm seemed to be increasing in violence,

and the clouds were scurrying along in black masses

as I crossed the spacious courtyard. The door

of the turret I had to ascend was in a distant and

gloomy corner of the yard. I set down the lamp,
to turn with both hands the heavy key in the stiff
and creaking lock. When at length the door
yielded to a push, I was met by such a gust as
if all the winds of heaven were escaping from tem
porary confinement in that old tower. I stood for

a moment with my back against the open door.

The strange combination of howls, screams, and

whistlings that smote my ear at the same time
startled me, at first, with the idea that some human

voices in the staircase were mingling with the

1804-24   A GHOST     17

sounds produced by the rushing of the wind. The

lantern had swung open with the effort of my push
and the light was extinguished. As the sounds

died away I recognised that most melancholy and

strangely articulate howling to which I had often

in the daytime listened in the circular turret, which

received, like a colossal organ-pipe, the currents

of air that vibrated as they rushed in through four
or five arrow-slits in its thick walls. The effect

that a storm produced, blowing strongly from the

sea, which was not very far distant, as it beat upon

the walls of the old tower and played through this

gigantic ^Eolian apparatus, is quite inconceivable.
     ' When I had somewhat collected my thoughts,

my first idea was to return to the gateway for a

light ; but reflection whispered " No ; they'll think

you were afraid to pass the corpse room in the

dark ; besides, they might say you couldn't miss
your way up the narrow spiral staircase." So, shut

ting the heavy gate again, and locking it--the

rule of the gaol being to lock every door that you

passed through -- I proceeded to mount the long
succession of stone stairs. The loneliness of my

position then struck coldly upon me, especially

when the winds, after a moment's silence, began

again their dismal concert of moans, screams, and

howls, through those arrow-slit apertures by

which air and light were admitted to the stair-
turret. In the murkiest gloom I began my

ascent, and, arriving at the first grating, groped

^vol. 1.           c

18  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

out the keyhole, unlocked the iron door and

passed through. This door I did not lock after
me, but left wide open. I tried to whistle as I

proceeded ; but it seemed a mockery to attempt
to make any sound heard amid the indescrib

able crescendos and diminuendos which filled

that dismal access to the abodes of sickness
and death. And as I slowly proceeded my

mind became suddenly and at once occupied --

filled to the exclusion of every other idea-- with
the scene I had witnessed for the first time that
morning. It came upon me so suddenly and dis
tinctly that I involuntarily stopped : the picture
of the whole procedure, with those features that

had most appalled me, rose in hard outline before
my mind's eye, and I tried again to reason and
shake it off. " Men must be dissected," I said to

myself; but I wished I had never witnessed
those pallid collapsed features. I then believed
in ghosts, and three or four of the best authenti
cated cases vividly recurred to me, and, as these
thoughts passed through my mind, every step I
took was rapidly bringing me nearer the entry

of that cold and dreary chamber, where --but

 I wasn't going to think of that any more. 1
had unlocked the second iron grating, which

crossed the staircase, and, having passed the
dreaded chamber, was hastening on, when a
slight gleam of light from above made me
raise my head, and I saw at the next turn

1804-24  A FREEZING HORROR  19

above me a figure, at first indistinct, then in clear

outline, tall and thin, leaning against or clasping

the central stone pillar of the staircase. My first

alarm grew into a creeping and freezing horror,
as, staring intently upwards, I thought I dis

tinguished the pale collapsed features, and those

half-opened glassy eyes that had haunted me

through the day, and now looked coldly down
and met my own. I would have called for help,

but I knew that would be in vain ; and I began

a precipitate descent, but had hardly made one
turn down and passed the closed door of the dead-

chamber, when a second figure in white appeared

below me, as if to intercept my passage ; that

figure, too, appeared to lean against or clasp the
central column, and surely it bore the features of

the other corpse ! For an instant I grasped the

pillar for support, and gazed upon the spectre in

speechless terror (I was but young). I had gone

by the very spot but a few moments before, and

no human being could possibly have stood and

been passed unconsciously by me, where now the

apparition, thin, pale, and motionless, glared so

clear and bright. An unusually articulate howl
above, and a clattering like some one in chains

rapidly rushing down the staircase below me,

made me start off in desperation. As I passed
the lower ghost, feeling more dead than alive, I
felt something move --and found I had dragged
a sheet after me ! This evidence of materiality

                                                                                     C2

20  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

recalled my scattered senses in some degree. I

raised the sheet, and returning a few steps saw

the moon that had broken out gleaming brightly
through one of the arrow-slit windows upon the
central stone pillar. Here I found that advantage
had been taken of the current of air admitted

by the arrow-slit to hang up a sheet to dry on
the opposite pillar. I could also see where a
nail, driven into a crevice of the stone-work, had

been apparently used to suspend the sheet. I

hung the sheet up again and soon saw how the
upper round opening of the arrow-slit, pictured in
bright moonlight upon the sheet, had made the
head of the apparition ; some folds of the sheet

and an excited imagination completed the ghastly

physiognomy. Every trace of the supernatural
had vanished. I was excited even to laughter
(my merriment was somewhat hysterical, I must

admit), and I then deliberately reascended to take
a second and cool scrutiny of ghost number one.

It was of course due to the moonlight through
the other window. It really wanted but little
imagination to complete the picture. Every

thing had concurred to prepare my mind to

receive the supernatural interpretation of it. All

the same, I was not sorry to emerge into the open
air of the courtyard. The old turnkey, when I
presented myself at the inner gate of the entrance

tower, could not help asking, as he scrutinised
my pale face by the light of his lamp, " what

1804-24  THE NEGRO'S HEAD  21

ailed me." I made him an indifferent answer,

returned him the keys and lantern, and passed
out. I remember having mentally vowed all my
way home never, never again to desecrate the
Christian corpse, and to quit a profession that

could only be learnt by such practices.'
     How long Richard Owen kept this resolution

we can easily see. It was only a few months after

that the incident occurred known as the ' Negro's

head story,' which the Professor used to tell so

well. As imperfectly recollected accounts of this

story during his lifetime appeared occasionally in
various papers, it may not be out of place to give

it in his own words :--

     ' My worthy preceptor was called out one
evening to the case of a sailor who was brought

home in an apoplectic fit after receiving a heavy

fall in a drunken fray at a public-house. The

doctor found it a hopeless case, and the man
passed from his stupor into death. After his
death his widow and daughter retired to one of
the little houses which face the steepest part of
the hill leading to the Castle gates. One evening
they were talking about the slave trade, in which

occupation it appeared that the unfortunate hus
band and father had spent a large part of his active

life. The two women had finished their meal
and were sitting before the fire, by the light of
which they were holding their conversation. The

mother was feebly attempting to make a case in

22     PROFESSOR OWEN                   ch. 1.

defence of the traffic, when, on a sudden, the
attention of both was roused by a sound as of

footsteps rapidly approaching the door, which

was immediately burst open by a heavy blow. A

piercing shriek came from the mother, who

rushed into the adjoining bedroom ; the daughter
started, and turned towards the cause of the noise

and her mother's fright, and saw what she after

wards described as the phantom of a negro slave

lying on the floor, which turned its ghastly head

and glared for a moment upon her with white

protruding eyeballs. A figure in black entered

as she fled screaming after her mother. When

the two terrified women ventured at length to

glance into the room from which they had been

scared, all was quiet ; the red glow from the

grate showed everything to be as they left
What could this be except an apparition of the
                          I?
captain with his negro slave, and the old gentle'
                                  is
                                                  it.
man himself in black pursuing them'

      The mystery of that phantom head,' the Pro

fessor would conclude in tragic tones,  known

to me alone. The goodly resolves had made

some time previously, after my visit to the tower

staircase, to intrude no more into the portals of

anatomical science, had vanished the determina
                       :

tion to cut my chosen profession, once and for

all, had wavered. Rallied by my fellow-pupils,

and excited by some articles in a cyclopaedia to

which we had access, my anatomical passion soon

1804-24  A DEED OF DARKNESS  23

returned, and all other resolves and scruples were

forgotten.

     ' My zeal and skill at assisting at post

mortems had gained me the rarely bestowed
commendation of the doctor our preceptor. I

had already begun to form a small anatomical
collection, and had lately added a human cranium
to my series of the skulls of dogs and cats and

the skeletons of mice and " such small deer." It

happened also that on the day when a negro
patient in the gaol hospital had died, a treatise on
the " Varieties of the Human Race" fell into my
hands, and greatly increased my craniological

longings. The examination of the body was

over and the hurried inquest performed, when,
slipping some silver into the hand of the old
turnkey as we left the room, I told him I should
have to call again that evening to look a little
further into the matter, before the coffin was

finally screwed down. It was but six weeks from

the time of my first adventure in the old tower,
when, provided with a strong brown-paper bag, I
sallied forth on a fine frosty evening in January
to secure my specimen of the Ethiopian race. I
was now an habitue* of the place, and an attendant

was no longer proffered to accompany me.

Taking my lantern and keys, I opened every door

and gate, duly locking them again after I had

passed through. As I ascended the spiral stairs
of Hadrian's Tower, speculations on "facial

24  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

angles," "prognathic jaws," and that "peculiar
whiteness of the osseous tissue " upon which my
favourite author had dilated, drove out of my head

all the former broodings on immaterial beings
which had so disturbed my first ascent of the tower.
I particularly remember fastening after me the

heavy door which led into the dark wide stone
chamber of the dead, in order to be secure from

any interruption in my work. The gloom of the
apartment was just made visible by the light of

the lantern, but it served for the business im

mediately in hand. The various instruments had
judiciously been left behind ; and when I returned
through the gates--the bag under my cloak -- the

intimation that all was now ready for interment
was received with a nod of intelligence by the
old turnkey, which assured me that no inquisition

nor discovery was to be apprehended on that side
of the castle walls.

      ' As soon as I was outside I began to hurry
down the hill ; but the pavement was coated with
a thin sheet of ice, my foot slipped, and, being
encumbered with my cloak, I lost my balance and
fell forward with a shock which jerked the negro's
 head out of the bag, and sent it bounding down
the slippery surface of the steep descent. As
 soon as I recovered my legs I raced desperately

 after but was too late to arrest its progress.
 saw bounce against the door of a cottage facing
 the descent, which flew open and received me at
    it it,

                                                                 I

1804-24  A HURRIED ENTRY AND EXIT  25

the same time, as I was unable to stop my down
ward career. I heard shrieks, and saw the whisk
of the garment of a female, who had rushed

through an inner door ; the room was empty ; the
ghastly head at my feet. I seized it and retreated,
wrapping it in my cloak. I suppose I must have
closed the door after me, but I never stopped till
I reached the surgery.'

26 PROFESSOR OWEN

                 CHAPTER II

                                                       1824-33

Edinburgh University -- Prosector to Abernethy in London --
     M.R.C.S. and Assistant Curator of the Hunterian Collection
     at the College of Surgeons, 1826-- Lecturer on Comparative
     Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's, 1828 -- Catalogue of the Hunterian
     Museum, 1830-34 -- Introduction to Cuvier --Visit to Paris, 1831
     -- ' Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus, 1832.'

The terms of Owen's surgical apprenticeship at
Lancaster were never carried out to the full. In

October 1824 he matriculated at Edinburgh
University. Some of his lecture cards of ad
mission are still preserved. We gather from
them that he attended Hope's lectures on
Chemistry and Pharmacy, James Home's on the
Practice of Medicine, John Mackintosh's on
Midwifery, Andrew Duncan's on Materia Medica,
besides the lectures given by Robert Jameson and
W. P. Alison. He also attended the anatomical
lectures of Monro (tertius), but as that worthy
gentleman was in the habit of lecturing -- so Owen

has remarked --from the notes used by his grand

father and his father, both of whom had successively
occupied the chair of Anatomy before him, these
 lectures were found to be neither of particular

1824-33  'THE HUNTERIAN SOCIETY'                                                     27

interest nor yet sufficiently up to date. So Owen

was constrained to attend the outside course given

by Dr. Barclay on Practical Anatomy and Anatomy

and Surgery. Though this was an extra which he

could afford, still he never regretted for of all
         ill
                                          it

                                                                    it,
his teachers at Edinburgh was to John Barclay
that he owed the most. Many times has Owen

spoken of the influence that John Barclay had on
his early career, and the sincere affection with which

he inspired him. In the early part of Owen's

residence in Edinburgh, he and Gavin Milroy

founded a students' society, which was called,

at Owen's suggestion, The Hunterian Society.'
is
                                                    '
Little did he think how closely connected he

was afterwards to become with John Hunter's
work. This society was apparently in existence

for some twenty-five or thirty years afterwards,
but now extinct. The University Professors

allowed the students the use of one of the college

rooms for the meetings of the society.

Amongst Owen's reminiscences of his student

days in Edinburgh was the ceremony connected

with the bringing in of the New Year. On New

Year's Eve, 1824-25, sallying forth from his

lodgings in Nicholson Street, he was met by his
friends opposite the Tron Kirk, where they as
sembled to see the New Year in, and to discuss

the mysteries of a decoction known as Het Pint,'
                                                       is
the groundwork of which                                                           '
                                                       understood to be

ale (boiled), with an admixture of whisky and

28       PROFESSOR OWEN                 Ch. II.

spice. This beverage was carried about in a

bright kettle, and as the Church clock struck

twelve the ' het pint ' was handed round and

drunk amid cheers.

     While at Edinburgh, he received many letters

from his mother. The first that is preserved is
dated from Lancaster, March 4, 1825. In it she
says she has had a call from a friend of his

resident in Edinburgh, during a visit he was

making to Lancaster.

     ' He gave me,' she writes, 'a most gratifying

account of you, and your comfortable lodgings in

...Nicholson Street, and appears wishful to show
you every attention in his power.       I hear

that your thumb has again become inflamed, and

am, my dear Richard, very uneasy about
     '

       is is

                                     '
                                                                                   '

                                                                               it.
                                                                              I
therefore beg that you will take every precaution

that possible to guard against further danger,
making a point of washing your hands as often as

possible in the dissecting-room. All unite in best

love, and that you may continue to enjoy health,

and also the regard and approbation of the Profes

sors,    the constant prayer of, dear Richard,

                  Your ever affectionate mother,

                    Catherine Owen.

       P.S. --You will let us know when you want

money.'

    At the end of April 1825 John Barclay

strongly advised Owen to move to St. Bartho-

1824-33 OWEN'S FIRST JOURNEY TO LONDON 29

lomew's Hospital, and study under Abernethy.
After some consideration, Owen decided to do

so, and obtained his college certificates forthwith,

all of which are in existence. His yearly ticket
(October 1824-October 1825) for the Library also
exists, and a certificate from W. C. McDonald, the

Apothecary to the Royal Infirmary, stating that
' Mr. Richard Owen had a Ticket for this
Hospital, dated November the first, 1824, and
signed the Porter's Book regularly during its

currency.' A certificate from Dr, Mackintosh,

dated April 30, 1825, states that ' Mr. Owen's

conduct has been marked by the greatest zeal and
attention.'

     Dr. Barclay speaks of Owen in the following
terms in his certificate : ' I had much reason to

be satisfied with the mode of his attendance, and

the manner in which he prosecuted these branches

of his medical studies ' (Anatomy and Surgery).
April 25, 1825.

     But Barclay's chief recommendation was a
private letter to his friend Abernethy, which he
gave to Owen to take to London with him.

     This first journey to London Owen describes
in the following terms :--

     ' I shall never forget the day when I arrived
for the first time in London, where I had literally
not one single friend : the only link I had with
my Northern friends being John Barclay's letter
of introduction to Dr. Abernethy, which I carried

30               PROFESSOR OWEN                Ch. II.

in my pocket. The sense of desolation which I

experienced in walking up Holborn towards St.

Bartholomew's Hospital, where the letter was to

be presented, was something indescribable, and

the numbers of strange faces which kept passing

by only increased that feeling.'

      When he arrived at the hospital Abernethy

had just finished lecturing, and was evidently in

anything but the best of tempers, being surrounded

by a small crowd of students waiting about to ask

him questions. Owen was just screwing up his

courage to attack this formidable personage and

state his business, when Abernethy suddenly
turned upon him and said, ' And what may you

want ? ' After presenting the letter, Abernethy

glanced at it for a moment, stuffed it into his

pocket, and vouchsafed the gracious reply of ' Oh ! '
As this did not seem to point to anything very

definite, Owen, after waiting for further remarks

and enlightenment, was turning away to go when

Abernethy called after him, ' Here ; come to break

fast  to-morrow  morning at eight     '  and,  presenting
                                   ;

him with his card, added : ' That's my address.'

What were the terms in which Dr. Barclay had

spoken of him Owen never knew, but he thought

they must have been favourable, for when he pre

sented himself the next morning at Abernethy's

residence, and was anticipating anything but an

agreeable tite-a-tite with the great doctor, he found

him, to his surprise, considerably smoothed down,

1824-33 ABERNETHY PROVOKED TO ANGER 31

and quite pleasant in his manner. The result of
the meeting was, that Abernethy offered him the
post of prosector for his lectures. The prosector,

amongst other obvious advantages, was not at
the expense of purchasing his own subjects for

dissection --no inconsiderable item of expenditure

then ; and further, the subjects provided for the
lectures were in a much sounder and fresher con

dition, comparatively speaking, than was usually
the case in those body-snatching days.

      From such a chief as Abernethy, Owen could
not fail to profit. As a rule he fared well at the
hands of his Professor ; but on one occasion he
provoked Abernethy to anger. The lecture was
on the human kidney, which Owen had duly
prepared ; but unfortunately, in the process of
preparation the part known as the suprarenal
capsule came off, owing most likely to its not
being quite so fresh as it might have been, and
in a great hurry the prosector carefully fixed it

on again -- but to the wrong end of the kidney.

Abernethy's explanations were somewhat far ad
vanced before he found this out, and not looking
very closely at the specimen he held in his hand,

he was elaborately describing its structure, as if it
had been a normal kidney. When he discovered

the error committed, he did not let the occasion
pass without bestowing a few flowers of speech
upon his young friend.

      In the same year Owen was elected a member

32  PROFESSOR OWEN                 ch. n.

of the Abernethian Society,1 and communicated

to that body a few pathological papers.
      On August 1 8, 1826, Owen obtained his

membership of the Royal College of Surgeons.
His diploma is signed by John Abernethy, Astley

Cooper, Anthony Carlisle, T. Forster, Everard

Home, William Blizard, Henry Cline, William
Norris, William Lynn, and Leigh Thomas. He set
up as a medical practitioner at 1 1 Cook's Court,
Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, and gradually
secured a small practice among the lawyers.

Owen's peculiar ability as a dissector had not
escaped the eye of Abernethy, then President of
the College of Surgeons, who, much concerned at

the neglect of the collections formed by John
Hunter, which had recently been purchased by
the Government and handed over to the care of

the College, insisted on his old pupil undertaking

their arrangement. As Abernethy said, ' The

collection was located near his private residence ;
he could devote his leisure hours to the work ;

there was no one else equally qualified to do so.'

Owen undertook the task, and was thus associated

   1 The name of this society      Rowland H. Coombes, in vol. iv.
was formerly the ' Medical and     of St. Bartholomew's Hospital
Philosophical Society of St.       Reports, 8vo, 1868, we read :--
Bartholomew's.' It was founded
                                   'In 1826 Richard Owen read
by Abernethy in 1795, and took
the name of 'Abernethian So-       two papers : one On Encysted
ciety' in 1832, the year of Aber-
                                   Calculus 0/the Urinary Bladder,
nethy's demise. In a Sketch        and the other A Case of Gluteal
                                   Aneurism with Ligature of the
of the Abernethian Society, by     Internal Iliac'

1824-33  THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS              33

with William Clift, at that time Conservator

of the College museum. As assistant to the

Conservator, Owen was engaged at a quarterly

payment of 30/. Two years later this salary was

increased to 150/. per annum, but he held the
position only ' during the pleasure of the Board

of Curators.'

When first appointed Owen found at the

museum no adequate catalogue of any depart
ment, either MS. or printed.

     The patience of the trustees and of the public,
which the promises of Sir Everard Home had

tried for twenty-five years, had become exhausted.

Owen's first difficult task, therefore, was to prepare

a descriptive catalogue of the collections which

had been transferred by Government from John
Hunter's temporary museum in Castle Street
to the College of Surgeons. This collection,
wrote Owen in his diary, ' consisted of un-

dissected specimens in spirits, the majority of

which had been presented by Mr. (afterwards
Sir Joseph) Banks to John Hunter, who had
supplied Banks with large stoppered bottles of

alcohol, for any soft animals captured during the

circumnavigatory voyage of Captain Cook.'

On hearing of his appointment as Assistant

Curator, his mother writes to him on March 12,

1827, from Lancaster, that she is 'thankful to

have a son who has been such a credit to his

family,' and that she ' has no doubt but that he

vol. 1.                                    D

34                PROFESSOR OWEN         ch. n.

will ultimately be an honour to it as well.' ' All

your friends here,' she continues, ' are much

pleased, and say that you are a lucky young man
to meet with an appointment of the kind while

numbers of the profession hardly know which
way to turn. It is evident to me that your good

conduct, added to your abilities and industry, have
gained you the notice of the Professors. Should

you, my dear boy, be in want of money before

your quarter becomes due, do not hesitate to

say so.'

     It was in September 1827 that Richard Owen
first met Miss Clift. She was one day hanging

in her mother's room a pair of bell-pulls which

she had made ; but in getting down from the

step-ladder she overbalanced herself and had a

bad fall, which completely stunned her. Her

brother, William Home Clift, immediately called
in Owen, as the nearest surgeon at hand, to attend
to her injuries. When the young lady came to, the

first person she saw was her father's colleague.
' I had once before seen him and spoken to him,'

she writes in her diary for 1827, ' but I had not

noticed him much, for it was on the occasion of

his being called in during William's illness, and

we were all rather frightened at the time.' Soon

after there appear in her diary          sundry little notes
                  --'                     a carved tortoise-
to  this  effect       R.  O.  gave  me
                  :

shell comb,' and ' R. O. gave me a volume of

Cowper's Poems.'

1824-33  LECTURER AT BART'S  35

     Before the end of the year Owen was engaged
to be married to Miss Clift.

William Clift had a sincere affection for his

assistant, and from his letters appeared to have no

objection to his marriage with his only daughter.
Whatever opposition there was to the match
proceeded from Mrs. Clift, who insisted that
Owen should have sufficient means to provide
for her daughter, before she would hear of the

marriage taking place.

     In the following year (1828) Owen was
appointed Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy

at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, an appointment

which was the starting point of his career as a

lecturer. This was not a particularly remunerative

post, and he soon found, even joining the stipend

to that which he was receiving as Assistant

Curator of the Hunterian Collections, that if he

were to think of getting married he must look out

for something which would provide him with
                            In October his mother
sufficient means to do so.

writes :--

' I am most anxious, my dear boy, for your

improvement and success in your profession. I
have lately been reading a book entitled " Publick

Characters in the Year 1823," amongst the rest
Peel, Scarlett, Sir H. Halford, &c Many of the

characters are men who by perseverance and

steadiness in their profession have made their

mark in the world, and one observation particularly

36  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 11.

 I will quote from the " Lives." " One thing

 indeed can never be too strongly recommended

 to young men aspiring to rise in their profession,

 whether such profession be the law or physick :

 let them, if within their means and power, become
 the pupils of some person already eminent and in

 high repute ; by such a preparatory course they

 obtain two great objects --a well-grounded pro
 fessional knowledge, and the opportunity of be

 coming known to all the friends and connections
 of their instructor." Now, my dear Richard, I
 do flatter myself that you will ultimately become

 great in your profession, and, should it please the

Almighty to spare me till then, I trust in His good

 Providence for the rest.'

     Towards the end of 1829 or the beginning of
 1 830, Owen heard that the post of House Surgeon
to the Birmingham Hospital was vacant. On
January 7, 1830, he left London at a few hours'
notice, thinking that if he obtained this appointment

it would further the ends he had in view. There

is no doubt that his affection for Miss Clift had a

great deal to do with this attempt which he made
at improving his position ; for he saw but little

prospect of advancement if he stayed on at the
College as assistant to the Curator, because Mr.
Clift's only son, William Home Clift, had been

promised the curatorship on his father's death.

     As will be seen, from the two following letters,
Mr. Clift even while acknowledging the loss which

1824-33  DEPARTURE FOR BIRMINGHAM  37

Owen's success would be to him, greatly interested

himself in furthering his application for the Bir

mingham appointment.

     The first is a letter addressed to Joseph
Hodgson, who was one of the officials connected
with the Birmingham Hospital.

                                      Lincoln's Inn Fields : January 7, 1830.

      ' My dear Sir, -- The suddenness of Mr.

Owen's departure for Birmingham prevents me
from writing you a long epistle on the occasion ;
and therefore, without further preface, I beg leave

to recommend him strongly to your good offices ;
which, when you know him so well as I do, I
firmly believe you will not think ill bestowed.

You will find him exceedingly well informed in all

that relates to his profession, an excellent anato

mist, and sober and sedate very far beyond any

young man I ever knew. If you succeed in de

priving me of his assistance you will do me a
great disservice ; but if it is for his good I should
be very sorry that you should think me so selfish

as to wish him to remain here when he might, in
such situation as that to which he aspires, be so

much more advantageously employed, both to his
own advantage and that of your hospital institution,

as being more suited to his talents and his inclina

tions than anything we have here to offer him as

an inducement to stay. I can only add, if he suc

ceeds as he deserves, he cannot fail to do well ; he

38       PROFESSOR OWEN                                      Ch. II.

will, moreover, I may venture to affirm, set all poor

students a good example for close application
and attention to their professional and moral

duties.

     ' With best wishes for your health, I remain,
             ' My dear Sir, yours very sincerely,

                                         ' Wm. Clift.'

     Joseph Hodgson, Esq.

     Four days later Clift addressed a letter to John
Abernethy, on the same subject, from which the

following is an extract :--

                         January u, 1830.

      ' I have this morning received the enclosed
letter from Mr. Owen, who is now in Birming

ham.

    ' If he succeeds, as he deserves to do, I fear

I shall lose the advantage of his assistance just

now when it was most needed, and when he was

becoming most useful from the knowledge he

had acquired of the business of the museum ; but

of course no one can blame him for endeavouring
to better his condition if it is in his power, and

I only hope that the situation, if he succeeds in

         will be to his advantage, for really
getting  it,

              ;

                  if
                      I
                                                          I
believe him to deserve all the good that may

befall him and from his steadiness and sedate-

ness, combined with his extensive knowledge for

....so young a man, think the Hospital must be               He
much benefited they retain him there

1824-33       MISS CLIFT                     39

passed very creditably at Apothecaries' Hall at

only one day's preparation or rather reconsidera

tion, which was no bad proof of what was in him,

as he could hardly have been said to have attended

to that subject for the last three years  '

The first letter of Owen's which is preserved

is one written about this time to his future wife,

with reference to this appointment. All his letters

to her are characterised by sound common-sense,

and are affectionate in tone without being senti

mental. There is emphatically ' no nonsense

about them.'

              Richard Owen to Miss Clift

                                                                       January 9, 1830.

     ' Dear Caroline, --At present the chances are

that I shall return to you for good and all.
     ' The greatest advantage that can accrue from

my present undertaking is a lucrative practice in
the town of Birmingham, and that (hdas !) only
after some time. I therefore hope rather to

return to you, even in the event of my election,

should any circumstances ever render my services
of worth to the College, and I shall return with
the satisfaction of having studied my profession
practically under a surgeon like Mr. Hodgson, and
perhaps be able to compete with some of the

Londoners.

     ' Whatever be my lot, it is now more interest

ing to me than ever, for such must be yours.

40                  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. II.

     ' Farewell ! God bless you, my love, and kiss
your mother for me.

                                 ' Your Richard Owen.'

    To Miss Clift.

     Writing to William Clift from Birmingham
on January 9, 1830, he says : ' The sentiment ex

pressed by all the medical officers I have spoken

to is that they are afraid the situation is too

poor an object, or hardly worth my acceptance,

and that they should consider themselves for

tunate to have me elected to it-- a sentiment both

flattering and discouraging. My heart yearns
towards the " happy Fields." . . .' After stating
that he has enclosed notes for Sir Astley Cooper

and John Abernethy asking for their testimonials,
he adds : ' I am ashamed of this disjointed scrawl

and of causing so much trouble about my stupid

self, who ought to have staid at home and

minded my bottles.'

    It soon becomes evident that Owen found the

post unequal to his expectations, and that he

abandoned all desire to obtain
    '
                                                          :

                                                                ;

                                                           it.
                                                            it,

                                                                             it
    On January 12, 1830, he again wrote to

William Clift from Temple Row, Birmingham

(Mr. Middlemore's) --

       Mr. Hodgson explained to me many par

ticulars respecting the situation, which they have

cut down a good deal he entered very fairly into

every advantage connected with      and what

1824-33  BIRMINGHAM ABANDONED  41

might tend to. It would be at least ten years

(and perhaps rather improbable in so short a
time) ere I could calculate on sitting down and
paying my own expenses as a surgeon and

apothecary in Birmingham ; and a year or two
longer before prudence would permit marriage --
should everything go on well ! ! So that, my
dear Sir, I request you to suspend any exertions

or trouble you may have in hand at present on my

account. It is indeed solely for such trouble as

yourself, and in a minor degree one or two in this
town, have been put to, that I have reason to

feel regret ; for my own little share I have

nothing to fret about ; it has given me a little

more insight into and mixture with the world ;

more established me in my future views, and

made me better value the opportunity of labour

ing with yourself.
     ' I trust, under these circumstances, you will

exonerate me from the charge of fickleness. The

first prospect being so good, I spared no pains to

give myself a chance, or at least to know the
chances ; and if they are too strong against me, it

surely is best to withdraw timely, and not sacrifice
too much time or money. I wish I knew the feel
ings of the College on the step I have taken, but
I cannot imagine it to be calculated to give much
offence. However, my mind is made up to try
any chance rather than sit down with the dreary

prospect of ten long years' fag and saving of

42  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

scraps, away from those I love most and the

society I take such delight in.'

     In a letter to Miss Clift, Owen writes two days
later (January 14, 1830) :--

     ' You know not how rapidly I have succeeded
in gaining golden opinions from all sorts of men
in this place. You have lent me your attractions

and have prompted me in all my interviews. To

give you an idea : the whole medical staff met

and decided that, though they had pledged them
selves to give no opinion on the merits of the
candidates till February, yet they were so unani

mous in my favour that they would commence

an active canvass for me, and justify themselves
on the plea of the good of the institution ; they
changed the name, too, from House Apothecary
to Resident Medical and Surgical Officer. And
one of the old physicians said I should have come
in as it were by acclamation -- nay, the expressions
of goodwill have been so flattering to me, that it

has made it almost painful to announce to them

my determination to resign.
      ' But the die is cast ; you shall be with me ever,

and guide, and prompt, and see my exertions.'

     In a few days Owen was back again at work on
the Hunterian Catalogue, devoting the intervals
of time which were not spent in the museum of
the College of Surgeons to the development of
his medical and surgical practice at 1 1 Cook's
Court, Lincoln's Inn Fields. This practice was

1824-33  ZOOTOMICAL RESEARCHES  43

 chiefly, though not entirely, amongst young

lawyers, and in some cases his relationship with
them was such as to lay the foundation of not

a few lasting friendships.2 He also diligently
visited the poorer classes of the neighbourhood.

      Owen at this time began to apply himself
industriously to the dissection of such animals as
died under the care of the Zoological Society of
 London, and this he continued to do for many

years after, thereby gaining valuable materials for
most of his contributions to the ' Proceedings ' of
that Society. He became a Life-Member in 1830,
was soon elected on the Council, and took an active

share with their then Secretary, Mr. Vigors, the
Vice-Secretary, Mr. Ed. Bennett, Wm. Yarrell,

and Thos. Bell, in the establishment of the even

ing meetings for the purely scientific aims and
works of the Society, and the prompt publication
of the facts communicated on those occasions.

     These originally appeared as the ' Proceedings
of the Committee of Science,' in 1830; and they
took the title of ' Proceedings of the Zoological

Society of London,' in 1833. A large proportion

of Owen's zootomical researches is to be found
in these volumes. His first zoological paper
(1830-31) was ' On the Anatomy of the Ourang-
outang,' while in the same year he contributed
his first surgical paper to the ' Trans. Med.-Chir.

Soc, 1830,' 'An Account of the Parts concerned

                     2 Notably with Chief Baron Pollock.

44  PROFESSOR OWEN                 ch. iI.

in the Aneurism for the Cure of which Dr.

Stevens tied the Internal Iliac Artery at Santa
Cruz in the Year 1812.'3

     In 1830 three parts of the ' Catalogue of the
Hunterian Collection in the Museum of the
Royal College of Surgeons in London,' 4to, were
published. No author's name appears on any of

the six parts, but Owen was entirely responsible

for part iv. (1), and there is no doubt that he
assisted Clift in the preparation of the other parts
of this preliminary list.

     Owen sent his old friend and preceptor,
Dr. Seed, a copy of this work as soon as it was
ready, and received the following reply :--

                                                    Lancaster : November 12, 1830.

    ' My dear Owen, --Accept my thanks for the

book. I received it with peculiar pleasure, and
contemplate it as the dawning of a talent which,

   3 ' Dr. Stevens,' writes Owen,  land by the operator in 1829.
' had transmitted an account of    Dr. Stevens,' Owen continues,
                                   ' at the suggestion of Mr. Law-
this operation, the first, he be-
lieved, which had been per-        rence, deposited the preparation
formed on that artery, in 181 2,   in the museum of the Royal
from the island of Santa Cruz,     College of Surgeons, and, the

announcing its success. Doubts     dissection being intrusted to me,

were entertained and had been      he requested me to communicate

publicly expressed, as to the      the particulars to the Society,
possibility of reaching so deep-   The result of this dissection
seated an artery. The patient,     was to demonstrate the fact of
restored to health, died in 1822.  the application of the ligature
The part of the body concerned     on the internal iliac artery, and
in the operation was preserved     its effect on the obliteration of
in spirits and brought to Eng-
                                   the aneurism.'

1824-33 CATALOGUE OF HUNTER'S COLLECTION 45

I prophesy, will do you honour. The vineyard

in which your industry is occupied will bear fruit

worthy the labourer, independent of the incalcu

lable advantage which will accrue to your interest
and improvement. Your wonted industry and

application will ensure your good fortune and
prosperity. In my humble opinion, you have es

timable merit and must shine in the profession,

'                                                                                     under all
          .
                      .

                                                            it,
provided your good sense keep

circumstances of fortune, under proper govern

ment. .

Believe me your faithful and sincere friend.

In haste

                                                                                      'J. Seed.'

Of the five Descriptive Catalogues of Hun

ter's Collection, vol. was ready in 1833, and
                i.,
                              i.

                                       ii.

                                                                                   '
the year following vol.  appeared. After

finishing vol.  Owen set to work to prepare
another and separate catalogue -- Preparations

presented by Sir William Blizard to the Royal

College of Surgeons, London.' This 4to volume

came out in 1832, appearing between vol. and
                                                                                      i.

ii.vol. of the Hunterian Catalogue. The task

of describing the Hunterian Collections was a

Herculean labour. Most of Hunter's MS. had

been lost or destroyed, and the collection, as                                                    it

stood, was practically useless. Three thousand

nine hundred and seventy specimens had to be

examined and described, and for this purpose

46  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. II.

 Owen was obliged, in a large number of cases, to
obtain and examine fresh materials. In this way
the volumes of the Catalogue appeared, year after

year -- ' a work of scarcely inferior importance to
the museum itself.'4 No more fitting field can

be imagined for the development of Owen's

genius.
      In the early part of September Owen took

a rest from his work by staying a short time
at Lancaster with his mother and sisters. He

never lost an opportunity of paying a visit to
his native town. Writing to Mrs. Clift from
Lancaster, September 13, 1830, he describes his

journey through Birmingham and Manchester.
His letter gives a good idea of the discomforts
of travelling in the early part of the century.

     ' My journey,' he says, ' to Manchester was a

very wet one, and marked by nothing in particular
but a very musical guard, and that instead of
riding over the Derbyshire hills I found myself,
to my great surprise, discharged at the Swan Inn,
Birmingham, about nine o'clock in the evening.
They told me that the coach for Manchester would
start in half an hour ; but it was near eleven

o'clock before we started, so I was prevented
from calling on any one in that place, in conse
quence of momentary expectation of being called

upon to mount the coach. The night set in so
drearily that I agreed to take an inside place if

                     4 Knight's Eng. Cyclop. : Biography.

1824-33  ON THE MANCHESTER COACH  4

there should be a vacancy, for the Worcester

coach had to carry us on to Manchester ; how

ever, it was full inside, so I was compelled to

mount the box. The rain slackened about four
in the morning. I was " nid-nid-noddin'," and saw
all manner of odd things in the road -- thought I
saw you sitting on the off leader's crupper, and

nearly bolted forwards in an attempt to shake
hands ; when I recovered myself, you were

gone and the leaders were making towards the
parapet of a small bridge. I punched coachee in
the ribs, and seized hold of the reins ; he woke up
just in time to back us into the middle of the

road, but got to nodding again as soon as he
cleared the bridge, so that I was kept effectually

awake for the rest of the stage when daylight
fairly broke upon us. The thick white masses

of cloud rolled sullenly off, scattering a few drops
as they passed over us ; but at length the sun

struggled upwards and shone out upon us all day.

At eleven o'clock in the morning I reached

 Manchester, at six in the evening Lancaster.

The approach to the town was rendered very
beautiful by the clearness of the atmosphere, and
the evening sun gilding the turrets of the old

 castle.'

      After his return to London his mother writes :

 ' I have, my dear lad, read your Catalogue quite

through, Latin and English, and have had the

 pleasure of seeing your name in a philosophical

48             PROFESSOR OWEN                           ch. II.

review describing the air-vessels of the gannet,5

and also in some other periodical              You may

suppose  what  pleasure   such   things  give  me    '
    In a somewhat later letter she says :--        !

    ' I am sure you will be looking for a line from

your mother, so I avail myself of this opportunity

of sending you a letter.

    ' I sincerely hope you have got through the

difficult task of describing the finny tribe, ser
pents, &c, and that your avocations will not

deprive you of taking the air and proper exercise

so essential to health. I have been much in

terested with your Catalogue, which I have had

great pleasure in perusing               I long to see

your account of the Orang6 when it comes out

in full. We were much amused with the corre

spondence on the subject. I hope you will be

properly paid for what you are to write on those

beautiful birds of Captain B.'s7 for the Zoological.

. . . Present my kindest respects to Mr. and Mrs.

and Miss Clift. ..."

     In this year, while Owen was engaged on his
Catalogue of the Hunterian Collections, and in the

private practice which he had started in Cook's
Court, he had the good fortune to make Cuvier's

acquaintance ; for it was in 1830 that Baron

Cuvier paid his last visit to England. This visit,

   5 Gannet (Sula bassand)       was finished shortly after this
Proc. Zool. Soc, 1 83 1, p. 90.  letter.

  6 This paper, begun in 1830,      7 Captain Beechey.

1824-33              CUVIER AT THE COLLEGE           49

happening during the time of the abdication of
Charles X., caused the report in this country that

Cuvier had fled to avoid danger ; but the facts

were that the opportunities of absenting himself

were rare, and that he felt the necessity of coming

to England, more especially to gather materials

connected with his great work on fishes.
     In a little note which Owen has written in a

Memoir of Baron Cuvier, he attributes his per

sonal introduction to Cuvier mainly to the fact

that the great anatomist was unable to understand

English and converse in  while Owen under
                         it,

                                              I'
                                                 it
stood French perfectly, and could speak with

tolerable fluency.                                 made

      In the year 1830,' he writes,
'
Cuvier's personal acquaintance at the Museum of
 1I
the College of Surgeons, and was specially de
              1. 1,
puted to show and explain to him such specimens

as he wished to examine. There was no special

merit in my being thus deputed, the fact being

that was the only person available who could

speak French, and who had at the same time

some knowledge of the specimens. Cuvier kindly

invited me to visit the Jardin des Plantes in the

following year.'
     The result of Cuvier's invitation was that, in

July 83 Owen visited Paris for the first time.
Cuvier was still engaged with Valenciennes in

preparing their great work on fishes, on which

both expended an enormous amount of time and
     vol.
                                            E

50  PROFESSOR OWEN                  ch. II.

labour. During this visit to Paris, Owen ex

amined the fossil vertebrate collection and re

ceived some hospitality and attention from Cuvier.

How far these opportunities affected his mind

with regard to this branch of scientific study is a

matter which is open to question.

    If it is the case, as nearly all memoirs of Pro

fessor Owen agree in stating, that Cuvier and his

collection ' made a great impression on Owen, and

gave a direction to his after-studies of fossil re

mains, in which he was so eminently distinguished

himself,' then Owen has left no record of that

' impression.' His rough diary, which he kept

during his stay at Paris, seldom mentions the

fossil vertebrate collection, and shows that his

interviews with Baron Cuvier were for the most

part of a purely social character.  It notes, for

example, that he attended pretty regularly Cuvier's

soirees, held on Saturday evenings, and that he

enjoyed the music With the diary agree his

letters. Both devote page after page to the sights
and amusements of Paris. Owen, in fact, seems

to have . regarded this stay at Paris as an ex

ceedingly pleasant and entertaining holiday. At

the same time it is impossible to form a just

estimate of Owen's work without taking the
labours of Cuvier into account. Although

Owen stands on ground wholly his own, he was

ever willing to acknowledge the debt which he
owed to Cuvier. The relationship of the work

1824-33     VISIT TO PARIS                                   51

of these two men has been compared with that of
Turner and Claude in painting. Turner, it was

said, is independently great, though it is doubtful

if without the works of Claude ' he would ever

have painted that marvellous bit of cloud which

hangs side by side with Claude's chef cTceuvre
in the National Gallery.'

            Richard Owen to Mr. Clift

            Hotel du Jardin du Roi :
                    Rue Copen. No. 4, Paris.

                                                                                 August 2, 183 1.

     ' My dear Sir, -- My absence would assure you
that I was in time for the steamer, having got on

board ten minutes before she sailed ; she lay just

below melancholy old London Bridge, and I saw

the tents erected preparatory to the fete of her
rival and prophetic of her own (fate
            II                                               need

                                                        !).

                                            II
not say how much enjoyed the sail down the

river, or dwell on the interesting objects that suc

cessively presented themselves. When passed

the Deptford chalk thought of you, but was too

far off to distinguish any fossil bones sticking out.

Twenty men-of-war lay off Sheerness. Just before
sunset, which was very fine, saw a Delphinus
            a
                            a

                            I
                                       it it
tursio rolling onwards to the Thames. The
         ?

moon produced a very fine effect as rose out of

the Zuyder Zee, scattering flood of light over

the flickering waves, whilst around the haze

appeared to reflect glow of light like a distant

52  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. II.

fire. Notwithstanding these scenes, however, I
felt my heart beat quicker and my rheumatism
disappear as the revolving light of Calais came

into view. At the Hotel Meurice I first saw

the painted walls and sanded floors, and deter
mined to quench my Anglicism in a basin of
bouillon ; it procured me a good night's rest, I

believe. The next morning at half-past nine I
entered the coupd of the diligence ; my fellow-
traveller was a Dr. Sayer, of London, who had

been detained by Buonaparte in 1802, as he was

returning with his father from a tour which made
his visit longer by ten years than he intended.

It was a beautiful moonlight night when we

entered Abbeville, which gave an air of romance
to the antique houses, the Abbey, and walls of

this old city. I recollected that this was once the
frontier town of the Spanish Netherlands, one ot

the thirty possessed by that overgrown state ; and
the habits of its various occupants and the muta
bility of empires came crowding on my mind,

when the reverie was interrupted by the more

important circumstance of supper. The country

through which we passed had put on its richest

appearance --ripe corn, beans, hemp, and vines in

full foliage alternate with each other, and the
labourers of the harvest are in full song. Yet,
notwithstanding, I am struck with the inferiority
of this to our own country in point of all the
ordinary consequences of civilisation and pros-

1824-33  ARRIVAL IN PARIS  53

perity-- few people to be seen on the road, still

fewer houses, and these but poor mud cottages ;
no private travelling, no carriages, but now and

then a solitary estafette. What an outrd thing
is a diligence ! Two coaches and a chariot joined

by symphysis or harmonia, sometimes five, some
times six or seven horses, ropes every now and

then breaking ; the postillion always picturesque.

Nevertheless, I never slept more comfortably in
a coach than in the coupd ; and while travelling
in a strange country should always prefer making
my observations at a rate not quicker than five or
six miles an hour.

     ' It was nearly eight when we reached Paris
on Friday night (29th). We met numerous groups

of the Garde Nationale Rurale returning from
the grand review. On alighting we were told of

the illumination and fireworks about to take place,
so I determined to stay that night at the Hotel
des Messageries, and, after having got my luggage
into my apartment and some refreshment into

myself, I posted off to the Place Louis XV., which

I was told would be the best place for seeing
them. Imagine me following my nose and such
directions as I could comprehend, hustled about
in the crowd, every minute in danger of being
run over, and then on a sudden turn finding
myself in the most beautiful place in the world,

among noble walks, statues, flowers, fountains,

glassy pools -- in short, in the garden of the

54  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

 Tuileries, brilliantly illuminated and traversed by
 thousands of Parisians in their gayest attire.
 Here I wandered slowly about, now gazing at the
 sculptured deities, now stopping to smell at rare
plants in full flower, till at length I found myself
on a terrace and looked down upon an immense
place bounded by illuminated houses. I then
approached a large building, the windows of which
were filled with officers and ladies, and at one end,

where the rooms appeared to be most brilliantly
lighted, and towards which I had strolled, I heard
a window suddenly thrown open and a fine form

in the national uniform leant forwards gracefully,

waving welcome with his hand to the crowds
below, whose responsive shouts left me in no

doubt that it was the King. A gun fired and a

rocket shot up from the front of the palace, which
was answered by an immense flight of rockets,
red, blue, and green balls from the Pont de la
Revolution, which were followed by others in

rapid succession, crossing each other and blending
their different coloured balls in a beautiful manner.

I should think altogether double the number of

those expended during a whole season at Vauxhall.
Then came a shower of lights which made it
brilliant daylight in that quarter.

     ' The King then again came forward with his

sons and his wife leaning over his shoulder,
and a crowd of ladies and officers behind him.
' C'est magnifique, c'est superbe ! ' how often I

1824-33  LAURILLARD AND CUVIER   55

heard them exclaim, and also, ' Mais, monsieur,

vous etes trop grand,' as they tried to peep over my

shoulder. At eleven I reached my hotel, and
slept sound in spite of the shouts and firing. The

next morning I set off to the Hotel du Jardin du
Roi ; not the one I spoke of, for I thought it best
to be close to the spot. I met M. Royer in the
garden with a sister of charity, who had come to
beg a few camomile tops. I left my letter with
him for Mr. Pentland,8 and he told me to call

again, on Monday before nine, and he would
introduce me to Cuvier. His inquiries after you
and all the family were warm and frequent, and

his good wishes towards you, I am sure, were
sincere. Poor Laurillard is very ill at St.
Germains. M. Royer did not scruple to say

Cuvier was killing him with work --that when he

was in town he (Laurillard) was employed drawing
and writing from 6 a.m., sometimes to twelve at
night. After this interview I strolled through the

garden, and suddenly came upon the giraffe in

closed in a high paled inclosure along with some

Indian species of oxen. He was standing in the

sunshine and amusing himself by twisting his

long tongue, and pulling out the straws which
formed the partition between his and a contiguous
inclosure. In walking I observed he first moves
a fore foot ; second, the hind foot of the opposite

     B Joseph Barclay Pentland,  Bolivia, and long resident in
some time British Consul in      Rome. Died 1873.

56  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

side, which is very quickly followed by the fore foot
of the same side, and then the hind foot of the other

side, and almost at the same time the foot which

was first moved ; the gait then proceeds, the legs
of the same side appearing to move simultaneously,

although not exactly, a trifling interval intervening
before the fore foot is lifted up. While marching,
his long neck is generally stretched out in a line
with his body, but in almost every other attitude

he strikes me as being a most beautiful and

singular animal. If I can recollect the building I

will put it as a background to the drawing in
Caroline's Album.

      ' On Monday morning I called on M. Royer
and found him at breakfast, after which he

brought me to Cuvier, who was in one of his little
rooms writing. I gave him the Catalogues, with

your best respects, &c He begged me to return

 his thanks to you for them and for the others

which he had received. He thanks you also for
 the sketch of the Dasyurus ; he then took me into
 the museum, and begged me to visit it whenever
 I pleased ; and also to attend his soirdes Saturday

 evening, after which he returned to his work.

 M. Royer then took me through the museum,

 gave me the necessary ticket for the other collec
 tions, presented me with his translation ot
 Deleuze's " Hist, of the Museum," and I left him

 with the impression of his estimable qualities very

 strong on my mind.

1824-33  VISIT TO THE 'INSTITUTE'  57

     ' In the afternoon I went with Dr. Lauth

(who lodges in the same hotel and desires to be
remembered kindly and respectfully to yourself,

Mrs. Gift, and all the family) to the Institute.
There I saw Cuvier, Humboldt, Geoffroy St.-
Hilaire, Blainville, Chaptal, Latreille, Jussieu,
Dupuytren, Dutrochet (who read a paper), Milne
Edwards, and also Mr. Underwood and Pentland.
The latter promised to meet me in the museum

this (Friday) morning to prove to me that the

ox's bone is an elephant's ; and he is going to

morrow to England, and will, I hope, take this

letter to you.
     ' Since Monday I have spent every morning

in the Museum of Comparative Anatomy and have
examined four of the rooms. The labels on the

preparations are more useful than ornamental, but
I shall not say more here on this subject, as I

have made notes in my journal. I have not yet
seen any of the sights, waiting till the weather is
a little cooler, for every day till to-day it has been
at about 75 or 80 in the shade. I have occasional
lessons in the afternoon on the violoncello from
Baudiot,9 who teaches at the Conservatoire, and I

think with some little benefit already. I gene
rally read the papers at Galignani's after dinner,
where yesterday I met McWhinnie, who stayed

     9 This old man's proudest  him and offered him a pinch of
boast was that the Emperor      snuff after one of his perform-
Napoleon one day came up to
                                ances on the 'cello.

58  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

behind. Last night I went to the Theatre
Francois, and saw " Ecole de Vieillards" and a new
piece. I did not stay for the last, the theatre
was so close. It is prettily built, but the decora
tions are faded. The statue of Voltaire in the

salle is worth all the money.

     ' With my best love to all, believe me ever

yours most truly,

                                         ' Richard Owen.'

     In the beginning of September 1831 Owen
returned to London. His mother says in a letter

dated from Lancaster September 8, 1831, 'that

she thinks he must have been highly gratified by
his " trip to Paris," and by the sight of all its

wonders.' She hopes when he has time that he

will give them a full account of it all. That

account he sent soon after, for in another letter

dated October 6, 1831, his mother writes thus :--

' Thank you for the amusing journal of your

visit to Paris, more especially for the time and

trouble of writing as you had so much employ
                  I it,
                                                                 I
ment for your pen with the Catalogue, the

finishing of which  shall rejoice to hear.

felt much concern about your health, fearing

that, as you were not quite well, the hurry of

seeing sights might have been too much for

you. Your being noticed by Cuvier was for

tunate, and your having access to his museum

would be an advantage in your profession on

 1824-33 'MEMOIR ON THE PEARLY NAUTILUS' 59

 many accounts, and I trust you will reap the
 benefit of it ultimately. . . .

      ' I look forward with great and anxious plea
 sure to the time when we may expect you to visit
 Lancaster, my dear son, which I fear may not
 be till next summer --a long period for one at
 my time of life. . . .'

      Owen was occupied during the end of 1831
 and beginning of 1832 with the work which first
attracted the attention of scientific men towards

him, namely the ' Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus,
 1832,' the description of which seemed to have
given his mind a bent in a definite direction.

      On the appearance of this memoir it was
translated into French by Milne Edwards, and
into German by Oken. In it the. author enters,
in a way characteristic of subsequent memoirs, into
collateral questions on which the new facts threw
light. He modifies the Cuvierian classification
of Cephalopoda, based on characters of the shell,
and proposes, on anatomical grounds, the orders
Dibranchiata and Tetrabranchiata, which have

been accepted.

     He had meanwhile moved from Cook's Court

to Symond's Inn, as we find from an old inventory
of his furniture, some of which was sold in the

move. In a letter to Miss Clift, dated from the

College of Surgeons, April 24, 1832, he is anxious

that she should lend him her assistance in ' en

deavouring to abridge the term that opposes

60                    PROFESSOR OWEN                                  ch. II.

itself to our union --to the consummation of the

great happiness, as I do believe it will be, of both

our lives.'

     In the same letter Owen refers to his income,
and gives some interesting details of his work :--

     ' I have heard that Harrot1 and you once

projected living like two Vestals in a cottage ; do
you think she would object to your introducing a
third party into the plan, in the shape of your

husband, who, besides the additional protection,

might add to the resources of the company 200/.
per annum ? You know it must be in time, but

at present our ruling Goths are blind to what

every one else sees, which, to speak very modestly,

is my merit. Mr. Keate                          understand, veryis,
                                                  I
wrath because have been proposed for the New
                  I                                                2
                      I
                                                             is
          Council at the Zoological Society, together with

          two lords and a baronet, but only let him express

it        in a tangible form. Nautilus                                nearly com

       1  pleted, and am preparing a paper for the R.S.
         '
          which, the subject were your merits, would give
            . if
          me little trouble notwithstanding its necessary

          length. . .
                 Above all, trust me,' he concludes, your
                                                2
          ever devoted and affectionate Richard.'                                          :
                                                                                                  '
               On May 1832, Owen again writes to Miss3,

          Clift, who had answered the former letter --

                A great friend of Miss Cliffs,         Memoir on the Pearly
                                                Nautilus.
          afterwards her bridesmaid, by
          name Miss Harriet Sheppard.

1824-33  PROBABLE EXPECTANCIES  61

     ' You have now, my dear Caroline, effected
what I have long wished ; you have directed

your thoughts in a definite channel on the subject

of our approaching union, and have begun to
think of it as a thing certain and fixed, based on

a strong mutual affection, and an earnest desire

to increase each other's happiness. . . . We

must next calculate our resources and consider

the best mode of applying them.
     ' My 200/. I think is certain so long as I

remain at the College ; but that, I felt, was insuf

ficient, even for our wants alone, consistent with

the respectability I am determined C. O. shall
always command in the eyes of the world, and
therefore the idea of the cottage shot across me

as a present additional resource, and now, before

saying more on that, let me detail to you my
most probable expectancies. Some of the more
enlightened members of our College, Mr. Brodie,

Mr. Green, Mr. Mayo, and I believe Sir Astley,3
have thought and talked of the propriety of

establishing a permanent professorship, and a
more regular and extended course of lectures
than at present. I have been told by one of

them that they have considered me as calculated

to fulfil such an office (I confess I sometimes

doubt my powers), and 500/. per annum has been
hinted to me as the probable outside sum ; with

this I think I could be content, perhaps three

         3 Sir A. Cooper.

62           PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                                            ch. II.

             I                  and then, with what
                           it,
years might accomplish

happiness should clasp my dear Caroline after

having succeeded in my first course  !  Now,

said to myself, what to hinder my dear Caryis
    I

and me from quietly enjoying ourselves in a more

humble way in the meanwhile, and then comes

in the cottage and Harrot Now, will you write
       I

           ;/
                                                   ?
                                                             ?

                                                      I

                                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                     '
to her or speak to her for first we must not be

too far off  must work and study hard, and

that cannot do with effect, till can "calm
this troubled breast " and call you indeed my

own.'

    In a postscript to this letter Owen says Not

withstanding this subject interests us so deeply,

the grounds of our proceedings are plain and com

prehensible, and think you may safely trust your
             is I I
                                     ;I
                                            it

                                                         I
own judgment, as would rather you should.

have from very early life been thrown among

strangers and have had a greater control over my

own actions than usual, and am perhaps from

habit too jealous of receiving even a bias from any

comparatively indifferent person. have the great

est confidence in your judgment  was observ

ing the admirable control you had acquired over

yourself in circumstances that made me feel my

comparative weakness that has chiefly tended to

engender a feeling almost more than love to you.'

    On May u, 1832, he again writes to Miss

Clift  :     fear you open my letters with a more

         I'

trembling hand than you direct your own, but you

1824-33 HIS FIRST VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE  63

need not dread the contents of this ; in the short

struggle we have had 'gainst Fate and Necessity

you have performed your part nobly    I have

now begun seriously to consider how I may improve

my fortunes, and for that purpose have been ex

ploring Chancery and other Lanes in the legal

atmosphere for some sufficiently convenient and

conspicuous consulting-room, for the only con

nexion I have is a slight one among the lawyers.

I have had some distant overtures from the Zoo

logical Society to doctor their brutes, but I feel

some degree of repugnance at turning veterinary,

though it were only for a time      I shall soon

have effected that step which will remove much un

easiness from all [i.e. general practitioner.] I shall
then only have to wait for what Providence pleases

to send in the way of patients, and trust in time to

be independent of the old governors,4 who have

been showing some crusty symptoms of late to all

of us.'

During the time between writing the last

two letters Owen evidently paid his first visit to

Cambridge, for he says : ' Cambridge is the most

interesting place I have ever visited, not even ex

cepting Paris. I was there five days, during which
my friend George Langshaw5 took his M.A.
degree. He stands high in his college, but notwith

    4 Of the College of Surgeons.  afterwards Vicar of St. Andrew's
    s An old schoolfellow and      the Great, Cambridge, where
                                   his work was long remembered.
fellow-townsman of Owen's,

64  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. n.

standing he has a fellowship, is going to enter the
busy world as a curate at Birmingham, preferring

activity to idle ease.' The letter concludes with
a note that ' the viollo is decidedly improved.'

     The following letter, written to Dr. Buckland
just before the publication of Owen's paper on the
Pearly Nautilus, is interesting as showing the im
portance Owen himself attached to the work he
had just completed :--

     Richard Owen to the Rev. Dr. Buckland

                                            9 Symond's Inn : July 28, 1832.

     ' My dear Sir, --As there may be still some

weeks' delay before the College copies of the de
scription of Nautilus reach Oxford, I have taken
the liberty to send for your acceptance one of the

few private copies containing proofs from the first
fifty sets of plates. Since the decease of the
lamented Cuvier, there is no one whose opinion
on this work I look for with more anxiety than

your own. Being deeply impressed with the
responsibility attached to the examination of an
animal so rare, and regarded with so much interest
by the most eminent characters in the scientific
world both here and abroad, I have earnestly
endeavoured to be accurate in the descriptive part,
and neither to overlook nor overstate anything. But
until this account be confirmed by the examina
tion of a second specimen, much of its value will
depend upon the light in which it is regarded by

1824-33  THE PEARLY NAUTILUS     65

the masters in natural science. If their opinion

be favourable, how amply will my pains be re

warded !

      ' I remain, with much respect, your faithful and
obliged friend and servant,

                                         ' Richard Owen.'

Writing to Clift from Oxford, Dr. Buckland

makes the following remarks on Owen's descrip
tion of the Pearly Nautilus : --

     ' I received safe nearly a month ago Mr.
Owen's admirable work on the Nautilus Pompi-

lius, and am very much obliged by the early com
munication of it and highly gratified by the most
able and masterly and satisfactory manner in
which he has conducted the whole investigation of

this most interesting animal.'

     The following letter, written after the publica
tion of the ' Pearly Nautilus' by Mr. J. B. Pentland
to Mr. Clift, and dated from Paris, November 5,

1832, will show the estimation in which the work
was held :--

     ' . . . We have seen here, but for a moment, your
friend Mr. Owen's paper on the Nautilus, one of

the most interesting additions to natural science

that has been made for some time. How delighted

poor Cuvier would have been to peruse it ! But

alas!

' My own movements are doubtful. I cannot

leave Paris until I have completed what I have

VOL. I.                       F

66     PROFESSOR OWEN                           CH. II.

undertaken to do for Madame Cuvier, and it is a

debt I owe to him who is now no more.

                                      ' J. B. Pentland.'

     In December we find Owen making experi

ments for Dr. Buckland as to the means by which
the nautilus rises and sinks. The letters are tech

nical, but the following extract shows Owen's
                            --'
ideas  of Buckland's  work       December  14,  1833.
                            :

No one, however, I imagine, can refuse their

assent to the theory you have so beautifully deve

loped, and I feel much honoured by your being
pleased to think it of any moment to add to your
observations, that I am perfectly satisfied and con
vinced that it affords an adequate explanation of

the means by which the nautilus rises and sinks,

and is also in harmony with what we may rea

sonably conceive to be the movements of the
animal both at the surface and the bottom of

the sea.'

     About a year later Sir Anthony Carlisle thus
addresses Owen on the subject of the Pearly
Nautilus :--

     ' My dear Owen, -- I have lately looked through

your story of the Pearly Nautilus, and am better
satisfied with the dark engravings. The letter

press improves on re-reading. It is an excel

lent specimen of Hunterian-Cuvierian Natural

History, but, as I at first foresaw, your pearls are

thrown before swine. If the English medical hog-

1824-33  DEATH OF MR. CLIFT'S SON  67

trough should be cleared out in our time, there is
a gleam of hope for science among a small few,

but you must not feel disappointed by the general
neglect of your researches. . . .

                                ' Ever yours,
                                          ' A. Carlisle.'

     In September 1832 an event took place which

entirely altered Owen's prospects at the College
of Surgeons. Hitherto, as has been stated, he was
assistant only ' during the pleasure of the Curators,'
and his fellow-assistant was William Home Clift,

Mr. Clift's only son, who had been promised the
post of Conservator at his father's death. Owen
was quite aware of the fact that, as things stood,
he had no chance of advancement in the museum.

     But on the 1 ith of this month, Miss Clift states

in her diary, that as young Clift was returning
home one evening in a cab, the driver on entering
Chancery Lane out of Fleet Street turned too
suddenly, upset the cab, and pitched her brother
on to his head. He was taken up insensible and

carried to St* Bartholomew's Hospital, where he
was received by Owen. It was soon found that
he had sustained a fracture at the base of his

skull, and he died after lingering a few days. At

the time Mr. Clift was away from home taking

his holiday in the country, and, as he was travel

ling about from place to place, it was some days

before the news could be communicated to him.

                                                                                     F2

68           PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iI.

He only arrived to find his son at the point of
death. It was naturally a great grief to Mr. Clift,

but at the same time it was a consolation to know

that Owen would eventually stand in the place of
his son, both in the museum and at home. After

the death of William Home Clift, Owen remained

the only assistant, and was paid at the rate of

200/. per annum until July 1833, when his salary
was increased to 300/. per annum --i.e. to the same

amount as that which the Conservator was receiv

ing, except that the latter received an extra

gratuity of 100/. annually.
     The Christmas of that year Owen spent in

Lancaster, and in a letter dated December 24,
written to Mrs. Clift to announce his safe arrival,

he says : ' Everything shows how little change

...Lancaster has undergone since the days of my
childhood.   I sent for the barber this morn

ing to hear all the current scandal, &c' He also

mentions a delay of three hours in getting to

Manchester ' in consequence of the coach taking
in, I should think, near a ton of oysters at

Islington.'

1833-36  THE 'ZOOLOGICAL MAGAZINE'                            69

                   CHAPTER III

                               1833-36

Eton in 1833 --    Professor   of Comparative   Anatomy at    St. Bartholo
                   -- F.R.S.,  1834-- Marriage   to Caroline  Clift, 1835 --
      mew's, 1834
Early Married Life.

While preparing the Catalogue of the Hunterian

Collections, and in the intervals of his work as a

medical practitioner, Owen founded and wrote the
greater part of a periodical which was issued in

monthly numbers, called ' The Zoological Maga
zine.' This he carried on at his sole cost from

January to June 1833, but after six numbers of it
had appeared he disposed of the copyright to the
printers, Taylor and Francis.

     In April he received the news of his election

into the St. Bartholomew's Club, which was

founded in 1833, and consisted of officials and

past and present students of the hospital.
     In July 1833 Owen accompanied his old

schoolfellow, George Langshaw, to Eton, and
the following long letter to his mother, dated
College of Surgeons, July 29, may be found of

interest :--

70  PROFESSOR OWEN        ch. h1.

    "... He (George Langshaw) wrote to me

last week to come over and witness the festivities

which usually take place when the Eton boys
break up, and the interest of the scene and place,

with the fine weather, made the offer too tempting

to be resisted. . . . My opposite neighbour in
Symond's Inn -- Mr. Hepworth --kindly offered
me the use of his mare . . . and thinking the
exercise would be of service to me I ventured to

accept the offer. Behold me, then, at 9 a.m.,

Saturday morning last, cantering through Lin
coln's Inn on a very handsome and pleasant-going
nag, threading my way with some degree of

nervousness among the cabs and carts and other
vehicles of the crowded streets, and thankfully
leaving the same at Apsley House, where I
turned into Hyde Park. There a pleasant shady

ride extends to Kensington, where you again

enter the main road, along which I went pretty
quickly till I got to the " Black Dog," near Staines,

...where we rested for an hour and then went
leisurely on to Windsor.  At a quarter-past

three I reached Eton, and, having put up my nag
at the " Christopher," opposite the College, went

to Miss Middleton's, next door to the inn, the

dame with whom Langshaw and his pupil, Lord
Blantyre, reside. . . . Some of the boys having
had leave to go before the day of dismissal, I had
one of their rooms on the ground floor, which, as
it will give you an idea of the accommodation the

1833-36  VISIT TO ETON  71

young gentlemen have, I will describe. They
are limited to a single room each, in which there
is a turn-up bed, with their chest of drawers and
wash-stand ; two or three chairs, a small table,

reading stand, and book-case complete the furni

ture. My room looked into the same garden as
George's. ' Mydelton ' cut on the bedstead indi
cated the previous possessor. . . . The dames'
houses are all situated within the College, and
built with a view of rendering escape from them
as difficult and detectable as possible. The en

trance to them from the street is by a long, low,
and narrow passage, but the house itself is sur

rounded by gardens, which have high walls
separating them from the fields ; the windows of
such of the rooms as might afford any outlet are
barred and grated. . . . After dinner, went to
hear the speeches of the scholars elected to

 King's College, Cambridge, spoken before the
 Provost of the College. On this occasion he sits
in the Master's seat and takes precedence of him.
The boys are in full dress and step out into a
clear space in front of the Provost, behind whom
are a series of raised seats for visitors. We were

admitted on the floor, and sat behind the Fellows
of Eton. It was a very interesting sight ; the
speeches were in Latin and Greek, selected from
different classical authors. When that was over

we proceeded to walk to the river side to see a
procession of the boys in boats. They go up the

72  PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. m.

river in ten-oared cutters, each boat manned by

scholars in their particular uniforms and carrying

a flag with their own device ; the steersman is

dressed in midshipman's uniform. There were

about eight of these larger boats with many of

smaller size, the whole preceded by barges

carrying the bands of the Blues and Foot
Guards, playing alternately. Whilst this gay

combination of pleasing sights and melody was

following the windings of the stream, its progress

was accompanied by troops of horsemen on the

banks ; these were headed by Prince George of

Cambridge on a beautiful cream-coloured pony,

with his companions, the two young Seymours,

his tutor, and a number of grooms ; there were

also several officers of the Blues, who had pro

bably been themselves Eton boys.  Prince

George often nodded to boys in the boats, who

returned his salute by rising and taking off their

caps. After a row of about three miles, the boats'

crews landed and severally sat down to long

tables, covered with a cold collation. The tables

were placed in an enclosed piece of ground, round

which a number of carriages had been previously

collected, with the friends of the happy lads, who

were now enjoying with a double zest their holiday

festivities. It was amusing to see the little fags

each waiting behind his master, handing the wine

about, &c , and now and then treated with a glass
themselves or a half-picked bone of chicken. I

1833-36  ETON FESTIVITIES  73

observed, however, that the unfortunate bones

were not released from maxillary exactions when

the fags had done picking them, but were eagerly

fought for -- true bones of contention --by nume

rous smock-frocked urchins who surrounded the

tables at more humble distance, a distance

which the fags preserved by bestowing hearty
aristocratic kicks on any intruder of the latter

class. . . . The boats came racing down, the

crews vociferating and taunting each other, elated

with wine, and emancipated from restraint. Just
above Eton Bridge there is a little island ; here

they had erected a stage for fireworks, and a

triumphal archway, lighted with coloured lamps,
bearing the Eton arms and motto, Floreat Etona !

While the fireworks were let off the ten-oared

boats continued to row round the island, passing
at each circuit through the arches of the bridge ;
sixteen times these boys continued to pull round,
and as they floated past the island every boat's

crew stood up with their oars raised and cheered
the insignia of their school. During this time the

little island was illuminated by different coloured

lights, red, blue, green, &c, the effect of which,

upon the boats and the crowds which lined the

river banks, was strangely beautiful. We could see
lights in the apartments of the Castle (Windsor),

where the royal party were watching the opera
tions of the boys. . . . Next morning we break
fasted together in George's room, after which we

74  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. III.

settled our operations for the day, proposing, first,
to go to Windsor Church and hear Milman the

poet preach a charity sermon ; second, to go and

hear the concluding anthem at the Chapel Royal
and see the King and Queen come out ; third, walk
on the terrace ; fourth, return and lunch ; fifth, go
to Eton College Chapel ; sixth, go again to the

terrace and hear the bands play ; seventh, return

and dine, after which I was not sorry that a shower
of rain confined us at home, for I felt rather stiff.

The chanting at Eton Chapel was beautiful. I sat
in one of the stalls next the reader ; opposite me
was Dr. Keate, the justly dreaded Head-master,
the sight of whose countenance is said to strike

terror into the boys long after they have left
school, and truly it is awful. When service is over
the boys remain till they have permission to go

out, and they press forward in a dense mass in the

body of the chapel opposite the Master's seat

waiting for the word of command.
     ' After breakfast on Monday morning we

went to Eton College, but without any certain
plan of getting into the schoolroom to see the
ceremony of breaking up. Two companies of
Foot Guards had piled their arms in the outer

court ready to receive their Majesties, and a

detachment of the Blues were parading up and
down the road in front of the building. The
groups of boys were scattered about planning
their holiday amusements and modes of de-

1833-36 'BREAKING-UP' DAY AT ETON  75

parture, and a concourse of ladies had assembled     '
at the door leading to the back of the school
room. This part was occupied by a series of

raised benches behind the seats appropriated for

their Majesties and suite. In front of the latter

was a semicircular space destined for the speakers

of the speeches ; the rest of the schoolroom was
occupied by series of forms disposed length
wise, and rising one above the other on either

side a middle alley leading from the main
entrance of the schoolroom to the open space in
front of the royal chairs. From this description
you will perceive that, had we gone in with the

visitors, we should have been behind the King.
George, therefore, cast about for one of the

masters, who intimated to us that if we came in

along with the boys we might slip into the side
seats flanking the middle alley, and he thought
that, as George was well known to many of them,

they would not treat us as intruders. We accord

ingly crept in with the rear and clambered up

into a capital place for seeing the tout ensemble.

In the meantime Dr. Keate was darting up and

down the middle alley marshalling the boys and

enforcing order and silence, which he had some
trouble to do, as some of the urchins seemed

inclined to be rebellious on the eve of emanci

pation. Black neckcloths are forbidden to the
scholars ; but many of them had put them on in
a spirit of boyish daring this morning. Still, such

76  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 1ll.

was the influence of old Keate's countenance,

that, whichever way he turned, the unacademic
handkerchiefs were whipped off or hidden by the
brim of the hat. George felt averse to being

seen in a place not appropriated to visitors, so he
stooped behind the boys, and I sat down to be
out of sight. Keate, however, espied me in that

posture, and thinking it was an oppidan, said

sharply, "Sit up, sir ; sit up, sir!" At which I

gathered myself gradually high above the rest,
like long Tom Coffin, to the great amusement of
the lads, who laughed heartily both at the Head
master, who looked a little confused, and myself.

This amused George very much. At length, the

middle alley being cleared, the Head-master and

the rest walked out to prepare for the reception

of their illustrious visitors. Two of the College

porters, with staves crossed, blocked up the en

trance, by which the scholars and ourselves had

come in. Soon after, the trumpets and roll of the

carriages announced the royal party's arrival.

We had by this time insinuated ourselves within
one bench of the middle alley, and very near the

open space, so that we had the best possible

view of the King and Queen as they marched in
procession with the Court and the heads of the
College along the alley. His Majesty was re

ceived with loud cheers from all the boys, and
waving of hats, which he graciously returned

before he sat down. The Queen took her seat a

1833-36  WILLIAM IV. AT ETON             77

little way to the left of the King, and on his right

hand, but closer to him, sat the Princess Augusta.

With the usual officers of the Court were the

Duke and Duchess of Rutland, Marquis and

Marchioness of Londonderry, &c The seats

behind the royal party were crowded with ladies

and a few gentlemen. Milman sat in the middle

of the front seat ; the officers of the Guards

scattered about added to the brilliancy of the

scene. Immediately behind the King's chair

stood Dr. Goodall, the Provost of Eton, and on

either side of him the fellows and masters, &c

. . . The speeches were declaimed by the boys

elected to King's College ; but they were not all

the same as those who had spoken on the Satur

day evening. A Mr. Erskine spoke first -- an

English poem composed for the occasion in

honour of their Majesties' visit. It contained

some good Tory sentiments. The other speeches

were partly Greek, Latin, and English, the latter
from Cato and " Paradise         "
                          Lost      the  passage
                                ;

from Milton was the dialogue between Gabriel
and Satan. The young gentleman who supported

the character of the heavenly messenger was of

a sad aspect, thin, pinched features, and sandy

hair. The jokes of the boys were very amusing
and characteristic At the close of each speech

the orator bowed to the King ; but he com

menced without any prefatory obeisance, the

reason given was that he should not do anything

78  PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. m.

to take away from the character he represents till
his part is ended. Their action is graceful but
formal, and has a sameness necessarily dependent

on its artificial acquisition which prevents the

manifestation of individual differences. They

raise the right arm on minor emphasis, and both

arms when a climax occurs. The King testified
his pleasure by tapping the arm of his chair and
a slight1 inclination of his head ; and he re
peatedly turned to Dr. Goodall to note the
names of the speakers. At the conclusion of the

orations he rose, bowed first to the heads of the

College, then to the scholars, and lastly turned

again to the visitors and his own suite, who then

rose. The lords in waiting then walked back
wards before the King till he came to the middle
of the open space. There Dr. Goodall an
nounced that, at His Majesty's request, an addi

tional week was granted to the Easter holidays,

if the boys did not object. This was received

with renewed and deafening cheers, amid which

the royal party retired as they had entered.

     ' I was glad to see that the cheers were again
repeated as Dr. Keate passed down the alley,

which he returned with some good-humoured

nods which seemed to say, " Yes ! you young

rogues, you may thank me for flogging into you all
the good you are ever likely to get in this world." ' J

   1 The conclusion of this       but was rewritten by Owen
letter had apparently been lost,  himself after 1856 !

1833-36  AS PROFESSOR AT BARTS'  79

     Owen then relates his journey back to town
and concludes : ' I may just mention having been
for the first time, last night, at the House of

Lords. Blantyre, being admitted in his own
right, gave me an order which Lord Southampton
had sent him. I heard the Duke of Wellington,
Earl Grey, the Chancellor (Brougham), Duke of
Sussex, Duke of Buckingham, Lord Eldon,

and a few others speak, and saw some of the
" forms " of the " House." I shall now settle

down with goodwill to my usual occupations,
which, believe me, I would not exchange for the
duties of the Premier. I did not envy his or

the Chancellor's compulsory attendance for a long

and tedious sitting in a close and over-heated

apartment.'
     Early in 1834 Owen was appointed to the

newly established chair of Comparative Anatomy
at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Here he num
bered amongst his pupils Rymer Jones, Arthur
Farre, and William (afterwards Sir William)
White Cooper, all of whom became his intimate

friends.

     In the same year Owen was elected F.R.S.
The original certificate stands as follows :--

     ' Richard Owen, Esq., Assistant Conservator
in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons

--a gentleman intimately acquainted with Physi

ology, Comparative Anatomy, and the various
branches of Natural History, author of a paper on

80         PROFESSOR OWEN                      Ch. m.

the " Ornithorhynchus paradoxus," printed in the
" Philosophical Transactions," and of another on
the " Generation of Marsupial Animals " recently

read before the Society --being desirous of be
coming a Fellow of the Royal Society, We whose

names are underwritten do from our personal

knowledge recommend him as highly deserving
of that honour, and likely to prove a valuable and

useful member.

    J. BOSTOCK.                      W. J. BRODERIP.
                                     W. H. Sykes.
    William Blizard.                 T. Copeland.
                                     Thos. Phillipps.
    B. C. Brodie.
    Joseph Henry Green.              William Clift.
    Edward Stanley.
    M. I. Brunel.                    J. McGrigor.
    John Edw. Gray.                  J. Hodgson.
    Ja. Clark.                       Joseph Sabine.
           Clark Ross.               Benj. Travers.
    Jas.    Pettigrew.               Wm. Kirby.
                                     N. A. Vigors.
    T. J.                            R. H. Solly.'
    W. Spence.
    Marshall Hall.
    A. Copland Hutchinson.

    ' May i$th, 1834. --A certificate was presented

in favour of Richard Owen, and was signed by
" B. C. Brodie, Joseph Henry Green, Edw. Stan

ley, William Clift, M. I. Brunei, J. McGrigor,
John Edw. Gray." '
                       1834. -- Sir  Benjamin  Collins
      'December i%th,

Brodie, Bart., Vice-President, in the chair.

Richard Owen elected F.R.S.'

1833-36  GEOFFROY ST.-HILAIRE  81

    'January 15, 1835. --John Wm. Lubbock,
Esq., V.P. and Treasurer, in the chair. Richard
Owen was admitted into the Society -- and signed

the Charter Book.'

     In October 1834 a paper was read at the
' Académie des Sciences ' entitled ' Deux Mé

moires au sujet des Monotrèmes,' by Geoffroy St.-

Hilaire. In the first article he speaks thus of
Owen : ' Il est fort soigneux d'aller aux informa

tions auprès de ceux de ses compatriotes qui arri

vent journellement de l'Australie : il possède, par
conséquent, beaucoup de précieux documents,

et sait leur donner souvent toute la valeur sci

entifique qui leur appartient : si bien que je

reste convaincu qu'à lui demeurera en définitive

l'honneur d'amener une aussi curieuse question à

sa dernière forme et solution ' (p. 20). In another
place, in mentioning Owen, he speaks of the

' caractère loyal et conscientieux qui le carac
térise '
'

  Je

        1. (p.
           le
               : 6).

                     je

                                                  la
                                                                                                                                                       ;
     On the vexed question of the egg-bearing
of the Duck-billed Platypus (Ornithorhynchus),

Owen writes thus to Geoffroy, after acknowledging

some pamphlets he had received from him on

this subject --

         vous remettrais la première ornithorhyn-

que femelle intacte qui tombe dans mes mains

toutes celles que   possède jusqu'à présent sont

...plus ou moins mutilées dans partie qui vous
intéresse plus.     La femelle de laquelle M.

vol. G

82  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. iii

 Pentland vous a parlé n'appartient pas au Musée
des Chirurgiens ; on la conserve dans un Musée
 Militaire à Chatham, d'où un de mes amis m'a

écrit sur le sujet, disant qu'elle avait des oeufs

dans l'oviductus. J'ai disséqué cette femelle et
j'ai trouvé trois ovules dans l'ovaire gauche sem

blables à tous égards à celles représentées dans
ma planche xvi., mais pas une seule dans l'oviduc

tus ou ad uterum. J'ai depuis reçu deux oeufs
à coque calcaire de la Nouvelle-Galles du Sud,

donnés par les natives pour les oeufs de l'ornitho-

rhynque. Je les ai cassé ; l'un contenait le foetus
d'un ophidien ! l'autre le foetus d'un lézard ! Je

n'ai pu obtenir rien de positif sur les produits de
génération des Monotrèmes ; mais j'ai toujours
cru que leur génération serait semblable à celles

des vipères et des salamandres--c'est-à-dire, ovo

vivipare.'

     This year Owen again spent his holiday in
the Lake District, after visiting his mother and
sisters at Lancaster. Writing to Miss Clift from
Buttermere oh August 7, 1834, he says : ' In the
midst of what I have always considered the
wildest and the simplest scenery of this romantic
country I sit down to give you a short and im
perfect account of my excursion rambles. Inde
pendently of other feelings, which have daily, I

might say with truth almost hourly, prompted
me to write to you, the knowledge of your love
of the beauties of Nature and your sympathy

1833-36   LETTER TO MISS CLIFT  83

with my own feelings and enjoyment of them gives

me double pleasure in attempting to communicate

...to you what I can scarcely find words to express.
        I have no water colours with me, or I would
...have painted a group [of flowers] which I amused
myself with composing.  I have attempted

some sketches with the camera lucida, which

answers the purpose of giving a correct outline

very well.' He describes his tour to Ambleside,

Rosthwaite, the Langdales, and Red Pike, and,

referring to his endeavour to find a safe descent,

says : ' Facilis descensus is Virgil's expression under

circumstances somewhat analogous, but he was

evidently no Highlander.' Describing a somewhat

difficult descent, he writes : ' I confess at one

time the sight of a carrion crow winging its way

far below me led me to a serious speculation

on the probabilities of his having a meal upon
the carcass of an unfortunate anatomist.' He

refers again to the wish that Miss Clift shall visit

Lancaster, as his ' mother is particularly anxious

to see you ; she is visibly aged, but in good

health.'

On his journey back to London, Owen visited

Derby, and from there writes to Clift, August 2 1 ,

1834 : ' I have visited the Infirmary, and seen
their plan of mending broken legs without splints,

and afterwards went to the china factory and saw

the process of the reparation of broken plates.

Jones and I travelled from Liverpool to Man

84           PROFESSOR OWEN                                             Ch. m.

chester by the railroad ; and I was as much

astonished at the process as before. It will be a
sin unpardonable if you do not adventure your

body in the ist class carriages (which be sure to
ask for, or they will put you in the 2nd.)'

     The following extracts are made from Miss
Clift's diary for 1834 :--

     'Friday, November 28. -- R. O. and I, with

my father and mother, went to the Adelphi

Theatre, where we were much pleased with all
four pieces, but particularly with the first, " Agnes

de Vere."    Mrs. Yates'  acting  is beyond praise.
The second,   " My First  Night   ; or, the Ghost of

fMunynseylf,l"ittleJohfanrceR, ee"vTehethCe hrgishtoesnti!n!g,"  The    last a
                                                                        Buck-
                                                                    by

stone, who played the Father of the baby, Mrs.

Keeley the Godmother. From the excessive heat,

owing to an overcrowded audience, no less than
three young men literally " went into fits " in the

pit. R. O. very kindly made his way through

the crowd and assisted the last two. Yates

stopped the scene when the one near the front of

the pit was taken ill, and procured and handed

over a glass of water.'

     ' December 18. -- Made a drawing of a shark's

jaw at the request of Mr. Owen for Dr. Buckland's

forthcoming work.'

    ' igth. -- My Father dined with the club of the

Royal Society and was at the meeting to give his

vote to R. O., who dined with us. When my

1833-36       TAIL OF ICHTHYOSAURUS            85

Father came home we all          drank   congratulations

to R. C, now a Fellow.'

Owen published several memoirs this year, of

which the following may be mentioned as im
         --'  A                          Ova of " Orni-
portant          Description     of the
         :

thorhynchus paradoxus" ("Phil. Trans."); 'A
Paper on the Dislocation of the Tail at a certain

Point observable in the Skeletons of many Ichthy-

osauria.' This latter paper, in which he sug

gested that this dislocation signified the posses

sion of a heavy caudal fin, affords an example of

Professor Owen's extraordinary powers of deduc

tion. It was only in 1892, a short time before

his death, that his suggestion was proved to be

correct. In that year Dr. Everhard Fraas dis

covered in the lias of Wurtemberg the skeleton

of an ichthyosaur in which the outlines of the

fleshy parts were impressed on the stone. This

specimen also showed that the caudal fin was really

larger than Owen had ventured to imagine.2

    At the time when these papers were written,

Owen was still continuing his work as Professor

of Comparative Anatomy at. St. Bartholomew's.

In September 1834 he received the following
letter from Sir Anthony Carlisle. The letter is

quoted here in full, as it illustrates the difficulties

under which Owen worked in his earlier years,

   2 E. Fraas, ' Ueber einen     fur Mineralogie, 1892, vol. 2, p.
neuen Fund von Ichthyosaurus in
Wurtemberg' {Neues Jahrbuch      87) ; see also R. Lydekker, Na-
                                 tural Science, Sept.' 1892, p. 514.

                                                                      <

86  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. m.

and the fact that he had already felt the narrow

ness of the field in which he had been placed. It

is possible that Carlisle, well knowing the apathy
of the reigning faction to the Hunterian Collection,
feared that Owen himself would be led away by
the enthusiasm of outside teaching from the true
purpose of his position. But Owen's energy and
powers proved to be such, that no amount of extra
work was permitted to interfere with his ordinary

routine :--

     Sir Anthony Carlisle to Richard Owen

                                                                        September 10, 1834.

    ' My dear Sir, -- I wish you to understand that

I feel the greatest regard for you personally and
professionally, and I should lament any incident
which might lead you to doubt of my steadiness,
but we have severally many public charges which
should not be interrupted by misapprehension on
either side. You know how deeply I regret the
shameful delays in making Mr. Hunter's Works
public, and how basely one of my efforts to
awaken the slumbers of the profession by giving
my last Hunterian Oration was treated, not
merely by the active malevolence of ignorant
savages, but by the neglect of the whole College.
I knew that your fine specimen of physiological
anatomy would be waste-paper in England, and
so will every similar effort until the great scheme
of scientific zootomy of Mr. Hunter is fully

1833-36 LETTER FROM SIR ANTHONY CARLISLE 87

explained. This never could be done by local
exhibition and by local lecturings. The press

and the engraver were always the proper modes

of showing and diffusing the system of medical

scienae contained in the College Museum ; and
to that object we are bound to devote ourselves

while the Council have the will and the means

to publish an illustrated catalogue. I was sorry

under these strong impressions to read your name
as a Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at St.
Bartholomew's Hospital, first because I know that
it will endanger your powerful position in the Col
lege, for, whether those lectures may be received
with indifference or applause, the consequences

must be unpleasant. In the multitude of lectur

ings which surgical and medical students are

required to attend, kw students will have time

and still fewer the desire to study philosophical

anatomy. But if your well-deserved reputation

should promise you a remunerative class, and
give public renown to the hospital where those
lectures are delivered, what will the rival
hospital schools say ? They will appeal to the
College ; they will quote the express prohibition
in our bye-laws, and place us all in painful
circumstances. I think that at no distant time

the London University and King's College will
become the great schools for elementary medical
instruction, and the hospitals remain the scenes
of practical information. Then, indeed, physio

88                            PROFESSOR OWEN                                                        ch. in.

logical anatomy might be taught in those col
leges, and our illustrated catalogues, aided by
special show-days for those selects of the profes
sion, be becomingly appointed in our museum,
under such able demonstrators as yourself. I
look forward to a different arrangement of the
College lectures, and a far more appropriate
selection of subjects after we have discharged

the long-neglected obligations imposed upon us
by the nation (the Catalogues of the Hunterian
Collections), and much of this depends on you,

to whom both present and future glory must be

given.

      ' Come to me as often as you please, with
openness and confidence, and I will use my best

endeavours to promote your welfare in the College
and out of

                            My dear Sir, truly yours,
                                          An. Carlisle.'

     Richard Owen, Esq.
                            it.

                                                   '
                                                                                             '

    Owen evidently felt that he was able to fulfil

the duties which belonged to both institutions, and

when his Catalogue of Hunterian Preparations

appeared certainly justified his position.

     We have glimpse of him as Professor of Com
           it

                 a

parative Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's in an ac

count given by Miss Clift in her diary for May

1835 of                     prize day at the hospital.
      May
    '                          --Went with R. O. and                                            my  mother

             a

                           1

                      3.

to St. Bartholomew's          Hospital                                                          to see the prizes

 _

1833-36      ROOMS IN THE COLLEGE         89

given away to the students. The Professor of

each different subject made a speech (long or short

as the case might be) in introducing their prize
man to the President. R. O., as Professor of Com

parative Anatomy, said a few words to the point

in bringing forward the young man who gained

the prize on that subject.' There is a footnote

here in Professor Owen's handwriting stating the
man to be William White Cooper.

     About this time Owen gave up his lodgings
in Symond's Inn, and moved to apartments

provided for his use at the College of Surgeons,
which he was now making ready to receive his

future wife in two months' time. ' On leaving
the hospital,' Miss Clift continues, ' R. O. took us

to his house, where he regaled us with ices and

claret and cakes. We visited every part of the

house, and looked into the new part of the museum.

I was agreeably surprised at the size of the rooms

and the comfort of the kitchens, but the upstairs

is most inconvenient. It proved a wet afternoon,

so we came home in a coach from the house,

leaving R. O. to go to the great dinner of the

Governors.'

It is not to be wondered at that his mother

writes about this time to ' R.  O.     '  ' You are daily
                                    :

in my thoughts, as from your letters I cannot help

thinking that you are about to be married, and I

hope happily so ; from all that I have heard of the

young lady, there  iIs,  think, every prospect of it.

9o        PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                 ch. in.

You will observe how this written, owing toill

the unsteadiness in my right hand, but we must; is
submit to the approach of age therefore, my dear
Richard must not expect many letters from me.

Your sisters will write by every opportunity,
and hope you will do the same.' On July
    is I
20, 1835, his birthday, the event took place to

which he had so long looked forward, his marriage

with Miss Gift.3  was very quiet wedding,
                  It

                     I,

                                 a

                                                                       :
                                                                       '
and thus described in the diary -- July 20. --

Richard Owen and                                                my father and Harriet

Sheppard, were in the new St. Pancras Church,

Euston Square, by half-past eight o'clock. The Rev.

Mr. Laing came immediately after we got into the

vestry, and, Caroline Clift having been lost on the

road, Mrs. Richard Owen returned to breakfast at

No. Euston Grove after which my husband,
    1

                    I
                                                          4
                                                             ;
my mother, and set off to Oxford. On the way

we left my mother to return to town by the same

post chariot which took us, as we changed there
for another. We then posted on till we arrived at                                        it
                                                                                                  it
Oxford in time for a late dinner. We left London

at 10.30 A.M.'

     Later in this year an important microscopic

discovery was made by Owen --although at first

seemed merely a curiosity of science. Mr. Wormald,

      The marriage certificate                                                         the presence of William Clift
states that Richard Owen, of the                                                       and Harriet Sheppard.

parish of St. Clement Danes,                                                                The residence at that time
was married to Caroline Clift, of                                                      of Mr. and Mrs. Clift.
the parish of St. Pancras, in
3
                                                                                      4

1833-36 DISCOVERY OF 'TRICHINA SPIRALIS'  91

of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, sent him a piece

of human muscle accompanied by the following
letter :--

     ' Dear Owen, -- I send you some sort of orga

nised beings, as I believe, which occupy the muscles
of a subject now under dissection at St. B. H.,
and as I know you are a keen hand for parasitical

things from crabs downwards, I send the enclosed

for your inspection.

                                ' Ever yours sincerely,
                                         ' Tho. Wormald.'

     Upon examining this piece of muscle, Owen
discovered a new entozoon, the Trichina spiralis.
This minute worm ' is not limited in its distribu

tion to the muscles of man,' but when found in

the human body not unfrequently causes death.

It is well known as producing the epidemic

trichinosis, which makes its appearance chiefly
in Germany, or in such places where diseased

pork or partially cooked ham are consumed. In
order to prosecute these discoveries, bits of decay

ing muscle were often brought into the house
for examination, and on November 1 8 of this year

Mrs. Owen describes an evening's amusement : --

' Richard spent the evening in examining some
of the minute worms found in the muscles of

a man. I looked at one or two through the

microscope and saw [here there is a little sketch
of the trichina as it appeared under the micro

Q2  PROFESSOR OWEN               CH. III.

scope, and the cysts] one cut open. I could not
get over the smell of the decaying piece of muscle
for hours. R. only laughed, and assured me that

in comparison to what surgeons had often to
meddle with, it was quite sweet ! '

     The diaries of Mrs. Owen are now kept almost

without a break up to 1873, the year of her death.
In many places Professor Owen has corrected or

annotated passages himself. The following ex
tracts are taken from the diary kept in 1836: --

    'January 5. -- Richard went to Bruton Street 5
to cut up an ostrich. He is now engaged in

writing on the " paper nautilus," and there is a

lovely little specimen in spirits on the table.'

    ' 26th. -- R. went to a committee meeting at

Bruton Street about a museum. They are inclined

to take John Hunter's house in Leicester Square

for that purpose.'

    'February 16. -- R. again all day at Bruton

Street. Home at 10 p.m. After supper he

   5 The Zoological Society had  specimens were removed to the

a museum at 33 Bruton Street     Gardens, Regent's Park, in

from July 1826 to the end of     December 1843 and January
                                 1844 ; and the offices to 1 1 Han-
1836, when the specimens were    over Square, where they have
removed to 28 Leicester Square,  since remained. The meetings
formerly the residence of John   for scientific business were held
Hunter. The museum existed
there until the end of 1841,     at Bruton Street, Leicester
when it was removed to Dufours   Square, and 57 Pall Mall, dur-
Place, while the offices of the  ing the several periods above
society were removed to 57 Pall  mentioned.-- Dr. P. L. Sclater,
Mall, and continued there until  in lift.
the end of 1843. The museum

1833-36  ROYALTY AT THE 'ZOO'                 93

began to read " Eugene Aram " and went on till

2 o'clock.'                                   As

    ' March 1 3. -- Sunday to St. Dunstan's.

soon as we came back from church, R. set off to

meet Sir Anthony 6 at the Zoo Gardens. When

he came back he told us that the poor little

chimpanzee was very ill--not expected to live.'
    ' 15M. -- R. dined with the Linnsean Club

and went to the meeting in the evening. This
was his presentation, and Mr. Bennett presented
him. Mr. Bell was to have done so, but he
could not come. The Duke of Somerset was

president.'

    ' 20th. --To-day R. and I set off to the Zoo
logical Gardens. We had only been there a few
minutes when the Duchess of Kent and the
Princess Victoria came in. The gentleman who

gave his arm to the Princess was an elder brother

of the King of the Netherlands and brother to
the Duchess of Kent. His eldest son supported
his aunt. The Duchess looked very well, and

as amiable as usual. She had on an exquisite

satin dress, a very dark ground thickly strewed

with gorgeous flowers, and a canary coloured

bonnet with roses. The Princess had on a deli

cate sort of salmon-coloured checked silk, with a

cape, and a sky-blue satin bonnet. She is very

fair, and looks clever and unaffected. They
walked all over the gardens, Mr. Bennett doing

         8 Sir Anthony Carlisle.

94  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. III.

the honours in a very pleasing manner. I was

thankful to see the other visitors did not press

the royal party, and it was very pleasant to see

the good feeling which welcomed them on every

side. They took great pains to visit and see

everything worth seeing, and seemed to greatly
enjoy the actions of the seal diving for fish.

They afterwards went into the room where the
poor little chimpanzee is lying so ill. We walked
back rather tired, and R. wrote downstairs till 1
o'clock. We all set off (my father and mother

and myself) soon after 5 to Covent Garden
Theatre, but poor R. had to return home after

escorting us, as he could not spare the time.
Charles Kemble's benefit made a full house and

the entertainment was excellent. Miss Faucit

appeared for the first time as Lady Townly

("Provoked Husband"). Though evidently very

nervous at the opening, she soon recovered her

self-possession and did herself justice. She never

approached coarseness or vulgarity in her retorts
and petulant upbraidings. Miss Taylor, as Miss

Jenny, received a broad hint from the audience

for over-acting the romp. She was fairly hissed

out of a game of marbles with Mr. Vale, who
played the bumpkin brother. Charles Kemble,
as Lord Townly, was all himself, needless to say.'

    'Sunday, 1jth. -- R. and I got up in good

time, and according to agreement went by 'bus to

Trinity Chapel, Cannon Street Road. We sat on

1833-36 APPOINTED HUNTERIAN PROFESSOR  95

each side of the organist in the organ loft, and it
was quite a treat to hear him.'

     ' 2%th. -- Poor little chimpanzee dead. R. went

to see the " opening scene " in Bruton Street ;

30 gentlemen at least present.'

     In April, Owen was appointed Hunterian
Professor at the Royal College of Surgeons. To
the last days of his life he constantly referred to

the gratification which this appointment gave him.

A draft of the letter which he sent to the Council

accepting the chair has been preserved amongst
his papers, and the hope which he entertained in
his letter of May 3, 1832, now became a reality.

                                                      Coll. Surg. : April 30, 1836.

     ' Sir, -- I had the honour to receive your letter

informing me of my election as Hunterian Professor
by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons,
and I beg you will express to the Council my deep
sense of this additional mark of their favourable

sentiment towards me, and the entire willingness
with which I accept that highly responsible

charge.
     ' I cannot, nor shall I ever be willing to forget

how much I owe my present presumed eligibility

to illustrate by public lectures the labours of
Hunter, to the favourable position in which I am
placed in being entrusted by the Council of the
College with the partial charge of a collection,
originally most extensive, in preparations of Com

96         PROFESSOR OWEN                                           CH. llI.

parative Anatomy, and since become unrivalled

through the care of a wise and liberal adminis

tration.

    ' The subsequent confidence reposed in me by

the Council in reference to the preparation of the

descriptive catalogue of the Physiological Depart

ment of the Collection confided to me demands

my warmest acknowledgments : their favourable

reception and approval of that work have always

formed my most grateful recompense, and have

given the strongest stimulus to increased exertions

towards its completion in a manner as nearly as

possible   eOqwuaeln''s[thdeiardyratfht ecneacsoenstinhuerees].:--
     Mrs.
    'April 21. -- Richard7 went to the Hon. Ar

tillery Co. for ball practice.'

    ' 2%th. -- My Father and R. at the great Zoo

Meeting at the Adelaide Gallery to vote for the

new Council. A printed letter on the subject

came last night' from the " malcontents." After

tea to the Royal Institution. Mr. Faraday on

manufacture of black-lead pencils.'
     ' May 4. -- Richard off to a Zoo Council.

Back about 8.30. Then wrote to Lord Derby to

   * Owen joined the H.A.C.      Ground, on Thursday, April

in 1834. He was informed in      10, 1834, at 7 o'clock in the
April of that year that his ad-  afternoon [sic]. The fees of
mission would be ' balloted for  admission and the subscription
at a Court of Assistants of the  to be paid at the time of ad-
                                 mission are 6/. 6.T.' He resigned
said Company to be held at the   in July 1842.
Armoury House, in the Artillery

1833-36 REFUSES VICE-PRESIDENTSHIP OF 'ZOO' 97

refuse the office of Vice-President which his lord

ship had endeavoured to press upon him to-day.

My Father staid very late to copy R.'s letter to

our President on the subject of future arrange

ments for the museum, &c'
    ' yth. --The Trustees met here to-day. Sir

Astley Cooper offered to introduce R. to the

Duke of Somerset and a Bishop, and was much

surprised to find them old acquaintances. Coming

home from the Stanleys this evening, we were

lighted home by our watchman, to whom R. gave

some whisky, a tumblerful, which he swallowed

at one gulp. R. assured me there was nothing to

be uneasy about, as he was quite case-hardened.'

    ' Zth (Sunday). -- R. went to church, but I got
up late, and went to the Zoo Gardens. The poor
lion lying in straw and almost dead. A new

kangaroo, which hops about on high places like

a great rat-- the tail also somewhat similar in

appearance, and a light-coloured band round its

face like whiskers. R. joined me in the lion-room.

Lord Derby, in the crowd, shook his fist at R. for

refusing the Vice- Presidentship.'

    ' 1 ith. --With R. to St. Bartholomew's to see

the prizes given. Mr. Paget,8 as last year, was

the chief prize-taker.'

    ' i2th. -- In the evening R. went to the Aber-
nethy Club dinner. He said he should have to

give adozen  of champagne  for  having  got  married    '
                                                      !

             8 Sir James Paget.

VOL. I.                                      H

98  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. III.

    ' 15M. --With R. to the Gardens. The poor

lion had a board put up in front of his den to keep

him from being more annoyed than could be

helped by the visitors. The seal dead. The
Arctic puppies very amusing ; we fed them and

the mother with bones and bread.'

     ' \%th. -- Dr. Jacobson brought R. a diploma

from Berlin, making him a Fellow of the Royal

Scientific Academy of Prussia. It was made out

in March 1836, and sent to R. by Dr. Lichten-

stein.'

    ' July 22 (Sunday). --To St. Dunstan's, and

then to the Gardens. The little bear very comical
--most genteel and elegant in munching and clear
ing out his orange. The lion still alive, and both
elephants out. We both came back as usual,

tired and delighted.'

     ' 2$th. --A lovely bright morning ; up before

3 a.m. R. and I started at 4, and after waiting
about near the Gardens till about 5 saw the most
lovely procession imaginable. The four graceful,
bounding, playful giraffes, attended by M. Thie-
baut and four Africans in native costume. Two

policemen were there to clear the road, but in the

neighbourhood of the Gardens there was nothing
to clear except an early market cart or two. The

procession had walked from Blackwall -- 8 miles
--and passed through Gloucester Gate to the

Gardens. When the giraffes got on to that part
of the road in which the trees are on both sides,

1833-36  ARTILLERY COMPANY'S PRACTICE      99

they could scarcely be held in by the attendants.

One animal got so excited that M. Thiebaut called

out, ' Laissez aller,' &c, and they allowed the

pretty creature to bite some of the young shoots

off the tree. They were delighted apparently to

get into the Gardens, and were soon safe and

unhaltered in the elephants' new house. One of

the attendants had his cheeks gashed for ornament

--three cuts on each side. We then visited the
sick lion -- better, but not out of danger. The

giraffes had to have a light at night, as they would

not rest quietly without it. M. Thiebaut very

tired. He said he had not had his boots off for

two days. We stayed in the Gardens till 7, and

then went home to breakfast.'

    ' 2%th. -- R. and I at half-past 1 to the Ar
tillery Ground. The Artillery Company went

on with their evolutions till half-past 5, and

must have been pretty well tired, especially those

who worked the big gun. Richard came to us in

his regimentals when it was all over, and we all

admired him for his soldier-like appearance. As

I walked home with my father by Chiswell and

Baabican, we met a crowd of men and boys run

"Ining after, or by the side of, a large curly black
dog. I was just saying to my father,  am sure

that dog is not mad," and was beginning to feel

indignant with the people for chasing when ait,

fire-engine came tearing after them loaded with

the firemen in helmets. My father then said that

1oo  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. III.

it was the celebrated dog that attends nearly all

the fires in London. He does not attach himself,

it seems, to any particular body of firemen, but is
to be found sometimes with one company and

sometimes with another.

     ' R. came home soon after we did, and brought

his regimentals with him for me to clean the

silver braid.

     'June 6. --This morning at 7 o'clock Dr.

Milne Edwards came by appointment to see R.,

and they both examined things by the micro

scope till breakfast-time. Then young Scharf
brought the prints of the giraffes.

     ' In the evening Mr. Hills, the water-colour

painter, looked in and we had some music, and

did not get to bed till nearly four. R. told me
to-day the names of the new giraffes. The one
with a talisman round his neck is called Selim
(fortunate). The others are called Mabrouk
(favourite), Guib-allah (God's gift), and Zaida
(happy).'

    'July 10. -- My father and R. in at Mr.

Belfour's about the Secretaryship. As R. came
home sooner than I expected, we went off as
usual to the Gardens. The elephant was most
ridiculous. One of the giraffes came out of the
house while the elephant was on that side of the

paddock and simply terrified the great coward by
stretching out his long neck to stare at him.

The elephant was so frightened he got into

1833-36      SOCIAL AMUSEMENTS                       101

the water, which he generally cannot bear to

enter.'

    '21st. -- Engaged all day in drawing a wom

bat's brain for R. When R. came in he said it

was all wrong, so I must do it all over again. R.
drew a rough sketch of it for me.'

    ' 22nd. -- N.B. -- " Mr. Owen " put up on our

door-plate to-day. Looks most imposing.'

    ' 26th. -- Finished the wombat's brain. R. not

quite satisfied. Wants another portion added to

so washed out part and left to dry.'

  2&th. --Went to Westminster Abbey with
it,

        '

                                                 it

R., who was delighted with Purcell's music As

R. had a few moments to spare, we took a look

round (for which we had to pay is. 6d. each).
R. was very amusing about a great tomb of fine

design and size, with a man in long robes and a

cap on       had an inscription over to say
         it.

              It

                                       it
                                                              it

                                                                                                                                            !'
that Owen, son of Richard and Maria Owen, was

interred there. R. declared must be an ancestor

    'August 9. --To Broadwood's to choose a

piano. R. tried one or two but did not decide

upon anything. They are to send word when

more are finished. Music in the evening. Over
ture to " Don Giovanni " arranged as a quartette.
                     very well. A very late supper
Got through
'

                 it
and all " very merry," as Pepys would say.'
October 23. -- In the morning R. drew a

diagram of octopus. Afterwards to the Gardens.

The giraffes very well, and their new house

102                         PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iii.

getting on. A new window in the squirrel-room
--a great improvement. It was put in at R.'s

suggestion.
     ' R. left me to superintend the drawing of a

new species of ourang-outang from Borneo. After

dinner he began an interesting paper on the
subject and finished it before he went to bed.

Only the skull has been preserved.'
     We find from a letter from Lyell to Owen

at this time that the friendship which existed
between them had evidently only just begun.

          Charles Lyell to Richard Owen

                                         16 Hart Street : October 26, 1836.

     ' My dear Sir, -- Mrs. Lyell and I expect a

few friends here on Saturday next, 29th, to an

early tea party at eight o'clock, and it will give

us great pleasure if you can join
                             '
     Among others you will meet Mr. Charles
     '                               it.

                          I
Darwin, whom                 believe you have seen, just

returned from South America, where he has

laboured for zoologists as well as for hammer-

bearers.  have also asked your friend Broderip.I
               Yours faithfully,
                         '
                               Charles Lyell.'

    'November 1. -- R. translating from the Gerit
man all the evening. He made up his finished

paper on marsupial brains last night, and sent

in this morning.'

1833-36  MEETS DARWIN AT LYELL'S  103

     ' ^th. -- Before the Court of Examiners as

sembled this evening, R. and I had a look at the
new rooms lighted up. The council-room looked

 very well, except the doors and frames, which

were heavy and tasteless. The new chandelier

and the bronze lamps on the staircase and in the

hall very fine.'

     ' $th. -- R. came back in a hurry to dress for
dinner at Mr. Murchison's. Mr. Babbage and
 Mr. Darwin there.'

     'November 17. -- Last night a kangaroo (dead)
came to R. from the Zoo. This morning he

dissected some entozoa from the kangaroo. By

ingeniously opening these thread-like worms, he

has succeeded in making some beautiful prepa

rations, showing their almost invisible insides.
R. in the evening to Mr. Stanley's.'

     ' 27M. -- R. read his introductory lecture to Mr.
Langshaw. They were such a time in the Great

Museum (two hours and half), for the lecture
proved too long for the time allowed, so it will

have to be cut down. It seems a great pity !
     ' In the evening we read " Hunterian " proofs

till a very late hour, nearly three.'

     ' 2f>th. -- R. received the rich present of

Cuvier's works, presented to him by the Cuvier
family. The collection of plates alone a valuable

gift. A most friendly and gratifying letter from

F. Cuvier, and also from G. F. Cuvier, his son.'

     ' December 3. -- Bennett with R. in the museum

104  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. 1ll.

nearly all day looking over specimens ; he and R.
are at present so deeply interested in whales,
they can talk of nothing else. After dinner they
sat over their paper instead of their wine.'

     ' gth. --This morning Mr. Gould brought

some coloured lithographs of birds' heads (New
South Wales), the work to be out directly. Our
pet tortoise keeps raising himself by the fore feet
on to the front of the fender, and uses every

possible exertion to get over it to be nearer the

fire. He ate a little of the cabbage-leaf to-day.
R. gave Dr. Farre a certificate of lecture attend
ance. Read " Hunterian " proofs with R. till my

eyes ached.'

    ' 13M. -- Dr. Buckland called to-day, but R.

was in the library, with doors locked, and so
could not be reached, so Dr. B. left a box of

fossils.'

     ' 25/^ (Christmas Day). -- R. and I went to

church in good time. A very pleasant evening,

with readings from " Boz," playing and singing.'

     ' 28M. -- I made two ink outlines of shark's

teeth, and to-night translated from the German
for R. ; after that I read aloud from Cuvier whilst

R. compared the editions. Wrapped up the
tortoise in flannel before I went to bed, and put
it in the front cellar.'

1837-38 LECTURES IN COLLEGE OF SURGEONS 10;

                   CHAPTER IV

                                                       1837-38

Hunterian Professor' and Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in
     the College of Surgeons, 1837-- His Courses of Lectures -- Birth
     of his Son, October 6, 1837 -- the British Association at New
     castle, 1838--Visit to Germany, 1838 -- Death of his Mother,
     November 1838.

On the retirement of Sir Charles Bell from the
Professorship of Anatomy and Physiology in the
College of Surgeons, in the early part of 1837,
Owen was elected to the vacant chair. When the
Government purchased the Hunterian Museum

and transferred it to the College, a stipulation was
made that its contents should be illustrated by a
course of twenty-four lectures delivered annually.

This course had previously been divided between
the College Professors of Anatomy and Surgery,
each of whom devoted their twelve lectures to

some special subject in which they had attained
eminence, but which had no special reference to
the Hunterian Collections. These twenty-four
annual lectures Owen, as Hunterian Professor,
undertook to deliver, as illustrative of Hunter's
Collections, and without ever repeating the same

106           PROFESSOR OWEN  . Ch. IV.

subject continued to deliver them up to 1855.

He further adopted the practice of printing a

synopsis of each course, and a glance at a complete

series of these summaries gives us a means of es

timating the extent of scientific information com

municated by Owen to the students during his

Professorship.

     In this year (1837) he also edited ' Hunter's
Animal Economy.' He sent a copy of this work
to Whewell, his old schoolfellow and fellow-towns

man (who afterwards became the well-known

Master of Trinity), and received the following
       --
reply
       :

     ' I was much pleased to receive your letter

and to find that you are about to publish Hunter's

works         I have always been afraid of

Physiology as a branch of my undertaking. I do
not see how I can avoid taking some notice of

it when I complete my Philosophy, for it is the
subject of the greatest promise and the deepest

interest of the whole of science ; but how I am to
arrange the principles of four great writers and

penetrate their true character I do not know.

The mere task of reading them is formid

able. . . .'

     Whewell then adds this protest in a post

script :--

     ' By the way, it is a great shame that you, an
old fellow-townsman, persist in making my name

more formidable than it really is by writing it

1837-38 RELINQUISHES MEDICAL PRACTICE             107

Whew hell. I have trouble enough with it at
best : so I hope you will not add to it a new alias!

Owen now began gradually to relinquish his

medical practice, in order to devote the whole of

his time to scientific research. Meanwhile, he

never neglected the opportunities which occurred
of dissecting the animals which died at the

Zoological Society's Gardens ; and these oppor
tunities were naturally of frequent occurrence at

a time when the habits and mode of life of

the animals were but imperfectly understood.

Constant reference is made in the diaries to these

dissections. The carcases of such animals as

Owen could obtain from menageries and other

sources he not unfrequently dissected at home.

Those dying at the Zoological Gardens were dis

sected there. On January  29       we  read in his

wife's journal :--

' To-day Richard cut up the giraffe which died

at the Zoological Gardens. Afterwards he went

to the Royal Institution to dissect a snake.

' They have now got the skeleton of the hippo

potamus up in the museum.'         called  early  as

    The diary is continued :--
    ' February 3. -- Dr. Buckland

expected, and stayed some time looking at fossils.

I have been astonished in looking over the few I
have seen of the Hunterian fossils. The collection

is quite wonderful. R. told me that Mr. Hunter,

living at a time when geology was hardly known

108  PROFESSOR OWEN                                  ch. iv.

at all, had the numerous valuable specimens sent

to him as the only person generally known at the
time as at all interested in the subject. They are

now in the museum cubes, and it is the reopening
of the museum which has occasioned R. to bring

them out of their hiding-places. He thinks the
collection will considerably surprise the scientific
world when it is once more available. To-day
R. got the first volume of "Hunter" by Palmer.'1

     ' ^th. -- The museum in good order for the visit
of the Trustees. The fossils and shells which R.

has put in the flat cases have a very fine effect,

and the way in which he has contrived the sup

ports in the side cases is quite successful. They

interfere as little as can be with the skeletons.

The Trustees greatly admired the arrangements.'
     'March 22. -- R. went out late to the

Geological Society ; a dismal, cold, and snowy
evening. He has been writing a paper on the
Toxodon, brought by Mr. Darwin, to be read
there, but not to-night.'

    ' April 11. -- Dr. A. Farre and Mr. Darwin

here this afternoon. After tea muscular fibre and

microscope in the drawing-room.'

    ' 1gth. -- R. wrote the latter part of his third
lecture and read it to me. He received to-day

as a present from Agassiz his plates of fossil

fish.'

    1 The Works of John Hunter, by James F. Palmer.  2 vols.

8vo., London, 1835.

1837-38  FIRST HUNTERIAN LECTURE   109

     ' May 1. --The day before R.'s first lecture !2
At 10 p.m. he read it over to me, and it lasted till
1 1.3'0M. --aytoo2.l--ongS.o' busy all the morning, had

hardly time to be nervous, luckily for me. R.

robed in the drawing-room and took some egg

and wine before going into the theatre. He then
went in and left me. At 5 o'clock a great noise
of clapping made me jump, for I timed the lec
ture to last a quarter of an hour longer, but R. , it
seems, cut it short rather than tire Sir Astley
Cooper too much. All went off as well as even
I could wish. The theatre crammed, and there

were many who could not get places. R. was
more collected than he or I ever supposed, and

gave this awful first lecture almost to his own

satisfaction ! We sat down a large party to dinner.
Mr. Langshaw and R. afterwards played two of

Corelli's sonatas.'

     ' May 4. -- R. up till two this morning writing.

But he has done capitally, for his first lecture is
now, as I earnestly begged him to do, spread into

the second, and with a little addition forms a most

interesting one, particularly to those whose reading

has not extended very far--even to the learned,

they cannot but fail to excite attention. R. read
to me what he had left out of the first lecture with

last night's additions. But as this did not fill up

     2 The subject of this course  pical structure and nature of the
of lectures was the microsco-
                                   teeth.

1 10  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iv.

an hour, he wrote some more, and the whole

makes a good lecture.'

    'May ii. -- R.'s second lecture. He ran up

to the drawing-room with his gown on before
lecture, while looking over his paper. R. called

away after lecture to see Sir Astley Cooper, who

was in the museum, and who came to talk about

the lectures. He expressed himself as being

delighted with them, but said he thought a few
diagrams would look well.'

     'May 1 6. -- R.'s third lecture. The first given
entirely without notes. He made a little apology

on that score, and in consequence had two rounds

of applause--which he was sorry for ; but I think

he did right, being so young a lecturer and look

ing so much younger than he really is. It could
hardly be put down to the affectation of modesty
in an experienced lecturer, sure of his own powers
and of the admiration of the audience. I went

with my mother and father to look at the diagrams
in the theatre afterwards.'

     As soon as his third lecture had been delivered

Owen sat down to write to his mother. After

telling her that the audience had increased rather
than diminished since his first lecture, ' which,' he
says, ' I take to be a fair guarantee of my having
so far afforded satisfaction to the College in my
new capacity,' he continues : ' The President (Sir
A. Cooper) has done me the honour to attend each
day, and has taken notes ; but that I take to be

1837-38 DR. BUCKLAND AT THE LECTURES                                                                                  in

an act of his good-nature, and meant as an
encouragment to the young beginner. It is a

formal, and therefore somewhat awful affair, our
lecture. First, the members and students as

semble in the gallery and body of the theatre ;
then, as the clock strikes four, the honorary
visitors who have previously congregated with the
council in the council-room are ushered down,

the President, in his robes, being preceded by the

mace, which is reverently deposited on the lec
ture-table by the beadle, when, lastly, walks in the
Professor, and then, when the clock strikes five,

your obedient and affectionate son makes his bow
and exit, with a much lighter heart than when he

entered.

     ' I am truly thankful for the health and strength

which has thus far supported me through a severe

trial. My colleague, an old experienced lecturer,

found it so ; and most have acknowledged the
same. I trust to complete the course, which lasts
till the end of June, without greatly disappointing
the expectations of those who have (earlier than
I would have myself wished placed me in this
'
            '

                       '

                                is

                                        I it)

                                                                                                                   .

                                                                        .'
sphere.                       believe, the only
       Pearson Langshaw was,

townsman who witnessed my ddbut. .

Dr. Buckland was a constant attendant at these

lectures.  While he at R.'s lecture,' Mrs. Owen

writes, Mrs. Buckland comes in to talk with me.'

The excitement of these lectures used to have

H2  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. IV.

a corresponding reaction upon Owen, for he was

at first much more nervous than he appeared to
be. After one of his early lectures (May 30) his
wife writes : ' R. very queer on coming back from

lecture ; if he is not better by next lecture I shall
try and get it postponed.' On June 8 she says :

' R. was scarcely well enough to lecture to-day

owing to a chill which he got last time by stand

ing in the theatre after his lecture. He gets

very hot while he is speaking, and then is upset
by the after-chill.' However, as Owen became

more accustomed to lecturing, his nervousness to

a great extent wore off. Soon afterwards Lyell

wrote to congratulate him upon his delivery,

saying that his voice was so clear and distinct that

he could be plainly heard without effort by every
one in the room. ' I always picked out the person

whom I saw was in the worst place in the room
for hearing,' Owen used to say, ' and then I talked

at him.'

     On June 9 an account is given in the diary of

one of Faraday's lectures: 'To the Royal Insti

tution to hear Faraday lecture. Went with my
father, as R. was not well enough to go. In the
ante-room I had some conversation with Mr. F.,

who said this lecture was the last of his course for

the season. It was chiefly on arrows and weapons.
Faraday showed us the various flints used in dif

ferent times and different countries for arrow-heads,

knives, &c It was most interesting and amusing,

1837-38 FESTIVE EVENING AT LORD COLE'S     113

and of course well delivered. Mr. F. shot or
rather blew several small arrows through tubes --

and with good aim--at a band-box with a centre

mark. The place full, but the heat and draught

dreadful.'

    'June 14. -- R. to the Geological Society. It

was his introduction as Fellow, and after a very

interesting evening with Buckland, Whewell,

Sedgwick, Murchison, de la Beche, Stokes, &c,

they all adjourned to Lord Cole's to supper.

After supper they proceeded to play "high jinks,"
as immortalised by Sir Walter Scott in " Rob Roy."

Mr. Stokes took the chair as King, and was ex

cellent as the arbitrary monarch. Lord Cole

could not sing when called upon, nor could his
brother, who was " Boots." R. had to sing first,

as youngest there, and sang " A Fig for St. Denis

of France." The so-called salt and water filled

two quart pots. All kind of scientific discourse

was prohibited on pain of forfeit, and geological

expressions on pain of fighting the champion

(Lord Cole's brother) with hammers. Every word
or sentence which could be so construed was seized

upon. It having turned out that the report of

the good King's death was false, his health was

warmly drunk.'

    'June 19. --At dinner a messenger came to

tell R. that he was elected as Fullerian Professor

of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology to the

Royal Institution. His diploma came as well as

vol. 1.                                 1

114  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

the official letter. R. intends to see Sir Benjamin
Brodie to-morrow before sending his acknowledg

ment.'

     This Professorship Owen was obliged to
decline, as the Council of the College of Surgeons

required him to finish his Catalogue before accept
ing any other office. On June 29 he writes to
the ' Managers of the Royal Institution of Great

Britain ' in these terms : --

      ' I should have immediately acknowledged,

with becoming respect, the most gratifying and
honourable mark of your esteem in the appoint

ment which you have been pleased to confer upon
me, of the Fullerian Professorship of Physiology
at the Royal Institution, had not a paramount

engagement in relation to an important work--
the Catalogue of the Hunterian Collection, com

pelled me to defer my communication until I was
made aware of the decision of the Council of the

College of Surgeons ; which, I regret to say,
obliges me to forego, until the completion of that
work, the acceptance of any other office than that
I now hold at the College of Surgeons.'

    Towards the end of July 1837, Owen paid

a visit to Lancaster, chiefly in order to see his

mother. After arriving at his birthplace he wrote
a long letter to his wife, descriptive of his journey
and of the pleasure he experienced in revisiting
his native town. He also gives us a pleasant
glimpse of the characteristic way in which he

1837-38  LETTER FROM LANCASTER                       115

entered into the researches of younger men in the

following passage : ' We were soon joined by

Edward Mason               The poor lad hobbled

up to us on the parade with great glee. He was

anxious to have my opinion whether the pink and

the smelt were both the same fish, as Colonel

Parker and Sergeant Bond both maintained --the

pink being the salmon of the first year, the smelt
of the second. Now, Edward had caught a pink

with roe in and he believes to be the parr of
a if
Yarrell (see that fish in my copy). Edward to
            'catch specimens of each, and we shall have a

                      it,glorious evening at the Lancaster Branch of the
HGirsatonrdyJ.uncItfiowne  Philosophical Society of  Natural
                                                                 '
                            don't beat the military   men, or
                                        I
                                                   it

                                                                                                                                           :

                                                                               1 is
                                                                                  2 is

                                                                                                                                                                      .
we leave them a single leg to stand on, poor

Edward's crutches will have wheeled most ener

getically to the Crook of Lune for nothing.'

Owen refers in the same letter to his connec

tion with the Honourable Artillery Company, for

he tells his wife to let Mr. Cooper have my cap
for a pattern. He will also ask for my coat,

which please to let him have for his tailor.'

On the 29th he writes to his wife in answer to

letter from her announcing an interesting addi

tion which was shortly to occur in their household.

In this letter he refers thus to his mother --

My dear mother too have evidently seen

for the last time that she could derive pleasure

from my visit. Her mind, though shaken, still

u6  PROFESSOR OWEN                   CH. IV.

....good -- better than her body.    I fear, if she
survives -- as she prays -- to see us both again

with the little pledge of affection which reconciles

age to the irremediable lot, that the apathy of

decay may blunt much of the pleasure which she

has derived from my present visit.'

    In another letter from Lancaster written to

his wife he makes the following somewhat

flippant remarks relative to a request sent from

the Trustees of the College of Surgeons that he

should send them as soon as possible a report

concerning his work of the past year :--

     ' What's the use of trying to collect one's ideas
for a report to the Trustees ? " One thousand and

three moths killed by tobacco-smoke and directions

of the Board of Curators. Complaint of some of the

sorrowing relatives of said moths that returns was

used instead of canaster (such infra digs, would
never have taken place in good old Sir William's
time, the moths -- though they be moths -- having

been bred and born in the Royal College of

Surgeons)." Secondly, " All old corners and out-

of-the-way archives diligently and carefully looked

through, and the letters out o' date, old catalogues,

and other documents, left where they were found."

Thirdly, Mr. O. has minutely and casually looked

(without spectacles) at all the uncatalogued speci
mens in spirit, and feels much out of spirits him

self when he thinks of the same. Fourthly, that

Mrs. C[lift] closed the due proportion of her

 1837-38 CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR G. GREY 117

windows after the demise of his late most gracious
Majesty and Patron of the College, and also wore
mourning no less becoming to herself than to the
melancholy occasion. Fifthly, Mrs. O.'s kitchen
chimney still smokes, contrary to the directions
of the late Chairman of the Board and the wishes

....of the Trustees. I cannot get on ; it's no use

And my pen is most obstinate ; and what exceeds
the perversity of a steel pen ? '

     He returned to the College of Surgeons early
in August. From a friendly letter which he
received at this time from (Sir) George Grey,
written from Teneriffe, he hears that the skull of
a guancho (an aboriginal of the Canary Islands)
will be sent to him in due course for his museum

at the College of Surgeons. Owen's correspon
dence with Grey was intermittent ; but the latter
was apparently always on the look-out for speci
mens, and nearly every letter from him contains
the mention of something he was sending.

    At the beginning of September Owen was

made a member of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences at Moscow.

     Amongst other notices in the journal relative
to his occupation and amusements during this
month may be mentioned the following : --

     ' Went to hear Mendelssohn's " St. Paul " at
the Exeter Hall. The Birmingham people will
not allow him to conduct personally. The crowd
was enormous, but we got good seats in the

1 18             PROFESSOR OWEN                   ch. iv.

gallery, and saw that it would have been useless

to have sought for seats below. A Mr. Bennet,

who is a friend of Mendelssohn's, and who is only

just turned twenty, sang magnificently. Mendels

sohn came to the gallery at the end of Part I.
He was immediately recognised by the audience,

which stood and shouted. He is young, dark,

and quiet.'

     On October 6, Professor Owen writes in his

wife's diary :--
    ' At a quarter-past nine William Owen was

born.'                                       --'

      The  next  day  there  is  the  entry  :    Papa's

joy a little damped by excruciating toothache.

Mother and child as well as possible.'

      About a month afterwards Mrs. Owen begins

the diary again.

    n' November 9. -- R. started according to order

before a.m. to form a guard to Her Majesty at

Guildhall, as a member of the H.A.C

     'December 17. -- Was in the drawing-room
with the baby when the servant let two French

gentlemen in. I told them Mr. Owen would be
in directly, and one of them-- a rather corpulent,

nice-looking man who spoke excellent English --

played a long time with baby, and said he had
seven of them. R. then came in, and formally

introduced us. It was Prince Charles Lucien

Bonaparte, nephew to the Bonaparte. They all

went to the Museum, and when they came back

1837-38  ACCOUNT OF THE TOXODON                 119

R. discussed with the Prince the paper His High

ness wrote for the Royal Society, and which R.
has had to judge. The Prince departed in high

good-humour.'

     In 1838 Owen wrote    a paper,  which   '  was the
nucleus of his great work  on teeth             Odonto
                                     -- the

graphy.' This paper was entitled : ' On the

Structure of Teeth, and the Resemblance of

Ivory to Bone, as illustrated by the Microscopical

Examination of the Teeth of Men and of various

Existing and Extinct Animals.' (' Report of the

British Association, 1838.')
     Amongst the descriptions which Owen made

of the fossil mammalia collected by Darwin in

the voyage of the ' Beagle ' may be mentioned that
of the Toxodon skull. The toxodon was a gigantic

extinct mammal, presenting great peculiarities

and having points in common with various orders

of Mammalia.

The following account of the toxodon in the

autograph of Charles Darwin was found amongst

Owen's papers, from which an extract is now

given :--

' The head was found embedded in whitish

earthy clay on the banks of a small stream which

enters the Rio Negro, and is situated 120 miles
to the N.W. of Monte Video. The head had

been kept for a short time in a neighbouring

farm-house as a curiosity, but when I arrived it

was lying in the yard. I bought it for the value

120    PROFESSOR OWEN                   CH. IV.

of eighteen-pence.3 The people informed me that

when first discovered, about two years previously,

it was quite perfect, but that the boys had since

knocked out the teeth and had put it on a post as

a mark to throw stones at. They showed me the

spot where it had been found after a sudden flood

had washed down part of the bank. Several

fragments of bone and of an armadillo-like case

were lying at the bottom of the almost dry water

course. Some of these I collected, but from the

disturbed state of the country the box in which

they were packed was delayed on the road, and

was afterwards sent direct to England.

     ' For this reason the temporary marks by which

I had distinguished these bones from another set,

found at the distance of several leagues, were lost,

and I am now unable to say which are the frag

ments  This river (Rio Cancarana) has

been celebrated since the time of the Jesuit
Falkner for the number of great bones and large

fragments of the armadillo-like case found in its
bed. The inhabitants told me that they had

made gate-posts of some leg bones, and I myself

saw two groups in situ of the remains of a mas

todon projecting from a cliff. But they were in

so decayed a state that I could only bring away

small portions of a molar tooth.'

     From the same collection Owen described the

   3 This skull would probably  entire skeleton is figured in
now fetch many pounds. An
                                Natural Science, 1894, p. 119.

1837-38  DISSECTING A RHINOCEROS                                   121

remains of an extinct animal related to the llama.

He also described the scelidotherium, which is

related to the ant-eaters ; and further determined

some disputed points in existing accounts of the

skeleton of the megatherium --a gigantic extinct
sloth about the size of an elephant. We also find

from the Diary that Darwin submitted the proofs

of the ' Voyage ' itself to Owen.

But while occupied in describing fossil remains

he varied his occupation by dissecting the mortal

remains of a rhinoceros which had recently died
at Wombwell's Menagerie. This he looked upon

as a great prize, as a rhinoceros then--dead or
living --was a rarity in England. On February 1,

Owen had the carcase brought to his house in the

College of Surgeons, to his wife's disgust, who
                                 --'
thus   comments  upon        it         The  defunct  rhinoceros
                                 :

(late of Wombwell's Menagerie) arrived while R.
was out. I told the men to take it right to the end

of the long passage, where it now lies. As yet I

feel indifferent, but when the pie is opened                       '

    ' February 6. -- R. still at the rhinoceros.'

In February the ' Wollaston ' Gold Medal of

the Geological Society was awarded to Owen,

and he thus remarks on it in a letter to his sister

Eliza    "(FFeobssruilsar"y    28) : '  My first   number      of  Dar
win's                        (strange               is out,  and
                                         animals)                  most

unexpectedly the Geological Society has awarded

me the Wollaston Gold Medal for that and other

services to geology. Is it not curious that

122                   PROFESSOR OWEN                              CH. IV.

Whewell should happen to be in the chair this'
year? He presented it tome in full conclave
with a very handsome speech, to which I madeill

the best acknowledgments I could. At the

anniversary dinner, which I attended the same
day, Whewell, when he proposed my health,

alluded to me very feelingly as a fellow-townsman
and old schoolfellow. After the dinner I adjourned

to Lord Cole's and finished in the usual manner a

happy day, but poor Mr. Stokes was sadly missed.
He was too to come.' The diary then relates
that the next day Lord Cole and Sir Philip de

Grey Egerton dropped in and were much amused
to find Richard with the baby on his knees, trying
to feed him surreptitiously out of a bottle.'

    'March n. --To-day the Duchess of Cam

bridge, with her son and daughter, came into the

giraffe house while we were there. The ourang-

outang was brought to the Duchess, as there was

such a crowd round his cage. He by no means

so interesting as poor Tommy, the chimpanzee.
The great disproportion between his hind legs
and fore, the heaviness of his movements, and his

small eyes take much from the painfully humanlike
expression which poor Tommy had. When we got
home R. insisted upon having the legs of a fowl
which we had for dinner, to examine the muscles.'

      March 23. --To-day sections of teeth exa
mined under the microscope. Mr. White Cooper
here. He making full notes of R.'s lectures.'
     '

                   is
                                                              is

1837-38 ACTORS' BENEVOLENT FUND DINNER 123

     ' March 26. --To Mr. Cross's Gardens with R.

to see an immense fire-balloon go up with three

people. The gardens were full, but the balloon
would not rise. The people did, though, and

behaved shamefully : they beat Mr. Cross and

his nephew, Mr. Tyler, and pulled things all to

pieces.'

     Throughout the May and June of this year
Owen continued to give his Hunterian Lectures,

chiefly descriptive of the Hunterian Collection,
It is noticeable that, occupied as he was by his

lectures and various scientific investigations, he still
found time to interest himself with other matters

often completely outside his own particular line.

As an instance out of many given in the diaries,

we find that in June he helped to promote an
' Actors' Benevolent Fund,' attending a meeting

and dinner given by actors for some charitable
purpose connected with their profession. After

speaking, in company with such men as Sheridan
Knowles, Charles Kean, and Mr. Harley, an

amusing incident occurred. ' A member of the

Zoological Council,' says Mrs. Owen, ' sat oppo

site Richard, and happened to ask him what day

Lord Derby's dinner was, for all the Society's
Council were invited to it. Lord Glengall, who

was in the chair, heard the question, and, pointing
to R., asked in a stage whisper : " Who's that ? "
The reply was : " Oh, nobody in particular -- only
                                      "
the  first  anatomist  of the  age
                                    !

   124  PROFESSOR OWEN                              CH. 1v.

        'June 13. -- R. engaged on the apteryx. In
   the evening he went to the dinner given to Sir

   John'JuHneersc1h6.e--ll  on his  return   from   the Cape.'
                            To-day    one   of the   giraffes lifted

   to his own height a peacock in full spread, and,

   after giving the bird a shake, which left a

   mouthful of long tail-feathers in his mouth, let

   him drop, and the peacock ran off with his train
   shut up in a great fright. The giraffe lifted him

   by seizing some of the middle feathers (where the

   Argus eyes are) as the peacock was proudly dis
   playing them, and then began chewing them with
   much satisfaction. The keeper gave him a

   whipping for his trouble. The peacocks were in

   the same enclosure as the giraffe. R.'s eyes
   are beginning to suffer from over-use. As

   he could not read or write this evening, we
   went to Seguin's benefit. Handel's " Acis and
   Galatea." '

       ' June 29. -- R.'s last lecture (Hunterian).'
        In the early part of August Owen attended

   the meeting of the British Association at New
   castle, travelling from London by sea. He writes

   to his wife from Gateshead Rectory, where he

   was the guest of the rector, Mr. Douglas. ' The
   " Ocean " arrived with her cargo of philosophy,

   and, I ought to add, literature, for Harriet
   Martineau was on board. See other side ' (a
   sketch which represents that lady holding up a

   huge ear-trumpet).

V

1837-38  GOES TO GERMANY                                                                125

     After being present at the meeting of the

British Association, Owen went to Germany for
the purpose of attending the ' Meeting of German
Naturalists,' and of examining the various mu
seums within reach of his tour. He writes to his

wife to say that he has determined to go first to
Holland via Hull, and will therefore not return to

London. On the same sheet he sends a letter to

Clift, in which he says : ' Procure me at Coutts' or

 Hammersleys' two circular bills which are payable
. on demand at any of the bankers in any of the

towns I visit near the Rhine or in Holland. Will

...you give them to Cooper4 to deliver to me at                                         By
Rotterdam along with my carpet bag.

the way, they made a secretary of me at one

committee [medical], and I shall be truly glad to

get into Holland, where pipes are smoked in

peace. All proofs must remain till I come back,

which will be at the end of September, when I

hope we shall keep little Willie's first birthday in

happy reunion.'
     Owen reached Rotterdam on August 31, 1838,

and we find him writing to his wife from the
' Kleine Skippershaus ' as follows : ' Dr. Richard

son 5 informed me that the reading of my report
on the Marsupialia was fixed for the morning I
started, and showed me the announcement. I had

totally forgotten hadn't had time to pen a line,
but many had come expressly to hear so begged
4

                          it,

                                                                                     5

                                                             it,
                                                              I
William White Cooper.  Dr. John Richardson.

126  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

ten minutes and retired to the committee-room,

and then returned and gave a viva voce account of
the matter about an hour and a half long. Mrs.
Buckland and lots of ladies, mostly Quakeresses,
were there, and I modified the reproductive part of
the history as delicately as possible. The Stones-
field opossum and Dr. Buckland were not for
gotten.' He then relates how he visited Ravens-
worth, where they breakfasted at three. ' After

breakfast dancing commenced, which was sus
tained both by the fair and the philosophers in full
vigour till six, when we drove off' [to Durham to
Dr. Gilly's]. ' Dr. Buckland marked out my tour,

and we agreed to meet at Freiburg, where the

German naturalists assemble.' Passing next to

York, Owen visited the Minster and the Museum,

and at 7 p.m. the same day he took the mail to

Hull. The rest of the letter is occupied with
an account of his sea-passage, which apparently
caused him little if any discomfort, and he is left

awaiting at Rotterdam the arrival of his friend

Cooper.

     His next communication to his wife is dated

Plaats Royaal, Leyden, September 4, 1838, and

runs as follows :--

      ' I cannot doubt but that you will already have
received the notice of my safe arrival at Rotter
dam, which I sent in the only cross letter I ever
wrote, so far as I remember, in my life ; but
learning that the post for London leaves Leyden

1837-38  LETTER FROM LEYDEN  127

only twice in the week, and that to-night is one
of the nights, I cannot let the opportunity pass.

You will naturally have some difficulty in de

ciphering this epistle, for, having lived in the
Dutchest houses and Dutch styles, and been

further exposed to a Dutch fog in a Dutch trek-
schuit on a Dutch canal, the webs that began to

develop themselves between my toes on the

second night at Rotterdam have, in spite of

tobacco and schiedam, made their appearance,

and are spreading fast in the digital interspaces,
and I can hardly doubt but that in a sufficiently
extended residence I should be converted into as

amphibious a mammifer as any in His Nether-
landisch Majesty's dominions. They say the pal-

mipedous character is lost as you proceed up the

Rhine, so that I have hopes of returning in a recog
nisable state even to my dear little darling Willie,

whose good health and progress it did my heart
good to read of. I spent a glorious morning in the
museum at the Hague. There they have Savery's
real " Orpheus and the Beasts," but, believe me,
nothing to compare with ours. I saw four pic

tures by the same master as your father's. His

style is inimitable, and is more recognisable, be
cause more depending on touch, or the mechani

cal working of the picture, than any other quality,

 except truth and nature in the individual object.

 It is by Breughel de Velours, so called on account

 of his smooth finish, and to distinguish him from

128  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. IV.

Br. d'Enfer, whose picture of " Christ Delivering

the Souls out of Purgatory " is in the same collec
tion. There is the same light falling on the upper

branches --an effect which I saw in the beautiful

park of the Palace at the Hague -- the same

exquisite little goldfinches, not a bit better than

in ours, perching on the branches in the picture

of Paradise, in which the Adam and Eve are by
Rubens. In another of Breughel's the foreground

is separated from the background by the same

oblique hard hedge, and the distance has the same
kind of city and canal in the same clear, cold,
grey-blue tint. I was delighted to have so many

confirmations of the value of our gem. I was
told, however, that good prices, as ioo/. to 500/.,

were only given for joint pictures, in which the

figures and composition were by another master ;
and that Breughel, when left to himself, as in most
of his pictures and ours, failed from his want of
taste in grouping and effect. There are only two,
not joint-pictures, of his in the gallery. . . . What
do you think I espied in a dark corner ? Why, a

DODO --a dodo in full plumage. Note that he

(the artist or the dodo, which you please) lived
between 1576 and 1639. He was contemporary
with the man whom Natural History describes as

having brought the stuffed dodo from Mauritius.

The nostrils are very far forwards, as in the

apteryx, and the feet very similar in the relative
position and size of the toes. I took a sketch ;

1837-38  LETTER FROM UTRECHT                 129

the head precisely resembles, that of the Oxford

Museum specimen. . . . For all the Dutch

peculiarities I see reason, the more I observe the

conditions under which these worthy people exist.

A sale or fade depressing odour pervades the

country, at least at this season, arising from the

stagnation of the canals ; and when the heat of the

day no longer serves to retain in suspension the

vapours of the canals and swamps, the foggy and

chilly atmosphere at once explains the utility of a

warm dry whiff of baccy; the extra quantity of

moisture inhaled equally demands the counter

action of a dram. A great proportion of the

working people have the trunk bent like a quad

ruped at right angles to the legs, in the universal

occupation of pushing along the innumerable

boats of all shapes and sizes which cover the

canals, by means of long poles pressed against

from the breast and shoulder by the wholeweight

of the body and working of the hind-legs. . . .
This morning I have visited Temminck, Professor

v. d. Hoeven, and the museum ; dictated several

notes to Cooper, who scribes capitally.'

Owen gave his address at Cologne, and in his

next letter, dated Utrecht, September 10, 1838,

continues the story of his travels : ' Here

[Amsterdam] are several of the Dutch painters'
chefs-d'ceuvre -- Dow, Wouvermans, Rembrandt,
&c, &c, but I have a Catalogue with notes and

marks to comment and descant on some fireside

vol. 1.                                   k

130               PROFESSOR OWEN                                                         ch. iv.

evenings at home. . . . My last letter was dated

Leyden. After examining the collections and

noting the interesting objects contained in them

(contemplating the gigantic salamander living in

his tub of little fishes, on which he has grown

fat, and is now 3 ft. 3 in. long, examining the
portraits of the Professors of the University,

among whom Salmasius, Albinus, Boerhaave, &c,

promenading round the Botanic Garden with old

Professor Reinwardt), we set off one fine morning

for Utrecht.' Here follows an account of his

visit to Dr. Suerman and Van der Capella, and

of a tea he had with the Suerman family, and

concludes : ' After tea the Professors of the

University arrived to pipes, coffee, and hock, and

a long night was made of
            .                                                                            in which my wits

                in

                                                        ;

                                             it,
were kept at full stretch. Made my first essay in

conversing        German not so difficult after a

while. . . Kind remembrances and thanks [to
Clift] for his experienced hints to Mr. Hills he
beats many of the Dutch still at the beasts.'
                                                                                         :
                                                                                               '

                                                                                                     ;6
     On September 20, 1838, he wrote again to

his wife from Freiburg im Breisgau To-day

about four hundred sat down to the table d'hote of

the Association.  was between Mrs. Buckland
6

                         I

                                                                                      7
and the Prince of Musignano,7 and England and

home came again very near and warm to my

        Robert Hills, Secretary to          Charles Lucien Bonaparte,
the Royal Institute of Painters     Prince of Musignano and of
in Water Colours.
                                    Canino.

1837-38      GROSZ HERZOG'S DINNER  131

recollection after my long and somewhat fatiguing

journey. Many were the kind inquiries after

yourself and our little one. Dr. and Madame

Eschricht not far off, and Dr. Henle in sight.

Dr. Buckland had Cooper next him at another

table. Agassiz divided Mrs. Buckland from her

friend Mrs.  of Oxford. . . . You will see

already one of the peculiarities of the German

meeting as distinguished from the English --wives

and sisters mingling in social happiness at the

festive board. They are not, however, admitted,

as at Newcastle, to the scientific discussions of

the morning. . . . My day's work has been as

follows : Rose at six, breakfasted at half-past, and

joined the Anatomical and Zoological Section at

seven. Papers and communications in German

and French. My reception has been most gra

tifying and flattering : I was assigned the seat of

honour on the right hand of the President. At

eleven adjourned with Prince Lucien to his hotel

to look over some zoological objects : he has

pressed a warm invitation for us to visit him at

Rome when our little boy is big enough to run

about and play with his own children. We then
went to the Geological Section. At half-past

twelve adjourned to the museum, and received

our ticket for the grand dinner given by the Grosz

Herzog to the assembly at a beautiful country

palace some miles from hence.'

     With regard to the dinner given by the Grosz

                                                                              k2

132  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                Ch. IV.

Herzog, Owen relates the following amusing

story :--

     ' The Associates were notified that on entering

their names at the Town Hall, vehicles would be
pmriolevsidefdromforFrtehiebujorgur--neiny--thaeboourtdeer igohft
                                                                    English
                                                                   booking.

Professor Eschricht had brought his newly married

bride to the meeting, and I was accompanied by
my friend, Mr. White Cooper. We entered our

names as a party of four for one of the carriages,
and were enjoined by the official at the Town Hall

to present ourselves there not later than 6 a.m.

The day opened brightly, and we were led to

seats in the Council Chamber and instructed to

remain till our names were called.

    'The rattle of wheels over the rough pave

ment of the " Place " began soon after our arrival,

and continued uninterruptedly. Name after name

was called ; party after party descended and drove

off. Both Eschricht and I kept our ears open,

and, unwilling to add to the difficulties which

beset the officials of the Town Council, caused by

impatient inquiries and demands for carriages,
we sat silent till seven o'clock arrived ; the sound

of departing wheels had then begun to slacken,

and soon after to cease. Then Eschricht, as a

better master of German than myself, went to

one of the officials who was standing near the

door, and observed that our determination to

obey the official directions and to wait in silence

1837-38  NO VEHICLE FORTHCOMING                  133

till our names were called, had apparently caused
our loss of the carriage which had been booked

in our name.

' The worthy Burgomaster's countenance fell ;

he raised his hands in deprecatory fashion, and
declared it was all the fault of those " Fran-
zosische ; " that they had violently appropriated to

themselves vehicles  icnalwl "aithinagd  in the  Square, and
that the order of "                      been    compulsorily

suspended ; that every wheeled vehicle which

Freiburg and its vicinity could contribute to the

excursion was now occupied and on its way to
Baden- Weiler. Outside the portal was a gentle
man on horseback, mopping his face in the hot

sunshine ; he had acted officially in guiding the

parties and starting their respective vehicles.

This duty was appropriately volunteered and

discharged, under unlooked-for difficulties, by the

Professor of Obstetrics of the Freiburg Uni

versity.

     ' My friend mildly remarked that the con

sequence of our proper behaviour was more es
pecially to be regretted, since his friend and him

self were professors who had travelled from the

greatest distances to attend the meeting -- Pro

fessor O, from Newcastle, North of England, and

himself from Copenhagen.
     ' Then ensued an animated discussion between

the Freiburg Professor and the Burgomaster,

which issued in the Professor putting spurs to his

134  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iv.

horse and galloping off. Whereupon we were
confidentially informed that the only individual
possessing a carriage in Freiburg who had re-
refused to contribute it to the day's excursion
was his Eminence the Prince Archbishop.

Some time having elapsed in dismal silence,

we concluded that we had lost our intended

excursion, and grieved more especially for

the fair bride's disappointment. It was getting

near eight o'clock, when we suddenly heard the
clatter of hoofs and the sound of carriage wheels,

and there drew up at the Town Hall a grand

capacious coach, with four fine long-tailed black
horses, a corpulent coachman in purple livery,
and, hanging on behind, a footman in the same,
and a chasseur in green and gold !

     ' The two latter descended ; one threw open

the coach door, the other rattled down the steps,
and in we went as directed. I thought Madame
Eschricht would have vanished in the depth of

the purple cushion on which she sank! No

sooner were we all seated than the steps were put

up, the door banged to, clack went the coach

man's whip, and we were rattling over the town
pavement in a style that brought all the remaining
residents, as it seemed, to be spectators.

     ' Now the solution of this unexpected phe
nomenon, as the cavalier Professor afterwards

explained to me, was as follows :--

     ' Deeply impressed by the disgrace which he

1837-38  THE ARCHBISHOP'S CARRIAGE  135

felt must fall on the authorities of the "meeting,"
 he determined to make a personal appeal to the
 Prince Archbishop. His Eminence was in bed,

but the urgent Professor was admitted, and set
forth in glowing terms the merits of the two

deserted scientists, the distant lands from which

they had travelled, the estimation in which they
were held by the " Association," and especially the

exemplary obedience to directions, which had led

to the disappointment caused by ruder -- especially
French --visitors.

     ' The Archbishop turned on his pillow, and
in choice ecclesiastical Latin pronounced, " Then

the last shall be first, and the first last," and gave
his orders to the attendant chaplain accordingly.

The archiepiscopal coach being horsed and

manned, the Professor, rejoicing, returned with it

to the Town Hall.
     ' As we set off in full trot we soon came upon

the hindmost of the various vehicles which were
toiling up the hill. The Archbishop's coachman
bawled imperatively, and the hindmost wheeled
concern pulled abruptly to the roadside ; I thought
they would have gone over into the ditch. Their
example was followed by the rest, and at length we
came to a handsome barouche in which sat Oken,

Dr. and Mrs. Buckland, and a titled Austrian.

As we dashed past, I could not resist grinning

at Dr. Buckland, and bowing out of the window
to Mrs. Buckland, who stared in amazement.

136  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. IV.

     ' No sooner had we headed the procession than

the dignified coachman reined in his steeds and
proceeded in jog-trot pace, giving all behind the

benefit of the dust. In due time we entered the
grounds of a Badenese baron, whom the Grand
Duke had deputed to discharge his hospitalities

to the scientific Associates.

     ' As we came in view of the Chateau I saw

ranged in a row, on each side of the approach, the
gamekeepers, or Rangers, which, in their best
liveries, reminded me of the singers of the hunts
man's chorus in " Der Freischiltz." Our noble

host was, in fact, the Grand Duke's grand hunts
man ; he stood at the entry, and as our coach
drew up at the handsome flight of steps, came
down, offered one arm to Madame Eschricht, and
led her into the hall. We followed, and graci
ously received a complimentary welcome, to which
Eschricht, perfect in German, replied with dig
nified politeness. Cooper was introduced as my

secretary.

     ' We had agreed, en route, to accept whatever

interpretation as to our rank might be made, in
connection with the exalted character of our

cortege.

      ' Mrs. Buckland, greatly struck with the
beauty, grace, and attire of the bride, took re

peated opportunities to pluck me by the sleeve

and ask, Who is that lady to whom the baron is
paying such attention ? What is the title of her

1837-38  A BARONIAL FEAST  137

husband ? How did you come to be brought
with them in the Archbishop's coach ? We were
told his Eminence had positively refused its use
to the Association, &c, &c

     ' However, the visitors were rapidly crowding

in, and forming their parties for the stroll to the
Roman ruins of the Baths, so I warded off the

impatient inquiries by "I'll tell you all about

her when we return."

     ' After some hours' strolling to all the favourite
points of view, we returned to the grand hunts

man's baronial castle. Hospitable tables were

spread in the great hall ; the host, singling out
Madame Eschricht, seated her on his right hand,
and, as I had led her into the hall, he would have

placed me on his left ; but I brought forward and
introduced the President, and Oken was followed
by Eschricht, Buckland, Prince Charles Lucien
Bonaparte, and other notabilities of the Associa

tion.

     ' At the close of the feast, in which the Rhine

wines were memorable, the Archbishop's carriage
being summoned, our " partie carree" took their
seats and led the way back to Freiburg. We
descended at the Town Hall. Eschricht and I had

agreed to give a douceur to the Archbishop's staff.
But the chasseur most politely declined, saying

in German that his Eminence, his master, felt

honoured by our acceptance of the small service
he was able to afford us, &c

138         PROFESSOR OWEN   Ch. iv.

     ' And we gaily walked off to Eschricht's

quarters to chat and laugh over the unexpected

incidents of the excursion.

     ' I called on Mrs. Buckland the next morning
-- the Baron's reception of us had confirmed her

in her conclusions of the grandiosity of my fellow-

travellers --and she heard, with mingled emotions,
the facts of the case ; admitting, however, that

the ladies of the Association could not have been

better represented than by the fair and graceful

young Danish bride.'
     The following and last letter that was written

by Owen to his wife during this tour is dated

Heidelberg, September 25, 1838, and in it he
says : ' We arrived here at twelve noon this day ;

washed, shaved (we have been in the diligence a
day and night), mended a large rent in my inex

...pressibles, and got into trim to call on Professor
Tiedemann.  I have arranged to arrive at
Antwerp and set sail --or steam I should say --

for London and home on Sunday, 30th, and trust

to clasp my best loved treasures in my arms

on Monday or Tuesday. I have had a sore

temptation to resist on the part of Agassiz, who is

accompanied by Prince Lucien and the Buck-

lands to Neuchatel this day, but I said that

Switzerland must be another journey when you
and I returned from Italy. . . . My reception at

Freiburg has been most flattering, and my visit

most agreeable. But the Germans work harder

1837-38   RETURN FROM GERMANY                                                            139

than the Newcastle men, and time passed pretty

quickly there. . . . We left Freiburg Monday
(yesterday) at noon . . . No dinner was to be had

on the road, so I offered a market woman at the

corner of the street a small coin with about half a

farthing's worth of copper in                                          and pointed to
                                I, I
                                                                      ;
                                                      it it,
her basket of fine jargonel pears. She gave me

two handfuls and then began to fumble in huge
                                                                         a

pocket   gforarpecsh--angbelu. e     pointed                           next to a wisket  of
lovely                            and green                             got two bunches  of
each, and still change left--had out in plums
                                                                                         a;
and Cooper and                    with our pockets full, next

called in at a baker's, got some rolls, and made

very primitive and delicious meal as we rolled

along out of Freiburg. . . Many kisses for my
         I
Willie.
                       ;
                                                        .
                                                              .
                                                                 .
          shall soon sing him into recollection                                          if

he has forgotten me.                                                . Many kind inquiries

and good wishes were made, and often, after my

father-in-law there were many Germans who

had a lively recollection of his urbanity to them
when in London. We start to-night for Mann

heim, then steam to Bonn there a day or two                         ;

museuming, and then for Home, Home, dear
Home!'

Owen returned from Germany, as the journal

shows, on October . The following entries then
'
       :
                                                      1

                                            a
occur --
October 20. -- R. to
                                                                    Council at the Zoo

logical Gardens, where an inquiry was made about
the death of the poor djeggetai, or wild ass. The

140  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

Wappiti stag had forced open the wooden door
which separated them, and gored the poor creature
so horribly as to oblige the keeper to put it out of

its misery.'

     'November 1. -- R. at the British Museum
with Lord Northampton, who had written to R.
for an appointment. It was to examine a fossil
which has evidently puzzled people. It proved

to be the cartilaginous rays of the fins of an enor
mous fish denuded of the connected membrane.'

     ' 6th. --A visit from Dr. and Mrs. Buckland

and their two eldest boys, a friend, and a couple
of live marmots ; both the Doctor and Mrs.

Buckland looking all the better for their German
tour. The Doctor sat on the sofa with the two

marmots and his bag on his lap. They were all
going to Drury Lane. I don't know whether the
marmots are going too ! '

     ' 1 jth. -- R. very busy over the muscles of the

apteryx. When finished, he sat up till three read
 ing " Gilbert Gurney Married." '

      On November 24 Owen received the news
 from Lancaster of the illness of his mother, and
 set off at once to his sisters. He wrote a short

 note to his wife, dated Lancaster, Sunday, one

 o'clock, November 25, 1838: --
      1 As I anticipated, my poor mother's sleep

 proved to be her last ; she never revived more
 than to be conscious of the little kind offices

 done to ease her position and breathing and to sip

1837-38  HIS MOTHER'S DEATH                               141

a little wine. She expired in peace at eleven

o'clock last night. If I had left home on Thursday

night, I should not have found her in a conscious
state, as she has slept from early on Friday morn
ing. I found my sisters and Cousin Grace much
comforted at seeing me.

     ' I have had a cold and melancholy journey,
not being able to sleep, and now can scarcely

guide my pen. . . .'
     On November 30 he sent his wife further par

ticulars of his mother's death and says : ' Yester
day I followed the remains of my dear mother to
their last resting-place. My sisters and Cousin
Grace -- few and sincere mourners --were her only
followers, for she had outlived all her old friends

save one or two who are confined by the infirmities
of age to their beds or houses. She rests beneath
the tree which she pointed out to me at the con
clusion of our last walk together ; and her usual
stroll last summer was into the churchyard, where
she used to sit on a gravestone having a view of
the place she had selected for her last home, and

often cast a weary eye around as if longing to be

at rest. She was then too feeble to walk alone,

and her active mind and habits made her feel her

 increasing infirmities and, as she expressed her

 uselessness here. .

     On December 1838, Owen wrote to Clifton
general matters, and mentions As my report on
 British Saurians requires me to examine Sir Philip
         2, .
             .'

                                                :
                                              '

                                                     it,

142           PROFESSOR OWEN    ch. iv.

Egerton's rich collection, I may not again have so

convenient an opportunity of devoting a few days

..." 'Ito it as when passing so near his mansion in my
journey south by the railroad.  find my

grandmother by father's side lies buried in Wan-

stead Church, Essex, in the vault of the Froysels,

her family. She died a few hours after my father's
birth -- very young. Some summer's day we must

make a holiday there, and I a pilgrimage to her

early tomb.'

1839-40  THE MICROSCOPICAL SOCIETY  143

                    CHAPTER V

                                                1839-40

Foundation of the Microscopical Society -- Reconstruction of the
     ' Dinornis '-- Corresponding Member of the Institute of France,
    1839--First part of the Report on British Fossil Reptiles read
    before the British Association at Birmingham, 1839 -- Part I. of
     the ' Odontography' completed, 1840.

For some years Owen had taken a considerable

interest in microscopical work, and had made
many observations in the corpuscles of the blood
in man and other animals. About this time, also,

Dr. J. E. Bowerbank, of Highgate, gathered

around him a few friends at certain stated times
for the discussion of microscopical problems.

The little band used to meet at each other's homes,
and Owen was a frequent but not a regular visitor.
Eventually Bowerbank, Farre, and the rest

determined to form a society which should have
for its object microscopical research. Owen,
from his abilities and position, was selected as the
first president of the new society, and he occupied
the chair in 1840 and 1841, and delivered the first
two presidential addresses to the Royal Micro

144  PROFESSOR OWEN              CH. V.

scopical Society.1 His friend, Dr. Arthur Farre,

was the first secretary.

     While occupied in giving his Hunterian

Lectures for the year, Owen described a ' fragment
of the femur of an unknown bird from New

Zealand.' This fragment of a large bone, like a

marrow-bone in appearance, was one day brought

to him by a sea-faring man, and from this slight

evidence he built up a creature which he asserted
was a gigantic wingless bird, in spite of the strong

resemblance which the bone had to that of an ox.
The story is best given in his own words, taken
from the preface to his ' Extinct Birds of New

Zealand.' Here he says :--
     ' The advantage of attention to any object of

natural history, however unattractive, if it be not

a recognisable or previously known specimen, is
exemplified in this fragment of bone.2

     ' The individual who originally brought it to
me stated that he had obtained it in New Zealand

from a native, who told him that it was the bone

of a great eagle.
     ' I assured him that he had been misinformed ;

    1 Journ. R. Microsc. Soc,    iar.) was deemed too high for
                                 the fragment by the then Mu-
1893, p. 106.                    seums Committee of the College,

     2 The specimen in question  and it was afterwards purchased

was submitted for sale in the    by Richard Bright, of Bristol. It

first placetotheBritishMuseum,   has since been presented, with
and the vendor was recom-        the rest of the Bright Collection,
mended by Dr. Gray to offer it   to the Trustees of the British
to the Royal College of Sur-
geons. The price asked (10/.     Museum by his grandson.

1839-40  BONE OF A GIGANTIC BIRD           145

that the specimen had not the structure of a bone
of such a bird of flight ; that it was a marrow
bone, like those brought to table wrapped in a

napkin. To further questions as to its locality,

the vendor replied by showing, amongst other
evidences, a jadestone weapon peculiar to the

New Zealanders, which he had also brought from

the island, and still seemed to attach so much

value to the unpromising fragment, that I con

sented, being at the time specially engaged, to

try to make out the bone, if he would leave it

with me and call for it the next day.      lthe bone

     ' As soon as I was at leisure I took

     vol. 1.

146  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

to the skeleton of the ox, expecting to verify my

first surmise ; but with some resemblance to the

shaft of the thigh bone, there were precluding
differences ; from the ox's humerus, which also
affords the tavern delicacy, the discrepancy of
shape was still more marked. Led by the thick
ness of the wall of the marrow cavity, I proceeded

to compare the bone with similar sized portions
of the skeletons of the various quadrupeds which

might have been introduced and have left their
remains in New Zealand ; but it was clearly un

conformable with any such portions. In the
course of these comparisons I noted certain ob

scure superficial markings on the bones, which
recalled to mind similar ones which I had

observed on the surface of the long bones in
some large birds. Thereupon I proceeded with
it to the skeleton of the ostrich. The bone
tallied in point of size with the shaft of the thigh
bone, but was markedly different in shape.

     ' There were, however, the same superficial

reticulate impressions on the ostrich's femur

which had caught my attention in the exhaustive

comparison previously made with the mammalian

bones.

     ' In short, stimulated to a more minute and
extended examination, I arrived at the conviction

that the specimen had come from a bird ; that it
was the shaft of a thigh-bone, and that it must
have formed part of the skeleton of a bird as

1839-40  TRACING THE BONE'S OWNER  147

large as, if not larger than, the full-sized male
ostrich --with this more striking difference, that
whereas the femur of the ostrich, like that of the

cassowary, emu, rhea, and eagle, is "pneumatic"
or contains air, the present huge bird's bone had
been filled with marrow, like that of a beast.

      ' When its owner called the next day, I told
him, with much pleasure, the result of my com
parisons, and assured him that I would recom
mend the purchase of the bone, at the price

asked, to the Museum Committee.

      ' I regret to relate that, notwithstanding my
testimony, the purchase of the unpromising frag
ment was declined ; and it was not convenient to

me in 1839 to pay the sum out of my own
pocket. I promised, however, to commend the
specimen to other possible purchasers, one of
whom I found, through my friend Mr. Broderip,
F.R.S., in Benjamin Bright, Esq., then M.P. for

Bristol.

     ' Meanwhile the vendor permitted me to

make some drawings, and these, together with my
descriptions and conclusions, were submitted to
the Zoological Society of London, November 12,
1839. I was not surprised that there was some
hesitation in the Publication Committee as to

the admission of the paper with the plate into the
"Transactions."

   l' The bone was not fossilised ; it might have
                                                                                                                                                      2

148  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. v.

come from a kind still existing. But a bird larger
than an ostrich, belonging to a " heavier and more

sluggish species," could hardly have escaped ob
servation in a tract of dry land such as New Zea

land. Moreover, after arriving at the conviction
that the "bone" was part of a huge terrestrial
bird, I still felt some uncertainty as to the alleged

habitat. At that date, the largest known land-

bird of the islands of New Zealand was the

apteryx, and even its existence had begun to be

doubted. Accordingly, the Earl of Derby, then
President of the Zoological Society, who pos

sessed the unique skin, which had been brought
by Captain Barclay from New Zealand in 1812,
and had been figured by Dr. Shaw in his
" Naturalist's Miscellany," transmitted the speci

men to the Society, and confided it in 1833
for re-examination and description to William
Yarrell.

     ' Now this bird was barely the size of a
pheasant, and "the bone " indicated a bird as big

as an ostrich.

     ' But the ostrich has the continent of Africa for

its home, the rhea roams over South America, the
emu over Australia, casuarius has not only New
Guinea, but North Australia, and some neigh
bouring islands, as its habitat.

     ' The misgivings of Vigors and some other

of my zoological contemporaries were as to the
possibility of a terrestrial bird, of the size I sup-

1839-40  INCREDULITY AND DOUBT  149

posed, having been able at any time to find sub
sistence in so small a tract as New Zealand.

     ' That island, moreover, had been visited by

accomplished naturalists, and the only evidence
of a wingless bird which they had been able to
obtain there were fragments and feathers of a
small one called " kivi-kivi " by the natives, who

hunted it by night with torches and dogs.
M. Lesson accordingly refers the evidences of
this bird brought from New Zealand by the cir-

cumnavigatory vessel "La Coquille" in 1828, to

the Apteryx australis of Shaw. Similar evi
dence is given by M. D'Urville and MM. Quoy

and Gaimard.

     ' The interpretation of a single fragment of

bone seemed to my more experienced seniors too
narrow a foundation for the inference " that there

had existed, if there does not now exist, in New

Zealand a struthious bird equal in size to the
ostrich." Nevertheless, I urged that it was not an
ostrich, consequently not any then known species
of bird, and that it might as well have come from
New Zealand as anywhere else.

      ' Ultimately the admission of this paper into
the "Transactions," with one plate, was carried by
the Committee, the responsibility of the paper
" resting exclusively with the author."

     ' On the publication of the volume, one hun
dred extra copies of the paper were struck off,
and these I distributed in every quarter of the

mo  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. v

islands of New Zealand where attention to such

evidences was likely to be attracted.
     'The confirmatory response, anxiously expected

     iDINORNIS (PACHYORNIS) ELEPHANTOPUS, OWEN

 Side view of a skeleton of the Elephant-footed Moa, from New Zealand,
                        restored by Owen. About natural sire.

through the years 1840, 1841, and 1842, at length
arrived, in a letter from the Rev. William

Cotton, M.A., in one from Colonel Wakefield,
and in some collections of bones transmitted by

1839-40    DINORNIS ELEPHANTOPUS                                              151

the Rev. William Williams, and received in 1843
by the Rev. Dr. Buckland, at Oxford, and by

Dr. (afterwards Sir John) Richardson, at Haslar
Hospital. These specimens, generously confided

to me for description, formed the subject of a

paper communicated to the Zoological Society,

November 28, 1843.'
    The incredulity and doubt with which this

opinion was received were too great for a time for

Owen's mere assertion to dispel ; but by-and-by

the whole skeleton was brought over to this

country, and then his opinion was converted into

a fact. ' We well remember,' remarks a writer in

the 'Quarterly Review' (March 1 85
                          it                                                seeing

                               a
                                                    2),

                                                                           3
                                                                       '

                                                      it
this fragment of the shaft of femur when first

arrived, and hearing the opinion of the Professor

as to the bird to which   must have belonged.

He took, in our presence, a piece of paper and

drew the outline of what he conceived to be the

complete bone. The fragment, from which alone

he deduced his conclusions, was six inches in

length and five inches and half in its smallest
             a;
                it

                                           a
circumference both extremities had been broken

off. When       perfect bone arrived and was laid

on the paper,   fitted exactly the outline which

he had drawn.'

The following extracts from Mrs. Owen's diary

show the way in which Owen employed his time

and relieved his work with intervals of relaxation                            :

                W. Broderip.
                3

                      J.

152  PROFESSOR OWEN                                             ch. v.

' After a hard day's work, I persuaded R. to stop,
so we called for my father and mother and went off
to Covent Garden. Shakespeare's " Tempest,"

as he wrote was the attraction, and the crowd
     is
                it,

                                               ;

                             it
                                          I

                                                                           it
tremendous. My father softened the heart of

the box-keeper with a shilling, for he had many

applicants, and we got second and third seats in a

good box. Neither R. nor had ever seen the
" Tempest." Father and mother had seen

several times, but as used to be played, garbled
and altered in a terrible manner. Miss P. Horton,

as Ariel, excellent as was G. Bennet (Caliban).
Macready very disappointing as Prospero, his

voice now so feeble and his manner monotonous.

Miss Faucit, of course, played well as Miranda, but

did not look the part. For the first time since poor

Joe Grimaldi could we sit out the pantomime.'
    'January 10. -- R. to the Geological Society,

where he read the paper on Dr. Harlan's fossil

and the Stonesfield jaw. Dr. Grant was obliged to

admit, in spite of his teeth, that they were mam

malia and not saurians. As soon as R. came

home he made for " Barnaby Rudge," and sat with

him till past two o'clock.'

       2th. -- We examined some of the eggs of the
     '
         1

                                            It

                                                            it
argonaut in the microscope.  was astonishing

to see the tiny eggs containing the creature with

its arms and immense eyes and the body like a

cloud. There was no appearance of the rudi

mentary shell, but all seems to make certain that

1839-40  ON ARGONAUTS  153

it inhabits its own shell and no other. Mr.

Broderip also had a look afterwards. R. showed

him the specimen in the bottle, and seemed to
think the point was practically settled.'

     ' 1 8/i. --At eight o'clock with R. to the Royal

Institution to hear Faraday lecture on electricity,

galvanism, and the electric eel. Faraday is the
beau iddal of a popular lecturer.'

     ' 26th. -- R. and I to Great Ormond Street,

where Madame Power 4 showed us her boxes of
fossil shells, &c, and some molluscs in bottles,

and, above all, the argonaut shells with the frac
tures made by her in her experiments, beautifully
filled up and mended : three specimens in different
stages of reconstruction, the first filled up with
a substance like the lining membrane of a boiled

egg. This was done in about ten minutes after
the piece was cut away by Madame Power ; the

more perfect restorations had the corrugations
formed to match the rest.'

     'February 2. -- R. to Madame Power's and
brought away three bottles full of argonauts. A

beautiful collection ! One of them has the sail

spread back over the shell, the suckers on the

points. Madame P. says that if we count the
suckers they will be found to correspond with the
number of points. This, with other circum
stances, makes the question, I think, not whether

     4 Jeanette Power, nie de Villepreux, a lady who made extensive
researches on the paper nautilus.

154         PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                   ch. v.

the poulpe belongs to the shell, but how it has

come to pass that, after so many have debated

on the subject, Madame P. has been the first to

discover these things.'

     On February 7 Owen received the news that
he was elected corresponding member of the
Institute of France (Section d'Anatomie et de

Zoologie).

     ' Some little time ago,' Mrs. Owen writes

apropos of this election, ' R. was pressed by one or

two well-meaning friends in France, to send to the

Academy a list of his works as a sort of certificate

that he was worthy of the honour. This he flatly

but politely refused to do, or to act in any way so

as to lead them to suppose he was touting to be

elected. He is now doubly glad that he was firm

            as the present conduct of the Acade
about' I'
          I it,
micians shows their opinion in a public manner
                                   a
of the strange conduct of Coste. M tiller and         is
Oken were the others for whom they balloted --
                                                                                                          :
both considerably older than R.'

     On February 26, Prince Ch. Lucien Bonaparte

writes to Owen from Paris. After remarking that
he has sent Owen MS. for the Linnean or

some other society, which he anxious to have

printed immediately, he continues --

       rely, at all events, exclusively upon you,

whom        know as a man of more doing than

saying.

      And now let me congratulate you upon your

1839-40 CHARLES LUCIEN BONAPARTE                  155

glorious election by the French Institute and upon

your triumph over the first luminaries of Germany.
You know that I refused standing against you,

and my friendship in this case was more useful to

myself than to you. The scientific friend who

has announced me your election reminds me of
my withdrawing before you, and adds " Vous
                      "
avez eu la  modestie     ("bien rare," he could  have
added, in   France,   "                          votre
                         chez les hommes de

note"). We shall see now whether I shall be

elected at the first election for the remaining

vacancy, which is to take place on the 10th or 1 7th
of March. I confess I should much prefer to be

elected a member of the Royal Society, for it

would help me in the accomplishment of my

favourite plan, the periodical meetings of the
scientific men in Italy. You will know shortly

the particulars ; I can only say now that we shall

meet on October 1 at a preparatory meeting at

Pisa. Can we not hope to see you and other

eminent Englishmen among us ? We also have

done ourselves the honour of electing you a
member of our Academia dei Lincei, which holds

their meeting in the capital ! . . . Present my
respectful compliments to Mrs. Owen, and bear

in mind you have in me a profound admirer, and

a friend who wishes to be tried in any occurrence.

        ' Your most affectionate and devoted
                        ' Charles L. Bonaparte,

                         ' Prince of Musignano.'

156  PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. V.

    Mrs. Owen's diary informs us that :--
    ' 25. --A most curious mark of popularity
witnessed yesterday in front of the College --a

man parading up and down with a transparent
lantern with the words illuminated " Owen's
lectures to be sold ! " R. says he has no notion
what they can be like. Mme. Power here. She
is going to France, she says, on account of her

health -- I think on account of her fossils. I am

sorry no one has taken them off her hands in this

country.'

    ' March 7. -- R. at work on revision of " Mar

supial Osteology." Afterwards comparing fossil
bones, those brought by Sir Woodbine Parish from
Buenos Ayres with those published in the Berlin
" Transactions." Both found with coat of mail.'

    ' ioth. -- R. busy over his paper5 to show that

the Megatherium has most probably no coat of
mail, and that the bones found with the shield
belonged to it. He has a beautiful and rare

armadillo, shell and bones, which tell the story
capitally ; the relative size of the roses in the

armadillo shell to the bones helps forward the

matter strongly.'

    'April 21. -- R. to Lord Cole's to breakfast.

     6 This was the paper in   armour had originally been
which Owen corrected and       confused as part of the integu-
redescribed the Glyptodon, an  ment of the Megatherium by
extinct armadillo-like animal  Mr. Clift, Dr. Buckland, and
from Buenos Ayres, whose
                               others.

1839-40  'A RARE FOSSIL'  157

The valet began a pitiable tale of his master
having been kept at the House till 5 a.m., and
that he was still asleep. R. was just saying that
he was not to disturb his master, when Sir P. de

Grey Egerton appeared in a dressing-gown and
begged R. to come upstairs, as he had a strange
and rare fossil to show him. He led R. to a
room and said, " There it is." There lay poor
Lord Cole half asleep, but Sir Philip was re

morseless and made him get up.'

     ' 26th. -- Two hampers came. When we opened

them we found one contained a dead Lophius,

the other a live bird of the diver kind. A note

with them from the Isle of Wight explained that

the bird and fish were seen and caught by some
fishermen. The bird partly swallowed and stuck

in the mouth of the fish. Perhaps they were
both darting after the same object of prey. R.
sent the diver to the Zoo, and a few days after
the keeper told him the bird frequently dived and
brought up fish in the pond. However, R. is

afraid that it may not live long in fresh water,

being purely a sea bird.'

     ' May 1 5. -- Our young friend Frederick Pol
lock here. As a very little boy, he once crushed
Richard with a remark. We were having a chil

dren's party at our house, and the boy went off

to the dining-room and began looking over a

huge folio volume on the sofa, while the other
children were in the drawing-room dancing. R.

158  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

went after him and said, " Fred, why don't you

go and dance too ? If you don't learn to dance

you will never please the ladies ! " He looked
up with a grave face and said, impressively, " For

that very reason I never wish to learn ! " '

     'June 1 8. --Accouchement of Madame Giraffe

at her residence in the Zoological Gardens, of a
son. The mother standing licking some salt.
The nurses had given the young gentleman some
warm cow's milk out of a sucking bottle. It is

wonderfully well formed for so recent an animal.

It is like a big one reduced in size. Its mother
will not allow it to go near her. Sir P. Egerton,

who called and came with us, told me that deer

left their new-born for a day or more, and that

the little creatures lay without nourishment until
the mother chose to come to them. The keepers

said we need not hurry away, as the mother rather

liked company than not. Mr. Whewell brought
R. two MS. numbers of his great work6 to-day
for R. to look over.'

     '25th. -- R. to the Zoological Society. He

intends to read his remarks on the young giraffe.'

     ' 26th. -- R. at the last minute made up his
mind to see " Henry V." under Macready's man
agement. He returned highly pleased, and said

that Macready seems to have done for Shake

speare much as he had been trying to do for
John Hunter.'

                   ,: Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences.

1839-40  BRITISH ASSOCIATION                                                    159

     ' 2%th. -- Shocked to find the young giraffe

dead. Nothing discovered to account for                                         R.
   '
                         '

                                                                           it.
had the melancholy satisfaction of dissecting it.'

    'July 24. -- R. to Greenwich with Mr. Stokes
and Lord Cole. Whilst the party were dining at
the "Crown and Sceptre" some singers enter

tained them with glees. Lord Cole said they
should sing "God save the Queen" to finish,

and  as the waiter was  going to                                   "gTiveell  the order
Mr.  Stokes whispered   to him,                                                 them to
strike up Old King Cole,' " which they did, to

the infinite astonishment of King Cole himself.'
      28//L -- Mr. Hills called to alter the fetlocks of

the giraffes in his picture, which R. told him were

not right.'

     'August 26. -- R. was to have gone to Bir

mingham this morning, but could not get his

papers ready. He has been hard at work writing

his paper for the Association on British Saurians.'

    '2yth. -- R. spent a sleepless night and had a

bad headache in the morning, but he had to start

for Birmingham at eight.                                           helped him pack the
   It

                                                                '

                                      I
diagrams, &c, and all was ready by half-past,

and he started in a cab.'

         was at the meeting of the British Associa

tion held in Birmingham in 1839 that Owen read
the first part of his Report on British Fossil

Reptiles,' in which he collected for the first time

all the information then known. Previous to the

meeting he paid a short visit to the Bristol Museum

160              PROFESSOR OWEN             ch. v.

in order to make his final notes on the remains

there preserved, and also visited Lyme Regis,

and the quarries at Street, in Somersetshire. He

writes to his wife from Bristol on August 21, from
the ' White Lion,' Broad Street, ' with a coffee-

room  pen     '  ' After a tedious passage  of more
           :

than thirty hours (instead of twenty) I arrived
here this afternoon at four.' He then says he is

leaving for Street and Lyme Regis, and hopes to

return to London by Friday morning. Referring
to Bristol, he says : ' I posted out on a voyage of

discovery to the Philosophical Institution. . . .

The old man [Stutchbury] was out, but expected
in soon. So I asked for the museum and busied

myself with notes on Sauria till he arrived. His
first exclamation was characteristic : " Well, I've

heard and read a deal about you, let's see what
you're like ; " and he brought me by both

shoulders to the window and scrutinised accord

ingly. I stayed with him till eight, chiefly in the

museum, where I saw all I wanted. . . . The

Avon near Bristol, or I should say Clifton, is
equal to the best Rhine scenery.'

     Owen reached Birmingham on August 27,

1839, and stayed with his old friend Middlemore
at 23 Temple Row. He contracted a severe

chill on his journey there, however, and 'went to

bed early, took, by my host's advice, some colchi-

cum and opium, and had a better night. . . .

Have been honoured with an invitation to dinner

1839-40  VISIT TO IRELAND     161

at Sir Robert Peel's at his seat near here. Thir

teen of the Association have been selected.

Perhaps nothing could have given me more
pleasure. Middlemore has, however, been peep
ing down the red lane, and he says I must not go

with my throat in its present state, but must

nurse at home on slops and febrifuges. To this

I reluctantly consent, as the only means of getting

my voice into order to read my report on Thurs

day, for, what with abbreviations and railroad

scribblings, nobody could read the MS. but

myself.'

     Writing next day to Clift, he again refers to

his disappointment at not being well enough to

go to Sir Robert Peel's, and says the reading of

his report has been put off till the Saturday.

     On September 3, 1839, Owen writes to his

wife from Florence Court, Fermanagh, the seat
of Lord Cole, where he had gone from Birming
ham. He says : ' I was sufficiently well on

Saturday morning to read my report, which was

satisfactory to all concerned ; it lasted from

10 till 12.30. I had just time afterwards to
pack, eat a hasty lunch, and set off by the mail

train to Liverpool. There we were transferred

from the steam carriages to the steam-boat, and

set sail on Saturday evening with a dark, lowering

sky. . . . The journey [to Enniskillen from Dub
lin] was extremely interesting to me. The Irish
cabin beats description. You might imagine a

vol. 1.                    M

162  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. V.

traveller describing his conviction of the high and
peculiar value which the Irish have for the hog-
tribe ; the stys appropriated for the shelter of
these quadrupeds he would tell you surpassed in
size and commodiousness those of any other
nation. They are frequently warmed by means
of a turf fire, so that the children are often

attracted into them, and may be seen playing

with the pigs. What is remarkable is that,

although the peasantry are far from being few in
number, their habitations are nowhere visible.

The rags and tatters are the most picturesque in

the world. Shoes and stockings extremely rare,
the children half or quite naked. Few vehicles

of any description on the road, yet the country
well cultivated and mostly fertile. You are agree

ably surprised. At a distance you see a poor

distressed-looking object, barefooted, with a gray

cloak over the head ; as you come nearer you see

an intelligent, healthy, laughing face under the
cloak, the very reverse of what you anticipated.'

      On September 8, 1839, Owen writes to Mrs.
Clift from Florence Court, giving her a descrip
tion of the house and grounds, and among the
details he gives are the following : ' There is
only one exceptional condition about Florence

Court ; it is about twenty barrels of gtmpowder,

 which, with arms and accoutrements for five hun

 dred men, his lordship informed me, with peculiar

satisfaction, he kept for his boys, in spite of Dan

1839-40  SPORT AT FLORENCE COURT                                           163

or my Lord- Lieutenant.               a it If,therefore, we are not
                                                                  ;
blown up or drowned in the passage home, you

may expect to See me on or about September 30.

This morning we went to church, and after the

second psalm my lord turned out of the pew,

and, striding to the altar, seized there an instru

ment, in shape resembling a diminutive warming-

pan with half the lid wanting this he (being

churchwarden) presented to each of the con
gregation, high and low, and traversed therewith

the church to the tinkling of half-pence, sixpences,

and shillings, which the charitably disposed

dropped in then, returning up the aisle, he fum
is
          isbled half a crown out of his waistcoat pocket

                                   ;with one hand, dropped into the copper recep

tacle in the other, and deposited the same, witha

the gatherings of the perambulation, on the Com

munion-table for the benefit of the poor.                                  2
                                      bad picture -- the green
would not have been                                                          a It

coat, white breeches and long yellow leggings,

with the spectacles and good-humoured business

like earnestness with which the ceremony was

gone through. The sermon was preached by an

old friend of the family, who told us this morning

he had visited the house in the grouse season for

five and thirty years. The Rev. Mr. French,

hale and hearty old man, and a great favourite,

rector of neighbouring parish in Carlow.

He rides up the mountain on a mule, and his cos

tume far from being unpicturesque a Captain
                                                                     ;

                                                                        H

164                      PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. V.

O' Kerry and a Mr. Trench are the other guests.

I must not forget, in describing the house, to men

tion the peacocks which for many generations --
of peacocks -- have adorned
                             it,
                                                          is
                                                  perched on the

window-sills or under the arches of the cloisters ·

to my ear their wild scream early of a morning

not unmusical. Peat, turf, and wood are the kinds

of fuel consumed here, and a huge wicker-basket

...of turf placed by the side of each fireplace.I
           read the last number of " Nicholas Nickle-
by " in bed the other night.'is

     On September 13, 1839, he writes to Clift,

still from Florence Court  ;:                     have angled in

                              I'

                                                 ;
the river and caught trout trolled in the lough

end taken huge predatory pike traversed the

heath-clad moors and shot grouse. An appetite

sharpened by previous fasting, exercise, and
mountain air, has enabled me to do ample justice

to Irish good cheer, and to carry to bed with the

decorum suitable to a Professor the quantum of

claret which my lord's guests are under the
obligation of swallowing when made free of the

house out of King William's Mustard-pot. . .
                                                    .

may spend a day with Mr. Hawkins at Street,
I

                      a
and take run down to make love to Mary

Anning at Lyme, and then post home as fast as

stage-coach can carry me.'

     In a letter sent by Owen to his sister Eliza on

October 18, 1839, after his return to London,

he writes      :         accompanied Lord Cole to his
                     '

                    I

1839-40  VISITS TO SOMERSETSHIRE  165

uncle's, Mr. Owen Wynne, of Hazlewood [Sligo].
This gentleman is eighty-five, was in Parliament

with Burke, Fox, Sheridan, &c ; has all his

faculties of mind and body unimpaired ; drove
me, for example, in a curricle and pair over
eighteen miles of the picturesque country around
his seat. . . .

      'Sailed for Bristol [from Dublin]. Studied
the Saurian remains in that town, and went on
to Mr. Hawkins's, Sharpham Park, near Glaston
bury. That worthy and eccentric man of genius
had procured me peacocks' eggs for breakfast

--no bad things, by the way --and other rarities

conformable. I had purposely given him short
notice ; but I found all his neighbours within
twelve miles -- one gentleman came from Wells --
invited that day to have, according to the card,

the honour to meet Prof. Robt. Owen.7 A

clergyman in the neighbourhood returned a brief
and indignant refusal to the invitation ; and when
I arrived I found Mr. Hawkins in the anxiety of
rectifying the impression. About fifteen mus
tered, more than half expecting to see the
Socialist. I tarried in my dressing-room to the
last minute to shorten the exhibition ; but was

unearthed at last, and contrived to find one or

two conversible beings, and established at length
my claims to be regarded as one of the same
species. . . . Sharpham Park is the oldest house

                                 7 The social reformer.

166  PROFESSOR OWEN               CH. v.

I was ever in. It was the residence of some

officer of the Abbey [Glastonbury], and is nearly
as old. It has a ghost, and Fielding wrote one
of his novels there. Hereafter it will have

geologists as pilgrims, for Hawkins has done
some wonderful work in the way of disencum
bering the old Saurians of their stony shrouds.
. . . From Sharpham I went to Lyme Regis, and
there I met Buckland and Conybeare. They made
me prisoner, and drove me off to Axminster, of
which Conybeare is rector. Next day we had a

geological excursion with Mary Anning, and had
like to have been swamped with the tide. We
were cut off from rounding a point, and had to
scramble over the cliffs. I spent the next day in
Miss Philpott's museum ; then went to Char-
mouth, and so returned to London. . . . You

may perhaps have heard something of my late
discovery of a fossil monkey 8 in Norfolk.'

      On November 28 Owen was back again in
 London. ' Willy is delighted to get his father
 back,' the diary relates ; ' especially when he got

 his accustomed ride round the room.'

     'December 1. --After breakfast R. and Mr. B.9

 sat in the back room with locked doors to keep

   R ' Description of the Jaw of  to belong to a primitive ungu-
the Fossil Macacus (Monkey)       late, now claimed as one of the
from Woodbridge,' Mag. Nat.       ancestors of the horse.
Hist. This was afterwards
                                     9 J. S. Bowerbank.
shown by Mr. Ed. Charlesworth

1839-40  ' ODONTOGRAPHY '                             167

out Willy, who would not have aided any steady
experiments with the microscope. Blood discs.

Fresh blood from alligator and ostrich.'

    ' ijth. -- R. read his paper, " Sheppey Fossils,"

at the Geological Society to-night.'

     On January 4, 1840, Owen sent Part I. of his

last volume of the Museum Catalogue1 to the press.
The following extracts from the journal may

serve as an example of Owen's every-day life at

this period :--
     'January 23. -- R. before dinner showed us

some of the engravings of teeth figured for his

work,2 showing the beautiful architectural structure

which gives immense power to the tooth, at the

same time preventing pressure on the pulp. Lord
Northampton, Whewell, Buckland, &c, who had

never seen anything like them, were much de

lighted.'

    ' --2<&th. R. at H.A.C. on guard. He had only
about half an hour's watch. They had supper at

1 1 and coffee at 5 A.M., and spent the night chat
ting and playing whist. R., though a private,

was in the officers' room. The order to keep

guard originated with the Home Office. No

alarm of Chartists, however, disturbed the tran

quillity of Bunhill Fields during the night.'

    ' 30th. -- First meeting of the Microscopical

Society since being fully established. R. had to

   1 Descriptive and Illustrated  5 vols, 4to.
Catalogue of the Physiological       2 Odontography.
Series of Comparative Anatomy,

168  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. V.

speak a good deal, and came back tired and
hungry. After supper he sat up and finished the
Plesiosaurus papers.'

     'February 10. -- Her Majesty married to
Prince Albert. We all drank their healths, and

went to the illuminations in the evening.'

     ' igth. --To the Hunterian Society oration and

dinner. Mr. Bell gave an interesting lecture.
R.'s health drunk.'

     ' 26th. -- Formal announcement of R.'s election

into the Athenaeum Club.'

     'March 13. -- Professor Sedgwick to tea and
microscope. At 9 to Mr. Lyell's, and met there

Mr. Babbage, Professor Wheatstone, Bishop of

Lichfield, &c'
     ' igth. --Whewell sent R. proofs of his " Philo

sophy of the Inductive Sciences" to look over.
Drew fossil ichthyosaurus jaw, uncoloured. R.
to the Society of British Artists. Came back
very tired, having been tried beyond endurance
by some recitations and a pair of very tight

shoes.'

     The April of this year seems to have been an

unfortunate month for the animals at the Zoolo

gical Gardens.

    ' April 6. -- Poor George, the lion, dead. M.

Zeitter made a fine sketch of him.'

     ' 16th. -- The sloth bear found dead in his cage,

with his two companions doing their best to eat
him.'

1839-40  BRITISH ASSOCIATION, 1841                                                          169

    ' 17th. -- One of the dingos escaped.'
     With these subjects ready for dissection, and

his Hunterian Lectures, which began on April 21,
Owen had his time fully occupied. The subject
of the lectures this year was, ' The Comparative

Anatomy of the Generative Organs and the
Development of the Ovum and Fcetus in the dif

ferent Classes of Animals.'

With regard to the dissection of animals dying

at the Gardens, there was some discussion at this

time.

' On June  the diary records, affairs were
         is
settled satisfactorily at the Zoological Council on3,'

the question of the dissection of animals. R. hadis
                                                                                         '
asked Sir P. Egerton, Lord Braybrooke, and

others to attend that meeting. He himself could

only look in at the fag end, as he had been at a

committee meeting at the College. By the time

he arrived he found that an order had been

entered to the effect that the Hunterian Professor

should be allowed to dissect whenever and what

ever he liked when death occurred at the Gardens,

and that he to have precedence over any other

person.'

    As soon as the Hunterian Lectures were oft

his hafids for the season, we find Owen collecting

materials for the second part of his report on
British Fossil Reptiles, which was read before
the British Association in 1841. That he spared

no trouble over this shown from the following

170          PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. V.

letter written to his wife from York, dated Tues
day, August 4, 1 840 :--

     ' Since I left you I have gone over more

ground than I ever did in my life before in the

same time. Thanks to my experienced fellow-

traveller [Lord Enniskillen], no time has been
lost. From Derby, yesterday morning, we visited
Loughboro', Barrow-on-Soar, Leicester, Notting
ham, and returned to Derby to dinner. You may

imagine that such a day, after a preceding night's
steaming from London, disposed us both for bed

soon after dinner was over. This morning we rose
at five, and journeyed by railway to York, where
we arrived to breakfast at eleven, after a ride of

ninety odd miles. Since then we have been spend

ing some hours in the museum, and have visited

the Minster  Hitherto, I have been dis

appointed of Saurians ; the museums at Leicester
and Nottingham were crowded with visitors --

working classes. Never saw a better experiment

of the amount of danger to be apprehended from

indiscriminate admission of English canaille, and,

so far as we saw and heard, quite successful. All

very orderly and all paws off; but I found myself

the centre of a group wherever I had to take

notes of a fossil specimen. To-morrow we start
for Scarboro'. We have had lovely weather, and
gone most of our journeys by railways. Along that

from Derby to York there are divers tunnels--
" antres vastes." A party of men at work in one

1839-40  SCARBOROUGH AND WHITBY  171

looked, as they cowered together with their lamps
close up by the side of the tunnel, like so many
gnomes ; the combination of sounds, rattling along
at full speed, the rushing of the rapidly displaced
air, and the incessant yell-shriek of the steam-
screamer, kept up to warn the tunnellers, defies
all description. Pitch-darkness, the sparks from

the engine darting through the palpable obscure,
and the cowering figures, like shadows as we
swept past them, left all that imagination could
picture of a hurrying off of spirits to Pluto's dread
abode far behind.

    ' All this while Lord Enniskillen would ride

outside, and my apprehensions were lest the engi
neer of the tunnel might not have calculated for
outside passengers of his altitude.3 I could not
help stretching out at the window to catch a

glimpse of his head, if still in its right place, as
soon as we emerged into daylight. There it was,

however, and so far both the travellers are all

right.'
     On August 6 he writes again to his wife,

announcing his visits to Scarborough and Whitby.
While at Scarborough he met for the first time
Barbara, Marchioness of Hastings, an enthusiastic
collector, who in later years sent many fossil
remains to Owen for description. His reference
to her is characteristic ' We dined with an old

     3 Owen was six feet in his socks ; but Lord Enniskillen was
considerably taller.

172 PROFESSOR OWEN ch. v.

college acquaintance of Lord E.'s, the Marquis

of Hastings, who is at Scarboro' with his wife.

... A very agreeable evening. The Marchioness
...is a great fossilist.
                          I have been at work in

the museum (Whitby) ever since breakfast, lifting

heavy fossils, measuring, sketching, and scribbling

till my hand aches, or Hhs, as John Kemble

would say.'

Soon after, in the same year, the first part of

' Odontography ; or, a Treatise on the Comparative

Anatomy of the Teeth,' appeared. This great

work, begun in 1840 and finished in 1845, con

sisted of two quarto volumes of 650 pages. It

was the result of a series of microscopical inves

tigations, suggested by some fragments of the

teeth of the extinct Megatherium and other

animals from South America, which were sub

mitted to him by Charles Darwin. These frag

ments were in a state of incipient decomposition,

and in examining them Owen was led to investi

gate and compare the differences existing in the

external character of the microscopical structure

of the teeth of every class of animal. This

remarkable work, the ' Odontography,' was illus

trated by 168 'carefully-drawn plates ; but the

constant microscopical study, combined with the

preparation of the drawings for this work, which

he was anxious to do himself, threatened him with

an attack of retinitis, and this compelled him to

put the illustrations in the careful and painstaking

1839-40  GUIZOT  173

hands of Erxleben and Lens Aldous. ' The

wonder is,' as he himself would frequently remark,
' that he had any eyesight left at all.' But even
to extreme old age it was exceedingly good,
except that he could never endure a bright light
of any sort.

     After finishing Part I. of the ' Odontography,'
he was so much interested in the subject that he

immediately started on Part II. in spite of his

other work. Writing a short note to his wife
(September 23, 1840), he says,: ' My hands will

be pretty full, with Catalogue, geological papers,

and Part II. of my " Odontography." ' The end

of September and beginning of October Owen

was at home, and his wife mentions how he

met Guizot at the Zoological Gardens, thus
describing the French Ambassador : ' He looks
a plain, business-like old man, but very keen-
looking, his thumbs stuck in his waistcoat sleeve-
holes (a PAnglaise, as they call it). Richard after
wards dined at the Athenaeum, and he told me

that he had mentioned the little waterworms that

 I first noticed whilst looking attentively into our
glass globe. He said that nobody seemed to
know them. In examining them under the

microscope we saw three blood canals and an

alimentary canal. They are in incessant motion,
and work in an oblong hole, from which about
half their body emerges, throwing up a rampart
of earth round them of a regular form.'

174  PROFESSOR OWEN                            ch. v.

    ' October 8. --At R.'s desire, in the Gardens

to-day, the monkeys and the elephants were

let out to enjoy the sunshine long before the
general time, two o'clock. I have long tried to
get some one to see to this, as many of the
animals would be the better for it.'

     On October 14, 1840, Owen wrote to his

wife from Hythe : ' I arrived safely at Hythe,
and have been most kindly received and hos
pitably treated by Mr. Makeson [Mackeson] and
his four accomplished daughters and one son ;

they sent for a violoncello last night, and we had

a Beethoven and a Hummel. This morning I
was at work two or three hours at the great
Reptile. It is not Iguanodon, but a kind of huge
crocodile.4 . . . To-morrow I ride over to Folke

stone, and Friday I proceed to Hastings, and
thence to Mr. Dixon's 5 at Worthing.'

     On October 18, 1840, after describing to his
wife the journey by mail-cart from Hythe
through Romney, Rye, Winchelsea, and over
Fairlight Down, he writes from the Royal Oak
Hotel, Hastings : ' I shall thus have but one day
for fossilising with Mr. Dixon, my geological
invitor to Worthing, for I must be in London to

preside at the Microscopical on Wednesday
evening, having the prefatory history of the

Society --part of which I have written --and all

     * Dinodocus mackesoni.

     6 Author of The Geology of Sussex, 1850.

1839-40 EPITAPH TO HARVEY'S MOTHER                                                                                        175

its laws, bye-laws, regulations, and ordinances

to submit to my Council of State prefatory to

printing. So that this little duty, together with

the wish to put on record while fresh in my mind

the peculiarities of the gigantic Saurian at Hythe,

has made me less regret having had a quiet day

and a half at mine inn at this place, so pleasant

in itself and its recollections. There has been a

fine little fellow, rising four, with just little Willie's

straw hat and holland over-all, who has made my

heart jump higher than usual more than once, as

he ran about or dug up the shingle in front of my

window. I have had some struggle, too, to keep
to my work, and if I had not had the sea in at

both senses -- eye and ear -- I should hardly have

had patience to finish the twentieth page of my

Saurian memoranda ; but this huge fragment of a
...beast deserved
not an Iguanodon.
a
              is

                       it.

                      It

                                 is
                                                                     a

                                                                  I
had day at Folkestone, and found out little

brass tablet to Harvey's mother in the church

aisle. She described as a

" Godly, harmless Woman,

  A chaste loving Wife,
 A charitable quiet Neighbour,
  A comfortable friendly Matron,
  A provident diligent Huswyfe,
  A careful teder harted Mother."

         know one to whom such an epitaph would
be as true as doubtless was to the mother of
the great discoverer of the circulation and that
I'
                   it

                                                                                                                       ;

176  PROFESSOR OWEN                                       ch. v.

she too may prove the mother of as good, if not
as great a man, is the fervent prayer of her

affectionate husband,

                                         ' Richard Owen.'

     In a postscript to this letter he writes : ' On a

wooden tablet which records Harvey's bene

factions to his native place --the Church Ward

ens have had the grace to say, in a parenthesis

"(he found out the circulation of blood.)" . . .
I proceed now to discuss a goblet of brandy and
water for the good of the house, and a pipe of
tobacco for my own benefit'

     In this month Part I. of the ' Report of British
Fossil Reptiles' was finished. Sir P. de Grey
Egerton writes from Oulton Park on the sub
ject :--

     Sir Philip Egerton to R. Ouen

                          October 26, 1840.

     ' My dear Owen, --. . . I have just completed

the perusal of your first report [" British Fossil
     "],
                    is
                      I
                            I
                                   it
                                    I
                                                      is
Reptiles which glorious.  feel perfectly sure

that the terms in which that report spoken of

by those with whom have conversed, and who

are more competent than am to value its merits,

and the public mention of at Glasgow, in the

secretaries' report and elsewhere, must be most

1839-40  RELAXATION     177

gratifying to yourself as they are to me. I can

only say that I feel no further regrets at having
been the cause of imposing this burden upon you,

and shall always consider that, of my humble

efforts in furtherance of scientific knowledge, the
most important has been that, if not of causing,

at all events of accelerating the production of so

valuable a report. I am so much delighted with

it that I freely forgive you for christening my
Plesiosaur " Old Spooney." '

     In November Owen was back again in
London. His wife's diary for November 21

mentions that her husband ' brought back with

him to dinner Dr. Buckland, Professor Agassiz,

and Dr. Mantell, and afterwards entertained them

to their heart's content with the microscope.

They made some experiments in blood globules.

Dr. Buckland's blood irregular, that of Agassiz
regular. Dr. Mantell, who stated that he had

a very slow circulation, on examination proved to

have blood globules of a decidedly larger size

than the others. Dr. Buckland was just saying

with that droll look of his, "Why, Mantell, you see

you have a good deal of the reptile about you,"

when the news was brought in that the Queen
was safely delivered of a little, princess, so the

discussion was stopped by all the gentlemen

drinking health to Her Majesty.'

Nothing afforded Owen more relaxation

during his hard work than a visit to the theatre,

vol. 1.              N

178                 PROFESSOR OWEN                Ch. v.

as occasional extracts taken from the diaries will

have shown. Even during his busiest moments
he would go with his wife to see any piece of

importance that was being played, and they both

numbered many friends amongst the profession.
One of his favourite operatic pieces was Weber's

' Oberon,' which, as he has often said, he went

to see thirty nights in succession, when it was
first produced in London, and further, that he

paid for his seat each night. There are full

accounts in the diaries of the plays they both

went   to    see.   On    November 27      is an  entry
which                     further example
       will  serve  as a                   :--

     ' R. and I to the Haymarket Theatre to see
                    " Money   "
Bulwer's  new play               but the bills stated
                             ;

that in consequence of a severe domestic cala

mity Mr. Macready could not appear, so they put
on " Town and County," Mrs. Stirling playing

Rosalie Somers delightfully. " Family Jars" was

the last piece. Altogether a capital entertain

ment in spite of our disappointment.'

1841-42          M. DE BLAINVILLE                                                                                                                  179

                 CHAPTER VI

                         1841-42

Hunterian Lectures -- Progress with ' Odontography ' -- British
Association at Plymouth, 1841 -- Report on ' British Fossil
                 1842-43 -- Public Dinnerinhis   Honour at
Mammalia,'       of a Civil-List Pension, 1842.             Lancaster,
1842 -- Offer

Amongst the papers which Owen contributed to

various societies in 1841 may be mentioned

(i.) ' Description of the Remains of Six Species
of Marine Turtles from the London Clay' (' Pro
ceedings Geological Society') : containing in germ

his  '  British  Fossil  Reptiles     '  (ii.)   ' On the Teeth
                                   ;

of the Genus Labyrinthodon ' ('Transactions
Geological Society ') ; and (iii.) ' On the Genus

Euplectella aspergillum' (Venus' Flower-basket)

(' Zoological Transactions

    At the end of January 1841 Owen received

from De Blainville a confirmation of the descrip
     '
                 :

                               It

                                             is ').

                                                                                                                                                2
tion which he had given nine years before of

the pearly nautilus.               thus recorded in the

journal --

        M. de Blainville writes giving some slight

but satisfactory outlines of the anatomy of the

                                                            N

180            PROFESSOR OWEN                           CH. VI.

recently acquired French " Nautilus pompilius."

R. is very glad that this specimen should have
been examined in Paris, rather than by him again,

for it has fully proved the accuracy and value
of his description of the first specimen. The

position of the nautilus with regard to the shell is
now proved to be correct in R.'s plate, and De
Blainville, who, with one or two others, insisted

upon its being wrong, now says : " Je n'ai pas

hesite a reconnaltre, quoi qu'on en ait dit, que vous

avez parfaitement saisi les rapports de l'animal

avec la coquille." '

     The following incident is  recorded in the
diary :--                       R. to see Joanna

     'February 26. --Went with

Baillie.1 Miss Maria Edgeworth was there.

We took Willie with us, who began to fidget after

he had finished his tea. Joanna Baillie said to

him, "Are you very tired of us?" and was

delighted to hear him answer honestly, " Yes." '
     Of Owen's great affection for his son we have

constant evidence in his letters. Indeed, in

scarcely any letter written at this period to his

wife or sisters does he omit to speak of him.

    ' March 27. -- Lord Northampton's evening

party. Richard very tired, and thought he would

not  go, but   about eight    Dr. Buckland looked in,
bag  and all,  and said, "  Oh, you had better come."

So after some dinner R. felt better, and they

     1 Poetess, and surviving relative of John Hunter.

1841-42  HUNTERIAN LECTURES, 1841            181

started off. He was glad afterwards he went, for

Prince Albert was there, and Mr. Gould brought

his pretty singing New South Wales parrots.'
     Early in April Owen began his course of

Hunterian Lectures for the season. 'In 1841,'

he writes, ' my Hunterian Lectures were on the

functions of the animal organs, and I combined a
review of the fossil remains of extinct animals

with the osteology of existing species.'     still
     While he was lecturing we find him      On

working at Part II. of his ' Odontography.'

April 27, as the diary shows, the Introduction was

printed.

    ' May 4. -- Home from lecture (Glossothe-
rium, &c) about six. R. sat down at once to

make some gambits at chess, as after dinner he

had to play the President of the Chess Club, Mr.

Lonsdale. R. got one game, which was pretty

good considering.'

    ' ^th. -- R. detained by a Museum committee.
The candidates for the studentship were to have

pigs this time to work upon for competition. Mr.

"IStanley thought that half a pig would suffice for
each candidate. R. remarked :  think in the

present case, Mr. Stanley, we ought to go the
whole hog." '

    ' 12th. -- To my surprise, R. came home at the
unusually early hour of three. It seems he had

been dissecting an opossum in spirit, and he felt

tired and sick. It was too far gone even for him !

182         PROFESSOR OWEN      ch. VI.

Better after dinner, and went to work on a proof
-- Marsupials.'
    ' 1 ^th. -- Prince Charles  Lucien Bonaparte

here with one of his boys. I never saw a better

expression on anyone's face than on that lad's.

He listened most attentively to his father's con

versation with R. The Prince is now very stout,

but has very good features and eyes, and when

the pleasant smile and eagerness fades from his

face he looks very Bonapartish. He told me

that this was his birthday, and that he was now

thirty-eight.'

    ' \jth. -- Lieut. - Colonel Charles Hamilton

Smith invited R. to stay with him at Plymouth.
It so happens that I know him, for he used to be

much at the Cuviers when my father and I were

in Paris.'

     Owen also refers to this invitation in writing
at this time to one of his sisters : ' Cary and I,

who have not journeyed together for a long time,

have accepted a kind invitation from Colonel
                                the " Association
Hamilton    Smith to spend        He is a widower
Week " at   Plymouth with him.

with daughters. We then think of visiting Mr.

Clift's county, Cornwall. We may perhaps spend

a few days with Sir Thomas Acland, whom I met

at breakfast at Sir Robert Inglis's the other

morning, and who kindly proposed it.' Owen

then, in answer to a question of his sister's, ' Why

the sea is salt,' says he will ask Whewell when he

1841-42    'WHY THE SEA IS SALT'                    183

meets him in ' Association Week ' for an expla

nation, and continues : ' There was, I believe, a

heathen speculation in regard to the problem you

have asked me to solve ; it was held that all water

was originally fresh, but on that day, when

Phaeton drove his father's chariot, poor earth

became so hot and terrified at his near approach

and irregular course, that she broke out into
profuse perspiration, the consequences of which

are still manifested in the saltness of the ocean.'

The following entries occur in the journal for
           July :--
June and    2. -- To  the  Botanical  Gardens,      Re

    'June
gent's Park. As yet they are only laid out. A

perfect desert, no signs of greenhouses or hot

houses ; one seedy- looking palm under a cover.

But     there was a good  "bEanudrya(2nntdheL."ife  Guards).'
                                                    Liston, the
     '  jth. -- Weber's

surgeon, just in front of us. The music beautiful,

of course, but a ridiculous want of sense or interest

in the plot.'

     ' 2>th. -- Dr. Martin Barry came in from Jersey.
He brought two green lizards for me, and some

tadpoles (all dead but two).'

     ' 30th. -- To the Gardens, as R. wanted to see

the Cereopsis goose, who has a brood of Chinese

ducklings under her charge. We found her by
no means a fond or careful foster-mother. The

old goose is positively hostile, and bites and snaps

violently at the crown of their poor little heads.'

     1 84              PROFESSOR OWEN       CH. VI.

         July 7. --A sister-in-law of Sir John Franklin

     came to see me, bringing with her a thing which

     she   had been    told was an unborn   kaanng"airnodoe.licatSehe"
     was   hesitating  about bringing such

     subject to a gentleman, &c, &c, when I set her

     mind at rest by assuring her that the kangaroo

     had not only been born, but had certainly lived

     for some time, as I soon saw. She told me her

     sister, Lady Franklin, had given it to her. As it

     was a Microscopical night, R. was dining at the

     Athenceum.'

         ' 20th. -- R. spent his birthday in going over

     with my father to Kew, in order to examine the

     collection of Hunterian preparations there, with

X'-  regard to their coming to the College. R. is
     very busy now, preparing his " Report on British

     Fossil Reptiles," Part II., which is to be read

     in about a week's time at the meeting of the

     British Association at Plymouth.'

           On the 27th of this month Owen and his wife

     started from London and arrived at Southampton

     in the evening, where they took the boat to

     Plymouth. The next day they both visited the

     ' Geological Section ' of the British Association,

     where they heard speeches from Sedgwick and

     Dr. Buckland. On August 2, with De la Beche

     in the chair, Owen read his ' Report on British

     Fossil Reptiles,' speaking for two hours and a half.

     Amongst his audience were Lord Northampton,
     Sedgwick, Conybeare, Sir T. Acland, &c After

1841-42  TOUR IN CORNWALL                   185

the reading of the report, Dr. Buckland acknow

ledged Owen's labours, and the interest with

which his report had been heard by the audience,

in very complimentary terms.

    Writing to his sister from Plymouth (40 Park
Street), Owen says : ' My report gave such satis

faction that the Association has voted me 250/.
for the expense of engraving the drawings, and

206/. more for another report.'

On the 10th Owen lectured on Fossil Reptilia

at Falmouth, and on the 12 th he accompanied

Mr. Conybeare to the Lizard Point, afterwards

visiting St. Michael's Mount and Penzance.

But even in the midst of the keen delight he

always felt in new scenery and the beauties of

Nature, he still found time to devote to the living

'Icreatures around him. He writes to Clift from the
Bath, Penzance, August 18, 1841 :      setoff after

breakfast, with a teacup in my hand, to hunt for

objects for the microscope. Of course a bit of

seaweed gave me a world of objects, and among

them a minute transparent species of limpet,

studded with rows of iridescent azure-green spots,

apparently full-sized, but no bigger than ^ inch,
in which I have been counting the pulsations of

the heart (180 per minute), and watching the
currents in the veins, and seeing more of the

living machinery of the mollusc than I ever

expected to see in that class. . . .'

After leaving Penzance, Owen and his wife

1 86  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VI.

visited Bodmin, a place of special interest to both

of them, as being the birthplace and early home
of Mr. Clift. In a letter to Clift, dated Bos-

venna (Bodmin), September 8, 1841, Owen says :
' We arrived at this place, of equal interest to

us both, this morning. About two miles from

Bodmin we got out and walked up a long ascent

in the road, gathering blackberries off, probably,
the same bushes, or their " posteriors," as Mrs.

Davenport used to say, that you may have

climbed to reach    in younger days. Arrived at
                    a new construction, six years'
" Oliver's Hotel,"

standing, and therefore since your time. After

dinner our first visit to Post Office, Town Hall,

and then to the church --a very handsome struc

ture. First we visited the spot, ten yards to the

north-east of the tower, where a slight eminence

we fancied, close to the still open oblique path,

might indicate the tranquil resting-place of our
grandfather and grandmother. My next search
was for Betty Oliver, the sextoness, who keeps

the key of the church. Betty dwells in Cas

Street, and well she remembers when you helped

your brothers, that hard winter, to dig away the

snow from her mother's doorway and windows :

they were blockaded on their side of the way,
while yours was comparatively free. The Phari

saical rogues have whitewashed the interior of the
church. . . . Mrs. Gilbert's and the poor little

infant's monuments we saw with interest ; also

1841-42  AT BODMIN  187

that of your old rector, John Pomeroy, M.A., &c,
"who died in the desk of the church, while

preparing to celebrate divine service before the

Judge of Assize, August 17, 1813, aet. 61." In
the pews north of the pulpit we detected your

initials. Some lazy rogue, whose name they
suited, has added his surreptitious surname ; but

the forgery is obvious -- the William Clift who beat

all his contemporaries at print-hand has never been
surpassed. . . . We visited the site of your old

house, where the orchard once stood ; now a row

of prim cottages covers the ground at right
angles to the street. . . . We purpose to return
home on Saturday, nth, when the sun rises at
half-past five. On Sunday, September 12, Mr.
and Mrs. Owen hope to have the pleasure of
Mr. and Mrs. Clift and Master Willie Owen's

company to dinner at No. 6 Park Cottages, when
a long and most delightful tour through Cornwall
will be re-performed, with innumerable and most

rare adventures by land, rock, mine, and sea ; and
the character of divers amiable and hospitable
friends will be portrayed.'

     On September 1 1 they returned to the Col
lege of Surgeons. Owen was anxious to get the
remaining part of his ' Odontography ' off his

hands to some extent, although Part III. did not

appear till 1845. He writes thus to his sister:
' Yesterday, after Trustee meeting was over,
I had a chop and cup of tea, and then made

188                   PROFESSOR OWEN                       ch. vI.

a fair start at the concluding part of my " Odonto

graphy." . . .'

     The following entries occur in the diary for
the October of this year :--

     ' October 22. -- R. with Mrs. Yarrell to see a

lion at the Surrey Gardens. It used to belong
to Lord Waterford, and ran loose in his grounds-
in Ireland. As it not unnaturally became a

nuisance, he sold     Cross has also a black
                      it.
leopard.''
                                        :
      26th. -- R. wrote to-night in answer to a letter
                               I
from Dr. Buckland, who sent him a pholas in its         2
                                        I
hole, with the marks of the boring. Dr. B.'s

triumph will be short-lived.                               can fancy him

rubbing his white nose as have often seen him

do, half in vexation and half in merriment, when

he reads the reply.'

     About this time Owen and his wife saw a good

deal of Mr. and Mrs. Darwin, as the following
entries in the diary show --
                      -- Mr. Darwin
     ''  October 31.  10. --With R.  here to breakfast.'
         November                     to Gower Street,

to see Mr. and Mrs. Darwin. Mr. D. had his

arm in a sling.''

      i^th. --Went to see Gould's birds -- not to be
imagined till seen. The great dragon lizard now

set up excellently. Strange that the Chinese
should have the idea of a creature so much like

it. After dinner this evening Mrs. Darwin, Mr.

         - Of the Surrey Gardens.

1841-42  A GIGANTIC SLOTH  189

Gould, and his brother came here for some

music'
     The remainder of the year 1841 was spent by

Owen in collecting materials for his ' Report on the
British Fossil Mammalia' (British Association),
t 842 and 1 843. These reports were the basis of
his work, ' British Fossil Mammals and Birds '

1844-1846, which formed one of the beautifully
illustrated series on British animals brought out
by his friend Van Voorst.

    At the beginning of 1842 Owen was working

upon his ' Description of the Skeleton of an Extinct
Gigantic Sloth {Mylodon robustus),' discovered
near the city of Buenos Ayres. The habits of

life of these extinct creatures were a complete
puzzle. Their teeth showed, by their simple
structure, that they lived on vegetable food, and

probably on the leaves or tender twigs of trees ;
their huge bodies and great strong curved claws,
Darwin remarks, ' seemed so little adapted for

locomotion that some eminent naturalists actually
believed that, like the sloths (to which they are
intimately related), they subsisted by climbing

back downwards on trees and feeding on the

leaves.' It was certainly a bold idea to conceive

even antediluvian trees with branches strong
enough to bear animals as big as elephants !
Owen conjectured that, instead of climbing on the

trees, they pulled the branches down to them,

and tore up the smaller trees by the roots, and so

igo  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vI.

      fed on the leaves. With their great tails and
      huge heels firmly planted on the ground like a
      tripod, they could exert the full force of their
     most powerful arms and great claws. The

      mylodon was also furnished with a long tongue
      like a giraffe's, which would help it to reach its
      leafy food with the aid of its long neck. Owen
      supported this conjecture of his by the following
      argument.

          He remarked that the particular skull he was
     describing had two severe fractures, both of which
     were longitudinal, not radiating like a smash in
     an egg-shell. One had partially and the other
     completely healed during the lifetime of the
     creature. These fractures, he stated, could not

      have been caused by blows from another animal,
     for they were severe enough to have nearly killed
      the mylodon, and would have, in that case, inevi
     tably left him an easy and unresisting prey to his
     foe. But the mylodon had evidently got over
     the first blow he had received, as the fracture had

    healed. The probability was, then, that his habit
     was to uproot trees for the purpose of feeding

     upon their leaves, and once, when so doing, the
     tree must have fallen with a crash upon his skull,
     before he had time to move his huge carcass out
     of the way, and that this fracture had apparently no
     sooner healed than the same thing had happened

ragain. Now, the ' cranial organisation ' of the
     mylodon was designedly modified in relation to

   ^

yafofr

                   MEGATHERIUM AMERICANUM, Cuvier.
           A great extinct ground-sloth from the Pampas of South America.

 The subject of considerable controversy until the appearance of Owen's memoir.

                                    About A natural size.


1841-42  MEGATHERIUM AMERICANUM                191

its habits, having ' extensive air-cells introduced

between the external and vitreous tables of the
skull '-- it had, in fact, a double brain-case, and

 must have often found the advantage of such a
' possession.

    ' Certain it is that the habits of life, and the

conditions under which the mylodon existed,' did

render it liable to violent blows on the head, and

it was owing to its well-protected brain-case that

they were not, in this instance, death blows.

    In the same memoir Owen included a paper

on the osteology, natural affinities, and probable

habits of the Megatheroid quadrupeds in general,

and by the kindness of Dr. Henry Woodward I

am able to give a figure of the Megatherium

americanum in illustration of the group.
                          --A
--   'January 10, 1842.         visit from Mrs. Fry
    or Elizabeth Fry, as   the  Friends call her -- of

prison celebrity. She is sister to Samuel Gurney,
and is very like the portraits I have seen of her.

Not at all a difficult subject to paint --large, like

her brother, with small features and small eyes.

She left her carriage at the front gate, walking

up to the house without a bonnet, but with a silk

cap carried under her costume, which was of a
very transparent material. Her manners are

ladylike and kind, but, I thought, mildly tolerant

and patronising towards R. on the subject of his
scientific work. This is not surprising, consider

ing how she has- been feted abroad and literally

192  PROFESSOR OWEN              CH. VI.

worshipped at home amongst the Friends, for,
though she is Elizabeth Fry, she is still human.
She promised to give Willy a book of texts of,

her own compiling.'
     On January 31, Owen went with Conybeare'

to help to receive Prince Albert and the King of
Prussia at the Royal Society.

      Owen was at this time occupied in preparing his
course of Hunterian Lectures, which was to con

clude the series begun by him in 1837. Speaking
on the subject of this concluding course, he says :

' I intend this year to lecture on the Comparative
Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous System,
and this will terminate the series which I began

in 1837.'

     In giving a short review of his former lectures,

when the course for this year was concluded, he

adds :--

     ' I have the pleasure to see the friendly
countenances of some here present who have
patiently listened to the whole of this series of
lectures, and who may have discerned in not
withstanding the long and frequent intervals, the
characters of a single and connected scheme of

instruction in Comparative Anatomy and Physio
logy.' He then expressed his great regret that
the tenants of the gallery,' to whom he was
most anxious to impart instruction, were only able
3
       '

                                                            ;
                                                                                             3

                                                                           it,
     The gallery of the theatre  body of the theatre to the Coun-
was devoted to students the      cil and members of the College.

1841-42         . 'JENNY'     193

to attend ' portions of the extensive subject, which
the fulness of its treatment compelled him to

divide amongst different courses of lectures.
Medical students,' he continues, ' have rarely time

to attend more than one or two seasons ; and I
fear that none have been able to serve with us

throughout over six years' siege of the city of

physiological science founded by Hunter.'
     The Professor then remarks on the importance

of the study of comparative anatomy to medical

students, and says that he is glad that fact is now

universally recognised. He advises that the first

few years of medical practice, ' in which there is
generally a period of leisure,' be devoted to

scientific pursuits, quoting Gideon Mantell as an
example of what may be done, ' for he has shown

that the researches and discoveries in geology and

palaeontology which have added so many honour

able titles to his name are quite compatible with

the most extensive, active, and successful practice.'

     After his concluding lecture of the season, his
wife writes : ' Full attendance at R.'s twenty-
fourth and last lecture. He felt naturally much

moved at giving his last address after so success

ful a series.'

During the fine weather Owen and his wife

were both constant visitors at the Zoological
Gardens. Of their special favourite, Jenny the

ourang-outang, Mrs. Owen wrote : ' We saw

Jenny have her cup of tea again. It was spooned

vol. 1.                    o

194  PROFESSOR OWEN .  ch. VI.

and sipped in the most ladylike way, and Hunt,

the keeper, put a very smart cap on her head,

which made it all the more laughable. Hunt

told me that, a few days ago, the Queen and
Prince Albert were highly amused with Jenny's
tricks, but that he did not like to put the cap

on Jenny, as he was afraid it might be thought
vulgar ! '

     In June, Owen went with his wife and child to

spend a few weeks with his sisters at Lancaster.

After visiting his old haunts, he returned alone to

London for about a fortnight, going from thence
to visit his friend Sir P. Egerton at Oulton
Park, Tarporley. On July 17, Owen writes to
Mr. Clift, giving a description of his occupations

there :--
     ' On Wednesday last,' he says, ' Sir Philip had

a grand battue of carp and eels, and in simula

tion perhaps of the Emperor of the Russias --
Count Keyserling being his guest--tapped a
small lake. Lord Enniskillen and I amused
ourselves by wading up to our middles --he
having thereby an advantage --in the mud in
chase of great carp and pike and eels. The

carp shuffled across the mud like " dolphins
embowed," as the Heralds say ; the pike were

more easily caught, care being had of their teeth,
but the eels were slippery dogs. After landing
the best fish in tubs of water prepared for their

transport to stews and ponds, and stranding some

1841-42  BATTUE OF CARP AND EELS      195

hundreds of bream, roach, and inferior fry, we

adjourned to a neighbouring mill to distribute to

the assembled villagers the commoner part of the

sport. The old people were first served with the
largest dace, &c, then those that had helped to

excavate and let off the water, and finally the

younger folks, lads and lasses, scrambled for the

rest. You may imagine Lord E. without coat or
waistcoat --shirt-sleeves rolled up, mud to the hips,

pitching the fish into the thickest of the active smug

glers. I think everybody went off with pockets and

hats full. This ended, we proceeded to fish the

small river that had received the waters of the

pond or lake. Hundreds of eels had gone down

into it. It is overgrown with trees and brambles,

gurgling down a winding valley with corn and hay

fields rising on each side. Under the bosky arch

and into the stream waded my lord, with one or two

fisher boys with poles. They poked out the eels

from their hiding-places in the roots of the trees,
while Sir P. and I waded for them in the shallower

parts of the stream. Presently we saw the green

and yellow monsters coming, gliding stealthily down :

then our work was to entrap them in hand nets,

before they turned back again ; the attempt often

ended in a regular chase, the eel slipping through

our fingers half a dozen times. Then the roars of

laughter, with the Earl's hearty chuckle above all :
" Well done,        "  " There's one gone up ; " " Keep
              eel
                   !
the pole out of the way. There's another"--all

                                  o2

196  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VI.

this in bright sunshine from ten till five. We
caught upwards of 200 eels, which were conveyed
to the eel cage. All the small fish-- dace, roach,
perch, &c -- held a meeting the next day and sent
a vote of thanks for our timely interference and
deliverance of them from the crafty and preda-
ceous family which had so long tyrannized over

the stream.'

      On leaving Oulton Park Owen joined his wife
and child again at Lancaster. There he went
the rounds with his old preceptor, Dr. Harrison,

in order to see the patients at Lancaster Gaol,
and to revisit the scenes of his early adventures
there. Before returning home to London, Owen

went with his family to Heysham, and, writing

from that place to Mrs. Clift (July 21), he says :--
     ' Five young urchins have been bathing under

my special care and guidance, ranging from Willie
the youngest -- and who took his first dip under the
salt water most manfully --up through six years,
seven, nine and ten, the good-natured sons of our

host, all at home, holiday-time, and who volun
teered to go to the rocks as soon as they heard of

my intention to bathe. I carried little Willie in,

dipped him and rubbed him well over with the

salt water. You may imagine the scene at com
ing out. The habiliments of two or three of the
little folk tumbled confusedly together, and the
Professor head-nurse and sole nurse. I never

realized the complexity of a child's dress before :

1841-42    SEA-BATHING AT HEYSHAM               197

the stays went on under the shirt, and the drawers

were put over the arms -- as the Highlander served

his first pair of breeches. Then pins were missing

from collars and belts ; however, they all held

together till we got home again, and mamma has

....the amusing task of setting matters to rights in the
next room  and listening to the lively account

the young gentleman is giving of all that he has

so wonderfully and boldly undergone on this first

introduction to Neptune.'

Returning to the College of Surgeons on

August 2, Owen found a message from Thomas

Carlyle to say that he was anxious to make his

acquaintance. Accordingly, a week or two later,
Owen made his way to Cheyne Row, Chelsea.

After sending his name in by the servant, he was

shown into a room where Carlyle was having tea.
The ' tall man with great glittering eyes,' as Car

lyle afterwards described him, made some general

remarks, but as the servant had not given his

name very clearly, Carlyle abruptly asked Owen

who he was. When he had modestly revealed

himself and had talked for some time, Carlyle

exhibited a good deal of interest, and expressed a

desire to be shown over the museum of the College

of Surgeons at an early opportunity. Accordingly,

the next day he came early in the afternoon, bring

ing his brother with him, and they spent nearly

three hours in the museum looking at the speci

mens which Owen described to them.

198                 PROFESSOR OWEN          ch. VI.

     ' I have such a dread of the personality of an

author destroying in great measure his ideality,'
Owen said to his wife after Carlyle's visit, ' that I

am pleased to find in this case that it is not so

and that Carlyle proved to be, as far as I am con

cerned, much what one could wish.' Carlyle was

always good friends with Owen, and described

him as one of the few men ' who was neither a

fool nor a humbug.'

     It was in this month (August) that London

was disturbed by Chartist riots.

     ' On the 20th we were at a musical party at

Arthur Farre's, but had to come away early, as R.

was not at all sure that the Chartists might not

have taken it into their heads to attack the College,

it being a public and useful building ; but though

there was some cheering and much noise, there

was no rioting.'                            He was

    On August 3 1 the diary continues :--

     ' Mr. Lyell here ; back from America.

highly gratified there, and brought an enticing
invitation to R., telling him it would be well worth
his while from every point of view ! '

     In September 1842 we find Owen again at

Lancaster in order to attend a public dinner given
by the town in honour of Whewell and himself.
He did not go away without visiting his old

school and asking for a holiday. Writing to his
wife on the 15th, he says :--

     '     .  .  I  heard  that  old  Beetham had had the
        .

1841-42 PUBLIC DINNER AT LANCASTER           199

lads at the school just as usual and wouldn't give
them their holiday till I came to ask for it. So I

marched across the churchyard, opened the old

school-door, and was greeted by many eager young
eyes as I walked up to the old magisterial dais,

and there, after greeting my old master, said that,
as Whewell and I had been scholars in old times,

it was but fair that those present should participate

in our day of rejoicing. Upon which the sanction

was given in the old grave tone, and up rose the

shout that I have often joined in as the urchins

rushed into liberty and open air. Mr. Beetham

and I then walked down to the news-room,

where many other greetings followed from other

friends.'

     On September 17, 1842, he again writes to
his wife : ' I take up a happy pen this morning to

tell you that the dinner concluded to the highest
satisfaction of everyone who partook of it and all

who were concerned in     felt too happy for any
                       it.

                           I
                                     I
                                                               I
other feelings to interfere, in expressing and mak

ing clearly understood all that wished, and

believe ought to have said, in acknowledging this
spontaneous and general tribute of affection and

respect from all ranks and parties of my townsmen.

As we walked in procession to the Town Hall,

Mr. Whewell and the Mayor, then the M.P. for

the town and myself, and the rest two and two,

we were cheered by all the humbler folks, and

when we sat down to most princely banquet --
                       a

200  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. VI.

the chairman, Whewell, and I, on three raised

state-seats at the head --we were greeted and com

plimented in a truly English and manly manner
by the ablest men to whom the proposing of the
toasts had been assigned. My duties were, besides

acknowledging my own toast, the proposing the
Lancaster Philosophical Society and returning
thanks for your health, which was proposed with
Mrs. Whewell's in a very neat speech by Mr.

Hornby. Lord Derby sent a fine haunch of
venison and a very kind letter, which Mr. Hornby,
his nephew, read, in which Lord Derby regretted

that his malady prevented his taking the chair to
join in doing honour to Whewell, with whom he
was not personally acquainted, and to Owen, whom

he had had the pleasure to call his friend for some

years past.'
     On September 19 Owen was back again in

London, and soon after had a visit from H. Milne-
Edwards, whom he had already met when visiting
Paris in 1830. M. Milne-Edwards was accom
panied by his pupil, E. Blanchard. Dr. Martin
Barry was one of the party, and he brought Owen

some letters he had received from certain scientists

who had formerly opposed his (Barry's) views as
to the double spiral in muscles, and who were now

writing to him to acknowledge their acceptance.
As Owen had always upheld Barry's ideas on the

subject, the latter was anxious that he should see
the letters. About the middle of October, Owen

1841-42         MISS ANNA GURNEY                                201

paid two visits which he thus describes in a letter

to his sister Eliza written on his return :--

'        .  .  I spent one pleasant day at a farm-house
  .

at Stanway, a pretty Essex village, with John

Brown, a widower, retired on a decent compe
tency, known the country round by the name of
" Mr. Pickwick," and the closest approximation to

Boz's famed type that I have yet had the pleasure

of being acquainted with. Like the founder of

the Pickwick Club, he solaceth himself with vir-

tuosoizing in antiquities ; but, as the immortal
                " of a higher order " than those
Cuvier hath     it,

                         if

                                            a
                                                                             I
which amuse the F. A. S.'s. A good day's work

had amongst honest John Brown's fossils,4 whose

housekeeper at last grew little testy at the
reiterated inquiries " everything was proper and

comfortable for the Professor." My next centre-

point from which excursions radiated was the pre-

bendal dwelling of Professor Sedgwick, in Cathedral
Close, Norwich, where he now, with his niece,

in residence. Heard him preach last Sunday --
                                     it is

                                                           is,
the Cathedral crowded, as always                                when his

natural and impressive addresses are poured forth.

4               made a day's delightful excursion to

Cromer, to visit an old maiden lady [Anna Gurney],I
who has been deprived of the power of using her

legs from early life, and wheels herself about in               a

     His collections of pleistocene  History Museum, South Ken-
land and freshwater shells and       sington.

bones are now in the Natural

202  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. v1.

kind of velocipede chair. She is a most cheerful

person, as you may well imagine when I tell you
that she has saved some men's lives during wrecks
on the coast near her cottage. I was told that on
stormy nights, when vessels are in danger, she
has wheeled herself through the pelting rain or
snow to the seaside, and animated the fishermen

and others by her example and rewards to exer
tions, which otherwise they would have shrunk
from, but without which the wrecked seamen must

have perished. Her attractions to me were a fine
collection of the bones from the cliffs and shingle,

which she and a sister, now dead, occupied them

selves in collecting, and which is now the most
instructive one in Norfolk.'

     On October 24 Owen received a second speci
men of the pearly nautilus. It was sent by Cap
tain Belcher, and was in its original shell. This
enabled him to verify his former observations-
on the subject. The ' Nautilus pompilius ' was
taken on the following evening to the Zoological
Society. Captain Belcher also brought with him
a babyroussa (a large species of hog from the
Indian Archipelago). ' He says that on the
voyage it ate up quantities of the men's brass
buttons and chin straps and is none the worse

for it.'

     An entry on October 30 gives an idea of the

price of carriage at that time. A Lancaster friend

intended to do Mrs. Owen a kindness by sending

1841-42  CIVIL LIST PENSION  203

her six sacks of potatoes. She records sadly :
' We had to pay 2/. 3^. 6d. for carriage ! '

     On November 1 Owen took the nautilus

which he had received from Captain Belcher to

the Linnean Society, and read a paper there on

the subject.
     On his return to the College of Surgeons he

found, to his surprise, a letter awaiting him from

Sir Robert Peel, containing the intelligence that
he had advised the Queen to put Owen on the
Civil List for an annual pension of 200/.

                                                 Whitehall : November 1, 1842.

    ' Sir, -- It is my duty to offer advice to H.M.

in respect to the appropriation of a public fund

which is annually disposable and which may be

applied to the recognition and reward either of
distinguished public service or of eminence in
literature or science. The amount within my

control for the present year (so far as science is

concerned) is very limited. It does not exceed

300/. in the whole, but as I know no public claim
preferable to yours I shall have great satisfaction

in proposing to H.M., with your consent, that an
annual pension from H.M. Civil List of 200/.
shall be granted to you. Your acquiescence in

this proposal will not in the slightest degree fetter
your independence. I have not inquired what
are your political opinions, and am wholly unaware

of -them. My only object in making this com

204       PROFESSOR OWEN                        Ch. VI.

munication to you is that the favour of the Crown

may be the most worthily bestowed, and in the

manner best calculated to encourage that devotion

to science for which you are so eminently distin

guished.

          ' I have the honour to be, Sir,
                      ' Your obedient servant,

'Professor Owen, F.R.S., &c'  ' Robert Peel.

     ' As soon as R. had digested Sir Robert's
letter,' Mrs. Owen writes, ' he put on his boots

again, and sallied forth to our good friend Justice
Broderip, and found him just going to bed.

     ' Mr. B. soon hurried on a dressing-gown, and
they agreed as to the manner of an answer, and

R. wrote it out when he came back. Before he

left, some sherry was poured out on the ground by
Mr. Broderip as a libation.'

    'November 8. --A number of congratulatory

letters. One from Lord Enniskillen and Sir

Philip. Curious that they should even write in
couples ! '

     Amongst these letters of congratulation there

was one from Whewell, now Master of Trinity :--
    ' My dear Owen, -- I was most glad to receive

the intelligence which your letter of this morning
contains. I hope the substantial part of the Pre
mier's offer will do much, added to your other

resources, to place you in a condition to pursue
your researches at your ease ; and that the well-

1841-42  VISIT TO PEEL                     205

deserved honour will have its weight in protect
ing you from the molestation of those who might
otherwise not acknowledge your value. I am
afraid I cannot please myself with the thought of

having had much to do with this satisfactory event,

though I have mentioned your name in quarters
which may have considerable influence, but I am

quite content to rejoice in what is done, without

wishing to have any other concern in it than the
sympathy of a friend

                             ' Believe me always

     , ' Yours most truly,

                                         ' W. Whewell.'

    'December 1. -- Dr. Buckland proposed that
he and R. should call on Sir Robert Peel this

morning. The Premier was out, but they were

asked to come again in the afternoon. They were

shown into the dining-room looking over a ter

race on to the river. Over a quarter of an hour

was spent in conversation, which the Doctor

maintained chiefly, Sir Robert listening like a

clever man and occasionally making remarks.

He asked when he might see the museum, and

it was agreed he should come on Saturday in a

quiet manner.'             here with Dr.   Buckland.
                           two hours, and  was much
    ' 377/. -- Sir Robert
He stayed more than

gratified by his visit. He always asked for the
names of the different fossils, &c, that he saw.'

206  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vI.

     ' i^th. --We paid a Christmas visit to Jenny

the ourang-outang. She certainly attempts speech

as far as her powers admit. When she is fond of

a person, she puts her long strong arms round his
neck, and makes a curious noise, like an attempt

to utter caressing words -- opening the lips and

moving them as though trying to make certain
sounds. She produces a sort of a murmur, which
one might easily translate into kind expressions.
To-day she took a fancy, when out of her
cage, to look out of the window, and slyly crept
along till she got there under pretence of friend
ship. Hunt pretended to be offended at her not

coming when he called, and she ran up to him,
put her arms round his neck, whispering to him
and kissing him, till he seemed to forgive her.'

V

1843-44      'BRITISH FOSSIL REPTILES'                         207

             CHAPTER VII

                       1843-44

Further Evidence of the Existence of the ' Dinornis '-- Second Series

of Hunterian Lectures commenced-- Member of the Commission
                                               1843-46 -- The British
of Inquiry   into the  Health     of Towns,  the Literary Club, 1844
Association  at York,  1843 --  Member of
-- Lecture on the ' Dinornis' at the Royal Institution, 1844.

In January 1843 Owen wrote to his sisters on
the subject of the expenses, &c, connected with

his work on ' British Fossil Reptiles.'
     ' I am now hastening,' he said, 'the ddnoument of

my first and probably last speculation in the book-

line --viz. my great work on " British Fossil Rep
tiles." The expenses will be 1 ,000/. , of which the

British Association have advanced 250/. I print

350 copies, and if I get 200 paying subscribers shall

clear my expenses, having 150 copies for interest
of money sunk and profits. I am sanguine enough
to expect no loss. Meanwhile, lithographic and
zincographic draughtsmen make frequent calls

upon my purse. The pension happily enables me

....to meet these without difficulty or anxiety

Grace x has witnessed a fortunate fulfilment of one

                                 1 His youngest sister.

   208  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. VII.

   of my scientific predictions relative to the existence
   or former existence -- though within the memory of
   man -- of a huge bird in New Zealand. I had a
   fragment of one of its bones three years ago and

   ventured to build it up into "a heavier bird than

   the ostrich but as big ; " it turns out, however, to
   have been much bigger, and has excited, I think,

   more interest than anything that has occurred in

   my line. Dr. Buckland, to whom the bones of
   said bird were sent, and who has made them over

   to me, partly attributes his recovery to them.

   He sent me a note this morning which he had
   received from the Queen's Master of the House
   hold (Hon. Charles A. Murray), who says, after a
   compliment to me: "The Prince has read your

   letter with the greatest interest ; he desires me to

   thank you in his name, and if any further dis

   coveries should be made in elucidation of the

   mystery of this feathered monster, pray let me
   again have the pleasure of hearing from you and
   of communicating the information to His Royal
   Highness." '

        In this month Darwin wrote on the subject of
   his work on ' Coral Reefs ' to Owen. In this letter

   he refers to some preliminary papers of Owen's
   on the 'Archetype,' afterwards developed into
   his classic on the 'Archetype and Homologies
   of the Vertebrate Skeleton,' which appeared in

   1848:--

"

1843-44  DARWIN AND WOODCUTS                  209

...' My dear Owen, --          Down, Farnborough, Kent.

                                  I am much pleased

at your praise of my Coral volume, and am very

glad you recommend it to the notice of voyagers.
It would undoubtedly be far more suggestive to

any one who will really attend to the subject, but

...for the generality, perhaps, the abstract in my
journal would be the most [useful].  I have

lately read with very great interest all the parts

which I could follow in your Report on Arche

types, &c. You may remember that I suggested

explanations to the woodcuts. I am not a quarter

satisfied yet. You may with perfect justice say
you do not write for tyros ; but if ever you take

compassion (and there is no other claim) on
ignoramuses such as myself, you will in every

woodcut give the name to every letter or number

in your woodcuts, even if repeated 500 times,
for just that many times will it make your work

intelligible to the ignorant.

         ' Believe me,

         ' Yours very sincerely,

                               ' C. Darwin.'

It was in this month also that a box arrived

from New Zealand containing a large assortment

of the bones of the dinornis, of which he had

already described the ' shaft of a femur' in 1837.
     ' On January 19,' the diary records, ' we

opened the long-expected box from New Zealand,

vol. 1.                              p

2io  PROFESSOR OWEN                                   ch. viI.

which arrived to-day. Another is on the road.

My father, before going on to the Royal Society,
stayed to see it opened. We took out a pelvis, a
few vertebrae -- two enormous --and the femur of

the gigantic bird.'
     These bones were first sent to Dr. Buckland

by ' a zealous and successful Church missionary
long resident in New Zealand, the Rev. William
Williams.' This .gentleman confirmed the tra

ditional statement of the natives of New Zealand,

relative to the huge bones which they brought

him from time to time, in regard to the class of

animals to which they belonged.2  ' He has,

therefore,' Owen writes, 'a just claim to share in

the honour of the discovery of the dinornis, since,

while collecting and comparing its osseous remains,

he was wholly unaware that its more immediate

affinities had already been determined in England.'
Mr. Williams, in a letter to Dr. Buckland in 1842,

shows that he was not aware of the fact that

Owen had received and described the fragment
of the femur of the dinornis. ' By means of the

specimens first transmitted by Mr. Williams to
Dr. Buckland, and generously confided to me by

that distinguished geologist,' Owen continues, ' I

was enabled to define the generic characters of
the dinornis, as afforded by the bones of the

hind extremity. By the favour of a like disposition
of Mr. Williams's second and richer collection of

     - Extinct Wingless Birds of New Zealand, p. 76.

1843-44     DR. BUCKLAND AND DINORNIS         211

bones, and from three additional specimens con

fided to me, evidence has been obtained of six

distinct species of the genus, ascending respec

tively from the size of the great bustard to that
of the dodo, of the emu and of the ostrich, and

finally attaining a stature far surpassing three of

the once-deemed most gigantic of birds.'

     Dr. Buckland writes thus to Owen from

Oxford on the subject of the dinornis bones :--

'        .  .  I  am  now going  to write to  Mr.
   .

Williams, which I have waited to do until the

arrival of the second box in its full amplitude
of gigantic proportions, which has at length

happily taken place, and will, I trust, afford ma

terials for a volume that shall be a fit pendant

to your " Mylodon robustus." The Premier and

his royal guest were astounded at the height

of dinornis. "Exactly," said Sir Robert, "the

height of this library," so he had a standard at

hand whereby to get an idea of sixteen feet.

Happy dinornis, whose bones and giant-strides

will not be unknown to posterity, carent quia vate

sacro. I think it right to desire you to select for

the College museum the most perfect and best

bones from the second box as from the first ; but

before I make over my property in the said bones

I reserve to myself the power to take such of

them as I may wish, either to Oxford to exhibit

at a meeting there, or to show them to Prince

Albert at any place he may wish to have them

212          PROFESSOR OWEN                       ch. viI.

brought for his inspection, as he feels the strongest

interest respecting them. It may be difficult for

him to come quietly to the College, but I shall try

to get this done if it will not excite jealousy

..."among your inmates, whose company would not

be desirable.

     The following entries then occur in the diary :
     'February 2. -- Richard to the Geological

Society ; he was persuaded to go to the " three

ones" (m Jermyn Street), by Sir P. Egerton,

who fetched two foaming pots of stout, and brought

them in his own hands across to Richard, who

stood with the door-key,  awaiting  his  arrival    '
                                                  !

     ' 1 7th. -- Richard went before breakfast into
the museum to look at Mr. Scharf's enormous

diagram of the mylodon, which was suspended

from the gallery for inspection and criticism.

It is for Sedgwick. A visit from Mr. Darwin,

who has much improved in health. After his
departure, Mr. Brown, of Stanway, Colchester --

the veritable and original Mr. Pickwick, I do
believe -- came in. He stayed to dinner.'

    ' 2^th. -- Mr. Pratt, the collector of belemnites,
here. A most interesting collection of portions

of this long mis-known fossil now in R.'s posses
sion. The ink-bags, the striated portions of

mantle, and tentacles with hooks, all beautifully

clear. In the evening to Mr. Lyell's, taking

some music, and R. his violoncello in its great

green bag.'

1843-44  JOHN HUNTER                     213

' 2%th. -- Characteristic letter from Sedgwick,

asking us to hurry up Scharf with his drawing

by scratching him with a mylodon's claw.'

    At the end of March Owen began his new

series of Hunterian Lectures. He describes the
scheme of these lectures in the following way :--

' When I was first honoured by the Council

with this arduous and responsible office, it seemed

to me that the first obligation upon the Professor

was, to combine with the information to be im

parted on the science of comparative anatomy,

an adequate demonstration of the nature and

extent of the Hunterian Physiological Collection,

and thus to offer a due tribute to the scientific

labours and discoveries of its founder.

' The system adopted by Hunter for the ar

rangement of his preparations of comparative

anatomy was therefore made that of the lectures

which were to be illustrated by them ; and this

plan was closely adhered to until the whole of the

physiological department of the collection had

been successively described, and its demonstration

completed, in the course of lectures which I

delivered last year. It  is,   believe, generally"

                            I

known that Hunter had arranged his beautifully

prepared specimens of animal and vegetable

structures according to the organs, commencing

with the simplest form, and proceeding through

successive gradations to the highest or most

complicated condition of each organ.

214  PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. VII.

     ' These series of organs from different species

are arranged according to their relations to the

great functions of organic and animal life, and

the general scheme is closely  analogous to that
adopted by Baron Cuvier        in his " Lecons

d'Anatomie Comparee," and in the best modern

works on physiology.

     ' It has been a subject of much consideration

with me, having fulfilled, in one respect, the

obligations to the memory of the founder of the

collection, how to present the general principles

and leading facts of comparative anatomy with

most profit and utility to my junior auditors ; and

I trust that the plan which I propose to adopt for

the present course and that of next year will

enable me to give a complete view of the science

within that space, which shall not be less subser

vient to the illustration of physiology than were the

preceding lectures given on the system indicated

by the arrangement of the Hunterian preparations.
     ' It is very true that, by tracing the progressive

additions to an organ through the animal series

from its simplest to its most complex structure

we learn what part is essential, what auxiliary

to its office ; and the successive series of pre

parations in Hunter's Physiological Collection

strikingly and beautifully illustrate this connection

between comparative anatomy and physiology.

     ' But it is by the comparison of the particular

grades of complication of one organ with that of

1843-44  HUNTERIAN LECTURES  215

another organ in the same body, by considering
them in relation to the general nature and powers
of the entire animal, together with its relations to
other animals, and to the sphere of its existence,

that we are chiefly enabled to elucidate the uses
of the several super-additions which are met with
in following out the series of complexities of a

single organ.
     ' But comparative anatomy fulfils only a part

of its services to physiology if studied exclusively
in relation to the varieties of a given organ in
different animals. The combinations of all the

constituent organs in one animal must likewise
be studied ; and these combinations, with the

principles governing them, or the correlations of
organs, must be traced and compared in all their
varieties throughout the animal kingdom. It is
in this point of view that I now propose to treat
upon the leading facts of comparative anatomy,
to discuss and demonstrate the organs as they
are combined in the individual animal, and, com

mencing with the lowest organised species, in
which the combination is of the simplest kind, to
trace it to its highest state of complexity and
perfection through the typical species of the suc
cessively ascending primary groups and classes

of the animal kingdom. In short, as my pre
vious courses of Hunterian Lectures, agreeably
with the arrangement of the Hunterian Collection,
have treated of comparative anatomy according

216  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VII.

to the organs, in the ascending order, so, in the
present course, comparative anatomy will be con
sidered according to the class of animals, and

also in the ascending scale.'
     But in spite of his lectures and the continuous

researches with which he was occupied, Owen

contrived to find time for more public services by

sitting on various commissions from 1843 to 1849.

On April 17, 1843, he was asked by Sir James
Graham, M.P. (then Home Secretary), to serve
on the committee of the Commission formed to

inquire into the best means of supplying large

cities with efficient sewerage, under the presidency
of the Duke of Buccleuch.

     He continued to serve on this Commission of

Inquiry into the Health of Towns until 1846,

attending frequent meetings at various intervals.

The first meeting was held on June 1, 1843,
at Whitehall. The report, which was issued in

1845, is signed by the following: Buccleuch,

Lincoln, Robert Slaney, George Graham, H. T.

De la Beche, D. B. Reid, Richard Owen, Robert

Stephenson, Lyon Playfair, and a few others,
showing the representative character of the Com
missioners. Their work was by no means a
sinecure. Towards the end of the year we find
Owen making practical inquiries for the report.
The diary states that he ' went off one morn
ing at nine o'clock to inquire into the state of

health of the men engaged in sewers, &c He

1843-44  PUBLIC SERVICES  217

went also, accompanied by a police officer, into
some of the miserable lodgings in St. Giles's. When

he came back he was quite distressed at the misery

and filth he had witnessed.'

    A few days later we find his attention directed

to the necessity of a reform in the matter of
slaughter-houses in London, although the Special
Commission on the Meat Supply of the Metropolis
and the State of Smithfield Market did not take

place until 1849.

     He started off early one morning (we read

in the diary), in a dense fog, after breakfasting

by candle-light, ' with the desperate determination

to find his way to Whitechapel, having it in his

charge to examine the slaughter-houses there.

He succeeded in his task, and after a hard day's

work came back safe and sound, the fog having
lifted a little.' In the following week he went with
Mr. Hobhouse to Leadenhall Market. There he

saw Mr. Scales (butcher). ' Mr. S. says he is wil
ling that the slaughtering should be kept out of
London if all butchers were made to do the same.

R. dined afterwards with Sir Robert Inglis. Had
Mr. Scales up here. R. in character of Com
missioner and Inquisitor. Mr. Chadwick also to

help cross-examine.'

     In May, Owen received a letter from Professor
Vrolich, giving an account of his own dissection
of the pearly nautilus, stating that he found all
the observations made by Owen confirmed. On

218  PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. VII.

June 12 Owen met Charles Dickens for the first
time, and a friendship commenced between them

which was always maintained. He met him at

the green-room of Drury Lane Theatre. The
occasion of their meeting is thus recorded :--

    ' May 12. -- R. to Drury Lane Theatre, to see
H.M. pass to her box. A large and brilliant

assemblage there, who wandered about behind the

scenes, and when H.M. entered her box all stood

on the stage and joined the professionals in the

National Anthem. R. stood just behind Miss P.

Horton, who as prima donna was in the front
row, and quite close to the Queen. " As You Like

It" afterwards, by H.M.'s desire. Keeleyandhis

wife delightful in that and also in the concluding

farce, "A Thumping Legacy," which H.M. seemed

to greatly enjoy. R. was much gratified to meet
amongst many interesting people Charles Dickens,

in the green-room, and found him delightful.'

     There is then an entry with regard to the

curious publication of Horne's ' Orion :' --

     ' Bought the new poem " Orion," for which

you may only pay the sum of one farthing. A

halfpenny or a larger coin refused. One person

may not have more than one copy of Horne's
poem, and the bookseller, Miller of Oxford Street,

will not give change, even for a halfpenny.

Richard began the poem with little expectation

of being able to get through  it,  but very soon

changed his opinion.'

1843-44        MEETS SPOHR                   219

The diary continues :--
'June 22. -- R. to King's College.
                                         Prince

Albert to be received there by the Professors.

Mr. Wheatstone's experiment of firing a cannon

by the electric spark tried, the wire being laid

from Somerset House along the bed of the river

to the shot manufactory. Great crowd at the

entrance of Waterloo Bridge.'

    ' 2,0th. -- To Mrs. Taylor's, to meet Spohr and

his wife. Spohr is a very tall, big man, with an

innocent-looking, rather inexpressive fair face,

and a hideous sandy scratch wig. I was told that

Spohr's second marriage had greatly offended his

Prince (Hesse-Cassel), who wished him to marry
some other lady. Met also Benedict and M. and

Madame Moscheles.'

The meeting of the British Association was

held in the August of this year at Cork, and

Owen attended       In a letter to his wife, dated
          :

             I'

                                      .

                            it.
                                    is
August 17, he gives an account of his journey

thither   was so lucky as to get vacant seat
                                         a
on the roof of the mail to Carnarvon [at Glou
          The ride                                                   ;
                                                                                ;
                                                                                    3
cester].                                 through a glorious part

of S. Wales. . . We passed through two turn

pikes that had been visited by the Breakers

one was down, the posts having been neatly

sawed through, and the toll-house unroofed the

other gate, twenty miles farther on, was similarly

demolished, and the toll-house razed to the

ground.'

               3  The Rebeccaites.

220       PROFESSOR OWEN                     ch. VII.

     On this visit to Ireland Owen visited Water-

ford, the Groves of Blarney, Killarney, Glengariff,

Dublin, and returned to London by way of

Bristol, Gloucester, and Derby ; but the whole of

his letters written during this tour are devoted to

the beauties of the scenery through which he was

passing. Before returning home he visited Lord

Rosse at Liverpool, and writes thus to Mr. Clift,

September 3 :--
     ' You may imagine a man with a natural turn

for mechanics with ample means of indulging in it.

He has not only planned and manufactured, chiefly

with his own hands, his stupendous telescope, but

also most of the tools and machinery required

for making it. He married, wisely, a lady of

congenial taste, the daughter of a civil engi

...neer, and, 'tis said, a better mathematician than
himself.  I spent a week at Killarney and

the picturesque neighbourhood with Murchison,

Phillips, Mr. Fox of Falmouth, and Forbes.'

     Owen then joined his wife, who was staying

at Derby, and after spending a fortnight there

returned to his work at the College of Surgeons.

    In September, Owen sent to the Rev. J.
Rowley, his godfather and former headmaster, a

copy of the first series of his Hunterian Lectures

(183 7- 1 842), which had been published from notes

taken by William White Cooper and revised by

himself. In Mr. Rowley's letter of acknowledg

ment, dated from Lancaster, September 4, 1843,

1843-44           DEATH OF 'JENNY'                                   221

after thanking Owen for his ' volume of most in

teresting lectures,' he continues : ' They are the

more valuable to me as being the production of a

friend whom I have known from infancy, and

whose career in life I have observed with intense

admiration. I sincerely pray that Providence

will long protect and preserve your health and

life, not only for the sake of your family, but also
for your knowledge and skill in science, in which

you have with so much honour distinguished your

self

About this time Mrs. Owen records the death

of their friend 'Jenny,' the ourang-outang at the
Zoological Gardens. ' It is a real loss to us,' she

writes, ' for we never missed paying her a visit

when we were at the Gardens.'

     There are    then the following entries in the

diary :--         5. -- R. sent round to Mr. Bro-

      ' November

derip's to ask him to come and see a fine brain

stone now in the museum. R. met with it at a

dealer's, who has also a splendid specimen of Irish

elk. R. is very anxious that the College should

have them. Mr. B. was very much pleased with

the beautiful coralline when he saw                                  and has
'

               it
                    it it

                                              it
                                                                it,
settled to buy and present to the College.

The dealer has done his best to spoil the coralline

by making         white with muriatic acid, and, of

course, making smell horribly.'

       i%th. -- R. dined with the Geological Club,

222  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vn.

and after the evening meeting went to Jermyn
Street. Lord Enniskillen, Dr. Buckland, Mr-

Murchison, Dr. Fitton, Mr. Broderip, &c Each

obliged to sing a song. Mr. Broderip put in the
chair, with Lord E.'s dressing-gown and a dis
reputable old college cap. R. was " executioner.'"

     This was nearly the last meeting of the merry

geologists at the 'three ones,' as 1 1 1 Jermyn Street

was called. At a later meeting this year Lord

Enniskillen was arraigned before their Court on
account of his intention of getting married. In
reply to ' a sly question in the corner ' of a letter
which he afterwards wrote to Owen, concerning
a smashed glass at the above entertainment, the
latter writes : --

     ' I declare, upon my honour, and call Justice4 to
witness, that the glass was cracked about midnight,

just before our party broke up, in the most mys
terious manner. I held it still in my hand, as

sober as a judge, and had merely placed it on the

table with a slight emphasis in harmony with

the sentiment which formed the soul of our last

libation.'

     On November 23 a strange visitor came to
the College of Surgeons, in the shape of a North
American Indian chief. ' Richard had just come

in about six o'clock when there was a ring at
the bell and in another minute there suddenly
stalked in a magnificent, tall American Indian

                                            4 Broderip.

1843-44  A RED INDIAN      223

chief infull dress -- paint, necklaces, and tomahawk,

and a red mantle over all ; a fine plume of dried

red and black elk's hair on the top of his head.

I felt rather staggered, but endeavoured to show

no signs of and so asked the gentleman to sit
         a it,
down in the arm-chair, which he did in a calm,
                      I

                                                                         is
well-bred manner. He was accompanied by a

young gentleman, a native of Guernsey, but who
had lived some time among the Indians. We

were very soon quite at ease with each other. R.

said he would take them into the museum, and led

the way with lamp. He showed them some of

the most striking objects there by the dim light
of the lamp. The Indian seemed willing to be

interested and was attentive, but not the least

astonished. When he had seen O'Brien he made
a remark which, being interpreted, was, " This
large." He also saw the dwarf and the elephant,

but was unmoved.       fetched Willy into the

museum to see him, and they shook hands most

ceremoniously. On returning from the museum

the chief seated himself, and we amused him

with pictures and such books as Mme. Merian's
" Insects," and, what chiefly gave him pleasure,
Willy's coloured plates of Natural History. He

recognised the different plates of animals, and

when we offered him the choice he was much

pleased with a leopard and chose that, saying he

would be glad to take  it  home with him. R.

ordered up wine, and the chief showed neither

224  PROFESSOR OWEN                                             CH. VII.

dislike nor any other emotion on taking   if                    He

handled Mme. Merian's great folio with the    it it.

most perfect knowledge of how to use such a book.

No antiquary could have fingered or held a
valuable book with more care -- not as
                                                                were

something he was afraid of injuring through igno
rance, but as he knew its proper value. His
eyes glistened when took down Lord E.'s bronze
     if

              I

armadillo from the mantel-piece, though he had

not thrown any look of curiosity towards                        When
                               it,
                                   aa

                                                             :

                                                      it.
I  lifted up the shell of the animal and showed him

the two little ink-bottles in  shade of astonish

ment passed over his face, but he quickly suppressed
it. His face was distinctly handsome wide across

the eyes and cheeks, rather of gipsy type, all the

face and limbs on large scale. A bright red
     a
                   a
spread over the cheeks and round the eyes, black
rubbed about the lower part of the face above the

mouth, and row of six white spots down the
sides of the cheeks. His hair a brilliant black,

and clean. Mr. Robins, his attendant, said he was

scrupulously clean in his habits. With his plume
he was quite seven feet high. When we shook
hands he said " Goo-by," and stalked off wrapped

in his red mantle. R. then said that a friend of his

told him some days ago of this new arrival, and

said that he would get the chief to look uponit
him. However, R. thought no more of till thein

appearance this afternoon.'
     Another visitor shortly afterwards came to the

1843-44  THE LITERARY CLUB     225

museum of the College of Surgeons -- Miss Maria
Edgeworth. Owen had already met her at Joanna

Baillie's, and there she had expressed a wish to see

the collection.

     ' Miss Edgeworth,' Mrs. Owen writes, ' is very

small--nearer my own height than anyone I ever

met with, except, perhaps, Joanna Baillie. There is
little to choose between us! It was evident that

my appearance caused exactly the same thought to
pass through Miss E.'s mind, as I was clearly not
at all the sort of person she had expected to see.'

     ' On December 21,' the diary continues, ' Sir
Robert Inglis came to say that he was commis
sioned by the Literary Club to ask Richard to

become a member.'

     Early in the following year (1844) Owen
received a note from Sir Robert announcing his

election into that club.

         7 Bedford Square : February 2, 1844.

' My dear Sir, -- When six weeks ago I men

tioned to you the club dinners of the Literary

Society, and ascertained that it would be agreeable

to you to join us, I purposely abstained from adding

that, as I had thus obtained your assent, I intended

to act upon it forthwith. At the following meet

ing, accordingly, I proposed you, and the Vice-

Chancellor of England seconded you ; and I have

now the gratification of informing you that you

were this evening --at a full meeting, including

vol. 1.                     0

226  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. VII.

the Chief Justice Tindal, Baron Alderson, Dr.
Southey, Baron Rolfe, the Bishop of Lichfield,

Mr. Hallam --cordially elected.

              ' Believe me, my dear Sir,

                          ' Very faithfully yours,

                                   ' Robert H. Inglis.'

     Owen gives the following account of his first

dinner at the Literary Society in a letter to his
sister Maria :--

     ' I was at the Old Thatched House ten minutes
to six, just as Sir R. Inglis was going up the
stairs, and received a kind welcome from him.

The room, you may be aware, is famous for
Reynolds's finest portraits of the original members,
some of them in groups --one a beauty, the wel
come back given to Cook and Banks after the

first voyage ; they are clinking glasses across the
table German fashion. The single portraits are
all in fancy costume. Our party, as far as I now
remember, consisted of Sir R. I[nglis] in the

chair, myself on his right as the new member,
Hallam on his left, next me Sir Geo. Staunton,

then Sir J no. Barrow of the Admiralty, two other

old gentlemen, and Dr. Southey as croupier.
Next Southey was Lockhart ; the others were

Sir J. Westmacott, Phillips the painter, and one
more. No judges ; all on circuit. I came out on
unicorns and mammoths ; Hallam discussed Lord

Derby's claims to the Duchy of Hamilton, which

1843-44  THE OLD THATCHED HOUSE             227

appear to be undeniable ; and then the conversa

tion merged into who now in England would be

nearest the throne through the Tudors, when

the Duke of Buckingham, through his mother,
...direct from Harry VII., was held to be the
personage.  At half-past ten we broke up.'

     It was in this year that Owen began his work
--now regarded as a classic --on ' British Fossil

Mammalia.' He originally intended to bring it

out in monthly parts, but finally determined,

acting upon Charles Lyell's advice, to issue it

every two months. An entry in the diary states :

' Mr. Van Voorst has agreed to the proposal

suggested by Mr. Lyell to bring the work out

every two months instead of one. Mr. Lyell

further said that one would have quite enough to

do to get the first number into one's head in the

two months' time, let alone one ; that it certainly

was so as far as he was concerned.'

     With regard to the first number, Owen re
ceived the following letter from Dr. H. Falconer :--

                                                                             February 3, 1844.

    ' My dear Owen, -- I have seen the first num
ber of your " Fossil British Mammalia." You
are the Magnus Apollo in these matters --a whale
among the minnows -- and those who come after

you will take your authority on trust, without
perhaps thinking it necessary to refer to the
originals in matters referring either to structure

                                                                                       Q2

228  PROFESSOR OWEN     ch. v11.

or to the history of discovery.' [Then follows a
long discussion as to the date of discovery of the
first anthropomorphous remains.]

     On February 2 Owen lectured on the di-
nornis at the Royal Institution. ' He had the
bones and diagrams of the dinornis fetched early
to the Institution, and after we had arranged

them on the table they made an exceedingly fine
show. Richard gave a very clear account, in his
characteristic style, of all that is at present known

on the subject. He made it interesting by dis

cussing the reasons for believing that the different
genera of these apterous birds now known to us,
are only remaining types of a large creation as
proper to an early state of the globe. There was

a large and most attentive audience, notwith
standing a great attraction on the opposite side of
the street in Mr. Buckingham's opening night of
his Association. Faraday had tea ready for R.

when his lecture was over, which was a true kind

ness.'

     Shortly after this lecture Sir John F. W.
Herschel wrote to Owen, protesting against his
spelling of ' dinornis,' as obscuring its derivation
from the Greek Ssivos.

     ...' Dear Sir, --  Collingwood : February 14, 1844.

                        I saw in the " Athenaeum "

some notice of your researches on the extinct

struthious birds and of the dinornis. May I be

1843-44 HERSCHEL ON THE WORD 'DINORNIS' 229

pardoned a criticism on this spelling ? The ety
mology of this word and of Lyell's Plzbcene and
Mzbcene rocks points out « as the true spelling.
Now Lyell expressly rejects the e as contrary to
the analogy of the English language. The thing
itself appeared to me at the time only a lapsus,

but as you have followed his example it is time to

protest. The French, who never learn Greek
and have no notion of what huvds means, will

from our spelling pronounce it d^nornis. . . .
                              ' Yours very truly,

                          'J. F. W. Herschel.'

      Owen defended his spelling ' dinornis ' by

suggesting that if the spelling ' deinornis ' were

adopted, people would be just as liable to pro
nounce it ' deenornis ' in English, by the analogy

of such words as ' receive,' &c
     The following entries then occur in the

journal :--
     ' February 8.-- The new range of Carnivora

houses in the Gardens looks very comfortable, and
the animals seem to enjoy their improved situa

tion. There is now a splendid Arctic bear-- it
only cost 30/. Poor Hunt (Jenny's keeper) now

has the young lioness and her blind foster-brother

the dog to look after. He said to me that he
would " far sooner, have his poor Jenny." He was

so much cut up about her death that he could

hardly pronounce her name.'

230  PROFESSOR OWEN                   CH. VII.

     ' gth. -- Mr. Bransby Cooper cannot begin his

lectures as announced, owing to some bereave

ment. This brings R.'s lectures at once upon

him ; but he seems rather glad of as they will
     '

                                           it
                                                               it,

                                                                         in

                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            I
be the sooner off his mind.'

      \gth. --A gentleman came and left a present

for R. in the shape of a guinea, which was

affirmed to have been in the possession of John
Hunter. Unfortunately, upon examining the

guinea we discovered that was coined  798

John Hunter died in 1793.'
     We then have an account of Owen's first

dinner at Sir Robert Peel's, in a letter which he

wrote to his sister Catherine, dated March 10,

1844. 'It was my first visit,' he remarks, 'but

not my first invitation.' Among the guests

assembled, twenty-five in all, he mentions the

American Minister (Everett), Mr. Charles Barry,

Sir B. Brodie, Mr. Charles Eastlake, Wilson

Croker, and the Dean of Westminster (Turton).'

 A quiet sort of conversation with one's neigh

bours, which after dinner became more general,

and merged at last into instances of very old

people. Sir Robert said he canvassed, at the last

election, an old lady who remembered the Scotch

rebels at Derby, and that he had ordered the

Queen's bounty to be given to an old Highlander
who fought at Fontenoy. Croker slyly added

that that was the way to find out many old soldiers

who would remember that battle, and he argued

1843-44        DINNER AT PEEL'S  231

that under the present registration system the

instances of people passing a century would be

much diminished. . . . Before dinner Sir Robert

informed me that he intended to apply 2,000/. in

aid of the publication of the Natural History

collected in the late expedition to the South Seas,

and that he wished to be favoured with my

...opinion on the best mode of applying it to that
purpose.       I shall communicate in writing my

conclusions.'

Not long afterwards, Owen describes to his

sister Maria the occasion of his meeting the King

of Saxony at Sir Robert Peel's : ' Sir R. Peel

will be very popular in Germany when they

hear of the nature of the party he invited to meet
the King of Saxony-- not the great by birth and

wealth, but the representatives of the literature

and science of the day. It was a proud and

gratifying event to me, I must confess, to be in

cluded in the dinner list. There was a large

accession to the evening party, which included

Whewell, with Murchison, Garrett, Sir Wm.

Hooker, Brodie, and Lawrence [Sir Thomas], &c,
&c At the dinner . . . were Rogers, Hallam,
Sydney Smith, Lord Northampton, P.R.S.,
Bishop of Norwich, P.L.S., Dr. Buckland, Robert

Brown, and myself; the rest were composed of

His Majesty and suite. . . . Brown and I went

together, and arrived about five minutes after the

half-hour ; Hallam and another were there, and

232  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vii.

the rest soon followed. We had a very gracious

reception, and I had time for a little conversation

with Lady Peel. . . . About ten minutes to eight
a servant came and whispered to Sir Robert, who

then left the drawing-room with Lady Peel, and

soon returned walking backwards into the room
followed by the King and his suite. We fell into
a large semicircle, and Sir Robert introduced us
one by one to the King. He addressed a few
words in French to each. He told me how much

his physician, Dr. Carus, had been gratified by
my attentions at the museum, and I replied by

observing on the high value which we placed

upon Carus's discoveries. . . . We broke into
smaller groups, I soon joining Carus, who was

introduced by his desire to Buckland. . . .

Sydney Smith and Buckland soon began to grow

jocular, and opened on me about the big-bird.

"Ah!" said S. S., with reference to some re

mark on my joy at the safe arrival of the box
from New Zealand, " that was Owen's magnum
bonum." . . . The evening company had begun

to assemble, and the rooms were soon filled by

all the names in science and art. I saw Edwin

 Landseer, Eastlake, and Sir J. Rennie. . . .'
     The following extracts from the journal may

serve as examples of Owen's ordinary occupations

at this time :--
     'March 14. -- R. at the day meeting of the

 Royal Society. Enlivened the evening when he

1843-44  THE PICKERSGILL PORTRAIT           233

got back by reading Chadwick's " Report on

Burials." '                                 Many fa

    ' i<$th. -- R.'s introductory lecture.

miliar faces in the audience. The usual dose

before lecture, which was given without notes.'

    ' April 4. -- Miss Edgeworth came to take

leave before going back to Ireland. R. was

making ready to go in to lecture when she came

in, but he had time to stop and have a talk with

her. She admired greatly the professorial gown

with its red silk.'

    ' ioth. -- R. drew the outline of diagram which
I am to colour for to-morrow's lecture. After

wards he dissected a chimpanzee. Willy watched

his father dissecting till he himself smelt like a

specimen preserved in rum.'

     ' ibth. -- Mr. Broderip, Dr. Arthur Farre, &c,

to dinner. Microscope and music followed, and

we finished up by singing glees till nearly one

o'clock.'

    ' 26th. -- R. went this morning at 7 30 to sit the

second time to Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. P. came to

lecture last week, to get an idea of R.'s attitude,
&c , as he spoke. He is to be in the act of

lecturing, holding the dinornis bone.'

     '27th. --To the Royal Institute to hear

Faraday lecture on " Expansion by Heat," illus

trated by most interesting experiments.'
  ' May 3. -- After a
Martin Chuzzlewit."    hard day's work, R. deep in
                          My father came in before
'"

234  PROFESSOR OWEN                              ch. viI.

going to the Royal Society, and talked to R. with

out mercy ; but R., whose thoughts and attention

were so entirely given up to Mrs. Gamp and
Jonas, could only answer at random. As soon as

my father was gone, we laughed over Mrs. Gamp

till bedtime.'

    ' May 6. -- R. helped to draw up, and gave

a finish to the first Gwydyr House report on

Health of Towns.'

    ' 17th. -- R. to Mr. Pickersgill after breakfast.
They spent the rest of the morning together, as

R. wanted to see the dwarf, General Tom Thumb.

Dr. Hamel here at eleven. Went into the

museum with him, and he poked about in his

usual way. He is going to be the bearer of R.'s

dinornis to St. Petersburg, much to his delight.'

     Among the curious applications frequently

made to Professor Owen, there was none, perhaps,

more strange than a letter he received from a

firm of surgeons near    Bath on   May    --17.  After
apologies for troubling  him they  write
                                          :

                                                                                                           [1844-]

     ' We have been for a few days actively
engaged embalming the remains of the late
William Beckford, Esq., of Fonthill Abbey, a
gentleman of family and fortune. [Here follows
a rough sketch of the process, which consisted in

injecting the vessels with an antiseptic, treating
the viscera by Dr. Baillie's process and covering

1843-44  CHARGE FOR EMBALMING  235

the body with an antiseptic composition and

bandages.] Will you oblige us by giving us your
opinion what we ought to charge ? We are

entirely at a loss to know the value, with a family

of such wealth, of our process. It has never

been done in the West of England.'
      From a memorandum on the letter, such as it

was the custom of Professor Owen to make, we

gather that he ' recommended 105/.,' a reply for
which the firm ' sincerely thank ' him.

     We then find Owen again attending Faraday's

lectures at the Royal Institution, as the following

extract shows :--
     ' To Faraday's lecture, which was interesting

as usual. Saw Mr. Lyell, Sir Charles Lemon, &c

Mr. Guillemard was there, and was sleeping
blissfully when Faraday began. He went on

napping and bobbing his head till there was an

experiment which made some little explosion,

which woke him up with a start. He sat look

ing severely at Mr. Faraday for the rest of the

lecture.'

     ' 25M. -- Sir P. Egerton here. He said he
was very sorry not to have been in the House

last night, as something was said by Wackley
about pensions, and Sir Robert Peel answered it

in a speech which was highly favourable to R.'

    ' 29^. -- In looking over an artist's drawing of

a great fish's skeleton in the library, R. noticed
horse s teeth in some of the sketches ! '

236  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vII.

    'June 5. -- R. has had the news that he will

very likely get a recent hippopotamus to dissect.
He is much pleased.'

    ' %th. -- To Mr. Faraday's last lecture, and a

most delightful one, on flame, spirit, and salt, &c.

A short, feeling address to the audience. Place

crammed. Had a chat with him afterwards. R.

delighted Willy and a little friend of his by lifting

them both up at once on his stick and slinging
it across his. shoulder, like men carry rabbits.'

     '26th. -- R. to a Royal Society meeting, to
debate on the subject of bringing out Dr. Fal

coner's fossils.'

     This entry refers to the fauna of the Sewalik
Hills, east of the Ganges, which were first dis
covered in 1834. Falconer, assisted by Cautley,
Baker, and Durand, unearthed a sub-tropical

mammalian fauna, unexampled for richness and

extent in any other region then known. In 1844
a committee was formed, of which Professor

Owen was an important figure, to memorialise

H.M. Government to make a grant of 1,000/.

for the purpose of arranging, displaying, and

describing these important collections, which at

that time were housed in the British Museum
and the India House. The enlightened Premier,
Sir Robert Peel, responded to the appeal, and the
wishes of the memorialists were carried out.
The following letter from Dr. Falconer bears on
the subject : --

1843-44  SIR JOHN FRANKLIN  237

                                   23 Norfolk Street, Strand : June 4, 1844.

     ' My dear Owen, -- On Saturday next at 9 p.m.

I am to give another say at the Asiatic Society,

on the general bearings of the Sewalik fauna--
geographical, climatal, and geological, &c

     ' I want to make the occasion a means of

acting on the Court through a public expression
of opinion, to take up the publication of the
Sewalik fossils, and your presence as the leading
head in comparative anatomy would be very im
portant aid. Can you afford an hour to undergo
another infliction ? I shall be done by ten o'clock,
and there will be a discussion at the end.

     ' Forbes tells me that you went last time

prepared to have spoken, but the late hour and

Lord Auckland's omission to start a discussion

left you no opportunity.

                              ' Yours very truly,
                                            ' H. Falconer.'

     On June 29, 1844, he writes to his sister
Catherine : ' I dined last night at the Geological
Club, and sat between Sir John Franklin and
Dr. Buckland. Sir John had just returned from
his government at Van Diemen's Land. I have
been indebted to him for several rare beasts from

that island, sent in spirits for dissection. In the

course of conversation I found that he had been

in the battle of Trafalgar, midshipman in the
seventh ship of Lord Collingwood's line. His

238   PROFESSOR OWEN                         ch. vII.

captain was killed and he was scratched, but not

bad enough to go into the list. Cary and I went

last night to a brilliant party at Mrs. Simpkinson's

(Lady Franklin's sister), to meet there Buckland,

Babbage, Sir H. Ellis, Schomburgk, the traveller

from Guiana, Count Strelingkski [Strzelecki],
the traveller from Australia, and all manner of

notabilities and their wives and daughters, and

...the last wife (I think the seventh) of Lord
Edgeworth, and her son.      I have launched
No. 4 of the " Brit. Foss. Mamm." and my
...papers on "Dinornis" and "Belemnites" are both
      I intend, you may rely on
out.  ;                                      to read
                       '

                                                          1
                                                                     '

                                                  I it,
                                                           it
" Coningsby " but no time now --am at                                        at

6  a.m., as in the busy times of last year.  signed

and sealed the Report No. to Her Majesty on

Health of Towns yesterday.'

      Amongst the rare beasts to which Owen

refers as having been indebted to Sir John:
Franklin, the following are mentioned in the
diary, which continues --

    'July 1o. --A collection of birds from Van

Diemen's Land and Australia. One apteryx

skin. A fine Van Diemen's Land native skull,

with teeth beautiful. This Lady Franklin

brought especially for R., and he carried                                    to
     '

                                                                         it
the coach in his white silk handkerchief, to the

amusement of sundry.'
       \2th. -- Mr. Barlow came, and kept me in

close conversation over an hour. Amongst other

1843-44  A 'MOA'S' HEAD  239

things, he has it at heart to get R. to give
the Christmas course of lectures at the Royal

Institute.'

     '2gth-- Mr. and Mrs. Paget, Mr. A. Gries-
bach, Mr. Cooper, &c, here to look at the

moa's head (so-called), just arrived. After so

much expectation and such fears for its safety

after its arrival, it was perhaps a little trying to

find that this enormous head proved to be nothing

more than the skull of a seal. A bit of a

dinornis skull was thrown in.'

     'August 9. --Went to see "Martin Chuzzle-
wit" dramatised. As we went to the pit, whilst

waiting there R. corrected a proof, and did some

more before the curtain went up. Upon the
whole a poor show, but Keeley's Mrs. Gamp
most excellent, Mrs. Keeley as Bailey good.

Nadgett also well done.'
     On August 10, Owen saw his wife and child

off to Dover. He had so much on his hands at

the time that he could not do more than pay

them flying visits. His extraordinary capacity
for work is continually shown in his letters. In
writing to his sister Eliza on August 20, he says :
' I had pledged myself to complete my catalogue
for the meeting of Trustees in August, and,

through labour early and late, and a good printer,
who sometimes knocked off eight quarto sheets
in one week, I was able to have the copy com

plete on their table last Saturday week. I have

240  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VII.

since written and sent to press No. 5 of " Brit.
Foss. Mammalia," and am now engaged in
completing my "Odontography." I wish I could

finish it before leaving London. To divert my

thoughts and unbend the bow, I ran down to

Dover last Friday by rail, and found dear Cary
on the beach with Mrs. Soulby listening to the
band, and Willie digging away in great force

amongst the shingle. I stayed Saturday, Sunday,

and Monday, and arrived here to-day about an

hour ago.'

     On August 24, 1844, in a letter to his wife at
Dover, we see Owen as the bachelor in charge :
' I was with Hobhouse inspecting Whitechapel
again on Thursday ; discussing Indian skulls to
day with little Schomburgk. Bottled off the
Tinta yesterday ; three dozen and four bottles to

my share. All the carpets are now up, and the

charwoman comes on Monday.'

     To his wife, still at Dover, Owen writes on

September 16 a piteous appeal that she will inter
fere with his washerwoman, who hashad, 'above

a fortnight, a valuable assortment, without any
symptoms of a return ; ' and again, on September 1 9,

he says : ' Mrs. Wright has volunteered to go to
the laundress's this morning, being in a state of
righteous indignation. Just as I had commenced

my first cup [breakfast], solacing myself with a
chapter on German poets, Mrs. Wright, in answer
to a bell, entered with a gloomy, awe-struck expres-

1 843 44 PUTRID PENGUIN AND TOBACCO  241

sion, announcing in a whisper -- a Frenchwoman !
So I had Madame Power instead of Goethe, and
heard again the whole history of Argonauts and
all the concomitant misfortunes, to which I sub

mitted with great patience, finishing in the intervals
of explanations my herring and toast. . . . They

are painting -- overhead --the ceiling of the library,

having done the same to the large room, and the
house is redolent ! However, I fight against it
with counterblasts of putrid penguin 5 and tobacco.'

     As Commissioner of the health of towns,
&c, Owen was deputed to report on the state
of his native town, Lancaster. While there in
September, ' busily occupied ' with his survey of
the town, he writes to Clift on the 28th :--

     ' . . . Chadwick dined with us last Monday,
and we settled the plan of survey of the state of
the town, in which I have been busily occupied,
with the hearty co-operation of all the most intelli
gent medical men and builders. I found only the
present Superintendent of Sewers rather stiff ; he

is a stout man with goggle eyes, and had a beard

of three days' growth. I give you a specimen of
one of his answers. To a query why they had not
adopted the oval form of sewer, which had been

formerly made in one street, but not in later-made

sewers, which had the old square shape, he said,

" We never adopt nought " ' !

   5 ' On the Morbid Appear-      of the Penguin ' (Aptenodytes
ances observed in the Dissection  forsteri). Proc. Zool. Soc.

       VOL. I.                                                        R

242  PROFESSOR OWEN  GH. VII.

     Before attending the meeting of the British
Association at York, Owen ' spent another busy
week in Lancaster, inspecting all the abodes of the
poor and taking notes of the worst cases which
admit of relief by better regulations ; made myself
acquainted with the present drainage of the town
and its water supplies, and leaving instructions to

architects for improvement plans and their ex

pense, and to registrars and doctors for tables of

mortality and disease.'6

           Richard Owen to his sister Eliza

                                                     South Hetton : October 4, 1844.

     'The success of the York meeting has com
pletely settled the question of the continued ex
istence of the British Association. . . . Sedgwick

told me that the idea I had thrown out in my
speech on a new geographical partition of the
continents of the earth, in accordance with the
extinct animals found in them and other grounds
which I have not room for, was good and new.'

     During October 1844 Owen was on and off
at Lancaster for the purpose of collecting materials
for his report on the town. In the middle of the

month his wife returned home, to find ' five boxes
of bones in the hall, and the house free from the

smell of paint and penguin.' Four boxes of these

                           6 To his wife, October 1, 1844.

1843-44  BIRTH OF KANGAROO  243

bones were from New Zealand and one from

China. Owen had no lack of material to examine
at this time, as the diary shows : --

     'November 1. -- R. to the London Docks, to

look at nine boxes of bones from America. In
the evening hard at work on the " Mammalia." '

     '6th. -- Mr. Warburton called to offer R. the

presidency of the Geological Society. Obliged to
decline, as he had not the time to give to it.'

     ' 14M. -- R. received two letters from Sydney.
A man called Leichardt sends the lower jaw of
a great kangaroo-like extinct animal. Also inter
esting letter from Lord Derby. A kangaroo at

Knowsley has been watched till the matter so

long in doubt is cleared up. She was seen taking
the new-born tiny kangaroo in her fore-paws and
putting it in the pouch.'

     ' 2\st. -- R. to the London Docks, to fetch away

what there is of the tail and head of the glyptodon.
The head, unfortunately, is very imperfect, though
the tail is good.'

     ' December 3. -- This evening the box of
diprotodon bones came from Herr Leichardt.
We opened it and found a vertebra, a beautiful
half-jaw of a young animal, &c'

     ' Ajh. -- R. to his cutter-out? with some very
extraordinary bones from Africa. Two heads of

an animal resembling a lizard but with huge tusks
from the upper jaw. Going to have them picked

        7 The mason who cuts the fossils out of the stone, &c.

                                                                                                R2

244  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v11.

out ; then drawn, cast, and coloured, and then to

make some sections. R. delighted with them.'

     ' \oth. -- R. not well, so he lay on the sofa with

his fossil heads about him, whilst I wrote from

his dictation. Mr. Edw. Forbes came in to

name Mr. Green's fossils, and smoked a cigar

which R. keeps in the Australian skull --the one

which the natives used for carrying water, and
has a band of dried grass attached to it for the
purpose of carrying.

     ' Mr. Scharf all this time in the library drawing

the glyptodon's skull.'

     ' 1 3^. --At Sir Robert Peel's, Drayton Manor,

on Saturday, 14th. Bishop of Chichester, Mr.
Wheatstone, Dr. Lyon Playfair, Mr. Stephenson,8

&c Saw the business of the Commission (Health
of Towns) brought to light there. Sir Robert had

his tenants to dinner to meet the scientific gentle
men, in order to discuss some matters of agriculture.'

      In a letter to his sister Maria, written from
Drayton Manor, December 16, 1844, Owen gives
an account of his visit, and tells the following
anecdote of the Bishop of Oxford (Richard
Bagot) on the occasion of the investiture of Louis
Philippe with the Order of the Garter : ' On
that day, after dinner, at Windsor Castle, the
King of the French sent his regards to the Bishop,
who approached him, when the King of the
French said : " Sir, I was much moved by the

                      8 Robert Stephenson, the civil engineer.

1843-44  COLD BOILED BEEF                   245

admonition you addressed to me on receiving the

Order of Knighthood this day." The Bishop

replied that most of the service of our Church

was remarkable for its meaning and impressive-
ness. " Yes," said Louis Philippe, " but I was

struck by your charge against entering into war."
" Into unjust war," replied the Bishop, repeating
the words of the admonition. " True," rejoined
Louis Philippe, " but I hold all war to be unjust."

. . . We met this morning for breakfast in Sir
...Robert [Peel's] private breakfast-room.
                                                I

sat next the Bishop [of Oxford], and asked him

whether he would choose King's College or
Westminster for a boy. He said, " I advise you

to inquire well before you take Westminster,"

and recommended Harrow or Charterhouse, but

Harrow best, as having a very good master and
good air. The Sunday papers came in, and the

Bishop drew my attention to Sir R.'s earnest
perusal of the " Examiner." " You see," he says,
" he reads all sides !" . . . This morning (Tuesday)

Buckland and I got in a good word for C. W.

Peach, who will no doubt get promotion in con
sequence. . . . It came on to rain, and as I had

luckily packed up my microscope I brought it
down, and, a propos to the question from Lord

Villars why cold boiled beef sometimes shines

like mother-of-pearl when cut, I promised to

show him the fine transverse lines on each com

ponent fibre of the flesh, which produce that

246  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VII.

appearance by their action upon light. A slice

was ordered from the round, and the microscope
unpacked and mounted in the drawing-room. . . .
I then showed the globules of the blood and ex

plained how they united together to form the
fibre ; the party round the table consisted of
Lords Villars and Aylesbury, Drs. Buckland and

Playfair, and Messrs. Stephenson and Wheatstone.
Whilst we were in the midst of the exhibition

and discussion, Sir Robert entered the library and

joined us ; they began to explain what we had
been seeing, and he sat down to examine the
objects . . . He seemed much interested in the

subject, and said he must bring Lady Peel to see
them. . . . After [lunch] there was a unanimous
adjournment to the microscope again, and great
amusement was occasioned by examining the
blood globules of the different gentlemen. . . .
Sir Robert (he always devotes from one to four
or five in his study) brought back a bottle of
thawed pond water to see if it contained any
living infusoria, and was delighted to find the
first drop taken up by the point of a pencil

swarmed with them, gliding about in the field
of view. . . .'

     The interest which Sir Robert Peel derived

from Owen's visit is shown in the following letter

which he wrote to Dr. Buckland :--

     ' You saw the portrait of Cuvier, and know
that I am building a gallery for the reception of

1843-44 OWEN'S PORTRAIT FOR DRAYTON  247

the collection which I have formed of the portraits
of the eminent men of my own time. I should

very much like to have, as a pendant to that of
Cuvier, the portrait of Professor Owen.

     ' My demand, of course, is only upon the time
of those whom I can prevail upon to sit for me,

but it is a heavy demand upon one so fully occu

pied as Professor Owen.
      ' I am unwilling to write to him directly, for

his kindness might lead him to acquiesce in a

request on my part which may be inconvenient

to him.

      ' Do you think he could spare the time to sit ?
He can without hesitation answer you if you will

write to him.

      ' I should ask Pickersgill, who painted Cuvier,
to paint the pendant.'

     This suggestion was acted upon by Buckland,
and the picture was ultimately added to Sir
Robert Peel's gallery at Drayton. Sir Robert
was anxious that Owen should be painted in a
sitting posture, ' whereat poor Pick, was troubled,'
Owen writes, ' as sitting will not suit the subject
as well as standing, on account of the robe.'

248  PROFESSOR OWEN                  Ch. vm.

     CHAPTER VIII

                                             I 845
Owen's Opinion of the 'Vestiges of Creation'-- His Descriptive

     Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia -- Election to ' The Club '--
     Refusal of the offer of Knighthood --Visit to Turner the
     Painter -- Meeting of the Italian Naturalists at Naples.

A rEiMARKably advanced scientific book ap

peared in the year 1844, entitled 'Vestiges of

the Natural History of Creation.'1 It was

published anonymously, and for forty years the
secret of its authorship was unknown. The

book was variously ascribed to Thackeray,

Lady Lovelace, Sir Charles Lyell, George

   1 The author of the Vestiges      not of any immediate or personal
of Creation gave a sketch of the     exertion on the part of the
geological history of the earth,     Deity, but of natural laws which
                                     are expressions of His will;' 'the
followed by Considerations on        whole train of animated beings,

the Origin of the Animated           from the simplest and oldest, up

Tribes, and endeavoured to show      to the highest and most recent,
                                     are, then, to be regarded as a
' throughout the geological his-
tory strong traces of a parallel     series of advances of theprinciple
advance of the physical con-         of development, which have de-
ditions and the organic forms ; '
                                     pended upon external physical
'that the construction of this
                                     circumstances, to which the
globe and its associates, and
inferentially that of all the other  resulting animals are appro-
globes of space, was the result,
                                     priate.'

I84S 'VESTIGES OF CREATION'  249

Coombe, Sir Richard Vyvyan, and even Prince
Albert, but one of the depositories of the secret,
Mr. Alexander Ireland, in a lecture delivered

before the Manchester Literary Club in April
1884, stated that it was entirely from the pen of
Robert Chambers. The most extraordinary pre

cautions had been taken to preserve the anony
mity of the author, who states in one of his

letters : ' To escape strife at the expense of

losing any honour which may arise from
my work is to me a most advantageous ex
change.' What Owen thought of this book

may be gathered from the following letter
which he addressed to the ' Author of " Ves

tiges," &c : '--
     ' Sir, -- I beg to offer you my best thanks for

the copy of your work entitled " Vestiges of the
Natural History of Creation," which Ihave perused

with the pleasure and profit that could not fail to
be imparted by a summary of the evidences from
all the Natural Sciences bearing upon the origin
of all Nature, by one who is evidently familiar

with the principles of so extensive a range of
human knowledge. It is to be presumed that no

true searcher after truth can have a prejudiced
dislike to conclusions based upon adequate evi
dence, and the discovery of the general secondary
causes concerned in the production of organised
beings upon this planet would not only be

received with pleasure, but is probably the chief

250  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. viiI.

end which the best anatomists and physiologists

have in view.
      ' I have cited experiments in my " Lectures

on the Invertebrata" published last year, in
which infusions of dead organic matter, light,

warmth, atmospheric air --in short, all the con

ditions requisite for the supposed spontaneous

development of animalcules -- were present, but

with an adequate contrivance against the possi
bility of the presence of the ova of such, and no
development ensued. I have had personal experi

ence --but the case would be too long for this
letter of acknowledgment -- of the inadequacy of

the preventive means adopted by Mr. Crosse ; the
like inadequacy of Mr. Weeks's may be inferred

from his own description. I have sought in
every department of animated nature for un
equivocal evidence of the earth and the waters

still exercising those delegated powers to which
the Mosaic record refers, that rich " bringing

forth of the moving creature that hath life" at
the earliest periods of the peopling of this planet,
but hitherto in vain. The gradation of organic

beings is for the most part so close and easy that
we cannot be surprised at the idea of progressive
transmutation of species having been a favourite
one with the philosophic mind in all ages. When,
however, you refer the highest species of the
Quadrumana to the Indian Archipelago, and con
nect the fact with the origination of man (page

1845 'VESTIGES OF CREATION' 251

296), you overlook the fact that the highest of all
the Quadrumana, the chimpanzee, is exclusively a
native of Africa. The coincidence will doubtless

be highly agreeable to one inclined to base his
views on such insecure grounds that the highest
Quadrumana in the continental metropolis of the
Ethiopian race should be black, whilst the orang,
in the centre of the Malayan variety of man,
should approximate so nearly to the characteristic
tint of that variety. These considerations, to
gether with the resemblance of the chimpanzees
skull in its prominent superorbital arch and some
other characters to the Melanian form of cranium,

interested me so much whilst investigating the
physiological possibility of the development of
the Hottentot from the chimpanzee, without, I
believe, the slightest prejudice against such a
relationship ; but many particulars in the ana
tomy of both black and red orangs are decisive
against such a hypothesis in the present state of
physiological knowledge. There are a few mistakes
where you treat of my own department of science,
easily rectified in your second edition. Thus,

on page 333 : " The ray belongs to the highest
and best framed order of fishes. The myxine is

the lowest, and nearest the Invertebrata ;" but

upon the whole the zoology and anatomy of the
work is correct, and near upon the present level.
I take the liberty, in reference to the idea and
diagram given in page 212, to request your at-

252  PROFESSOR OWEN                          ch. viiI.

tention to the concluding generalisation in my
twelfth lecture, and to that on the " Metamor

phoses of Insects," where will be found, I believe,

the first enunciation of the true law of the ana

logies manifested by the embryos of animals in

their progress to their destined maturity. I will

not prolong this letter by any further remarks that

have arisen from the perusal of your work.'

     On January 30, 1845, Whewell wrote to Owen
inquiring if he had seen ' a book called " Vestiges

of Creation," for I am told it is much talked of in

London.' He asks Owen's opinion of the doc

trines therein set forth, and especially of the state

ment ' that animals in general may be arranged

in a series proceeding from less to more perfect,

in such a way that the more perfect in their fcetal

condition pass through the successive stages of

the less perfect, the characters being taken from

the vital centres, the brain or the heart, and the

more perfect being the more complex.' Whewell
cannot ' imagine ' that Owen ' can assent to any

part of this scheme,' and wishes to know his-

opinion as to ' what parts of it are most palpably

false in physiology.' He proceeds: 'The first

proposition ' about the fcetal stages ' we have

heard a great deal of lately. Who is the main

promulgator of and how far do you believe
'

                             it,

                                                                                          3,

                                                                            it

                                                                                                                       ?

                                                                                                                                                                  :'
     In reply Owen wrote, February           1845

Animals in general cannot be arranged in a

series proceeding from less to more perfect in any

1845 WHEWELL ON 'VESTIGES'          253

way, so many, in different natural series, being on

a par ; much less can they be so arranged as that

the more perfect in their fcetal condition pass

through the successive stages of the less perfect,

the characters being taken from the brain to the

heart.' He gives no definite reply to Whewell's

last question.

Whewell wrote to Owen again on February

1 3, thanking him for his letter, and stating that his

reason for asking his opinion was, that ' though

the author is very decorous in his language [the
book] has been felt by many persons to have a
tendency adverse to Natural Theology ; and I

have been importuned to answer it. This I

cannot undertake to do.' He intends, he says, to

issue some selections from his ' Philosophy' bearing

on Theology,    '  and      in the  preface (without naming
the " Vestiges               shall  notice one or two points
                   "     I
                      )

which have some apparent novelty in the book.'

He wishes to quote Owen's authority for various

statements ; but from a later letter of Whewell's

(February 15) we gather that Owen had objected
to this, for Whewell says : ' So far as you are con

cerned, I will submit anything which I write, and

you shall see and decide for yourself, as is rea

sonable.'

Murchison and Sedgwick wrote on the same

subject.

   254        PROFESSOR OWEN           ch. vm.

              R. Murchison to R. Owen

                                                                            April 2, 1845.

        ' My dear Owen, --The enclosed letter from

   Sedgwick will explain to you that he is not to be
   had. In speaking to Lockhart long ago on this

   subject, I said to him that of all persons in this

   town you were the most fit to review the
   " Vestiges," but that I doubted the possibility of
   your finding time to do it. Now, however, that

   the book has passed through four editions and

   is really taking considerable hold on the public

   mind, a real man in armour is required, and if

   you would undertake the concern you would do

   infinite service to true science and sincerely oblige
   your friends. With your facility in composition I

   doubt not that a day or two would suffice, and

   your article would completely mesmerise the
   ..." Monmouth Street philosophy," as Sedgwick
   calls it.  I cannot say how you would gratify

   your friends and admirers by this effort, which
   would entitle you to another niche in the temple
   of good works in which you already occupy so

   high a place.

       ' To be done at all it must be done by a

   master hand; at present, notwithstanding the on

   dits of men of science, the book rides triumphant.
                        ' Ever yours most sincerely,

              ' Rod. I. Murchison.'

r

1845 SEDGWICK ON 'VESTIGES'  255

               Adam Sedgivick to R. Owen

                                                                                May 1845.

     ' I have thoughts of writing a review of that
beastly book, the " Vestiges of Creation." You
are my brazen head, like the one old Friar Bacon
used to consult in his difficulties.' Sedgwick goes
on to criticise various points in what he calls the
' circular-logic ' of the author, and he remarks :
' The marsupials may resemble in their gestation
the lower class of birds. But is not this mere
resemblance without anything like identity, or
like a passage from one towards another ? True
philosophy has to do with differences rather than
with resemblances, or at least has to do with both.
I want you to clear my fog over one or two points.'

     Sedgwick apparently wrote also to Sir Philip
Egerton for information, for the latter writes to
Owen in June to say that he has no time to give
Sedgwick's letter a careful answer. ' Give,' he says,

 ' old Sedg. an argument or two to level against
the "Vestiges" founded on correct anatomy.'

      It is interesting to find, after reading Owen's
own letter to the then unknown author of the

 ' Vestiges,' that others eagerly sought after his
 opinions, for the express purpose of confuting

the views therein expressed. We may, perhaps,
assume that Owen had a certain leaning towards
 the theories enunciated by Robert Chambers, but

256  PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. vm.

 that, at the same time, he did not feel sufficiently

convinced to recognise those principles, afterwards
expounded by Charles Darwin, which his own
genius and capacity for work could not fail to have

 furthered.

      In 1845 Owen first described the remains of
dicynodonts 2 from South Africa. These creatures
were a new tribe of sauria, the remains of which

have since been found in England, Scotland, and
 India, and have proved of peculiar value in deter

mining critical points with regard to the age of

certain rocks.

      By the end of the year his ' Descriptive Cata
logue of Fossil Mammalia and Aves preserved
in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons '

had also appeared. One cannot but be astounded
at the amount of work which he got through dur
ing the years 1844-46 ; it was clearly a period of
excessive activity with him, and the wonder is

that he retained his health through it all. We
see from his wife's diary that a great part of this

work was done late at night.

     'January 7. -- R. busy till nearly three in the

morning writing paper for the Geological Society

to-morrow on Dicynodon.'

     In a note to Laurillard written a few months
later, referring to the ' age of the rocks containing

the dicynodonts,' Owen says : ' I do not believe

     8 ' On Reptilian Fossils  {Trans. Geo/. Soc, vol. vii., 2nd
(Dicynodon) from S. Africa,'
                               series, 1845).

1845 OWEN AND THE LABOURING CLASSES 257

them to be older than our New Red, or, at most,

the Magnesian Conglomerates which contain our

thecodont reptiles.'
     Owen was still acting as Commissioner on the

health of towns, and this year issued his report
on the sanitary condition of Lancaster. This
Commission work frequently took up the best

part of a day, as the following entries will show :--
     'January 16. -- R. at Gwydyr House on the

Health of Towns Commission, from ten till six.'

     ' 25M. -- R. to Gwydyr House in the morning.

Afternoon spent in going over the House of Com
mons with Sir H. de la Beche and Dr. Reid in

order to see about the best mode of lighting, &c'
     Owen received 1oo/. remuneration for his

services as Commissioner, and what he did with

it is best seen from a letter which he wrote to

Lord Ashley :--
     ' In response to your Lordship's appeal in aid

of the undertakings of the Society for Improving
the Condition of the Labouring Classes, I beg to
be permitted to contribute to the funds of the
Society the amount of the remuneration which I
have received as " Commissioner for inquiring
into the health of towns." I enclose a copy of a

memorandum sent with the sum received.

Richard Owen, Esq.

Amount of remuneration as Commissioner   for £ s. d
                                             . 100 16 o
inquiring into the health of towns .  .
                                                     2 18 10
Property tax
                                               97 17 2'
VOL. I.
                                                       S

258  PROFESSOR OWEN               Ch. vm.

     His services on various Commissions in later

years were given gratuitously.     lecture at the
                                  crowd I have
    The diary continues :--
    'January 31. -- To Faraday's
Royal Institution. The largest

ever seen there. Many gentlemen were obliged

to come into the ladies' gallery, as they could

not get seats elsewhere. After an exceedingly

interesting lecture, Faraday said he had a few

remarks to make on some new reform laws for the

Institution. These remarks were admirably made,

and no one could feel offended, although it was

a direct attack on those gentlemen who helped to

render the ladies very uncomfortable sometimes

by filling seats, and often the front seats, in the

part intended only for ladies. Wearing a hat in

the library was one of the delinquencies, likewise

sitting in the seats reserved for the directors,

who were obliged by their office and duties to

be the last in. Mr. Faraday also remarked that

the formation of two currents, caused by certain

gentlemen rushing upstairs the instant the lecture
was over in order to fetch their lady friends, was

not conducive to the comfort of those coming

downstairs. Everything taken very well.'

    A few days before this lecture Faraday wrote

Owen an amusing letter about a three-legged frog

which had come into his possession :--
    ' Dear Owen, -- Who cares for bipeds or quad

rupeds ? They are as common as discontent,

1845 FARADAY'S ONE-LEGGED FROG 259

but I think even you may be interested in a

triped which I happen to possess just now, and

which, if you do care for
           it is                       at your service.
               is

                                             is it,
                                                  is

                                                            is
The fact that in sending for some frogs for my

lectures, one of them, a fine fellow, proved to have
but one hind leg. The leg very powerful, and

when on earth, or when resistance afforded to

its hold,  astonishing to see how far this frog

jumps by its aid. In fact, as to locomotion, the

leg does the ordinary duty of two very well.                                                                                              II

do not see any mark of a former wound, and

thought you might be pleased to observe first

the frog's actions and afterwards its structure. If

so, drop me a note and will send to you.
                                Ever truly yours,
                                              W. Faraday.'
                                       '

                                         I

                                                                        '

                                                             it

'February 21. -- Geological Society Anniver

sary. R. having declined the office of president,

now vice-president.'

  April -- R. wrote to Willy to tell him of a
is

          '
                                    1

                           5.

' itcurious mistake in the old Latin dictionary. The                                                                                      !
word "alee " = " elk," has the extraordinary note                                                                                                 '
that was a creature " without joints in its legs "

      May 10. --A great box arrived full of

statistics for R. "to cast his eye over." They

consist of information elicited by questions put

by the Commissioners.'                 lecture                             to his

      13M. -- R.'s introductory
'
                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                       2
Hunterian Course for the season.'

26o             PROFESSOR OWEN         CH. VIII-

     ' \jth. -- R. off with Mr. Gould to Woburn on
a fishing expedition -- an arrangement made long
since. They put up at the " Bedford Arms," and

drove together in a butcher's cart to a stream

about four miles off. Good sport, and plenty of

trout caught.'
     ' 22nd. -- R. very
"                        hard at work  all day.    His
   Fossil Mammalia "     came in last  night with
                                                   the
delectable words " The End " printed, but there
is still a great deal to do -- Introduction, &c'
    'June 6. -- R. and I to Albemarle Street at
eight to hear Mr. Murchison lecture at the Royal
Institution on the " Ural Mountains." Unfortu

nately, the most interesting part had to be crowded

into a few minutes at the end of the lecture,

owing to the time.'

     By the beginning of July the ' Odonto
graphy ' was completed, and Owen mentions the

fact in a note written to his wife on July 10.
' I found a pile of copies of my " Odontography,"

looking very grand in new covers and India
paper. Your father is now reading the preface/

     Mention must be made of Owen's election

this year into the famous club founded by Dr.

Johnson and limited to forty members, which is
known as ' The Club.' The date of his election

was May 20, 1845. Strangely enough, in this
club he filled the place once occupied by Oliver
Goldsmith, for, since ' The Club ' was composed
purely of representative men, and literature was

1845  THE CLUB                                                261

already represented, Goldsmith obtained his place
on the score of his supposed scientific attain

ments, as being the author of a book, ' Animated
Nature,' which was merely a translation of Buffon's
' Natural History'

     At Owen's first dinner at ' The Club ' the
question was raised by Lord Clarendon whether

Cromwell ought to have a place amongst the
monuments of the kings and queens of England in
Westminster Hall, and was to be decided by each

member giving his opinion and reasons in turn.
Owen, as the youngest member, had to give
his opinion first, somewhat to his dismay. But

fortunately for him he was a great lover of
Milton, and, having a very retentive memory,
remembered his ' Ode to Cromwell,' and so re
plied that Cromwell already had a monument in

men's minds in Milton's words --

      Cromwell, our chief of men, who, through a cloud
      Not of war only, but detractions rude,

      Guided by faith and matchless fortitude,

      To peace and truth thy glorious way hast plough'd, &c.

We have a description of a dinner at ' The
Literary Society,' on July 4 :--

      ' It was, as it always  is,

                                         J.
                                  a very delightful
meeting -- Sir R. Inglis, Chev. Bunsen, Baron
Alderson, Bishop of Lichfield, Sir
                                             Barrow,

Sir R. Westmacott, the octogenarian tutor to

Lord Melville, who lives in Greek, Col. Leake,

the antiquarian of Athens, Mr. Eastlake, Mr.

262                  PROFESSOR OWEN                    CH. VIII.

Maynard, Mr. Gregson, Dr. Croly, and myself.
The great work by Humboldt, " Cosmos," came
under discussion. You should have Bailliere's

translation ofis                 To say that does not give
                  it.  .  .  ;.      is
                                               it
the richness of the original only to say that the

man who could worthily render the diction of

Humboldt not yet found. . . Arnold have
                                     I                 I
                                            .
almost wholly read but                         mean to buy that

remarkable record of a man who could, and dared

to, think     greater rarity than the moa.'
           :  a
                 la
     'On July 24,' Mrs. Owen writes her diary,
                                               if
'  Sir H. de         Beche came with a message from
                                                   in
Sir Robert Peel to ask Richard knighthood

would be acceptable to him. After talking the

matter over with me, R. declined, as desired.
                                                   I

     would not add much to our comfort or re
It
     J.                      the time should come when

                        it

                         if
spectability, and

the collection had become part of a great national

museum, then might all be very well.'

     Early in August Owen met Theodore Hook

and M. W. Turner, at a dinner given by his
friend Broderip, who was a great connoisseur of
pictures. A few days after this dinner Turner

invited Owen and Broderip to see his pictures

in his house in Queen Anne Street. Owen'sis
account of this visit amusing. He tells how,

on a very bright August day, Broderip and he

walked together to Turner's residence, which was

slightly dingy in outward appearance. When

they arrived at the door, they waited some time

1845 VISIT TO TURNER  263

before their ring at the bell was answered. At

last an elderly person opened the door a few
inches, and asked them suspiciously what they

wanted. They replied that they wished to see
Mr. Turner. The door was immediately shut in

their faces ; but after a time the person came back
to say that they might enter. When they got
into the hall she showed them into a room, and

forthwith shut the door upon them. They then

discovered with some dismay that this apartment
was in total darkness, with the blinds down and

the shutters up. After a prolonged interval, they

were told they might go upstairs. Upon arriving at
the topmost storey they perceived Turner standing
before several easels, and taking his colours from
a circular table, which he swung round to get at
the paints he required. He was painting several
pictures at once, passing on from one to the other,
and applying to each in its turn the particular
colour he was using, till it was exhausted.

     After showing them all that there was to be
 seen, Turner vouchsafed the explanation of the

 treatment which they experienced upon entering

 the house. He said that the bright light outside

 would have spoilt their eyes for properly appre

 ciating the pictures, and that to see them to
 advantage an interval of darkness was necessary.

 At this stage of the interview Broderip had to

 leave for some engagement, and then an event
 took place which Owen declares that none of his

264  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. viiI.

artist friends would ever believe. Turner offered

him a glass of wine ! It was while they were

coming downstairs that he first observed
symptoms of an inward struggle going on in
Turner's bosom. When they were passing a

little cupboard on the landing this struggle

reached a climax. Finally, Turner said, ' Will
you --will you have a glass of wine ? ' This offer

having been accepted, after a good deal of

groping in the cupboard a decanter was pro
duced, of which the original glass stopper had
been replaced by a cork, with the remains of
some sherry at the bottom. This Owen duly con

sumed, and shortly afterwards took his leave, with
many expressions of the pleasure that this visit

had afforded him and a disturbing conviction that
the sherry might lurk indefinitely in his system.

     Owen had several visits from Turner at the

College of Surgeons, and on August 8 Mrs. Owen
writes : ' I translated part of the programme of
the Munich Exhibition for 1845 for Turner, as
he is thinking of sending them a picture.' .

     On September 1 Owen set out for the

Continent, in order to attend the meeting of
the Association of Italian Naturalists, which was

held at Naples. From a memorandum he sent to
Mr. Clift about the forwarding of his letters we

gather that he meant to stay from September

3 to 7 in Paris, 8th to nth Marseilles, nth

to 28th Naples, September 29 to October 6

1845           ROUEN AND PARIS         265

Basle, October 6 till further advice, Cologne.

Of his letters, which are mainly descriptive, one

to his son, dated Paris, September 4, 1845, and

illustrated with sketches of a van drawn by six

horses, and of a fountain, tells all about the

King's palace and gardens, where, he says, every

body behaves very well ' and no one plucks

flowers.' To his wife he writes on the same

day : ' I have not had time till now to write

more than one note (for Sir J as. Graham), ex

tracted from me by Buckland when exhausted

by fatigue and past midnight, which is the con
sequence of dear B.'s incessant activity and de

termination that neither he nor anyone shall

rest till they have seen all that can, should,

or might be seen. . . . [At Havre] we went to

the Douane to see our luggage passed, and I

had nearly been made a sans-culotte, the officer

insisting on seizing my black trousers because

they were new and had not been worn ! The

incident will    probably grace    the columns of
" Galignani "
               or " Punch!" ' He  relates the starting

at half-past 5 a.m. from Havre to Caudebec, and
a visit by Buckland and himself to Rouen and

the Abbey of Jumieges. At Rouen they visited

Pouchet and his museum, ' saw all the abbeys

and churches,' and reached Paris at five the same

day, where they were met by Pentland.

     On September 8, in another letter to his wife
written from Paris, he says : ' I postpone leaving

266  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vm.

Paris until to-morrow morning, in order to avail my
self of the meeting of the Institute to-day, at which
Dr. Buckland and I take our seats for the first

time since our election. Yesterday we went to
Versailles to pay our respects to Madame Cuvier
and Sophie. We found the dear venerable lady
at home. . . . She is rather deaf and shows her

great age, but the fine features and the benevo
lent, intellectual eyes still remain.'

      Concerning his visit to the Institute, Owen

writes to his wife :--

                   Steamboat on ye Rhone : September n [1845].
      ' I got up early on Monday morning at Paris,
wrote off slick a memoir for the Institute, called on
Flourens, the Sec at the Garden of Plants, who

had it forthwith translated, and it was read to a

large auditory. . . . My communication was on the
discovery of the fossil monkey 3 in the newer ter
 tiary deposits of Essex, with the extinct elephant,
rhinoceros, &c, the first ever met with in that

 formation. I exhibited the fossil, and took the

 precaution before the meeting to compare it
 (along with De Blainville) with the large collec

 tion of monkeys' skulls in the Jardin des Plantes.
 De B. was quite en accord with me, and they
 regard the matter here as tres important. Buck-
 land, Pentland, and I met Elie de Beaumont,

 Omalius d'Halloy, and some distinguished

      3 Macacus pliocenus, Owen ; British Fossil Mammals, 184.6,
 p. xlvi.

184S ' NAPLES                                    267

zoologists and geologists at Milne- Edwards' to

dinner.'

      Sailing from Marseilles via Leghorn, where the

ship stayed long enough for him to pay a flying
visit to Pisa, and Civita Vecchia, they arrived at

Naples on September 15, 'taking in passengers
for the Congress 4 at each port ; we numbered at

last nearly 300.'
      Once settled at Naples he writes long letters to

his wife, the first of which is dated September 20,
1 845 : ' And now, my dear Caroline, that I find
myself in the cool quiet of my apartment after
the hurry and excitement of this first day of the
Congress, I hasten to the enjoyment of a deeper
pleasure than any that the events at Naples have

given me --a conversation with my own dear loved

wife, whom I have often had in my mind during
busy and exciting scenes, bearing patiently in her
far-distant and comfortless abode her own indis

position, and comforting our dear patient little

Willie under his.' After some details of his
voyage he refers to the meeting, and says : ' The
King5 was present, and, some flattering allusion

being made to him, he rose, and, much to the sur
prise of alL addressed the meeting ; he said (as
Prince Canino translated it to me), he deserved
no praise, and could not listen to it from his own
Minister (the President, who was Minister of
the Interior) ; he felt himself the favoured and

4 Meeting of the Italian Naturalists.  5 Bomba.

268          PROFESSOR OWEN               ch. vm.

honoured person in receiving the visit of so many

intellectually eminent persons ; all that he had

done was a duty and pleasure ; he only desired to

know the wishes of the Congress, he would fulfil

them to the utmost of his power ; regretted that

this was not much, and that he should be more

than repaid by the benefit which might be an

ticipated to this beautiful part of Italy. The

Prince observed that that was the most delicate

             .
                        .

                                               it,
expression, and in the best taste, for by using
instead of saying " to my kingdom," he made him

self one of the assembly. . Whilst we were

waiting [for dinner] Robert Brown came in, sun
burnt and blistered from the effects of an excur

sion to the summit of Vesuvius.'

     While in Rome Owen was the guest of Prince

'ICharles Lucien Bonaparte, and he says, in a
letter to Mrs. Clift (October     1845):                                  have
                               7,
                                         a

                                                                         ;
seen St. Peter's, the Vatican, Colosseum by sun

light and moonlight, and more than anybody else

ever did or could see in so short  time but

the Prince arranges everything, and his horses

are swift.'

     Before leaving Italy Owen visited Florence,

and in his diary writes At Florence had per
             :

              I. '
                                     I
mission of the Grand Duke to have a copy of the

portrait of Oliver Cromwell which hung as a pen

dant to that of Charles in the room or gallery
of the Pitti Palace assigned to " Portraits of Great
Generals." The copy was made, at the recom-

1845 'BRITISH FOSSIL MAMMALS'   269

mendation of the Grand Duke, by Michele

Cortazzi.'

     On his way back to England Owen stayed a

short time at Cologne, where he made the usual

visits to the places of interest. At St. Ursula's

Church, however, his attention was attracted to the

bones of that saintly lady's virgin companions,
many of which he very soon discovered to be
those of horses and other animals.6

     Owen did not reach London till November 5,

owing to the ' fogs on the Rhine,' which delayed
him two days.

     On November 1 1 we find him busily at work
again, for he writes to one of his sisters from the
College of Surgeons : ' Since my return I have

prepared for press the No. XI. of my " Brit. Fossil

Mammals," which I hope you will receive at the
beginning of next month, and I have made some
progress with the final number, so that work will
be completed by the end of this year. I have
next to write and print the volume on " Verte-
brated Animals," which will complete my Lec
tures on the Comparative Anatomy of Animals

generally. I intend to lecture on the Vertebrata
next spring, so the same work will serve for both
purposes. These labours don't depend on bright
ness of sky, and I find a vast consolation in them
for the great change between October in Italy and

   '' The tradition concerning  Murray 's Handbook for North
these bones will be found in
                                Germany.

270  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                                            ch. VIII.

November in London. Indeed, I have rather

enjoyed than otherwise one or two typical fogs

...which have lately enveloped us, according to the
custom of the season.         I dined yesterday

with Sir J. Lubbock, Friday with Professor An-
sted, Thursday with bachelor Cooper (Wm.),

Wednesday with Justice B. [Broderip], and Mon
day with the Worshipful Company of Apothe

caries in their ancient hall. . . . Just before
dinner to-day a letter from Dr. Buckland brought
the news-- to our great pleasure-- of his presen
tation to the Deanery of Westminster.'

     On December i we find an entry in the diary
stating that the Copley Medal was voted to Owen

at the Royal Society on that day, but that he

     It

           4
                       it,

                             it

                                                                           '
could not receive as was voted to him while

he was still on the Council.                                                  The medal was to

be given at p.m., and he was on the Council till

5  p.m. was suggested that the medal should

be given to the person whom R. should propose.
On this he proposed Theodor Schwann.'

     By December 18 everything connected with'
the " British Fossil Mammalia and Birds " was

completed,' and on the 25th the whole work was
received in type from Bentley's.

     As soon as the complete book appeared Owen
sent a copy to Dr. Gideon Mantell, who wrote
the following letter of acknowledgment --
     I'
                                                                                                                            :
     thank you most warmly for your invaluable

present, and sincerely congratulate you on the

184S  LETTER FROM MANTELL  271

completion of this new and imperishable monu
ment of your genius, talents, untiring industry,
and successful research.

     ' How I wish I had the abilities, the means,

and the leisure to bring out such a volume on
the flora and fauna of the country of the igua-
nodon ! But, alas ! I must be content to have
obtained a distant glimpse of that " Land of
Promise," which more fortunate and worthier
cultivators of natural science will enter and ex

plore. . . .'

272          PROFESSOR OWEN               ch. 1x.

             CHAPTER IX

             1846-47

Owen's proposal of a National Collection of Fossil and Recent
     Comparative Anatomy -- The British Association at Southamp
    ton, 1846, and at Oxford, 1847-- Literary Work --The Rajah of
    Sarawak at 'The Club,' 1847-- Member of the Commission
    of Sewers -- Foundation of the Palaeontological Society, 1848.

A scheme which Owen had very near at heart

was the furtherance of the growth and utility
of the collections under his charge and those
at the British Museum, and the following copy
of a letter which he addressed to Sir Robert Peel

shows that he lost no opportunity of advancing

his plans :--

             Richard Owen to Sir R. Peel

     ' Dear   Royal College of Surgeons : February 13, 1846
Hunterian
             Sir Robert, --The report [on the

              Museum] which you will hear to
morrow is limited to the statement of the depart

ment of the Physiological and Comparative Ana

tomical Museum which requires increase ; and
of the extent of space which would be required

for the display of such a museum if it were

1846-47  NATIONAL MUSEUM PROPOSED     273

brought up to the present state of comparative

anatomy, so as to fulfil the objects and merit

the character of the natural exposition of those

works of the Creator which are the subjects of

that science.

' Should the Trustees deem the subject one

worthy the attention of Government and meriting

a repetition of the aid it formerly received, the

following are the dates and sums voted for the

establishment of the actual museum : --

    'In 1799 Parliament voted 15,000/. for the

purchase of the Hunterian Collection of Compa

rative Anatomy.
     ' In 1806 Parliament voted a further sum of

15,000/., in aid of the erection of an edifice for its

proper display and arrangement.

     ' In 1808 or 9 a third grant, of 12,500/., was

voted in aid of the completion of that edifice.

' Since that period comparative anatomy

has received no further pecuniary aid from the

State.

' The experience of the last six years has

convinced me that a national collection of the

organic mechanism of animals (if the Hunterian

Museum is to represent and fulfil the purposes

of such collection) can only keep pace with the
science, and with the required applications of such

museum to physiology, zoology, and geology,

by the aid of an annual grant from Government

analogous to that which has been made in aid of

vol. 1.                            T

274         PROFESSOR OWEN        ch. 1x.

the public expositions of zoology at the British
Museum, of botany at Kew Gardens, and of

geology at Craig's Court, for which latter collec
tion a new museum is now in progress of erection.

Such annual grant, if the importance and various

applications of comparative anatomy be deemed

just ground for meriting ought to be applied toif

the maintenance of the museum, under the controlit,
and direction of the Trustees!

      Owen was of opinion that the utility of the
collections at the Hunterian and British Museums,

and the Museum of Practical Geology, would be

greatly enhanced  these collections could be

combined. He was convinced of the importance
of studying fossil and recent animals together --

a question which has formed the subject of con

sideration of the most eminent scientists at the

present day.6,

     Sir William Flower mentions that as early as
January 1842, Owen reported to the Council of

the College of Surgeons on the expediency of com:

bining the fossil and recent osteological specimens

in one catalogue as well as in one museum series.

His argument was thus summed up in the Report
'The peculiarities of the extinct mastodon, for

example, cannot be understood without a compa;
rison with the analogous parts of the elephant and
tapir nor those of the ichthyosaurus without
reference to the skeletons of crocodiles and fishes.

The most useful portion of such specimens in the

1846-47  LETTER FROM LORD F. EGERTON                                 275

'museum            therefore, between those series of

              is,skeletons of which they present intermediate or

transitional structures.' This excellent plan,

though approved by the Council, and carried out

in the museum, never appeared in print.

   Lord Francis Egerton to Richard Owen

                                18 Belgrave Square March 27, 1846.

   My dear Sir, -- have strong inclination
                   is I
to take some opportunity after Easter of moving
                           is
for a committee of inquiry into the state of thea

various collections of the British Museum. My                     :

general view of the case this. Books and anti     it

quities are accumulating there at a rate which

must soon raise the question of further and very
extensive accommodation. For the moment, per

haps, space enough left to allow of the whole
subject being considered without the hurry of

immediate pressure.'
       This, therefore, seems to me a fit and conve

nient juncture for considering whether may not

be possible to effect a great and salutary rearrange
ment of the public collections, founded on the

simple and intelligible principle of the separation

of mind from matter, placing in one department

everything which concerns intellectual man, and

in one or more other departments everything

else.      could be feasible to make incidental

     If
'

       it

276  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. IX.

to the adoption of such a principle the union of
the fossil collections of the Museum with those

of the College of Surgeons, the advantages to
science are too obvious and numerous for present
discussion. The difficulties in the way are

numerous, and I fear insurmountable. If you have

ever thought on the subject sufficiently to devise
even the outline of any practical scheme for the
purpose, I should be very thankful for any com

munication on the subject as confidential as you

might wish to make it.

             ' Believe me, very faithfully yours,

                                             ' F. Egerton.'

      Richard Owen to Lord Francis Egerton

                                      College of Surgeons: March 27, 1846.

     ' Dear Lord Francis Egerton, --Your letter

has revived a hope in me on a subject which I
have had at heart for some years, but about which
I had begun to despond : a remedy for the
increasing anomaly of separate collections of
natural objects, which, as at present disjoined, fail
to illustrate the order and laws of Nature, and

consequently are wanting in that which best
justifies the expenses of collecting, housing, and

arranging them. The first and most obvious
practical remedy that suggested itself was that to
which you refer -- viz. the combination of the fossil
skeletons at the British Museum with the recent
ones at the College of Surgeons. It seemed the

1846-47  REPLY  277

most practicable because the fossils at the museum
are not, like Sloanian andBanksian Natural History

specimens, special bequests, but have accumulated
gradually round a nucleus of a small but choice
collection of minerals, and the chief augmenta

tions have been by Parliamentary grants for the
purchase of the two collections of Mr. Hawkins,

the collections of Dr. Mantell, Mr. Koch, &c. Of

all the Natural History departments in the museum,
I believe this to be most out of place there ; that

its removal would be opposed by fewest difficulties,

and that the space required by such removal

would be most valuable for the legitimate objects
of the Museum.

     ' What I have done towards preparing the
way for the reception of such an addition to the
Hunterian basis of a national collection of com
parative anatomy is as follows : --

     ' I should premise that the portions of the

College funds assigned to the museum have been

applied during the last six or seven years almost
exclusively to the increase of the Surgical Depart
ment. With great difficulty and by personal can
vass I have carried the purchase of a rare object

of comparative anatomy now and then. At length

the Pathological Museum overflows, and is made

to encroach on the Comparative Anatomy, against
the further extension of which want of space is
added to the argument of want of funds. Mr.

Barry [afterwards Sir Charles] is called in, and

278  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

recommends all that present space permits --a

small additional room at an estimated cost of about

3,000/. I take this opportunity to renew a pro
position to the Council which on former occasions

has been distasteful, involving an application for
Government aid, to be applied to the increase of
the museum under the control of the Hunterian

Trustees, coupled with facilities of admission to

the male adult public Having discussed the
subject with Sir B. Brodie and two other influen
tial members of the Council, they admit the futility
of wasting the College funds by expenditures which
would give only temporary relief to pressing
inconvenience, and the Council call upon me for
a report. In that I propose that they should
consider the question of museum enlargement in
the light of its adequacy to the reception of a
national collection of recent and fossil comparative
anatomy ; to look to Government for the requisite

funds ; to consent to resign to the Trustees the
control of such funds, and to be prepared for the
reception of the national collection of fossil com

parative anatomy if offered ; and to submit the

whole to the inspection of the male adult public

on the same days and hours as those on which
the public are admitted to the British Museum.

     ' The Council have accepted my report, are

willing to agree to such an arrangement, and
have referred it to the Hunterian Trustees. The

Trustees have memorialised the Treasury, but,

1846-47  URGES ONE GREAT COLLECTION       279

Lord Northampton informs me, without success.
The case is briefly this : Parliament recognised

the principle of a national or public collection of

comparative anatomy by purchasing in the year

1799 that left by John Hunter, but transferred the
expense of maintaining and augmenting accord
                                   it
ing to the needs of the progress of the science, toit,

the College of Surgeons, voting to the College a

sum in aid of the building for the lodgment of the
museum. The sum total granted by Parliament

for the original purchase and the building was
42,500/. Half a century has now nearly elapsed,

and the College of Surgeons has duly fulfilled,

without further aid, the terms on which accepted

the Hunterian Museum, and has greatly aug

mented   it,     especially in the Pathological De
               is
partment. But the Comparative Anatomy has

by no means kept pace with the progress of the

science, and very far behind the collections at
Paris, Leyden, and Berlin in the series of skeletons.

It  seems not unreasonable to think that a collection

which displays the interior organisation of animals

should have claim for an annual grant from
                 a
                            is
Government for its preservation and increase

equal to that which assigned to the collections

of exterior zoology. The specimens of divine

mechanism from which a Ray and Paley have
                                a

reduced so many beautiful illustrations of final

purpose may be expected to have at least as much

influence in humanising and improving the tone

28o  PROFESSOR OWEN   ch. 1x.

of mind of a common visitor as the beauty      or

strangeness of the outward forms of animals.   to
     ' As to the expense : if the fossils are

remain and to be arranged, as they should be at
the British Museum, that must be incurred to

meet the needs of this and of other departments ;
and the question is whether the public and science

would not be the better served by expending so as

to combine and concentrate collections now unna

turally dissevered, and thereby gain space for the
more legitimate objects of the British Museum.
Lincoln's Inn Fields is as central a position as

Great Russell Street ; Spode's great premises

extend from the Square to Portugal Street, in

close contiguity with the College.
     ' I would gladly devote the years that may

be spared me in systematically arranging and

expounding both by catalogue and lecture, as

heretofore, in regard to the Hunterian Collection,
such a proposed worthy national collection of

comparative anatomy.

     ' Although the proposed combination and re
organisation of the collections of recent and fossil

comparative anatomy would be a great good, it

is not the best which could be done for the great
end which your Lordship has in view. But the

apparently best possible improvement always
appears Utopian and impracticable when it is

broached. I have indulged in speculations on a

concentration of all zoological illustrations --living,

1846-47  COMBINATION OF COLLECTIONS  2S1

dead, exterior, and anatomical -- in one great con

nected establishment.

     ' All the recent and fossil zoology of the British
Museum would come to this. The mineralogy

would naturally be transferred to the Government

Museum of Economic Geology, soon, I hope, to
develop itself into our National School of Mines.
The British Museum would then be left free for the

full extension of the departments which concern
intellectual man. But I fear I have trespassed

already too far on your patience ; any further

information I may be able to give will be most
readily at your service, and I remain, dear Lord
Francis, very faithfully yours,

                                         ' Richard Owen.'

      Owen had one or two interviews with the Pre

mier with regard to this scheme. ' On March 29
R. went by appointment to Sir Robert Peel's,

in order to impress upon him the necessity of

the College having Government help if they are

to carry on the thing properly, or else that the
collection should be made part of a great whole.
He says the Premier looks terribly overworked.'

    A visit to Dr. Buckland in his new residence

as Dean of Westminster is thus described : ' We

found the Doctor almost lost amidst heaps of

boxes, packages, and lumber -- the children
delighted with the move. The Deanery is a

dark, rambling place. R. raced about after the

282  PROFESSOR OWEN                        CH. IX.

Dean's unwearying black legs, through great big

rooms, and then out on the leads, where the

Doctor said you could get a capital view of the

fireworks at Vauxhall Gardens. He showed us

some dreadful places where the Westminster

boys were accustomed to climb in order to get

out of bounds --it made me giddy to look at
them. The Dean brought out a South American
monkey, called " Jack." He looked ferociously at

the strangers, and shrieked and showed his teeth ;

but when Mr. Liebig (Baron Liebig's son) came
in, Jack jumped down into my lap and settled

down comfortably.'

     Owen had the same sort of interest as Dr.

Buckland's son, Frank Buckland, afterwards ex

hibited in visiting strange folk and curiosities of

his own species.
     ' April 4. --After lecture,1 R. went
"                                          to see
   General Tom Thumb," by appointment.      Came

back astonished.'

     ' 6th. -- R. went out to see an extraordinary

case of a man's tooth growing right through his

cheek, and curving up like a walrus's tusk.'

    ' nth. --We saw Pomara to-day at Mr.

Gould's. He is a fine boy about fourteen, and

most gentlemanly in manner, speaking perfect

English, although he has only been two years

at a school in Sydney. His grandfather is alive in

New Zealand. Father and mother both dead.'

     1 Hunterian Lectures, which were continued as heretofore.

1846-47  CROMWELL'S PORTRAIT  283

    At the end of this month the portrait of Crom

well which Owen had had copied from the original
in the Pitti Palace at Florence arrived at the
College of Surgeons. As the original had been
painted in Cromwell's lifetime for the then Grand
Duke, this portrait was considered one of the
most trustworthy likenesses of the Protector.

Carlyle had been looking forward with some
eagerness to seeing the portrait; and as soon as
it arrived both he and his wife came over to see

it. The diary thus records his visit :--

     ' Mr. Carlyle has a portrait of Cromwell,

but in quite a different style ; he greatly admired

our picture, and studied it attentively. It is

curious how like his books Carlyle's conversation

is. He grew very eloquent when telling us of the

way in which he was plagued by people who would
insist upon sending him their books. Young

ladies especially often wanted his opinion on
their poetry. " I hate poetry," he said comically.

I asked him if he hated Home's " Orion." " Ah,"
he said, " Horne's a clever man." We walked

about in the museum, looking chiefly at fossils.'

     ' 3rd. -- More people to see Cromwell. He has

held quite a levee.'

284  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. 1x.

          Prince Charles Lucien Bonaparte to
                        Richard Owen

                                                              Rome : June 29, 1846.

   ' My dear Friend, -- I am really ashamed of

myself for not having as yet answered to such a
friend and master"! Your excellent letter of Milan
reached me in proper time, and caused great joie in
all my family, as you may have heard from our
common friend Pentland, who can truly take charge
of our sincere wishes, and made me feel less weary

among my sufferings and business about my appa
rent neglect of your friendship. But you are as

busy a man as myself (I can't say more), and you
will know how time passes with us ! In how many
things do we not sympathise ! Your deep at

tachment to your family. . . the philanthropy I
should like to imitate ! the footsteps I should be
so proud to follow ! ! ! are all ties that will always
strengthen the feelings I vowed you from the very
moment I enjoyed your acquaintance. Italy you
must visit again ! and visit it with your wife and
your dearest child. I cannot hope to see you at
Genoa, but will amicably calculate on some of those
fine labours, or at least interesting letters which
you so well know how to write for your friends

and dcoliers. . . . My wife is now quite well, but
I cannot say so of my poor legs, which are as

1846-47  AT THE MANSION HOUSE  285

bad as ever, and have prevented me from work

ing as I could have wished to do. . . .
       ' I remain in great haste, yours for ever,
                               ' C. L. Pr. Bonaparte.'

     On July 15, 1846, Owen attended a Mansion

House dinner, and in writing to his sister Kate an
account of the ceremony mentions : ' I had Pro

fessor de Morgan on one side and Dr. Budd on
the other, Capt. Sir James Ross opposite, and not
far below him D' Israeli, Bowring, and Monckton
Milnes. The chief peculiarities of the feast were

the grand calling-over of all the 200 guests after
dinner, to whom my Lord Mayor drinks in a loving
cup. Then go round said goblets, with the usual
old ceremony. The toasts followed, with flourish
of trumpets -- all very grand, as our little books
used to say when I had not dreamt of invitations

from Lord Mayors.'

     In August Owen went over to Ireland, and
was again a guest at Florence Court (Lord Ennis-
killen's). This visit was chiefly for pleasure, but
much interest was centred in the Florence Court

collection of London Clay fish remains. He sends

in one of his letters a message to Agassiz that he

must not think of completing his great work on
' Poissons Fossiles ' without seeing the specimens
preserved at Florence Court. His musical accom
plishments were always much appreciated in this
house, and he writes to his wife, August 26, 1846 :

286              PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. ix.

' Lady E. has an almost professional extent and

power of voice, chiefly exercised in the songs of

the last Italian school. The young ladies sing
duets and national songs. No violoncello could

be found in the whole county of Fermanagh ; so I

transposed the accompaniments of two German

duets (voice and violoncello) for the flute, and they
have gone off very well.'

     Before the meeting of the British Association,

which was held this yean at Southampton, Sir

Roderick Murchison, who was to be President,

wrote a letter to Owen, in which reference is

made to a quadruped known as the ' fossil fox,'

the complete skeleton of which Murchison found

in the previous year in the great tertiary deposits

of Oeningen in Switzerland.
                 The so-called " Molasse"
     '     .  .                            is as great  an
        .

opprobricism in geology as "Grauwacke" was

before I split it up and decimated

     If the fox really approaches very near to the
it)
          '
                               .
                                                                    it.
                                                                        I
existing Vulpes, that evidence, as well as the forms

of the leaves, insects, and fishes, would seem to

make the deposit younger than Miocene properly

so-called. . .

    'P.S. -- In my discourse at Southampton

intend to dwell as much as possible (seeing that all

former Presidents have without exception blinked

on the Natural History proper discussed by the

Association, and in this estimate the researches

1846-47  BRITISH ASSOCIATION  287

and splendid results of yourself, Agassiz, and
Edward Forbes will form a fine base-line for a

geologist who desires to show the solid founda

tions on which his science rests.'

     In a letter dated September 11, 1846, Owen
gives his wife an account of the proceedings o,
the British Association :--

     ' Yesterday evening Sir R. Murchison spoke
his address. Prince Albert and a brilliant suite,
with Lord Palmerston, honoured the meeting with
their attendance. There was only room for the
Presidents of sections and distinguished foreigners

on the platform, where, after the address, the
Prince spoke or bowed affably to each of us. . . .

Tell Broderip that, viewing the galaxy of stars

with which our President was surrounded last night,
the Prince on his right, and thanks proposed to

him by the Foreign Secretary in a flattering
speech, it seemed a veritable apotheosis of

Murchison.'

    At this meeting Owen was President of the

Zoological Section, and he writes to his wife

(September 14): ' Lyell told me that Herschel
was so delighted [with Owen's address] that his
expressions and manner were like those of a child,
most of the generalisations respecting our old

mammalia being quite new to him. Buckland,
Agassiz, Lyell, and Murchison spoke after I had

ended. . . . Next morning (Saturday) Sir Philip

288        PROFESSOR OWEN                                      ch IX.

[Egerton] and I joined the Red Lions ' in a

yacht belonging to a Liverpool member, who

has a large fortune and has fitted his vessel

out for the purpose of dredging and otherwise

investigating the Natural History of the deep.
We had a delicious day ; just the right breeze.

Our party consisted of Professor Clarke (Cam
bridge), Lyell, Agassiz, Ansted, Robt. Ball of

Dublin, Professor Allman, Ed. Forbes ; break

fasted and dined on board, and caught many

curious critters. . . . Southampton of course, in
                      i
a state of bustle and excitement but without some
exertion the " Times " will swamp these useful andIt

valuable assemblies.            issomething to have

                                   I;

                                                            :

                                                    is,
compelled its respect in regard to my own doings

among the savans. Prince Albert came to our

Zoological Section just after had concluded a

lecture on the skulls of animals.'

     After the meeting, Sir Roderick Murchison
writes on November to Owen --

     ' I'  cannot for the life of me comprehend why,

after your excellent description, you will not ven

ture on any sort of a name [for the fossil fox].
     You demonstrate
                      is       to be no dog, and yet

you allow Von Meyer's name to stand, which. it                 is is

founded (mind) on a complete misapprehension
of parts of the animal. . .
                             a British acquisition --
3'   As the animal

      A club connected with the British Association of which Owen

was a member.

1846-47  A NEW FOSSIL LINK         289

canonised in our "Transactions" [of the Geological
Society] ; and as his last and accurate dying
speech is given by yourself ; and as H. von Meyer

never saw the original and has only heaped error

upon error by arguing from Mantell's drawing,

pray do not have his name of Canis palustris.

     ' Give any noni de guerre you please, but for
God's sake and for love of me (qualifying it as

much as you please) do let us show by the name

that you have defined a new fossil link.' Yield
ing to this earnest request, Owen named it Gale-

cynus ceningensis.

     On October 9, 1846, we find Owen writing to
his sister Eliza from Drayton Manor, where he
had gone to stay with Sir Robert Peel. He

travelled down with Samuel Rogers and Charles

Eastlake, and gives the following interesting

particulars of his stay there :--

' The poet [Rogers], who is deaf, asked me if I

could tell him who some of the people were [at the
dinner party], who this, who that (he is getting old
         Sir Robert came to     the rescue by " Mr.
now).    will you take a glass  of Johannisberger ? "
Rogers,

Very agreeable chat with my right-hand neigh
bour, which led old Sam to say, " But you can
tell me who your friend is ? " After dinner Sir R.

asked many questions on Natural History and

Physiology ; characters of races of men ; Sir

James [Graham] joined, touching development of
negro intellect in St. Domingo ; then it led to

vol. 1.                         u

290               PROFESSOR OWEN                           ch. ix.

ancient statues, and Eastlake came in. . . . Found

Rogers and Eastlake in the sculpture gallery on

coming down to breakfast. R. talked about
" Vestiges    "3
                  Eastlake  has not                  read  the book.
            ;

Then touching the "Chambers" of Edinburgh.

. . . After breakfast went with Pickersgill into

the portrait gallery, and profited by his criticisms.

I am much satisfied with the light and the place

in which my own is hung ; it flanks one side of the

entry, with Cuvier on the other.
     ' Sir R. pointed out some of his choice en

gravings. Eastlake showed me a curious per

spective effect in one of Roberts's (R.A.) mag

nificent Egyptian subjects.'

    To return to the journal :--
    ' October 2 1 . -- Boa died at the Surrey Gar

dens. It is over 15 feet long, and is awaiting

dissection.'

     'November 1. -- Sent out for Nos. 1 and 2
of " Dombey and Son." R. is going to refrain

till vol. of his Lectures out. Mr. Broderip
     '

              3 ii.
                                                 is
begged to be allowed to take the two numbers

home in his pocket. R. told him he might, on

condition that he did not look at them to-night
-- upon which Mr. Broderip said that he should

read every word before going to bed.'
       ^th. -- R. read at the Geological Society his

paper on Sir Roderick's fossil fox.'

            Vestiges of Natural History of Creation. .

1846-47  AWARDED THE 'ROYAL MEDAL'      291

     ' I yth. -- Richard to the Royal Society, where

they had voted him the Royal Medal for his paper
on Belemnites. He was in the chair at the last

meeting when it was proposed, and demurred
because it put him in an awkward position. After

some discussion he was requested to retire from
the room for a few moments, and Dr. Roget
having again proposed the belemnites, R. found
on his return that the medal was voted to him.

The fact of his paper being recommended for the

medal while he himself was in the chair might
look strange to those who were not aware of the
facts of the case.'

     His co-medallist was Mr. Leverrier, to whom,

for his discovery of the new planet, was awarded

the Copley Medal.
     On December 12 Owen sent to the printers

a work in which is embodied the manuscript of
his ' Vertebrate Animals.' This was an octavo

volume, and consisted of his Hunterian Lectures
on the subject. In this year also one of his more
important papers was the description of a true
fossil monkey (Macacus pliocenus) from the Plei
stocene deposit of Grays, Essex, a note on which
he had previously presented to the Institute of

France.

     The last evening of the year 1846 he spent at

a large children's party, where he went in company

with Lyell and Babbage, the latter of whom he
describes as ' looking beaming throughout.'

                                    u2

292  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                            Ch. IX.

     In 1847 Owen devoted much time to the
preparation of his work ' On the Archetype

and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton,'
which came out in the following year. In the

month of January Charles Darwin was a fre

quent visitor ; sometimes appearing at an early

hour. ' On January                                    Mrs. Owen writes,
'

                                                 7,'
  Mr. Darwin was here very early, before
breakfast. He and R. had a long discussion on

the subject of R.'s views on osteology and the

archetype. After breakfast R. brought out his
" Broadsheet of Osteology." Mr. Darwin quite

saw the force of that.'

     This Broadsheet of Osteology was a list or
     '
                                                                                            '

table which Owen had drawn up of all the scientific

terms used by the most important English and

foreign naturalists when describing the various

bones of the vertebrate animals. The great
difficulty in the way of Owen's scientific writings

being generally read was the fact that, although

they often abounded in picturesque descriptions,

and certainly in rich and instructive revelations,

yet the frequency with which long compound
Latin and Greek words were used, quite unfitted

them to compete with more popular expositions.

And yet he, in reality, simplified and determined

to a great extent the language of comparative

anatomy. Often when preceding naturalists had

used different names in describing the same bone,
Owen avoided the confusion to which this gave

1846-47  TECHNICAL TERMS  293

rise, sometimes by rejecting both names and

suggesting a word more descriptive than either,

sometimes by compounding the two in such a way
as to suggest, by the very name, both the ideas

which the two names contained. He gives the

reasons which ' compel him in some instances to

dissent from the high authority of Cuvier,
Geoffroy, and Agassiz. The objection to some
of the French nomenclature was that it often dealt

in descriptive phrases rather than in single

expressive terms--for example, the word ' hypo-

branchial ' replaces what Cuvier calls the ' piece
interne de la partie inferieure de l'arceau bran-
chiale.' The German language, on the other
hand, though susceptible of happy combinations

as regards description, yields such results as to

make it impossible for many words to become the
current language of anatomy ; for example, Owen's
comparatively harmless words ' supra-orbital ' and
' supra-temporal ' contrast favourably with the

terrible expressions used by German naturalists

-- Oberaugenhohlenbein and Augenbogenschuppe !

for, as Owen himself remarks, such terms, ex

cellent as they are in their way, ' are likely to be
restricted to the anatomists of the country where

the vocal powers have been trained from infancy

to their utterance.

     The Hunterian Lectures given by Owen this
year were on the ' Anatomy of Fishes.' These

lectures were afterwards published from notes

294          PROFESSOR OWEN                            Ch. IX.

taken by William White Cooper, as were other
courses of Owen's Hunterian Lectures.

    ' February 16. -- Found the cook had a queer-

looking bit of fish, which R. had brought in and
told her to cook for dinner. There was only

part of it in the kitchen, and I did not recognise
it. The cook's chief objection seemed to be the

name (Anarrhichas lupus) which her master had
called and she was doubtful a fish with such
It

            it,
                           it

                                            if
a name could be a fit thing to send up to table.
     turned out to be what they call a " wolf-fish,"

and R. declared was not at all bad.'

    'March 10. -- Meeting at Downing Street, at
Lord John Russell's, consisting of Sir Roderick
Murchison, Bishop of Norwich, Sir P. Egerton,

and Richard, to discuss plans for a British

Museum of Natural History.'

        6th. -- Meeting at the College to-day.
     ''
Proposed to erect a statue of John Hunter in1
Westminster Abbey. Dr. Buckland
                                                it is  quite

willing to find space, they settle that should
             if

be erected there.'

     21st. -- A proteus in a black bottle left here

for R., who had gone to Mincing Lane to see a

narwhal's head with two large tusks. No de
ception this time. The tusks both turn the same

way.''

      22nd. -- To luncheon at Dean Buckland's. A

piece of roast ostrich, which we all tasted     ;      was
very much like a bit of coarse turkey.'
                                                   it

1846-47       ROAST OSTRICH                                                295

    ' 23rd. -- R. had a very bad night. Query,
roast ostrich ? At four o'clock he called on Sir

Robert Peel, who gave him a card for me to

view the pictures at Whitehall Place.'
' 26th. -- The proteus still alive. Gave him an

earthworm ; would not touch                         Tried some
                                                    it.
spawn, but with the same result.'
                                                                I
    'May 1. -- R.'s twenty-fourth and last lecture.                I
We hurried off as soon as we could to the Royal
                                                                       it
Academy, so as to get a look at the pictures
before dinner,'

       2nd. -- R. took one more look at the nar
''
whal's head.  feel very savage with the College
  it
                 I

                                                 ;

                           it
Council. They will not buy the head. If were

sure would go to the British Museum should

not mind so much                                    seems a shame to let go

out of the country.'

      6th. -- Dr. H. Acland told R. that his proteus

'(not the same species as ours) only ate a worm
about once a fortnight.'

      jth. -- Lady Hastings here with the Hordle

crocodile, which she has pieced together admi

rably. She was busy in the museum for over two

hours, glorying over her bones.'

      8th. -- The worm put into the vessel with
''

                       I

                  I
the proteus the other morning has now been

eaten.'

      23rd. -- R. and to the Gardens, according to
a request from Sir Roderick Murchison, as the
Grand Duke Constantine was to be there. The

296  PROFESSOR OWEN          CH. IX.

Grand Duke speaks English well. He was greatly
pleased with the bears. The elephant ill. The

rhinoceros was in the water, looking self-satisfied,
and like a clumsy model of a creature in mud.'

    iJune 7. -- Mr. Mitchell called about the

elephant. Dead. R. sent some College students
to take out the elephant's brain, but they found it

too difficult.'              R. went off to the

     ' %th. -- Pouring wet.

Gardens before seven. Came back with his hand

injured in getting the brain out. The skull was

sawn, and the splinters got into his hand as he

was drawing the brain out.'                 R.

    ' ioth. --Grand Duke Constantine here.

went round the museum with him. He stayed an

hour and a half, and seemed greatly pleased.'

    ' wth. --The presence of a portion of the de

funct elephant on the premises made me keep

all the windows open, especially as the weather is

very mild. I got R. to smoke cigars all over the

house.'

    ' i^th. -- New Zealand paper sent by Mr.

Farish, with cuts of a head which was found by

natives in a river there and supposed to be a myste

rious fierce something. R. says from what he can
make of the woodcuts he has little doubt but that

it was a calfs head.'

     On June 19 Owen paid a visit to Lady Has
tings at Lymington. Writing to his sister Kate

(June 21, 1847), he says : 'The Marchioness is an

1846-47    LYMINGTON AND OXFORD                   297

extraordinary vocalist -- two octaves clear and more.

Captain Henry, her husband, plays the violoncello ;
I take the flute, Lady H. the harp, and one of

her daughters the piano. . . . Too tired to write

when I go to bed, and seldom awake earlier than

in time for an hour's work in the museum before

breakfast. 1 1 is chiefly of fossils, several thousands,

and some of them the finest in the world. I de

scribed one at the Geological Society last Wed
nesday night. . . . Lady H. and I have a joint

memoir on another rarity for the Oxford Meeting

[of the British Association].'

    To this meeting Owen went a few days later.
     'June 23. -- Prince C. L. Bonaparte called,

and went with us to Paddington. Our party
consisted besides of Professor Nilsson, of Lund,

Sweden, Professor Eckart, of Christiania, Dr.

Allman (Ireland), and Professor Ansted. We
arrived at Oxford at half-past one. We took the

proteus in a pickle-bottle, as Dr. Acland had
asked us to do so, to compare it with his. We

had Lady Hastings' crocodiles' heads in a great

basket carefully packed. Prince Charles Lucien

took it on the seat with him in our fly, as there

           it.                                    and sat in the
                                             it,
was no other place to put

seat with his back to the horses, with his arm

embracing  He has now grown a beard. Sir

Robert Inglis had been very urgent about R.

coming to see him as soon as he arrived at the

Vice-Chancellor's.  So R. having dropped the

298  PROFESSOR OWEN          CH. IX.

Prince at his quarters on the way, left me at Christ

Church, where Dr. Pusey had most kindly given
up his house, and then went on to Sir Robert.

Dr. Pusey was obliged to be away, but made

over his house and servants to Dr. Acland,

directing that whatever was wanted should be

supplied at his expense. Lunch at Dr. Acland's,
and then to the theatre, where Sir Roderick

Murchison introduced his successor, Sir Robert

Inglis. In the evening to Dr. Daubeny's, whose

house is attached to the Botanical Gardens.

Whewell, Wheatstone, the Bucklands, Bishop of

Norwich there, and also Lady Hastings. She

was standing talking to a knot of celebrities, when

seeing us she came forward, saying that she must

not stand any longer in the way. I whispered to
her that she had a right to be a " fixed star " in an
assembly like this, at which she laughed and
answered, " Oh, you mean because of my head "

(the crocodile's). There was a great crowd in
every room, and also in the gallery where the

books are, where people stood, with a strong light
cast on them, looking at the others below. The

Bishop of Norwich came up and remarked that

their appearance up there reminded him strongly

of a group of figures at Madame Tussaud's exhi

bition.'                     breakfast. Frank's
                             resides on the pre
     ' 25M. -- The Buckland
bear (Tiglath-Pileser), who

mises, was an honoured guest, and was in cap and

1846-47  AT DR. PUSEY'S  299

gown. After the breakfast saw Mr. C. Darwin
in the Zoological Section. We then made up a
party to go up the river. We hired two boats.
In ours, besides ourselves, were Mr. Darwin,
Mr. Hill, and Professor Langberg, from Norway.
In the other boat were Dr. and Mrs. Acland, Dr.
Hooker, and Ehrenberg. We raced for some way,
and landed at the bridge. On Sunday R. got up
to early chapel. After breakfast went to St. Mary's,

and by a curious coincidence the annual sermon

was on the " Pride of Knowledge." The Bishop
of Oxford, however, gave a very fine sermon-
On Monday Prince Albert came, and spent some
time with the Duke of Saxe-Weimar at the
Zoological Section. In the evening R. and I
dined at the Bishop's palace. The Bishop was

most kind and hospitable, and we were all very
merry at table. Frank Buckland afterwards
favoured us with a solo on the French horn.

The Bishop picked some beautiful roses for us to

take back.'

     Owen writes to his sister Maria from Dr.

Pusey's, Christ Church, Oxford, on June 26 :
' Cary and I have enjoyed ourselves extremely-
We are master and mistress, after a fashion, of

this house, the Doctor having fled, and liberally

left it for the savans. Cary presided at one end

of a breakfast-table this morning at which sat
Ehrenberg, Nilsson, Milne-Edwards, Van der
Hoeven, and other distinguished foreigners ; Sir

3co  PROFESSOR OWEN                            CH. 1x.

R. H. Inglis, Sir Thomas Acland, Sir Ch.
Lemon, Sir R. Murchison, Mr. Stanley (Bishop

of N .'s 4 son), Faraday, Colonel Sabine, Colonel
Sykes, Ed. Forbes, Dr. and Mrs. Acland, &c,
&c, and did the honours very gracefully and

sweetly. She is becoming quite a favourite at the
Association, and especially of the Marchioness of

Hastings, with whom we spent yesterday evening,

after F.'s5 lecture at the Ratcliffe.'

    A few weeks after Owen's return to London

Joanna Baillie, who was a relation of John
Hunter's wife, gave him a relic of Hunter in the
shape of a set of buttons which he used to wear.

These buttons, which were of agate mounted
in plain silver, were given to Hunter by a lady
patient, as a token of gratitude for his skill in some
operation. As they looked very handsome, John
Hunter used to wear them at Court. Mrs.

Hunter either gave them or left them to Joanna
and Agnes Baillie on account of their relationship

to her husband. (They are still in the family.)
     In August, Owen made up his mind to send

his son to Westminster, and called on the house

master, a Mr. Rigaud. On September 24, 1847,

he wrote to his sister :--
     ' Willie made his ddbut at Westminster School

this morning. The Justice and I conveyed him
yesterday evening to his quarters at Mr. Rigaud's.
As the cab drove up to the low Gothic archway

     1 Norwich's; future Dean of Westminster.  5 Faraday's.

1846-47  HIS SON GOES TO WESTMINSTER  301

leading from Great Dean's to Little Dean's Yard,
some of the older boys who were lounging about

cast significant glances at the box and other

symptoms of the new-caught neophyte. We found
the inmates at Mr. R.'s just about to sit down to
tea, and W. was forthwith marched to the tea

room and introduced to his schoolfellows by Mr.

R., and more especially to one Joyce, the eldest of
them, in whose bedroom W. has his crib, and by
whom, I understand, W. will be duly fagged.
After some preliminary business as to pocket

money, periodical visits, and entrance fees,

Broderip and I returned to the tea-room to take
leave, and found W. stirring his cup with his
usual sang-froid, and partaking of fried fish in the
company of about fifteen fine lads. We shall pro
bably have W. home one Sunday before the Xmas

holidays, by which time we shall know how

Westminster agrees with him and he with West

minster. . . .

     ' The other day I met a pleasant party at the
Justice's, consisting of Lockhart, Sir R. Vyvyan,
and Major Shadwell Clerke. We meet again on
Sunday at dinner at Sir R. Vyvyan's. I ought
to have been dining yesterday at Drayton, Sir R.

Peel having kindly invited me to stay there till
Monday next, but the press of work just now

compels me to forego all holiday visits till next

summer.'

    A considerable part of the following September

302           PROFESSOR OWEN                           CH. IX.

and October was devoted to work on the Sani

tary Commission, of which Edwin Chadwick

was an active member ; but we see from the

following letter, dated November 5, that Owen

was able to relax his arduous labours on this

public service : --

     ' I have just returned from the first meeting

this season of the Literary Club, and as we were

favoured by the company of Mr. Brooke, the

Rajah of Sarawak, I am induced to put down

a few notes of the sayings and doings of the

evening, and I believe they will interest you.

It is something to see in real flesh and blood

what one had been accustomed to regard as

a mere myth of the nursery --viz., a man who

had sailed away to seek his fortune, conquered

an island, and become a king. One had supposed

that all such events and possibilities had long since

passed away, and were altogether incompatible

with this prosaic, matter-of-fact age ; but the

history and achievements of the present hero and

lion of the town is a literal paraphrase of the old

fairy-tale adventure. He is a well-built, average-

sized, middle-aged man, with a strong, square,

rather overhanging forehead, and a good spice

of determination marked by a beetling brow,

compensated by a frank, good-natured character

of the mouth and lower part of the face. When
              stihxeasCIlupbas--seSdt.--Jammosets'osf
I arrived at                                           Palace clock
was striking                                           the members

1846-47 RAJAH BROOKE AND HIS SUBJECTS 303

were assembled, and the waiters preparing to set

on the dishes, for Sir Robert is wonderfully
punctual. He, however, spied me out, and before
I could get my wrapper off took me to be intro
duced to the Rajah. His Excellency was in

conversation with the Chevalier Bunsen. A

most friendly greeting ! There was a peculiar
link between us in a very humble subject of
Sarawak, a species of orang-utang which I had
described as new, before Mr. Brooke arrived at

Borneo, from a skull that I happened to have the
opportunity of seeing, and which he found to be

well known as a species distinct from the great

orang by the natives. The party sat down as
follows : Sir R. Inglis, Mr. Brooke, Chev.
Bunsen, Baron Alderson, Croly, R. Owen, Chas.
Eastlake, Vice-Chancellor (Shadwell), Sir Fred.
Pollock, Baron Rolfe, Hallam, Sir R. Westmacott,
Mr. Adolphus, Mr. Gregson. Eastlake began

by asking me whether the habits or characteristics
of animals were always indicated by their outward

form, and quoted contradictory opinions he had

had from Lyell and others. The Vice-Chancellor

waxed warm at the indignity put upon the Eton

 boys by having been invited by the Queen to see

Womb well's menagerie. He vowed he would not

have gone ; it was treating them like a charity

school. Sir Fred, fed the fire by intimating that
buns had been served out to them, to which Rolfe
 added, " Elderberry wine." Croly argued it was

304  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

meant well, and should have been well taken.

Had some chat with Eastlake about Westminster :

he has two nephews at Mr. Rigaud's. . . .
Hearing the word " Westminster," Croly broke in
by asking me if Buckland was not in point of
fact a great humbug. I defended the Dean to
the best of my ability against the battery of wit
and sarcasm brought to bear against him. As to
the hyaenas in Kirkdale, these and all the other
groups of fossils were clearly explicable to Croly
by the fact of there having been grand battues
after the deluge. As men spread they rose en
masse against the wild beasts, killed the hyaenas
off at one go in Yorkshire, for example, and buried
them in the Kirkdale Cave. Then as to the sea,

three-fourths of the earth was covered by it ; it

had its hills and valleys, there might still exist
broods of Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri, which
might live for years or all their lives without
coming to the surface or ever being seen. I
replied that an ichthyosaur could not have lived

an hour, probably, submerged, without being

drowned, because it had lungs and breathed air.
Croly contended against the possibility of our

knowing that fact without having dissected a living
animal. I showed how our knowledge of such
was as certain as that of Leverrier's of the planet

which, perhaps, he has never yet himself seen.

It was a curious example of the impossibility,

after a certain age and habit of thought, of the

1846-47  THE 'O' IN O'CONNELL     305

reception of a new train of ideas. Mr. Brooke, in

walking home with me, expressed strongly his
sentiments as to accepting truth in whatever form
it pleased God to vouchsafe it to us. Some
pleasant bantering passed on the subject of Mr.

Brooke's excluding lawyers from his dominions.

The characters of the natives of Borneo and their

language were discussed. Some anecdotes of
O'Connell were told. His proper family name
was " Connell," and so of all his family for some
generations ; he did not assume the " O " till he

got some property from an uncle, who made it by

smuggling, and whose abode was a notorious receiv
ing house for run goods on the coast of Derrynane.

We had a discussion about Lamartine and his
" History of the Girondins," and my end of the table

was much interested by some of my revelations
from the secrets of the prison-houses at Paris --
Hallam in particular. He had no idea that such

documents were preserved as those I examined
at the Prefecture of Police.'

     On December 3 Owen was nominated a
member of the Commission of Sewers ; ' not a

very pleasant task,' he writes, ' as people strongly
dislike being told of duties which they have been
neglecting.' In a letter dated December 6, he

refers to the reason of this new Commission --

viz. the report issued by the Commissioners for
the Health of the Metropolis, &c ' I call it

vol. 1.                        x

306  PROFESSOR OWEN               CH. IX.

ours,' he says, ' but it is chiefly Chadwick's

and Southwood Smith's. My share was hunting

up some of the cholera evidence, and general
revision before it went to press. . . . The

Government have acted promptly on the main

recommendation -- viz. the quashing of the old and

the formation of a new general Commission, a step

essential to the carrying out on an adequate scale

experiments to determine the best and cheapest

modes of street and house drainage. The results

of these experiments will alter the mode of sewer

age in all London first, then in provincial towns,

next in Continental towns, where, in Paris even,

they have as bad or worse modes of sewerage than

with us. The amount of typhus and other deadly-

disease which will thereby be prevented is scarcely-

calculable, but will be enormous ; a healthy,

cleanly, and moral population will be substituted

for the present unfortunate and oppositely charac

terised habitants of the courts, alleys, and small

streets ; and the blessings will extend far beyond

the points immediately  in view.   The new consoli
dated Commission for    London
                                  is for two years --
time enough, I believe, to determine the merits of

the new system. We work gratis to avoid the

chances of obstruction from the cry that would be

raised by the 800 cashiered Commissioners of

" Government job." I lend the little aid I can

give most willingly to help forward this great

work, though some jealousies and misconceptions

1846-47  WESTMINSTER PLAY  307

attend such enlargement of my sphere of public

utility.'

     As Owen anticipated, his duties as Com

missioner were not always particularly pleasant.

' He was to have taken the chair this evening
at " The Club," ' his wife writes in the journal
(December 14), 'but was obliged to get off. He

had been too much harassed all day for anything
but to stay at home. Commission again ! '

     On the 19th we have the following entry :
' R. went to Westminster to see the Latin play.
He said the play was all very well, but he could
not help thinking of the accommodation provided
for the boys. They had to stand four hours in

a cramped, crowded, and exceedingly close place,
without much possibility of moving. R. supped

with Mr. Rigaud and the boys.'
     In this year also may be mentioned the foun

dation of the Palaeontographical Society, of which
Owen was one of the heartiest supporters. This

society, which had for its object the figuring
and describing British fossils, owed its origin to
the London Clay Club, formed by Bowerbank,
 Edwards, Searles Wood, Morris, Alfred White,

and Wetherell in 1836, for the purpose of inquir
ing into the fauna and flora of the London Clay.
 In 1847, after the paper by Joseph Prestwich at
 the Geological Society, ' On the Structure of the
 London Clay,' Bowerbank urged the geologists
 present in the tea-room to support him in esta

                                                                                                                            X2

308  PROFESSOR OWEN                        ch. IX.

Wishing a society for the publication of unde-
scribed British fossils. Buckland, De la Beche,
Fitton, Owen, and others gave him their names,
and thus the Palaeontographical Society came into

existence.6

     6 Geological Magazine, 1877, p. 192.

1848-49 ARCHETYPE OF THE SKELETON                   309

                      CHAPTER X

                      1848-49

'  The Archetype and  Homologies of the Vertebrate  SSkeelae-tsoenrp,'en1t84--8
      --The Cuming    Shell Collection --The Great
   Emerson and Guizot -- Literary Work and Lectures -- Death ot
   Mr. and Mrs. Clift, 1849 -- Prince Charles Lucien Bonaparte --
   Member of the Commission on Smithfield Market.

In January 1848 a correspondent wrote to Owen
asking permission to publish his ' Archetype of
the Skeleton.' The following reply is interesting
as containing Owen's views on the origin of
species :--

     ' As I do not know the secondary cause by

which it may have pleased the Creator to intro

duce organised species into this planet, I have
never expressed orally or in print an opinion on
the subject. Whenever in the course of special

investigations I have met with phenomena bearing
upon the hypothetical secondary cause to which
you allude, I have pointed out such bearing
incidentally ; but the hypothesis itself, " transmu

tation of specific characters," which is always

coupled with the idea of a specific direction --viz.
upwards --has not been the subject of any express

31o  PROFESSOR OWEN                                        CH. X.

writing or discourse of mine. It has struck me

chiefly as an instance of the extreme barrenness of

the human mind in the invention of hypotheses

when not guided thereto by observation and

experiment. Transmutation of species in the

ascending course is one of six possible secondary

causes of species apprehended by me, and the least

probable of the six. When I remarked to the
(reputed) author of " Vestiges," the last time
he visited the museum, how servilely the old

idea had been followed by De Maillet, Mirabeau
                                                                                      of
("nVoet sttihgeespo"--liticviiazn. )o, f"Lparmogarrecsks,ivaenddevtheelopamutehnotr"  --

and that there were five more likely ways of intro

ducing a new species, he asked suddenly and

eagerly, "What are they?" I declined to give

him the information, but shortly after brought

prominently under his notice the facts that might

have suggested one, at least, of the more likely
ways. He saw nothing of their bearing, and

I shall refrain from publishing my ideas on this

matter till I get more evidence.'

     About a fortnight afterwards Owen wrote a

second letter to this correspondent, in which he

says : ' With regard to the hypothesis of progres

sive development and transmutation of species, it

you still desire me to state what my present opinion

is,

  I
                                it
                                                       ("
     beg to say that continues the same as that

expressed in the concluding summary of my second

report on British Fossil Reptiles Reports of

1848-49 HIS VIEWS ON THE ARCHETYPE  311

British Association," 1841, pp. 196-202). And I

have no objection to your adding, as my reply to
your inquiry of my present sentiments on the

subject, that if the Creator has been pleased to
employ in the production of organised species
any secondary influences or causes --of which no
satisfactory proof has been adduced --present evi

dence, from anatomy and physiology, is against the
hypothesis of the existence and operation in any
living species of self-developing energies adequate
to a change and exaltation of specific characters ;
but that the actual state of anatomical and physio
logical science is suggestive of other secondary

causes, which seem to me to be more probable
as operative in the production of species than
" transmutation and development," as advocated
by De Mailletand Lamarck ; but that these other
" secondary causes " are hypothetical, and require

much additional observation and experimental

testing before they can merit public attention.'

     In 1848 his work 'On the Archetype and

Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton ' ap
peared. As early as 1846, at the British Associa
tion meeting held at Southampton, Owen put for
ward the views which he extended and explained in
this book. These views were further illustrated

in his work on the ' Anatomy of Fishes,' and more
especially in his book ' On the Nature of Limbs.'

Owen's ideas were based upon the observations
of Lorenz Oken, and were designed to show

312  PROFESSOR OWEN                   ch. x.

that all vertebrate structure might be reduced to
one single type, figured in one of the bones of the
human spine, from which ideal type he went on

to show that all other vertebrate structure could

be built up by an infinite variety of modifications.
He argued further that the skull of the vertebrated
animals was in fact only a modified arrangement
of four backbones -- each modified vertebra having
an organ of sense, such as taste, smell, sight, and
so on, at the front or anterior part of its bony

ring.
      Dr. St. George Mivart,1 in discussing Owen's

hypotheses, refers to the theory of the archetype,
held by both Oken and Owen, as one which,
he supposes, ' no one now maintains.' ' Never
theless, these theories, when they were first

promulgated here, produced no slight effect, for
they drew many thoughtful minds towards ques
tions of biology, and they roused an antagonism

which has also led to much valuable work. We

believe them to have been, in these different

ways, very serviceable to science, but we also
think that they embodied, or were the mis
taken outcome of, some deep and very signi
ficant truths which are, in general, far too little
appreciated, a wave of sentiment and the in
fluence of a party (which could do much to make
or mar a young man's progress) having combined

     1 Natural Science, 1893, p. 20.

1848-49 HUGH CUMING'S COLLECTION OF SHELLS 313

to indispose many minds towards a dispassionate

appreciation of them.'

    At this time Owen's mind was much oc

cupied with another consideration. The re

markable collection of shells formed by Hugh

Cuming had been offered for sale to the British
Museum. The importance of this series was so

great in Owen's eyes that he wrote a strong

appeal in January 1848, filling thirteen quarto

pages, to Dean Buckland (a Trustee of the Bri
tish Museum), urging upon him the necessity of

the purchase.  From this appeal we give a few

extracts :--

' I may briefly state that this collection, as

now offered to the British Museum, contains

upwards of 19,000 species and varieties of shells,

represented by about 60,000 specimens ; and that

not only is every specimen entire, but choice and

perfect of its kind, as respects form, texture,

colour, and other characters that give it value in

the eyes of the shell-collector.
    ' As I can affirm from my personal knowledge,

and from authentic sources of information, that no

public collection in Europe possesses one-half the
number of species of shells that are now in the

Cumingian Collection . . . you may judge of the

vast proportion of rarities and unique specimens
possessed by Mr. Cuming. It is this which has

given him for some years past the command, so

to speak, of all the conchological cabinets in

314  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

Europe. He is better known and respected, and
his labours more truly and generally appreciated
in any city or town in Europe having a public
Natural History Museum and Professor than in
busy London. . . . Mr. Cuming in his annual visits
to the Continent carries with him the inferior

duplicates of his rarities, representing species
with the sight of which the eyes of the foreign
naturalist are gladdened for the first time. They
open to him their treasures in return, and from
most of the collections of Europe Mr. Cuming

has borne away the prized species or specimens,
in exchange for the still rarer and more valuable

shells which his abundance has enabled him to

offer, without detriment to his own rich stores.

     ' The mode in which Mr. Cuming has ob

tained this conchological wealth is as novel and
exemplary as the result is important and mar
vellous, considered as the work of one individual.

Not restricting his pursuit to the stores and
shops of the curiosity-mongers of our seaports, or
depending on casual opportunities of obtaining

rarities by purchase, he has devoted more than
thirty of the best years of his life to arduous and

hazardous personal exertion -- dredging, diving,

wading, wandering, under the equator and

 through the tropics to the temperate zones, both
north and south, in the Atlantic, in the Pacific,

 in the Indian Ocean and in the islands of its rich
archipelago -- in the labour of obtaining from their

1848-49  APPEAL TO DEAN BUCKLAND  315

native seas, shores, lakes, rivers and forests the

marine, fluviatile, and terrestrial mollusks, 60,000

of whose shelly skeletons, external and internal,
are accumulated in orderly series in the cabinets
with which the floors of his house now groan. I
never think of the casualties to which such a

collection in such a place is subject without a
shudder. . . . Perhaps one of the most striking
points in the estimate of the scientific value of an
extensive collection like Mr. Cuming's, arises out
of its relation to the present active pursuit of

Geology as an indispensable instrument to the

determination of fossil shells. No one can give
higher sanction than yourself to any expression
of the importance of well-determined fossils, and
especially shells, to a right knowledge of the
relative age and position of the stratum in which

they were embedded ; and the geologists' con
fidence in results based upon fossil conchology
must be in the ratio of the extent of the com

parison with recent shells that has been gone
through in the determination of the fossil shells,
and especially before a species is pronounced to
be extinct. . . .

     ' This, however, is but one of its scientific
uses. From the period when the Atlantic,
American, and Polynesian departments of the
Cumingian Collection reached England, in 1831,
scientific conchologists have there found subjects
without intermission for their descriptions, and

316  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

the novelties were far from being exhausted
when Mr. Cuming, having undertaken a third
exploring voyage, returned in 1840 from Manilla,
stored with the conchological riches of the Indian

Ocean, which have subsequently kept the pens of
competent describers of new genera and species
actively at work, and will so supply them for
years to come. Thus the Cumingian Collection
has directly advanced the science of conchology

in an unexampled degree, and possesses the same
peculiar claims upon the Government, or custo
dians of the national collection here which

Linnseus's Herbarium did upon the Swedish
State. Mr. Cuming's collection contains, for

example, the originals from which many hundred
new species of shells have been described in the

scientific periodicals or systematic works pub
lished since its arrival in this country.

     ' Any doubt that may arise through the in
completeness or obscurity of the description, or
from the inaptitude of the student, may be decided

at once by reference to the original specimens.
These "types of the species" become, therefore,
an instrument of great importance to the progress
of the science in the country in which they are

preserved and made accessible. . . . Delay in

securing for the nation the Cumingian types of
new species of shells may involve the necessity
of crossing the Atlantic in order to compare
and verify the descriptions and synonyms of

 1848-49 THE PRICE OF CUMING'S COLLECTION 317

 Broderip, Sowerby, Gray, Reeve, and other emi
 nent conchologists. . . .

      ' The value of a shell, as of a jewel, depends

 much upon its rarity, and is to that extent artifi

cial. The concha unica, which to-day commands
the sum of twenty pounds, shall, next week,
when a score of specimens have come into the
market, fall in price to as many shillings. Still,
the commonest exotic shell, if it be .perfect and
well coloured, and taken from a living mollusk, as
is the case with the Cumingian Collection, from
which " dead " shells have been strictly excluded,

finds its market.

      ' I am given to understand, by competent
authorities, that the sum of 6,000/. asked by Mr.
Cuming in 1846 does not exceed two-thirds of
the most moderate estimate of the present market
value of his subsequently augmented collection.

      ' That ten times that sum would not bring
together such a series as Mr. Cuming has offered
to the British Museum I do firmly believe, from
a knowledge of the peculiar tact in discovering
and collecting, the hardy endurance of the
attendant fatigue under deadly climes and
influences, and the undaunted courage in en
countering the adverse elements and braving the
opposition of the savage inhabitants of seldom-
visited isles, which have conduced and concurred

to crown the labours of Mr. Cuming with a
success of which his unrivalled collection is a

          i !,'
,;, 1 S-'y :

             !· « .'." ,..!-.*-.

                             >ard <

                                                                   r -. i

it cir-.-v :-· , --,-> past :
the ("lut.-. . Itt.l. iIk'- a
umbrella . ,,: . *t-<;'.-i;-c( .

      Uv «,,:,*..,! f«.l '
Dickons s \v. ,;,'<', wit:,

them wiih 'iI'th c'_..-;

On February .:'..' ^°- "' '
and he ' stayed up vt -\
states his opinion as

1848-49  SKELETON OF 'MOA' BURNED  319

death, which is related in that number : ' The
character of Carker as drawn throughout the book

makes it evident to me that he was not the man

either to act or to be acted upon in such a way ;
not but that the scene is wrought up by a master-
hand.'

     On March 1 1 the last proofs of the ' Arche
type ' were sent to press.

     During this month he carefully arranged the
raoa3 bones which had been sent him by Colonel
Wakefield. ' R. has made up one terrible-looking
leg, which he intends to keep as a memento ; the

rest he has been sorting out on the floor in the
library, with papers full of various bones, after

their kind, lying all around.'
     Owen had a disappointment this year with

regard to the bones of the moa, for Sir George
Grey, then Governor of New Zealand, had been

busily collecting for him, but unfortunately his
house and most of its contents were destroyed

by fire.

     ' I lost,' Sir George wrote to him, ' all my
plate, china, linen, wine, and the most valuable of
my books, besides curiosities, native songs of differ
ent countries, and objects of natural history, which

I had been many years in collecting. I n your depart
ment I lost a magnificent collection of moa bones,
including a complete skeleton of the largest moa
which had ever been found. I had three complete

                              3 Native name of Dinornis.

32o     PROFESSOR OWEN                     ch. x.

moa heads of different species, two complete (as I
believe) spurs of the wings such as the kiwi has,
and bones belonging to several genera of the

moa of which I have seen no description. I had

also a fossil bone believed to have been the bone

of a quadruped, and many bones of the moa
which had been gnawed by some large animal --

some of them had been even crunched, as you

could see the marks of the. teeth of each jaw at

the point of separation where the bone had been

crunched off. I had also specimens of a new bird
allied to the kiwi, but much larger and differently

marked ; said how to be extinct. It inhabits the

Middle Island, and is what has been taken for the

moa there. I had also many specimens of the

kakapo, and I am almost afraid to say
                                           Ibut
                                                     it,
bones which we all regarded as the rudimentary
                                                                       .
                                                                         .'
wings of the moa, to which the spurs corre

sponded --these have all now vanished in the

flames, but will in the course of this summer
        I

                                        '
endeavour to collect again as much as can. .

     This year London Was considerably disturbed
by the Chartist riots. The bigger Westminster

boys are made special constables, but R. came in

with the news that the mob had evaporated, and

that the petition was carried to the House in a!

cab He went on to Sir Robert Peel's to inquire
after Lady Peel. The windows all closely shut
and barred. At Gwydyr House he could not

get in at first, but when in he found all the

1848-49  CHARTIST RIOTS     321

windows shut and barricaded with the toughest
matter they could think of-- heaps of Blue-books.

Meanwhile Mr. Pentland came in. He has been
to the Deanery, where he says Dr. Buckland is

very busy preparing for any demonstration on the

part of the mob, enrolling special constables, &c.

The Dean says (according to Mr. P.) that if they

should attempt the Abbey by Poet's Corner he

himself will stand and knock down everyone as
he enters with a crowbar. Now that the bear is

gone, the eagle is the chief pet there. There are

likewise tortoises in the yard, and they lead a sad

life from the eagle, who is in the habit of testing
the hardness of their shells with his beak and

claws.'

     In April, Owen wrote a long letter to his
sister Eliza, descriptive of the progress of his
Hunterian Lectures at the College. He says :--

      ' I had imagined that the views were too
general for the extent of subject embraced for an

anatomical audience, and I was pleased to hear

our President, who was complimenting me this

morning, regret that he could not quite follow all

the minute details which passed with me for the

broad outlines of the sketch. It only shows how

differently the lecturer and audience are situated,

and how necessary it is to address oneself to the

least informed.' He then refers to his sanitary

work, and says : ' If I could bear to quit my dear

anatomy, more profitable Commissionerships might

vol. 1.                  Y

322  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

 be had, but we are creatures of habit ; the

longing for the wonted scrutiny into unknown
organisations would become uncontrollable, and
 happiness as well as usefulness, in a career for

 which I am peculiarly qualified, would be sacri

 ficed at a very dear rate for a few more hundred

pounds a year.'

     After an account of a dinner at Sir Robert

 Peel's, where the possible action of the Chartists

on the following day was discussed among other
subjects, Owen refers to his ' Archetype of the
Skeleton ' in the following words : ' I have
brought out my " Archetype " book ; Van Voorst
sells it for ios., and is to give me 6s. 6d. for each

copy. He has taken 150 copies. Chapman took
fifty, and accounts to me for js. 6d. for each,

selling at ios.'

      His passion for anatomy was strong enough

to withstand the slight inconveniences connected
with the rooms which Owen inhabited at the

College of Surgeons. The following entry in the
diary of his wife shows that she also made light
of them for her husband's sake :--

      ' Great trampling and rushing upstairs past

our bedroom door. Asked R. if the men were
dancing the polka on the stairs. He said "No ;

what you hear is the body being carried upstairs.
They are dissecting for fellowship to-day ! " R. en

gaged with the dissectors.'

     In September we find that one of the aurochs

1848-49  THE GREAT SEA-SERPENT  323

at the Zoological Gardens died, and provided
Owen with a subject for dissection and description

in a paper which he contributed to the Zoological

Society.

     In the following month Sir Robert Peel pre

sented him with an enormous trout weighing

22^ lbs., caught in the Tame, near Tarn worth. ' It
is an extraordinarily handsome fish,' Owen writes
(November 6), 'with most brilliant colours.' A por
trait of this huge fish was painted shortly after
wards, and was presented by Sir Robert Peel to

Professor Owen.

      But another water-monster was then occupying
public attention. Several persons of undoubted
veracity declared that they had seen the ' Great

Sea-serpent,' and brought much corroborative

detail into their accounts, which were clearly given

in good faith. The description given of a sea-

monster which was reported to have been seen

by the officers and crew of H.M.S. 'Daedalus'

attracted more than the usual notice, for the posi
tion and intelligence of the observers guaranteed
the truth of their story. Considerable correspon
dence ensued, and Owen made a strong attack upon
the identification of the creature, and extended

his arguments so as to include the improbability
or mistaken nature of other statements which had
preceded it. He founded his arguments on the
fact that in all the stories and drawings of supposed

great sea-serpents there was no undulation at all

324  PROFESSOR OWEN                                ch. x.

of the body, or else it was a vertical one, which is
not characteristic of serpents, and further, that no
remains had ever been discovered washed up on
any coast. He adds : ' Now, a serpent being an
air-breathing animal, dives with an effort, and
commonly floats when dead, and so would the
sea-serpent, until decomposition or accident had
opened the tough integument and let out the

imprisoned gases. . . . During life the exigencies
of the respiration of the great sea-serpent would
always compel him frequently to the surface, and

when dead and swollen it would

     Prone on the flood, extended long and large,
     Lie floating many a rood.

Such a spectacle, demonstrative of the species if
it existed, has not hitherto met the gaze of any of

the countless voyagers who have traversed the

seas in so many directions.'

     On November 9 Owen sent a letter to the
' Times ' in explanation of an account of the great

sea-serpent, saying that he was anxious through
that paper to give his opinion once for all, as he

continued to receive many applications for it.

     Early in 1849 we find him acknowledging the
receipt of a communication made to him from the
Prince Consort through Sir Charles Phipps on the
same subject. In this letter he states his opinion
that the ' animal ' seen from the deck of the

' Daedalus' was the head and track of a great seal,

1848-49 POPULAR FALLACIES DESTROYED         325

 or sea-lion. On February 22, 1849, he had an'
 opportunity of personally explaining his views to
 the Prince, who attended one of his lectures,I,'

and went round the museum afterwards with himif

accompanied by Sir Robert Peel.         it
      About this time there was another sea-serpent
                                     '
seen, of which the particulars were sent to Owen
by the Duke of Northumberland. This Owen'
               '
demonstrated to be the ribbon-fish from the draw
ising which was sent. ' Punch' soon had a parody on

the subject--

                       Who killed the sea-serpent ?
                                    ' said Professor Owen.

        Scotched, not killed,' was Owen's comment

on this. Another popular delusion which he set
himself to dispel was the idea that a toad would
live years, not centuries, shut up without air or
food in coal or rock. In defence of this was
urged that in breaking up lumps of rock, &c,

which had never been disturbed before, toads

occasionally emerged, not only alive, but in excel
lent health and condition. Mrs. Owen relates

how she detected an ingenious fraud which was
got up with intent to deceive her husband.

      A piece of stratified coal sent from Yorkshire,

together with a black-coloured toad, and the story
   that this lump of coal was split open accidentally,

and in an oval-shaped hole a toad was found alive

and well. How long, then, was the toad living in
that lump of coal
                      ?

326  PROFESSOR OWEN                                       Ch. x.

     ' R. was extremely busy, and asked me to

investigate and report on it. After looking at the
two pieces of coal I began to wonder whether the

two edges of the hole coincided exactly, which of

course they ought to do, as the lump of coal was

split right in the middle. After carefully taking
an impression of the edges on some paper by

inking them, and then placing them in juxtaposi
tion, I ceased to wonder. It was quite plain the

whole thing was a fraud. Yet there must have

     I
                                              '
                                                is
                                                   a it,
been much trouble spent on for the hole was

carefully coloured with the same stuff as the toad

was, and the tout ensemble was most plausible.'

     Amongst the entries for June we find a de
scription of Emerson, whom Owen met at a

friend's house. Emerson                                   tall, thin, gentle-

looking man, with a reflective expression, good

regular features, with dark hair, smooth and thin,

and, think, dark grey eyes. Much pleasant con
versation at dinner. Mr. E. not at all positive in

his manner, and very liberal in his general views.

We all went to the Marylebone Institution after

wards, Emerson having just preceded us. The
lecture was on the " Superlative."
     ;                                                    like Mr.

                                      is I
Emerson far better in conversation than as a

lecturer. His manner in lecturing                         studiously

flat and cold. The matter good, but not strik

ing. Long quotations from a Persian poet. The

room quite full saw Lady Franklin there.'
     'June 30. -- Mr. Emerson here for several

1848-49  EMERSON AND GUIZOT  327

hours. R. went round the museum with him. A

friend came with him, and both seemed much

interested. Afterwards Mr. Emerson and his
friend went with R. to Turner, R.A., to look at

his pictures. Turner was out, but they got in
and saw the pictures all the same.'

      Owen has left a brief record of his meeting with
Guizot at the Literary Club. Some years pre

viously he had met him at the Zoological Gardens
informally, but on this occasion, he says, ' I was
brought forward and introduced as " the Cuvier

of England " (I wish they would be content to
let me be the Owen of England), when Guizot,

politely bowing, said he was glad to find there
was a Cuvier in England. Not bad that, but

rather sly. He is a very interesting, fine old
gentleman. I'll tell you exactly what he said
when Sir Robert proposed his health. " Gentle
men, I feel very deeply de honour you have
done me. It is eight years ago I sit in dis room, in

de same company, receiving den de same honour.

I was den de Ministere of a great king. I am
now, gentlemen, I may say truf, a poor exile, but
you receive me just wid de same honour, de same

kindness, de same friendly hospitality. Gentle

men, I tank you from de bodom of my heart."
     ' There were present the Bishop of St.

Davids, Lord Northampton, Vice-Chancellor,
General Sir Howard Douglas, Colonel Leake,
Mr. Adolphus, Mr. Kenyon, Mr. Eastlake, Mr.

338  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH« X.

Lockharc, Professor Twiss, Mr. Key, Sir Francis
Palgrave, Mr. Hallam, Sir R. Inglis, and one or
two more besides R. O. I sat next but two

to Guizot, and had some interesting conversa
tion with him about Cuvier and the Garden of

Plants.'

    Early in the summer Mrs. Owen writes : ' We

saw to-day in Great Queen Street one of the evils

of the Smithfield Cattle Market. A conveyance

such as is used for large flat articles, like pictures,
&c, passed, drawn by two horses, and tied down
on it lay a black bull with enormous horns. Three

or four men were sitting on the bull, and I noticed

a red mark on its neck as though it had been

goaded. R. discovered that the bull first ran from

Smithfield, and after wounding several people and

attacking the gate-keeper at Stone Buildings (who
saved himself by shutting the gates), he rushed at

a gentleman who was entering the Square from

Stone Buildings, and after butting him, ran one of
his horns into the poor fellow's left temple. They
carried the gentleman off in a senseless state to

King's College Hospital, where the house surgeon
recognised him as an old friend and schoolfellow of
his. The bull was chased back through Chancery
Lane, Holborn, and nearly as far as Smithfield,

when it rushed over a bar into a little court called

" Fox and Knot," where it was at last caught by
ropes let down from the houses. These occur
rences are by no means rare. The animals get

1848-49  FEVER AT WESTMINSTER  329

 perfectly frantic at Smithfield, and R. says it is

  high time the thing was properly looked into.'

      How badly the Commission on Drainage, &c,
 was needed we can see from the following entry : --

      May 8. -- ' Mr. Rigaud, house master at
 Westminster, here. The state of things round
 about Dean's Yard is something terrible. The
 school is broken up in consequence of the fever.
 The Dean is ill, the Canons, the masters, and boys
 --some boys are dying. Mr. Rigaud's little girl

 and their good old negro butler fell early victims

 to this attack.'

     ' 22nd. --The Westminster fever business dis

 cussed at the Commission at Gwydyr House

 to-day.'

      Many and strange were the remedies pro

posed :--

      ' R. busy reading an extraordinary paper,

 which had been sent him for his opinion, treating

on a cure for cholera. It is a quackish concern,
 but Lord John Russell and Lord Lansdowne were

taken in by it. R. is much disgusted with the

 thing, and has written his opinion pretty plainly.'

     The drainage at Westminster was improved
early in the autumn. ' On September 21, R. was

again at Gwydyr House, and found that much has

been done with regard to the drains at Dean's Yard.
The huge ancient sewer is filled up now with

rubbish, and everything has been carefully over

hauled.'

330                PROFESSOR OWEN                    ch. x.

     The task of the Commissioners was a some

what thankless one, even though their services

were entirely unpaid in this instance. ' Article

this morning     (November 15) in           paper, calling R.
a " jack-of-all  -trades," apropos         of his multifarious
duties --sewage, anatomy, health of towns, and

geology.'

     This Commission work, in fact, brought so

many fresh things to light which it was absolutely

necessary should be inquired into that Owen

thought he could not possibly give his attention to

all that it entailed, and therefore announced his

intention of resigning. He received the following
letter on the subject from Mr. (afterwards Sir
Edwin) Chadwick, a fellow-Commissioner, who

became a lifelong friend and was in after years

the near neighbour of Professor Owen :--

     ' Dear Owen, -- I wrote to Lord Morpeth that

you wished to retire from the Metropolitan Sewers
Commission. In a letter of to-day he says :

     ' " I do very much lament the intention of Pro

fessor Owen to retire. We cannot, indeed, spare

his enlightened philanthropy.
     ' " Could you not in our joint name beg him at
                                        "
least  to  belong  to  us  at  first
                                      ?

     ' Unless you give me insuperable reasons I

shall still clap down your name.

                                      ' Yours ever,

                                           ' E. Chadwick.'

1848-49  ENGLISH IN TERTIARY TIMES  331

     Owen did not carry out his intention of resign
ing his Commissionership --on the contrary, he
stayed on the Sewers Commission until its work

was completed, and also served on the subsequent

Commission on Smithfield Market, &c
     The year 1849 was marked by the appearance

of Owen's memoirs ' On the Nature of Limbs,'
and on ' Parthenogenesis' -- a term which he himself

devised in order to designate scientifically the phe

nomenon which that name implies. He com
menced a remarkable series of papers on the fossil
birds of New Zealand at this time in the ' Trans
actions of the Zoological Society,' ' On Dinornis '

(Parts I. and II.) as also various papers on some

fossil mammals of Australia. Mention must be

also made of the series of monographs which he

prepared for the Palaeontological Society on
British fossil vertebrates, including a memoir on
the fossil reptiles of the London Clay (1849-50).

This monograph contains the following remarks
concerning the former existence of crocodiles and
alligators in England, which may be found of
interest :--

     ' Had any human being,' he says, ' existed [in
Tertiary times] and traversed the land where now
the south of Britain rises from the ocean, he might

have witnessed the crocodile cleaving the waters
of its native river with the velocity of an arrow, and

ever and anon rearing its long and slender snout

above the waves, and making the banks re-echo with

332  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                           ch. x.

the loud, sharp snappings of its formidably-armed
jaws. He might have watched the deadly struggle

between the crocodile and the palasothere, and

have been himself warned by the hoarse and deep
bellowings of the alligator from the dangerous
vicinity of its retreat. Our fossil evidences supply

us with ample materials for this most strange pic
ture of the animal life of ancient Britain ; and what

adds to the singularity and interest of the restored

tableau vivant is the fact that it could not now

be presented in any part of the world. The same
forms of crocodilian reptile, it is true, still exist ;
but the habitats of the crocodile and the alligator
are wide asunder, thousands of miles of land and

ocean intervening : one is peculiar to the tropical
rivers of continental Asia ; the other is restricted

to the warmer latitudes of North and South

America ; both forms are excluded from Africa,
in the rivers of which continent true crocodiles

alone are found. Not one representative of the
crocodilian order naturally exists in any part of
Europe ; yet every form of the order once
flourished in close proximity to each other in a

territory which now forms part of England.'

     Amongst the other papers which he found time

to write may be mentioned the ' Anatomy of the

Apteryx ' (' Zoological Transactions                                                                          On the
     '
                                         '

                                                                       '),

                                                                                                           '
Hippopotamus (at the Zoological Gardens), in

the Annals and Magazine of Natural History,'

and also the first of a long series of papers on

1848-49  THE COLLEGE ORATION                      333

' Osteological Contributions to the Natural History

of the Chimpanzees' ('Zoological Transactions').
     Some of the  incidents which   occurred
are thus noticed                              in  1849
                  in the diary :--
'January 10. --The author of " Orion," Mr.

Horne, came to dinner, and brought a copy of his
poem, now in its sixth edition. The object of his

coming was to get information from R. regarding
the structure and powers of the eye. He is

evidently thinking of making Orion regain his

sight. '                      a ticket for his    lec

    ' February 4. -- R. sent  to T. Carlyle.      On

ture, the College Oration,

the 6th Carlyle wrote a characteristic letter in

return for the ticket. He is evidently pleased

at having been remembered.'

     ' %th. --After dinner went up to the study,

where R. had all his diagrams laid out on the floor

ready for to-morrow's lecture, and I had the whole

lecture to myself, seated in a comfortable chair.

R. was anxious to ascertain what I, as an aver-

agely informed member of a "general" audience,
found clear, and also what I thought wanted a

commentary or explanation. He agreed to modify

and alter a few points, and there were also some

slight retouchings wanted in the diagrams.'

     ' i^th. -- Prince Albert came to hear the oration
at the College to-day at three o'clock. The Body

Corporate had made preparations to receive the

royal guest, but they went to the beadle's little

334          PROFESSOR OWEX                Ch. X.

office across the hall, ready to issue forth when

Ford should give notice of the royal carriage. At

a few minutes to three, R., who was in the dining-

room laughing and talking with my father and

mother, left the room with the gentlemen as they

went to take their places in the theatre, and just

as he was going in at the hall door a carriage

drove rapidly up, and he was the only person in
the way to receive Prince Albert, and so had to

introduce the President to him as he and the

others came bundling out of the office into the

hall. The Prince joked a great deal about R.

being the    sea-serpent killer. After     the oration
the College                                experiment
              gave a dinner --their first
of dining chez eux. All was brought from the
Freemasons', and the dessert, &c, was laid out

(preparatively) in R.'s study. The Prince did not

stay to dinner, but amongst the guests were

Hallam, Sir R. Peel, Bishop of Oxford, Captain
Sir Everard Home. When the Bishop had

finished grace in his mild, quiet way, the toast-

master, leaning forward as when giving out the
toasts, said with a loud voice " A-men." On this

unexpected response the Bishop's mouth twitched,

and he gave one comical look across to where R.
sat. The speeches were of various qualities and

quantities, but certainly the Captain's (Sir Everard
Home's) was one of the best for its brevity, its
simple good sense, and its heartiness. He looks,

as he has for the last thirty years, a big, fair,

1848-49 EVIDENCE BEFORE HOUSE OF COMMONS 335

serious and rather pretty Brobdignag cherub, but
is no cherub in sense ; whatever he says is to the

point, and good feeling and thorough truthfulness
are always at the bottom of it.'

     ' 15M. -- R. dining with the " Red Lions." He
was to-day at the British Museum Committee of

the House of Commons giving evidence. R.'s

statements and evidence caused much sensation.'

     'March 13. -- Lecture I. for 1849.4 Last

night R. read to me his first introductory lec

ture for criticisms, &c The whole course this
season is intensely interesting. This introductory
lecture is split up into two parts. They are to be

published at once.'

     ' ijth. -- Mr. Mitchell called to say that the

Zoological Gardens had made another acquisition

-- bower birds, two males and a female, brought
over alive. R. was talking it over this evening,

and he remarked, a propos of the bower bird

building with bright-looking shells, stones, &c,

that it might be a remnant of such a propensity
as causes a magpie to carry off and hide glittering

objects.'

     ' 215/. -- To-night a letter from the Admiralty
to R., enclosing one from Admiral Sir C. Napier
describing a sea-serpent. The first lieutenant's
drawing (a good one) was sent too. R. soon had

an idea which seems a satisfactory one.'

     ' 22nd. -- To-day I drew the explanation of the

                    4 Hunterian Lectures, ' On Invertebrata.'

336  PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. x.

sea-serpent, one for the Admiralty and one for
home.8 I also got Ainsworth's " Lancashire
Witches " for R. I always get these sort of
books for him during lecture season, as the best
sort of relaxation after hard work.'

     On March 29 Owen writes to his sister that
at a dinner at Lord Carlisle's he sat next to
Charles Dickens and had much pleasant conver
sation with him, and in the same letter he says :

'Yesterday we had J. M. W. Turner to dinner
here, and I took him with Willie to Lincoln's

Inn Chapel, and then to the Zoological Gardens.'

    The diary then contains the following entries :--

    'April 14. -- Mr. Duncan here. He is our

Charge d' Affaires at Dahomey. It seems a
present of peacocks is to be given to the King

there, in order to induce him to make us a

present of a hippopotamus.'

    ' 2ist. --Two amusing envelopes to-day. One
from France, addressed to " Sir Owen, Directeur

de l'Academie des Sciences a Londres,' the other

from Perm (wherever that may be), addressed to

' Son Eccellence Richard de Ouen.' This last

was concerning the aurochs, and the title has a
crusading flavour about it.'

    ' 2%th. --With R. to the Royal Institution. We

    5 The Admiralty sent all the   occasion he demonstrated it to be
reports of ' Great Sea-serpents '  two whales, which under certain
which they received to Professor
O wen for his opinion. On this     conditions might give the ap-
                                   pearance of a great sea-serpent.

1848-49  FARADAY TOO ILL TO LECTURE     337

got there just before three, and there was a crowded

audience, as usual, to hear Faraday's lecture. The

poor man entered and attempted to speak, but he

was suffering from inflammation or excessive

irritation of the larynx, and after some painful
efforts to speak, a general cry arose of " Postpone,"

and someone, apparently in authority, made a short

speech from the gallery. Mr. Faraday still wished

to try and force his voice, saying that he was well

aware of the difficulty of getting back the carriages,

&c, before the time for the lecture had elapsed,

to say nothing of the disappointment to some ; but
every moment the cry increased, " No, no ; you

are too valuable to be allowed to injure yourself.

Postpone, postpone." Poor Faraday was quite

overcome.'

     In May 1849 Owen attended the Royal Aca
demy dinner, of which, in writing to his sister Eliza,

he gives the following account, showing how

thoroughly he enjoyed any recreation, of what
'Iever nature it might be :
                             got to Trafalgar

Square,' he writes, ' then penetrated the line of

police, received my catalogue, and was soon in

the midst of the artists, their guests, and their

beautiful works. Pushed on from one friendly

greeter to another till I got into the last great

room, where the dinner is laid out, and Baily

the sculptor having pointed out my place, I
began to make the tour of the " Tableaux."

Whilst scrutinising Herbert's masterpiece from

vol. 1.                              z

338  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

 " King Lear " was patted on the back by Lord

Carlisle, and after a little critical chat on one

of Turner's peculiarities, moved on. Looking
next at a group of fawns by Edwin Landseer,

someone pushed past my elbow, and who should
it be but the old Duke of Wellington : a stiff bow,

and on he marched, all military upright to the

shoulders, and then the reverend old head pokes

forward at an obtuse angle ; the large silver buckle

of the stiff white stock shining at the nape, above
the collar of the blue coat with its bright gold
buttons and shining star. The crimson sash

across the white waistcoat, black pantaloons and

shining boots. Looking better, I think, than last
year, and quite enjoying the pictures. After his
Grace had passed I followed quietly in his wake ;
but was soon arrested by the Duke of Northum

berland, who had invited me a month or two ago
to the North, and repeated his hospitable wishes.

Some badinage about the sea-serpent (I shall
never hear the last of that), and then came tripping
along my Lord Brougham : a civil salute, but he
evidently forgot to whom. In three minutes,

however, he came back again, and plunged at once
into the mysteries of " Parthenogenesis," about
which the world is beginning to talk, as the subject

of my " Lectures" oozes out in conversation. Lord
Monteagle and then Lord Stanley, and then the
Chief Baron Pollock, and then little Lord John
[Russell], as sharp as a sparrow-hawk, and the

1848-49 JENNY LIND IN 'SONNAMBULA'             339

quieter old Lord Lansdowne, and our new Arch

bishop, and soon after the Bishop of Oxford, who
was full of the lecture, &c, and so with the company

and the artists and the pictures. Sat down very

happily between old Turner and a Mr. Young,

with J. H. Green and Edwin Landseer opposite,
and old Pick. [Pickersgill] not far off, and a very

chatty, pleasant dinner, good speeches, and capital

singing by a small band of choice professionals,

after dinner. The Duke as characteristically sen

tentious and stentorious as ever. Charley Stokes,

who was there, left early, and as he passed slipped

a ticket into my hand, saying, " Now if you want

to end with a thorough holiday you may wind

up with this." I glanced at the words Pit,
Opera, &c, and did not tarry long after. Old
Guizot and Lord Mahon left at the same time.

Walked into Fop's Alley, where I found two

acquaintances who made a good place for me, and

saw the house was regularly crammed. Her

Majesty and the Duchess of Kent occupying

opposite corners, or ends, of the Royal box ; a
chorus chanting on the stage. " What's going
on?" I asked.        "
                        Jenny  Lind ! The      last night of
                        Don't               "     Soon did.
' Sonnambula      '            you  know
               !                          ?

The last two scenes --and such scenes ! The Un

surpassed surpassing herself. Her Majesty would

have the beautiful flower scene repeated, where

Jenny in her sleep brings the withered posy

which she has kept, a love relic, and fondles
                                               z

                                                     2

                                                       it.

340  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

What outpouring of notes full of all the affection

and feeling conceivable ! Came away as soon as
the last shower of bouquets had fallen to tell all

the story to my dear little wife, who got the

conceit in her head that I must be about one of

the happiest men in the world ; and truly I must
own that yesterday was a day which is worth
living for. One enjoys a holiday or a pleasure-
making so thoroughly when it has been earned.'

     On June 17, 1849, Owen writes to his sister
Eliza, from Worthing, about an excursion he made
to some chalk-pits near Arundel (Southeram),

together with J. E. Gray, F. Dixon, and Lord

Northampton, ' who is an ardent collector of flint
fossils.' He says : ' One of the pitmen remarked,

when his lordship had been hammering over one
heap through a long afternoon, " That man doan't

work for his living ; if he went on that gate he
could do nought next day. . . ." The " Houghton "
pit is the oldest and largest of the escarpments -
it forms a magnificent amphitheatre of soil, enclos

ing a verdant, undulating area, along which the

river Arun meanders. A wonderful quantity of

the rarest British plants flourish in this retired,
out-of-the-world spot, from which a fine extent of

the chalk country is seen, chequered by shady
groves and sunny plains, with much of the demesne

of Arundel Castle included in the scene. Here

our rustic table was set out with four seats, and

here, after some hours' good work, we sat down

1848-49 DEATH OF MR. AND MRS. CLIFT               341

...to cold boiled beef, cold fowl and tongue, salad,
lobsters, sherry and ginger beer,  all more or

less like millers ; my lord the whitest, particularly

one side of his nose, being short-sighted. Dixon

occupied himself in penning a pretty little sonnet

to mark the occasion, of which I quote the last

few lines :--

But should some scientific mind behold

This ancient tomb of lizards, birds and fish,
Of shells, and smaller forms of every mould,
Their flinty shroud removed, will meet his wish.
These lines to mark a happy day are writ
With Owen, Gray, and keen Northampton's wit.'

      From Worthing he went on to Lady Hastings',
at Lymington, and in a letter to his sister Kate
(June 19, 1849), he says of Lady Hastings' col
lection : ' Rare and wonderful beasts, carnivorous

and herbivorous, are represented by the numerous
jaws and bones of all parts of the skeleton which

Lady H., by encouragement to the poor women

and children, has received from the old Eocene

beds about here.'

      About a week after Owen's return to the

College of Surgeons a great grief befell him and

his wife--the death of both Mr. and Mrs. Clift.

Mrs. Clift, who had been ailing some time, first

passed away, and her death was quickly followed
by that of her husband. Owen had always the
strongest feelings of respect and affection for
William Clift, with whom so many events and

342  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. X.

reminiscences of his early life were intimately
associated, and we learn the sentiments with

which Owen regarded his father-in-law from the

interesting ' Obituary Memoir of William Clift '

which he shortly afterwards communicated to the

Royal Society.
     In July, Owen received a letter on the subject

of the window tax from Travers Twiss, exhort

ing him, in the following terms, to use his influence
towards its abolishment. ' It has always struck
me as rather a cruel provision to tax such
ventilators, even when it was not regarded as
prejudicial to health. But in the present day,

when the State does not hesitate to impose severe
duties on individuals as to drainage, ventilation,

&c, it seems inconsistent in its not recognising
the duty of the State to throw no impediment by
its own fiscal regulations in the way of one of the
most important branches of domestic ventilation.

Can you bring the subject before the proper
authorities, or let me know how it should be done ?
It would be a politic as well as a proper measure,
and the gain is so paltry.'

     On the 2 1st of this month we have an account
of another visit of Prince C. L. Bonaparte to

Owen :--

     ' R. had gone off to the Gardens, and I was
sitting alone at home when I heard a familiar
voice asking questions of the servant at the gate.
Presently the door opened and the servant an-

1848-49 LUCIEN BONAPARTE COMES AGAIN  343

nounced Mr. Bonaparte ! I told him I was not

much surprised to see him, as I knew that he had

left Rome. He has shaved off his beard again.
He said that he would like to go after R. to the
Gardens, but that he would also like to take Willie
with him as a protection. In the evening he came
back with the others and stayed to dinner. He

talked a good deal about science and also politics.

The toast was " Viva l'ltalia libra !" at which he

was much pleased. After dinner he took up the
" Observer," not expecting to find correct news
in the paper ; but he said the accounts from Italy

were almost the same as those which he had

himself received. He left rather early, as he

had only arrived in England at ten o'clock this

morning.'

    A few days later Prince Charles Lucien came

again, saying that he was anxious to go to Madame
Tussaud's to see the wax figures of his relatives

there. ' It so happened,' Mrs. Owen writes,

' that a Westminster friend of Willie's was here

to lunch, and the Prince having come here early,
said that he would come with us and the two boys.

When at the exhibition we had the rare oppor
tunity of comparing the models of the Napoleon
and of Lucien with the son and nephew. The

Prince looks very Napoleonic at times, especially
when he frowns, as he did when puzzling over the
catalogue. He hunted out the likeness of his
cousin (Louis), but on seeing how very bad it

344  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x.

was, scarcely bestowed a second glance at it. R.
mentioned that he had seen Louis Napoleon for

more than an hour in the museum a few years
ago, and that the model hardly recalled his like
ness. But the Prince was much struck with the

likeness of his father, and also that of Madame
Mere, his grandmother. We saw, amongst other
relics of Bonaparte, one of the set of gold knives,
of which my father had two, and which we
have now. I showed them to the Prince at

dessert, and he recognised them by their make as
soon as he saw them. When in the rooms where

the Napoleon family models were, I noticed people

looking at the Prince with great curiosity and
interest. He was exceedingly kind to the two
boys, and laughed and joked with them, especially
about the Chamber of Horrors, pretending to be
dreadfully afraid of it. I noticed a trait of cha

racter this evening which amused us very much.

Mr. Samuel Warren (author of " Ten Thousand
a Year ") was here, and after dinner the Prince was
playing on the piano some rather lively marches
and tarantellas, when Mr. W., evidently rather
flushed with the excitement of meeting the dis

tinguished guest, said as he lolled back luxuriously

in an arm-chair, " Why don't you play us some
thing more melancholy, Prince ? I want something
melancholy." Prince Charles Lucien, seeming to
take no notice of the request (Mr. W. until this

evening was a total stranger to him), went on

1842-49 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT SALISBURY 345

playing with a bland smile on his face, but the

most dreadful compound of discords and noise.

R. had gone upstairs for a few minutes, but

hearing this strange thumping came down again

to see what it was. I explained the situation to

him in a whisper, and he soon grasped it. Mr.

W. finally retired in discomfiture, and left the

Prince still beaming with the most perfect good-

humour.'

     In August, Owen received an amusing letter
from Sir Philip Egerton, descriptive of the

meeting of the British Association at Salisbury,

which he was unable to attend. It was chiefly

composed of archaeologists, whose efforts were

crowned with a success resembling in a strik

ing way the famous discovery made by Mr.

Pickwick of the stone bearing the inscription, ' Bill

Stumps his mark.' Sir Philip, after saying how

much he had been bored by the whole business,

continued :--

'. . . I felt more at home standing on Inigo

Jones's palladian bridge and watching a- fat old
newt's habit of life in the stream below, than in

listening to the Dean of Hereford's account of his

diggings in the barrows. I had a sample of this
                      of " Punch   "
sport  quite  worthy                  for on our way to
                                  ;

Stonehenge we had a grand digging (only to be

equalled by the Californian gold-diggers, to judge

by the anxious faces and lively scrambles of the

expectant archaeologists), and at length found --

346             PROFESSOR OWEN      CH. X.

what do you suppose ?-- a mysterious bit of sheet-
lead, of which I send you a rough sketch.

                      OPEN

                                ED
                           IN 1804

                BY R. C. H.

                _.

     ' Buckland was very great at Stonehenge, and

narrowly escaped having to fight a duel with the

son of a Mr. Somebody, who, the Dean said, had

written a book to prove that the architect of the

mysterious ruin was Cain, and had dedicated

...the book to him to buy his acquiescence in the
theory.         I both amused and edified myself

during the locomotive parts of my trip with
studying " Parthenogenesis " and the " Nature of

Limbs." I recommended the perusal of them to

old Sedgwick.'

     In September, Owen suffered another loss in
the death of his old friend Frederick Dixon, of

Worthing, at whose house he had spent so many

happy days. Owen was with him at the time.

The value which he set on Dixon's friendship is

evident from a letter to his wife, in which he says:

' There was a genuine goodness in poor Dixon that
makes me feel bereaved of a true friend, and in

many difficulties, though small perhaps, always the

best adviser about College and other such matters,

1848-49  A DEAD RHINOCEROS           347

in which I could fully confide in his true heart and

judgment. Peace be with him ! Few men have

better earned it.'

In November the rhinoceros at the Zoological

Gardens died, and, ' as a natural consequence,'

Mrs. Owen writes, ' there is a quantity of rhino

ceros (defunct)  on the premises.'     Owen mentions
this rhinoceros  in a letter to one
                                     of his sisters :--

' Amongst other matters time-devouring, and

putting out of memory mundane relations, sisters

included, has been the decease of my ponderous

and respectable old friend and client the rhino

ceros. I call him "client" because fifteen years ago

I patronised him, and took it upon my skill, in dis

cerning through a pretty thick hide the internal

constitution, to aver that the beast would live to

be a credit to the Zoological Gardens, and that

he was worth the 1,000 guineas demanded for

him. The Council had faith, and bought him, and

he has eaten their hay, oats, rice, carrots, and bread

in Brobdignagian daily quantities ever since, and

might have gone on digesting had he not, by some

clumsy fall or otherwise inexplicable process,

cracked a rib ; said fracture injuring the adjacent
lung and causing his demise. His anatomy will
furnish forth an immortal " Monograph," and so

comfort comes to me in a shape in which it can

not be had by any of my brother Fellows of the

Zoological order. . . . Yesterday I went to the

Athenseum, and finished the second volume of

348  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. X.

"Shirley." I suppose your good and kind host,
to whom give my best remembrances, has read
that Yorkshire novel of Currer Bell's lang syne. I
like it. I am also reading again Lockhart's " Life
of Scott," which I have bought. Let me recom
mend to you both Hugh Miller's " Footprints of
the Creator," nmo --a book to be bought, not

borrowed.'

    A constant guest at Sir Robert Peel's dinners,

Owen often refers to them in his letters, and in

one of these to his sister Eliza (November 28,
1849), he mentions among others, ' Sir William
Hooker (with very interesting news of his son, who
has climbed to the plateau of Thibet, where he

has a chance of catching the " unicorn "-- besides

a fever), and two or three curates in white neck

cloths (they are always represented at Sir Robert's

hospitable table), very like those described in
" Shirley." . . . To-day Mr. Horne, the poet,
author of " Orion," dines with us, to receive a

criticism on a pretty little Xmas book of which

he has submitted the proof sheets to me. It is
to be called the " Poor Artist," and I can recom

mend it for a pleasant evening's light reading.'
     On November 27 Owen was appointed mem

ber of the Royal Commission on Smithfield
Market and the Meat Supply of London. ' The
first I heard of it was from the notice in the
" Times," ' Mrs. Owen writes, ' for R. has not

mentioned to anyone that he was to be on the new

Commission.' 'This Commission,' according to

1848-49 COMMISSION ON SMITHFIELD MARKET 349

the 'Times' of Tuesday, November 27, 1849, 'has

been appointed to inquire into the live and dead

meat markets of London, and consists of seven

members.' Owen attended the first meeting at

the Home Office, on December 5, and shortly

afterwards an entry in the diary records of the

second meeting that it was of a most satisfactory

character, owing to some conclusive and sensible

evidence given by a noted West-end butcher :

' This gentleman came prepared with a plan of
improvements in slaughter-houses, &c, which was

much the same as the committee were strug

gling  to  bring   about.      Richard asked   --hiGmib(lehtis)
           think,  was     rather appropriate
name,   I

if he was aware that his really excellent plan, which

Mr. Giblet was afraid might prove too Utopian to

be acted upon, existed and was maintained in most

Continental towns. R. made a great point of this,

so that the Lord Mayor, who was present, could

not plead ignorance of such a fact. There will be

a great deal of difficulty in altering the present
state of things in London -- chiefly in respect to

the great sums of money required --but it must

come sooner or later.'

     ' December 4. -- Milne-Edwards and Dumas
fits here this evening. Young Dumas has a very

worn, old look, though he cannot be more than

twenty-five. He says he understands English,

but does not speak it.'

     ' gth. --We hear that there is a hippopotamus

waiting for the Gardens at Cairo. It must be an

3So             PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                           ch. x.

enormous expense, but it is worth it. Our consul

at Cairo is taking care of and
                             I                                 being nursed

                                    It

                                           is it,
                                                     it
                                                           is
there, consuming am afraid to say how many

pints of milk per day.          intelligent and a great

favourite, and has red spots on its skin after

bathing due to extravasated blood," Professor
     '

       3

             1

            ["
Owen nsot.t--es]B.'oys' party here, for the last day of the

old year. They had toy theatre, and performeda
" Der Freischiitz," to the accompaniment of blue

and red fire, &c. In spite of long waits, and

some arguments (ad hominem) behind the scenes,
R. sat all out with the greatest patience.'
     it

                          :

              T
     On this day Owen wrote a letter to his sister

Eliza, giving a short summary of his work during

the past year                have safely received the promised

present of wax models [of the anatomy of the
torpedo] from the Grand Duke of Tuscany, sent

in a right Royal fashion. They are very beautiful,

and of at least 300/. value have presented them
                                ;

                                 I

to the College.              1849 has been productive of
" Parthenogenesis,"           the " Nature of Limbs," and
the beginning of my big book on " British Fossil

Reptiles," a new course of lectures, and the com
pletion of the " Catalogue of Osteology " besides
     ;

                                        is I
                                                                                                                      ;
some minor matters on chimpanzee, chelonian,

carapace, &c Smithfield runs away with some

time but that will conclude, think, my sanitary
labours. The good work in train, and cannot

now be stopped.'

1850-51  THE MEGATHERIUM                                                         351

         CHAPTER XI

         1850-51

The Megatherium -- Preparations for the Great Exhibition of
G18a5r1d--enTs h--eJuSrmoirthofifeldawaCrodms matisstihoen  --Additions to the
                                                            Exhibition -- Visit  Zoological
                                                                                 to Paris at
the Invitation of the President of the French Republic -- Article
                                                            Review, October 1851 -- The
on LyelFs Works in the Quarterly                            de l'Ordre Royal pour le
Copley Gold Medal -- ' Chevalier

Merite '--Sheen Lodge, 185 1.

In 1850 Woodbine Parish sent home from Buenos
Ayres the remains of a gigantic extinct mammal,

more nearly allied to the ant-eaters and sloths

than to the armadillos. The Megatherium, as it

has been named, had already been described by
Cuvier and Mr. Clift ; but this new specimen

afforded Owen the opportunity of writing his

famous paper on the subject which appeared in

the ' Philosophical Transactions.'
     Early in the year Dr. Gideon Mantell wrote

to him cautioning him against overtaxing his
mental powers. In this letter Dr. Mantell says:
' I once possessed as much mental energy as most

men, but by overwork I now feel fit for nothing.

352  PROFESSOR OWEN                            ch. XI.

Be warned by my example. I hope in April to

send you two little volumes, the compiling of

which has served to beguile many a weary hour,

for after the professional exertions which I am

obliged to make for my daily bread I suffer

greatly, and should have been dead from ennui

ere this, had I not such resources. Miss Marti -

neau has published "Life in the Sick Room:"

mine will be " Life on the Sick Couch ; " and I think

the notes of the naturalist will be more cheering

than those of the political economist. . . .'

     Owen did not disregard Mantell's advice, and

in a letter to his sister dated February 4, after

remarking that he has been taking things rather

easier, he says : ' As dining out keeps me from

working in the evening and saves my eyes, I have

been indulging in accepting lately many invita

tions ; but henceforth intend to decline until my
lectures are over. . . . Saturday morning I went

to breakfast at Hallam's, and had a great intellec

tual treat-- Macaulay the historian, Milman the

poet, Gutzlaff the Chinese traveller, Major

Rawlinson the Babylonian traveller, who has got

the clue to the cuneiform inscriptions on the

Nineveh sculptures. Lord Monteagle, &c Thence

I went to see the poor Dean of Westminster,

whose health, I fear, is breaking.

     ' Willie is going on very satisfactorily at West

minster, but he is in a class of very sharp and

hard-working, or, as he calls  it,  muzzing boys, so

1850-51               SIMS REEVES                                   353

I don't at all set my mind on his winning his

election next year.'

    Describing a concert at Exeter Hall, he

writes : ' We had front seats, and therefore I

had a good opportunity of observing Ernst and

Thalberg, who were both playing. Ernst is

more like a vampire than a man, awful to look

at ; Thalberg as great a contrast to him as one

can conceive, his whole being redolent of meat,

pudding, and creature comforts. Both perfectly

calm and imperturbable, but the one is the placi

dity of a dumpling, the other that of a corpse.
Miss Dolby sang, but there was a new star too--

Mr. Sims Reeves. He has a truly fine voice, and
                             He sang " My Pretty
knows how to manage
          I

                                    it.
                                            a

                                                        it
                                                                it
Jane," but personally prefer to hear as was

written, and in its original simplicity. Also he

sang the words " Meet me in the gloaming" --

" Meet me in the evening," small thing, but he

might as well have used the right word.'

     One of the memorable events of the year 1850
was the inception of the scheme for the Great

Exhibition of 1851, in which Prince Albert took,

as well known, a most active part. The first
meeting of the Committee --which included Lord
    is

                       1.

                                                                    2

                                                                                                            :

                                                                              la
Granville, Lord Stanley, Owen, Lyell, De
Beche, and others among its members --was held

at  Buckingham  Palace  inonheFrebdriaurayry--13.
     Mrs. Owen  writes
    'February 14. --At past
                             o'clock a message

    vol.                                           AA

354  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. XI.

came to R. from Prince Albert, asking him to
prepare a list or classification of animal structures
for the Exhibition, to be ready for the Committee

at 3 o'clock. So, as R. had come in after the
message, he had to work against time and set off
to the Palace without any lunch. R. gave us an
amusing account of the proceedings of the Com
mittee at Buckingham Palace. There was of course
much good work done, and many clever suggestions

made. . . . The Prince had plenty to do in the

business which fell to his share as chairman.

They assembled at 3 o'clock, and not till a
quarter to 8 did they break up, when a message

was somehow conveyed to H.R.H that it was

time for him to dress for dinner. On the whole,

R. was much pleased with the day's work.'
      Owen was placed on the committee of the

comprehensive section ' Raw Materials and Pro
duce of the Animal Kingdom.' The list of

substances in itself occupies many pages, and

they were also divided into their uses -- food,

medicine, chemistry, clothing, building, and manu

facture.

     As to the food, Owen remarks that it is im

possible to give an exact list, for ' almost every
part of almost every species of animal serves as
food to some variety or other of the human race.'

The list of food was indeed a varied one, rang

ing from condensed milk to edible birds' nests ;
and the manufacturing and domestic uses of the

1850-51  COURT DRESS                                         355

products of the animal kingdom seem to have

included anything from tallow candles and gelatine

to tortoise-shell and pearls.

     In March, Owen attended his first Levee, where

he was presented to the Prince Consort by the

Earl of Carlisle. From a long account of the

ceremony given in a letter to his sister Maria we

make the following extract :--

' Finding, after my invitation to the Prince's

Council at Buckingham Palace, that I could no

longer postpone paying my humble duty in form,

I sent for a Court tailor, and Carry and I devised

a very handsome and elegant attire, I think quite

as good as any Court dress I saw. A rich sort

of dahlia-brown cloth, with bright steel buttons,
buckles, sword, &c, and a white satin waistcoat

with rich flowers embroidered. Lace cravat full

and long, and the same for the cuffs. Cut-steel

loop in the cocked-hat. All very fine] as Pepys

would say, ' and gave great satisfaction to Carry

and Catherine when finally fitted on this morning.'

     Besides attending the Committee meetings of
the Great Exhibition, he sat on the Smithfield

Commission on the Meat Supply of London at

frequent intervals. An entry in the diary (Feb
ruary 1 states that a City deputation attended
         it,
            9),

                                                          '
the meeting on that day with a ridiculous plan of

patching up the market, instead of doing away

with     and also of adding slaughter-houses.

The minds of those whose firmness was of such

356  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. xI.

vital importance were visibly staggered by this
plausible attempt to make a show of doing some
thing and of making improvements, when the
only right course is to improve the whole thing
away. R. sat there boiling with indignation, till

his turn came to give his opinion, and then he

gave forth his protest against this new proposal

in unmistakable language. This set the Commis
sioners wavering back again. He left them un

decided.'

     ' March 5. --This time R. returned from the

Smithfield Commission with the hope that things

were going right at last. It is evident that his

last speech has produced a stronger reaction than

he expected. It seems an obvious piece of stu

pidity to meet a reform by a proposal to perpetuate
and increase the nuisance at an enormous outlay
of money.'

     Owen's course of Hunterian Lectures this year
was ' On the Generation and Development of
Vertebrate Animals, with Prefatory Remarks on
Vertebra;.' He notes in his diary that Hallam

was a constant attendant at these lectures, and he

also adds : ' I could give the Bishop of Oxford a

certificate for most regular attendance.'

     Owen's recreations during this course of
lectures were visits to the theatre and the Zoo
logical Gardens. He went twice to see Parodi
as Medea, and notes a piece of by-play which
was not much to that lady's credit. ' In the bridal

1850-51  THE HIPPOPOTAMUS                     357

scene, I just happened to see Parodi, before

throwing down the altar, give one of the un

fortunate chorus-girls a sly kick and a vicious
pinch. It seems the poor "chorus" was in her
way. Parodi and Sims Reeves played together.
The latter's fine voice was overstrained to make it

go with hers.'

     In March the Zoological Society had a young
hippopotamus ' on sale or return.' ' At the Gardens

to-day,' Mrs. Owen writes, 'there was an amusing

scene with the young hippopotamus now there on

approval, price only 350/.! It was let out of its

house for us to see, and when once out was so

much pleased with its liberty and the great tank
of water, that it declined to go back. Good-

natured Hunt tried to tempt it with all sorts of

enticing bits, but we left him still unsuccessful.

The creature was just like a spoilt child, and
showed a spirit of obstinacy very pig-like '

    ' April 12. -- R. to take the chair at the Royal

Society, and underwent the     penance (to  him) of
                                in India."  As soon
" rain admeasurements falling

as that was over he hurried off to Mr. Mitchell,

who wanted his opinion with regard to a rhino
ceros which is also for sale. Demurs of the Council

because of the expense of the hippopotamus.'

This hippopotamus was ultimately purchased

by the Zoological Society, and proved a great

attraction, as may be seen from the following

entry : ' Went to look at the new hippopotamus.

358  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x1.

There was an immense crowd of visitors to the

Gardens. R. and I got through the crowd to the
giraffe paddock, in the hope of getting some
friends into the house, but soon found it out of

the question. There was a dense mass of people

waiting their turn to get inside the house, and
the whole road leading to that part of the Gardens

was full of a continuous stream of people. Mr.
Mitchell said that there were more than 6,000 last

Saturday, and that there were about 10,000 to

day.'

     The Hunterian Lectures of the season were

finished by May 4. On that day Owen went
to the Royal Academy dinner. ' Sir Robert Peel

was there, and also Thackeray, who sent to me
across the table to take a glass of wine.'

    A remarkable collection of antique watches,

containing, amongst others, one which the owner
stated to have belonged to Milton, was exhibited
this year. Owen went to see them, and his wife

records that on his way back ' R. said that he felt

convinced the watch could never have belonged
to Milton, because of the bad Latin of the inscrip
tion on its face, which Milton was supposed to
have written himself. R. did not tell this to the

owner of the watch. It was, in fact, impossible for

him to do so, as the worthy gentleman himself
was quite unconscious of the mistake.'

      Owen's holiday this year was spent chiefly in

Edinburgh. He occupied the whole of August

1850-51  NEW POLAR BEAR  359

and part of September in taking a thorough

rest.

     Just before starting for Scotland (July 24),
'the skeleton of the great chimpanzee arrived,
sent by Captain Harris. It is the first full-grown
skeleton ever brought to England. I am thank

ful it did arrive before we started, for otherwise

R. would have inevitably turned back to open

the box.'

     After visiting Edinburgh, Lancaster, Derby,

and other places, they returned home on Sep
tember 19. On the following day ' there arrived

a precious volume for R.'s inspection --the ori
ginal MS. of "Waverley," mislaid so long by
Sir Walter Scott. There was a letter from

Lockhart with it to vouch for its authenticity.
R. was luckily able to spend some time over it

before it had to be sent to the Advocates' Library

in Edinburgh.'
      On September 28 an amusing caricature ap

peared in ' Punch '--a night at the Royal Insti
tution, Owen lecturing. ' The diagrams very

 well done,' he remarks, ' and the picture is really

 very clever.'

     This month a new polar bear was added to
 the Zoological Gardens. ' R. went at 2 o'clock to

the Gardens, just in time to see the new polar bear
 turned out of his barrel (he was brought over in
 a barrel and had been cooped up for weeks) into
 the residence of the female polar bear. She

360  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. XI.

 greeted the new arrival with loud growls, and
seemed shocked at his being turned into her
grounds so unceremoniously. She did not hold
 her paw before her face, it is true, but she clawed
 a good mass of fur out of his side and then
retreated to her corner in the house, making short

runs at him occasionally. The newly arrived

bear was so glad to be able to stretch his legs,
after having been cramped up so long, that he
cared little for these exhibitions of feminine

delicacy, but lost no time in plunging into the

pond, which operation he repeated again and

again.' A later visit to the bears is thus noted :

' We found the happy couple in a rather unplea
sant domestic state. The lady backed into a

corner, with her nose lowered on to her paws,
growling very spitefully and looking daggers or

rather " saws " at her mate. He was sitting
within a foot or two of her, with a most gentle
manly, patient air, almost amiable. He is a fine
animal, of a yellowish colour. She is quite

white.'

     ' October 24. -- Note from Mr. Gould to ask us
to step round and see the skin of a notornis which
has been sent him. R. dined with Mr. Lovell

Reeve, and came home much pleased with his
entertainment. Cruikshank was there, and sang
" Lord Bateman" whom he illustrated so cleverly
in the " Ballad." '

    'November 15. -- R. started off about nine to

1850-51  HOW GREAT MEN COMPOSE  361

 take Mr. Pickersgill to the Gardens. This was his
first visit there. ' His art,' he said, ' had never given
 him time before.' This morning Mr. William

 Cooper performed the operation for cataract on a

 young grizzly bear. He performed this operation

 once before on a young bear, who quite recovered.
 Several zoologists to witness it.'

      'December 16. -- Author of " Orion," Mr.
 Horne, here. He told me he did not write the
 "Raven" papers in "Household Words." They
are Dickens's own. Mr. H. wrote the " Zoological
 Meeting." He said Dickens's papers were some

 times mistaken for his, and vice versa.'

     'December 20. -- R. gone to T. Carlyle's, whom
we had asked to come to dinner. T. C. had

written to say he was too dyspeptic to venture out

at present, and begged R. to go over there. They

have been corresponding this week.'

     At a meeting of the Literary Club this month,
Owen met Southey and Smirke, R.A., among

others, and gives in a letter to his sisters an ac
count of the conversation, which turned on the

circumstances in which men compose and write.

' The Bishop [of Lichfield] said he always found
it easiest whilst walking about in the open air, and
that he used to do his verses at Eton always in
" Poets' Walk," and write them down when he re

turned. Mr. Walpole said that that was the way in
which Macaulay composed, and that he had met
him after midnight going through Temple Bar ;

362        PROFESSOR OWEN                       CH. XI.

he (Macaulay) having set off from the West End

to walk to the Tower and back, saying he found

the air most pure and the interruptions fewest at

that time, and that he had composed the whole

of his pages on Judge Jeffreys' downfall during a

walk of that kind.'

     The letter concludes with a reference to the

Great Exhibition, and the building, which was fast

approaching completion. ' The Crystal Palace is

the most wonderful piece of work the world has

ever seen erected in so short a space of time.
Whatever be the result of the " Exhibition," one
thing is certain -- the building must impress every

foreigner with a strong sense of English inventive

power and perseverance.'

     In January 1851 Owen had several meetings
with Thomas Carlyle, who was anxious to obtain

materials  for his life of John Sterling.   In  writing
to Owen    about this date, Carlyle says   :--

     ' Can you not advise Professor Airy, or some

real mathematician and geometer, to undertake

that business of Foucault's pendulum, and (throwing

Euler and his Algebra overboard) illuminate it

for the geometrical mind ? It seems to me the

prettiest experiment made in this century, though

perhaps good for nothing otherwise. I have had

a great wrestling with it occasionally in my own

poor head (which used to know some mathematics
twenty years ago), and a deadly suspicion haunts

1850-51         PUBLIC EXECUTIONS             363

me, the fact itself being certain as fate, that nobody

has yet in the least explained what the real cause

and conditions of it are.'
                30. -- Charles Dickens and Mr. For-
     'January
ster, of the "  Examiner," here. Dickens brought

with him a curious letter, of the authenticity

of which there can be no doubt, written by the

wretched woman Maria Manning at the hour of
her execution. It is addressed to a relative of

hers, and in the most solemn terms avows her

innocence. This relative received it with the

notice that Maria Manning had undergone her
sentence of death before it was posted. The

person to whom the letter was sent had seen from

the papers that Dickens attended the execution,

and so concluded that he was impressed with the

idea that Manning was not guilty, and sent him

her letter as a confirmation, whereas Dickens was

merely agitating against executions being made

public.  This letter was the outcome of the
woman's prevailing feeling strong in death -- to

pose, and to show up well.'

Dickens afterwards wrote to Owen about

an article which was to appear in ' Household

Words ' on the subject of public executions.

Later on in this year Owen's opinion was asked

in the case of a woman, named Maria Clark, who

was under sentence of death for child murder.

The then Home Secretary wrote to ask what

364  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. XI.

Owen thought ' of the state of her brain and mind
under the miserable circumstances in which she

buried her infant alive.'

     The diary has this entry on the subject : ' R.
wrote to Sir George Grey stating his opinion that

the poor creature was certainly not in her right
senses, from pain, and exposure to bad weather for
twenty hours, and that she was therefore not to

be considered as a wilful criminal. It was a very
strong letter. The next day R. went to the Home

Office, where he was told that his letter had created

a strong feeling in the mind of Sir George Grey,

who had come to the office at 1 1 o'clock at night
after receiving the letter, and had routed them

up in order to get a reprieve prepared and sent
off at once.'

     Amongst other evils which Owen was anxious
to abolish was the window tax, which had not yet
been repealed. It was anticipated that considerable

difficulty would be felt in obtaining conclusive
evidence that light and air were essential to health,
as the following letter from Mr. Edwin Chadwick

will show :--

             Edwin Chadwick to R. Owen

     ' Dear Owen, -- It is expected that there will be

a sharp fight to retain the window tax, and I am
asked by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for
physiological or medical dicta as to the effects of
the exclusion of light upon the health of the

1850-51  THE WINDOW TAX  365

population. Our evidence, I find, is really very
meagre, either as to the influence of light per se, or
of light as an agent of ventilation, upon the health
or disease of the population. . . . Could you, if

you have either observed or thought upon the

subject physiologically or medically, give me a few-
quotable sentences or dicta which I might send
to him upon the subject ? Very short.

                                      ' Yours ever,
                                            ' E. Chadwick.'

     Owen in reply sent some remarks, which

would now be considered perfectly obvious, as to
the necessity of windows for proper ventilation

and light. It is astonishing to think that these

matters once occasioned so much opposition and

debate.

    At this time there were several meetings of the

Committee for the ' Great Exhibition of the Works

of Industry of all Nations,' which was to be opened
on May 1, and these, with the Hunterian Lectures,
kept Owen fully occupied. On April 27 he
was informed of his appointment as ' Chairman

of Jury IV.' of the Exhibition. On May 1 the
opening day is thus described in the diary : ' We

got up at half-past five, having ordered a coach at
a quarter to seven, which was half an hour late.

We drove to the upper end of Piccadilly, where
we formed in line with an enormous string of

carriages. Many carriages dashed past our

366  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x1.

patient line, to be turned back and take their

places behind. At last we reached the crowded

doors. R., as a juror, took his sister with him in
search of the jurors' gallery, for which he had a

pass --for one lady. Catherine [another sister]

and I hurried past long lines of seats all full, and

succeeded in getting an excellent place in the

central part -- front seats. Impossible to give any
thing like a clear or regular description of the day.
The Sappers and Miners took their posts at inter
vals along the line. After some distant shouts the
trumpets proclaimed the arrival of the Queen and
Prince Albert. Never was a sovereign or royal
pair more heartily welcomed. The Queen led the
Prince of Wales with her right hand, and her left
hand was linked in Prince Albert's arm, who was

leading the Princess Royal. Then followed a
procession of ladies, and I caught a glimpse of
beautiful dresses and diamonds and-- rednoses, for

the day, though fine, was cold. Then two old
officers holding on by each other, one lame, the
other infirm -- Wellington and Anglesey. The
Duke was 82 to-day.'

     The work devolving upon the jurors proved

to be much more heavy and intricate than had

been anticipated, and entailed considerable corre

spondence on individual jurors.

    A letter is preserved, addressed to Owen,

stating that Messrs. So-and-so have 'had the mean
ness to put their cards on otir articles,' and would

1850-51  THE 'LOR' MAIRE'  367

Professor Owen have the goodness to ' see about
it at once.' But there are also many letters from
foreigners, which are models of politeness and
diction, especially when their goods received an

award.

     The President of the French Republic having
invited the jurors of the Great Exhibition to
Paris, Owen started the last day of July, along
with Dr. Lyon Playfair, Joseph Paxton, Lord
Wharncliffe, the Lord Mayor of London, and

others. Owen wrote some amusing letters during

his stay at Paris. At Boulogne the party was

received by the Prefect and a band, which played

' God save the Queen.' At the railway station a

cold collation had been provided and speeches

were made, and champagne revived the flagging
energies of those who felt indisposed after the sea
voyage. When the train-bell rang it was dis
covered that the doors of the room in which they

had been lunching were locked, and there were
no officials at hand to open them. Some of the

more daring escaped by the window until a young
soldier came and guarded that exit with fixed

bayonet. The doors, however, were soon opened,

the confusion having occurred simply from a re
gard for the safety of the English ' Lor' Maire,' and

the travellers steamed off to Amiens. A similar

reception awaited the representatives there, and

they were formed into a procession and marched
 along to another collation, with more speeches

368 PROFESSOR OWEN ch. XI.

and merriment. Owen relates that he translated

the Lord Mayor's speech, which was delivered in
English, to a young French lieutenant, who retailed
it to his friends, and they to the people, ' who re
peated the sentences and screamed with delight.'

' To find a worthy old alderman made a demigod

for the nonce was very rich ; but the furore and
crowding to see the plain gray-haired old gentle
man has gone on increasing, and, say what they
will of our crowding to see our Queen, it is nothing
to compare with the clustering of all Paris about

the Lord Mayor as he walked from fountain to
fountain through Versailles yesterday ; Hussars
and Dragoons dismounted, with all their French

official energy, hardly able to keep away from the
honest man we once so dreadfully bullied about
Smithfield at our " Commission."

     On reaching Paris, the luggage was found to
have been left behind ; it gradually arrived in
course of the next two days, but one member
could not attend the Prefect of the Seine's
banquet in consequence, and Lord Ebrington
had to buy a new suit of clothes in order to be

present.

     Owen stayed at the Hotel Brighton, and by

some means or other his ticket for the fite at

St. Cloud given by the President of the Republic
to the Commissioners did not arrive, and he was
refused admittance. So he and C. T. Newton,

who was in the same predicament, climbed up a

1850-51  AT PARIS                           369

wall, and, resting under the shade of a tree, watched

the privileged crowd from a distance, and return

ing to Paris solaced themselves with a dinner at

the ' Palais National ' and ' Le Prophete ' at the

Opera, and before going to bed relieved both

their minds by inditing somewhat strong letters

about their tickets to the Prefect.

Next morning Owen went, with some of the

other jurymen, to a charcoal manufactory to in

spect the furnaces, and gave the men a sovereign
to drink the success of their master, who had won

a medal at the Exhibition. Returning to Paris, he

went to the Jardin des Plantes, ' and gave a long
lecture to a large party, all full of indignation at
their treatment at St. Cloud.' This indignation,

Owen tells us, arose in the following manner :

' Ddjeuner was served in the Orangerie. The

moment the doors were opened the military rushed

in and occupied all the seats, drank all the cham

pagne and ate all the fowls, and left the ladies

dying with thirst and hunger outside.'

On another day he saw a review in the Champ

de Mars, for which he was accommodated with a

place in the President's ' tribune,' and about this

review he sent a twelve-page letter to his son.

     As chairman of the jury on ' The Raw Materials

and Produce of the Animal Kingdom,' he ulti

mately published an elaborate report of their

awards, and, after his work as juror was completed,

delivered an address, at the request of Prince

vol. 1.                                 BB

370  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x1.

Albert, at the Royal Society of Arts, on ' Raw
Animal Products and their Uses in Manufac
ture.' This lecture was published by the Society
in their volume of lectures on the various classes
of exhibits.

     Mr. Scott Russell, after the address, made a

speech, in which he mentioned all that Owen had
done towards the perfection of the collection of
raw materials in the Great Exhibition, especially
how he arranged and compiled the lists and had
them circulated in foreign countries.

     In July, at the meeting of the British Associa

tion at Ipswich, Owen delivered an address in the

Corn Market on ' The Distinction between Plants
and Animals.' This lecture was of a popular
character, and soon after its delivery Sir Charles
Lyell wrote the following letter to Owen, dated
from Werstead Vicarage :--

                Sir C. Lyell to R. Owen

     ' My host, the Rev. Barham Zincke, is in such
a state of enthusiasm about your lecture, which he
says he would not have missed for 1oo/., that I

must tell you before leaving for town that it
struck me as the most successful effort I have yet
heard you make in popularising a very abstruse
subject, and so constantly keeping the grand
general views in sight that none of the details
were tedious to anyone. I have sometimes as

certained that at the Royal Institution you have

1850-51            HIS ELOCUTION                     371

gone into details of which the many could not

sufficiently see the bearing, and at other times you

have been too technical. Everyone last night

felt that such was not the case, and when I re

marked to Colonel Reid that no one of the ladies

could ever have been even alarmed when you

were propounding so many novel theories of re
production, he said : " The delicacy with which he

treated those subjects was as remarkable as any

other excellence in the whole discourse." I was

afraid, as your voice was just at the proper pitch

for me who sat near, that the distant auditors must

have lost some, but Dr. Roget, who was much
farther off, told me that you were " distinct and
                    "
space-penetrating         and Sir C.  Fellowes  said he
                   ;

watched the remoter parts of the room and ob
served that they were never talking-- a clear proof

that they heard.

' Lady Cullum brought me home last night,

and when she was expressing her delight at the
lecture I told her how glad I was I had not dined

at Shrublands, and that I had fairly said to Sir

W. Middleton that I could not give up Owen's

lecture for his dinner, and that Airy had done the

same. She observed : " I wish more independence
of this kind had been shown by scientific men."

What good can you do if our country gentlemen

here can derange all the week your most impor

tant proceedings.  .   .  .     '
                             ?

At Lockhart's request Owen wrote the review

                                                nb2

372           PROFESSOR] OWEN   ch. XI.

of some of Lyell's works and of his ' Anniversary
Address ' in the ' Quarterly Review.'

     J. S. Lockhart to R. Owen  July 23, 185 1.

    ' Dear Owen, -- Many thanks for your frank,
manly sentences, on which I have acted. This

being my last day here for a time, I have written

about twenty-five epistles, all in various ways
evading the plain sense of " Sir, you are an ass,"

but all reaching the same practical object -- viz.
To your thistles !

     ' As I shallsbe on the Continent for a few weeks,

please send your paper to Murray, who will take

care that all attention is paid to it. Or, if you

please, send MS. at once to Clowes with the an
nexed note. I "shall be greatly bothered if I don't
find all articles ship-shape on my return. That will

not be later than the last of August, and the

number must be published by the 1st October.

Verb. sap. !  ' Ever yours,

              ' J. S. Lockhart.'

     Lyell was evidently pleased with Owen's
review and estimate of his works, as the following
letter will show, although Owen differed from him

in some minor matters :--

     ' I have just read in the new number of the
" Quarterly Review " your article on my Anniver-

1850-51  THE -QUARTERLY'                            373

sary Address, for I presume you will allow me to

infer from internal evidence that it is yours, and
I thank you sincerely for the very handsome and

cordial manner in which you have spoken of my
two works, the " Principles" and " Elementary ''

(or Manual), and the able analysis which you have
given of their contents.

' Such praise will tell the more in their favour

when seen to come from a critic, who is clearly
no flatterer of the writer, but one who is as com

petent as he is determined to exercise an indepen

dent judgment on his writings and opinions. . . .'

[Lyell then devotes the remaining nine quarto

pages of this letter to a defence of his views, and

concludes :] ' I shall only add that I rejoice to see
this subject freely discussed, and forty pages of the
" Quarterly" filled with original and most valuable

lessons in palaeontology. By your liberal praise of

my two treatises you will hasten the time when I

shall be called upon to reprint them. When I do so
I shall try and weigh your arguments impartially

and dispassionately.'

     In the November of this year Owen wrote

another article for the same Review, containing a

list of his chief books and papers, and a short sum
mary of the more important. ' It had been pro

posed,' Owen writes, ' for Broderip to do but
                                                    it,

                                                        if
                                                            II
found would be easier and perhaps clearer
it
    it
did myself. The list astonishes me                  wonder
                               it
how Lockhart will manage, for       is

                                                 !

                                          I
                               already con

374  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x1.

densed to the utmost, and it looks enough for two
long articles in the " Quarterly." '

     Lockhart had considerable correspondence
with Owen about this time, and in the course of

an amusing letter he mentions a curious fact re

lated in the 'Life of South ey : ' 'In the last

chapters of Southey's Life,' writes Lockhart, ' his
son says that after his father's mind failed, his hair,
previously almost snow-white, thickened, curled,
and became perceptibly darker. Now, tell me
if you recollect any other instance of this counter
part to the not uncommon bleaching of the hair
under mental distress. For, if the rule be a

sound one, a little real affliction or idiotism

might be suggested to widows of Mayfair in lieu
of the Chinese infallible hair-dye warranted of no

purple tinge.'
      There was some question this year of Owen

succeeding to the post of Keeper of the Mine-
ralogical Department of the British Museum, ren
dered vacant by the sudden death of Charles

 Konig.
     On September 1, 1851, Owen writes : ' Mr.

 Dinkel has just called, and tells me that poor Mr.
 Konig fell as he was ascending his own doorstep
and was found dead on Friday evening. He
 was a kind and honest-hearted man.' The post
 of Keeper of the Mineralogical Department of the
 British Museum at that time included geology,
 and the extract which follows from a letter sent

1850-51  POST AT BRIT. MUS. OFFERED  375

to Owen by Baron Pollock is of interest in

this connection : ' I spoke to Sir John Herschel,
whose reply you ought to know, as the index of
the opinion of the scientific world. He said :

' Owens claims sweep everybody else out of the field. '
     Lord Enniskillen also writes on the same

subject :--

                                    Florence Court : September 15, 1851.

' My dear Owen, -- What is this about Konig ?

Is he dead or pensioned off, or what ? Phil [Sir P.
Egerton] mentions in a letter from the North that

he hoped you would be appointed to Konig's

vacancy. I have heard nothing of this : pray tell

me what has happened.
     ' I am just going into Enniskillen to sit all day

on the bench to judge the folk, so can say no

more. . . .

             ' Your sincere friend,

             ' Enniskillen.'

     As, however, the salary was reduced, and the
position offered was not such as Professor Owen

could reasonably accept, he declined to compete

against Mr. G. R. Waterhouse, who succeeded
Mr. Konig.

     The Royal Society awarded the Copley

Medal to Owen this year. Writing to his sister,

he makes the following remarks about it : ' I have
received the Copley Medal, which is the highest
honour in that way the Society has to bestow.

376                                         PROFESSOR OWEN                    CH. XI.

The Copley is an old medal, almost coeval with'   is                          '
the Society itself, and is voted annually. It does1             '                            :
not always fall to the lot of an Englishman.1                              '
Leverrier, e.g., had it for his new planet. I was                    it,                       le
                            '
disqualified in a previous year, according to old
Dr. Copley's bequest, as I happened to be on the

Council. At last I have got and so now have

two additions to my collections of medals, the

second being the very beautiful bronze one struck
for the Jurors of the Great Exhibition

     The most important paper which Owen pub
lished in 85 was that On the Skull of an Adult
Male Gorilla,' and there appeared also Part IV.
of his History of British Fossil Reptiles,' 4to.

     In this year also the King of Prussia created
him a Chevalier of the Ordre Royal pour

Merite.'

     The following the letter which he received
from Baron Humboldt announcing the fact --

                                   MonsieurA
                                            Monsieur Richard Owen, Esq. [sic]
                                                               London.'
                                              College of Surgeons,
                                                                Lincoln's Inn Fields.le

      Monsieur et tres illustre Confrere, -- Le Roi'
vient de vous nommer Chevalier de son Ordre Royal
pour Merite dans les Sciences et les Arts. La

publication de votre nomination, Monsieur, ne peut

                                    Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. iv.

1850-51  'ORDRE POUR LE MERITE'  377

avoir lieu que le 24 Janvier, 1852, jour de nais

sance de Frédéric le Grand. Je suis heureux de

vous annoncer, comme chevalier de l'ordre, ce qui

a été depuis si longtemps l'objet de mes désirs. Il

me tardait de pouvoir inscrire le nom du plus

grand anatomiste du siècle sur nos registres. Que
d'admirables travaux en zoologie, en anatomie

comparée, en géologie de formations ont illustré
votre nom ! Vous savez que l'ordre ne compte

que trente membres étrangers sur toute l'Europe ;
c'est plutôt une académie qu'un ordre . . . Vous
succédez à M. Oerstedt. Daignez excuser la

grande hâte de ces lignes, tracées par la main d'un
homme antédiluvien, et agréez l'hommage de ma

haute et respectueuse considération.
' Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,

                                  'Le Bn- de Humboldt.

   ' A Berlin, ce 20 Décembre, 1851.'

     In his reply to this letter Owen neatly turns
Humboldt's description of himself as ' antedilu
vian' into a compliment. Speaking of Humboldt's
work, he says : ' As it was thought that in regard

to fossil remains there were "giants in those days,"
I am now quite sure that there are in these.'

     In a letter to his sister dated December 24,

1 85 1, Owen refers to this new decoration and

announces Her Majesty's gift to him of the royal
house at Kew. ' You have heard,' he writes,' of

my Copley Medal, which I look upon as one of

378  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x1.

the brightest spots in this wonderful year. This
morning I received a letter from Baron Humboldt
informing me that the King of Prussia had made
me " Knight of the Order of Merit " in the place
of the famous Danish philosopher Oerstedt. . . .
Sister Catherine will look at all this lechiring, and

medal-getting, and foreign orders of knighthood

from the utilitarian point of view, and, I fear, will

not fully sympathise with my feelings in giving

knowledge and receiving honours ; but now comes

the "solid pudding." I quote the letter addressed
to me, with C. B. Phipps in the corner, and the
Queen's arms in black wax :--

                                               "Osborne : December 13, 185 1.

    ' " My dear Sir, -- I have been commanded by
the Queen to inform you that, a house upon Kew

Green having become vacant by the death of the
late King of Hanover, Her Majesty is happy in
being able to offer this house as a residence for

you.

     ' " The Queen commands me to say that she

thinks that there is no method in which she can

better give a tribute of her respect and regard for
science than by thus meeting what she believes to
be the almost necessary convenience of one of its

chief ornaments and most distinguished members.

     ' " The house will require some alterations, and

a part which is unfit for repair will have to be pulled
down, but it will still form a commodious residence,

1850-51           THE HOUSE AT KEW                379

and I should think, from its proximity to London,
would be most convenient for you.

                                  ' " Sincerely yours,
                                                  ' " C. B. Phipps.

   " Professor Owen."

'        .  .  .  This  decided  me to push  the  British
  .

Museum question no further ; for I must then

have lived in town, and had a deal of bothering

work, not worth 50/. a year more than I now

get.'

On the same day he writes to his sister

Maria : ' I little thought when I read of the

demise of the old King of Hanover that I should

become heir to one of His Majesty's houses at

Kew ; but so our own dear Majesty has graciously
willed. . . For our little family, and my quiet way

of life, not many rooms are wanted to add to the

happiness of breathing and sleeping in fresh air,

with access to one of the finest gardens of the

world -- as good as my own --for life. The Council

are now debating upon my request to retain my

present sitting and sleeping rooms as a place

of business, and for sleeping now and then in

town. . . .'

     On December 23 there is the following entry

in the diary : 'To Sir Robert Inglis's. As soon

as we entered Sir R. attacked us about our " pala

tial residence," but congratulated us very kindly.

The news is evidently spreading.'

     In sending a copy of the ' Times' to his sister

                                                                     "

380    PROFESSOR OWEN         ch. XI.

Catherine, Owen mentions that he attended a

Levee on February 25, 1852, and 'went through

the crush with the Duke of Northumberland.

He talked a good deal about the Kew house,

...and I think will prove a very kind neigh
bour.  In the evening we went to one of

Ella's concerts, and we brought home Prince

Albert's Librarian (Dr. Becker) to supper. He
told Caroline the Queen and Prince Albert had
more than once talked about the Kew house,

and hoped it would suit me.'

      Professor Owen would often relate how upon

one occasion he went down to Kew to look at the

new residence, and when he got to the front door

and intended going in to make arrangements about

the furnishing, a Scotch ' body,' the caretaker,

came forward and told him he could not come

in, and that he must put off the furnishing ar

rangements for a while. It appeared that some
little difficulty had arisen with the then King of

Hanover about the right of possession of the

premises, which right it was in time proved that
Her Majesty the Queen did possess. But in
the meantime Jesse the naturalist, who resided
in the neighbourhood, told Owen that the house

in Richmond Park (Sheen Lodge) was vacant.
After having seen
                   it,  Owen immediately went

off to Osborne, where the Royal Family were.

When he arrived there he found Prince Albert

planning out the grounds so as best to instruct

1850-51 THE HOUSE IN RICHMOND PARK                                                                          381

it,his children in botany, and he asked Owen's
     I'advice as to the best method of so doing.

                                  itAfter giving his opinion, Owen broached the
subject of the house at Kew, saying how much
                                                                                                         :he would prefer the smaller house in Richmond
Park. The Prince said that he had seen the house,

but that it was merely a cottage, and that there
was no doubt whatever about the right of posses

sion of the Kew house--it was only the matter of
waiting a short time. Owen represented to His

Royal Highness how much more suitable the
cottage would be for his small family, and Prince
Albert said that of course, if he really preferred

    he had no doubt could be arranged, as the

Queen's wish had merely been to do what might

prove most acceptable. The matter was brought
before Her Majesty, who was pleased to consent,

and Owen shortly afterwards received the follow

ing letter from Sir C. B. Phipps --

           have very great pleasure in informing you

that Her Majesty has been pleased to grant to
you the house in Richmond Park, which you so

much wished for. A communication to this effect

has been made by the Prince to Lord John
 Manners. Allow me heartily to congratulate you,

 and to wish you every enjoyment in your new

 abode.'

382  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. XII.

                CHAPTER XII

                                                      1852-54

Delight in Country Life-- Hunterian Lectures, 1852 -- Landseer,
     Mulready, Fanny Kemble, Alfred Tennyson, Charles Dickens
     -- Love of Fishing -- Dinner in the Iguanodon, 1853 -- Literary
     and Scientific Work, 1854.

By the end of May 1852 Owen had settled
down in the house in Richmond Park, and the
delight with which he always contemplated his
surroundings there had already been felt by him.
Writing to his sister Kate on the 20th of that
month, he says : ' The van-loads of heavy goods
travelled safely (and in fine weather, which is a
great matter) to the cottage on Saturday, where

we all slept, and Will and- I made our first ap

pearance at Mortlake Church on Sunday. . . .

We felt like "jolly squatters " yesterday, but shall

be shaken into some shape by the end of a week.
Poor Carry compared herself to an overboiled
chicken when she woke after the fatigues of the
first day's move. I was awoke at three o'clock on
Sunday morning by a concert of a very unusual
kind to my ears, and, tempted by the unwonted

1852-54  SHEEN LODGE  383

strains, I stole down into the garden. Day was
grayly dawning in the north-east, and some light
clouds floating across a pearly sky. The night

ingales were sending forth interrupted capricious

carols from every bush ; with a higher treble for
some unknown warblers, and a lower one for

                                 SHEEN LODGE, RICHMOND PARK
                               Back view, as seen from Professor Owen's garden

thrushes and blackbirds. The distant curlew kept

up a running tenor accompaniment, and the more
distant rookery gave out a steady bass ; with the
occasional addition of the wood-pigeon's plaintive
coo-00. Then came the echo of the cheery crow
of a distant cock, the lowing of the steer, and the

drowsy hum of the humble-bee. The air was fra

384  PROFESSOR OWEN  Ch. XII.

grant with newly opening azaleas and whitethorn,
and I was tempted to the brink of the little lake

by the strange gambols and gyrations of the great

black-backed carp. At half-past four I returned

again to bed and slept till half-past nine, in com

fortable instinctive unconsciousness that the whole

was a reality and no early morning dream ! '

     This delight at living in the country was a life

long pleasure to Owen ; he is always referring to it

in his letters, and in his later days, when his strength

was declining and sleep was uncertain, he caused

his bed to be raised to an unusual height, that he
might, ' as he lay in bed, look out at the Park, and
at the deer and the birds. '

     Before leaving his rooms at the College of
Surgeons, and entering the new house, Owen
gave his course of Hunterian Lectures, which
in this year (1852) was on the ' Anatomy of In
vertebrates.' In 1843 his Hunterian Lectures

had been on the same subject, but this course was
not a mere repetition of the former ; nor was this
volume merely a reprint of the other, for, as he
states in the preface to the volume of his later

Lectures, ' the difference between them is in some

measure indicative of the progress of the anatomy
and physiology of the invertebrate animals during
the ten years which intervened between my first
and last course of lectures on that subject.'

      In this year his ' Physiological Catalogue
of the Hunterian Collections ' reached its second

1852-54  FANNY KEMBLE      385

edition ; and also Part V. of his ' History of
British Fossil Reptiles ' made its appearance.

Before leaving the College of Surgeons, Owen

had two visitors of interest, both of whom are

described in Mrs. Owen's diary :--
     'March. -- Late in the evening R. brought in

Mr. Mulready, the artist, and Charles Landseer.

R. and Landseer played chess till nearly two

o'clock, Mr. Mulready keeping up a long conver
sation with Mr. Broderip (who dropped in) about
old theatrical days. Mulready is not at all the

sort of man in appearance one would have expected

from his handiwork, being an open, amiable, fresh-

looking man of about sixty, large head and face

and portly figure. I took him on entering for
Chevalier Bunsen, and told him so. The party

was so friendly and seemed so loath to separate

that I left them to themselves at 2 a.m.'

    'April. -- Fanny Kemble, the actress, came by

agreement to go round the museum with R. and

several friends of hers. I had no idea until

to-day that she was so badly pitted with small-pox.

She looks strong and energetic, and her short curl

ing upper lip, curved nostril, with the straight dark

brows, give a great look of determination to her

face, which is not belied by her voice and manner.

Fanny, I could see, was very naturally under the

impression that she came more to be looked at

than to look ; but she soon saw that there were

creatures and things of higher interest than a

vol. 1.                cc

386  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x11.

clever woman even, and that prevented her from
feeling the only object in such a place. After a
tour round the museum we went into the dining-
room, and, a propos of some remark concerning

our fine Shakespeare's bust, which was looked at
with interest and its history given, R. brought

out the Becker-case containing Shakespeare's

cast, taken after death. The tears came into Miss

Kemble's eyes as she looked at it. There may
have been a touch of the actress in the emotion

which she displayed, but there was a great deal
of the true worshipper of Shakespeare in it too.

She was quite convinced that the auburn hairs
sticking to the plaster cast once adorned Shake

speare's face.'

     In April 1852 Owen wrote to the ' Times ' a
very strong letter against the demolition of the
Crystal Palace. He writes: ' I feel it my last duty

to the Crystal Palace to make this effort to pre

serve it worthily.'

     It is interesting to note that Owen felt some
disappointment with regard to the sale of his
numerous scientific works. He once expressed

that feeling in the presence of the poet Horne,
who wrote him the following letter a day or two

afterwards :--

             R. H. Home to R. Owen

                           College Road, Haverstock Hill : May 1852. -

    ' My dear Sir, -- I cannot tell you all I felt on

hearing you make the statement you did the other

1852-54  R. H. HORNE  387

night as to the public neglect of your works --you

who possess the highest European reputation.
Profoundly as I have long felt the sympathy that
must exist between Science and Poetry at the pre

sent time and in all the future, Pwas not prepared

to hear one in your position display a similarity

of treatment to this which now drives me --to

Australia.

     ' I sail on the 30th inst. for Port Phillip.
     ' The highest private appreciation of my poetry
by the noblest intellects of the time would forbid
me to despond, even if I did not find self-sustain
ing energies; but the fact of the public neglect
for twenty years drives me to Australia. . . .
     ' I shall be a miner or a shepherd, as the case
may be. I do not go to seek for great wealth,
but only an independence, so that I may indulge
in the luxury of printing what I can but write.
I shall occasionally make an exploring expedition.

If I can in any way serve you, pray command me.

     ' I am, my dear Sir, with kindest regards, and
farewell to yourself and Mrs. Owen,

                                    ' Yours always,
                                            ' R. H. Horne.'

     After the publication of his ' Archetype of

the Skeleton,' Owen had a seal engraved with the
idea symbolised, and he gives the following account'
of it to his sister Maria : ' I enclose with pleasure
a wax impression of my adopted cognizance. . .

                                                                                    cc2

388         PROFESSOR OWEN        CH. XII

It represents the archetype, or   primal pattern --

what Plato would have called the  " Divine idea " on

which the osseous frame of all vertebrate animals

-- i.e. all animals that have bones --has been con
structed. The motto is "The One in the Manifold,"

expressive of the unity of plan which may be traced
through all the modifications of the pattern, by
which it is adapted to the varied habits and modes
of life of fishes, reptiles, birds, beasts, and human
kind. Many have been the attempts to discover

the vertebrate archetype, and it seems now gene

rally felt that it has been found. . . .

    'You will be glad to hear that H.R.H.

[Duchess of Gloucester x] has graciously allotted
me a cow's grass in the Park, which will reduce
the expense of our luxurious zoological addition2
to zero nearly ; and already the economy of the

cow has begun to show itself, for we have been

eating our own butter for a fortnight, and my bread
and milk is a new dainty to what it was, and we

all enjoy our glass of milk at night instead of tea.'

     One of the early visitors to Owen in his new
abode was Alfred Tennyson. His visit is thus
related in the diary :--

    'August 6. --To-day we had a visit from Alfred
Tennyson. His wife sat in the carriage, being in

a delicate state of health. Miss Tennyson came

in with her brother, who struck me as being a

    1 Then  Ranger  of the       2 The cow was a present
Park.                       from Sir Richard Vyvyan.

1852-54        'HOME, SWEET HOME'   389

care-marked, dark-eyed, rather bilious-looking

young man, with spectacles ; middle height, and

rather thin.'

This year Owen attended, as he usually did,

the meeting of the British Association, which was

held in Belfast. Previous to the meeting, in the

middle of August, he was the guest of Lord
Enniskillen. He returned home, as he writes to

his sister, ' by way of Holyhead, and landed at

Euston Station at 5  a.m. Went by   the first train to
Mortlake and then    " Home, sweet  Home," where

I arrived this morning (Friday, September 17), to

breakfast. I found on looking at my thermometer

on my arrival that it had fallen here last night to

freezing point. Nevertheless, all looks beautifully

well in the garden. The Gleditschia has begun to
add a slight yellow to its charms. The Althaeas
are in magnificent bloom --five of them. One of

a rich rosy hue has the buds particularly beauti

ful. The flower-beds on the lawn are as brilliant

as ever. Honeysuckles and verbenas in full blow.'

     In the autumn of this year Owen began a

series of zoological articles for Charles Dickens's

magazine ' Household Words.' Forster made

the suggestion in the first instance, and Dickens
wrote Owen the following letter on the subject : --

                                                                               Oct. 19, 1852.

    ' My dear Owen, -- I am just home again for

the winter, and saw Forster last night. He per

390          PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                                                         ch. xn.

fectly overwhelmed me with delight by telling me'"].
you had intimated to him that you might someI
times find leisure to write some familiar papersItI
on Natural History, yourself, for this journal
     it.                               (I
[" Household Words
          I
            would be in vain for me to attempt to tell
you with what pride and pleasure should receive
such assistance, or what high store should set

by If you will give me such gratification and

render the work such a service, you can't must
honestly say) enhance the regard and respect in
which hold you already, but you can and will
afford me inexpressible satisfaction.

                         Believe me ever,

                                Very faithfully yours,
                                       Charles Dickens.'
             '
                                '
                                                     '

      On the 28th of this month Dickens came with
his wife and sister-in-law to Sheen Lodge. An
account of this visit given in the diary --

      October 28. -- Mr. Forster travelled down

frcm town with R., and at about half-past five
Charles Dickens with his wife and her sister (Miss
Hogarth) came. Dickens was very cheerful in
spite of a bad cold, and believe enjoyed himself
exceedingly. He was much struck with the pic
turesque appearance of the cottage, and admired
some of our old furniture. After dinner we had

some music Played Corelli with R. C. D. said
the Corelli carried him back to his youthful days,
     '

                                   is

                                                                                                                                 :

             I

1852-54              SNAKE-BITE        391

when he often used to hear that kind of music

Dickens is a handsome man, but much more--

there is real goodness and genius in every mark

in his face, and the lines in it are very strongly

marked. We all took a stroll round the garden

by moonlight, before the party left.'

On October 30, 1852, Owen writes to his

sister Catherine : ' I enclose an autograph of

Charles Dickens. Keep the cover for your scrap-
book, but return me the note. It relates to a little
paper I wrote for his " Household Words," on

Poison Snakes, a propos of an accident at the

Zoological Gardens. A keeper in the snake-room

had been drinking farewell to a friend who was

going to Australia, and early in the morning

entered the snake-room with a few companions.

Being a trifle the worse for his potations, he began

to act as a snake-charmer, by way of sport --

swinging poisonous snakes over his head and so

forth. A cobra, highly incensed at this treatment,

bit him on the nose. The man was taken imme

diately to the London Hospital, but died within the

hour.

' Dickens brought his wife and wife's sister here

last Thursday,  and  we had Mr.  Forster (editor of
" Examiner " )  and  Mr. Kenyon  (a poet), both old

friends of his, to meet him. Dickens was very

happy and in great force. . . . The diversity of

trees and shrubs in our grounds, all decaying after

their own fashion, produces a rich contrast and

392  PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. XII.

harmony of autumnal tints, and I think the garden
never was more lovely. . . . We were able to
offer our guests a dish of Cornish cream of home
manufacture with their apple tart, and Dickens
enjoyed it like a schoolboy. . . . We discussed
some " Household Words" articles which I am to

try and find time to write for him.'
      Charles Dickens soon afterwards wrote the

following letter to Owen reminding him of this
discussion :--

                   Tavistock House : Saturday, November 20, 1852.

     ' My dear Owen, --What do you think as a

general subject for a series of papers of some

articles describing the peculiarities and points of

interest of many of the animals in the Zoological
/Gardens under some such title as " Private Lives
of Public Friends ? "  think they would be very

good in such hands as yours.

     ' Faithfully yours ever,
                       ' Charles D1ckens.'

     In November 1852 Owen attended the
funeral of the Duke of Wellington, along with
Dean Conybeare, Dr. Bliss, Dr. Ogle, and other
Oxford friends, of which ceremony he sends an
account to his sister Catherine on the 20th. In

this letter he says he walked along the Strand

' very leisurely, looking at the sloping pile of

human faces, from the barriers on each side to the

1852-54 DEATH MASK OF WELLINGTON                     393

house-tops --a very singular part of the scene.'
The day after he was dining with Hay Cameron,

a fellow-commissioner with Macaulay in the East

Indies, and a great-grandson of the head of the

clan that marched with Prince Charlie to Derby

in  '45. ' By the way,'    he says, ' he  showed     me
an  original miniature of                 " which    the
                           the " Prince

latter gave to his ancestor at their first leave-

taking. The poet Henry Taylor (Van Artevelde)
and Lord Wrottesley were of the party.'

     In reference to the death of the Duke of

Wellington, Professor Owen wrote on November

13, 1852, to Mr. Thomas Poyser, of Wirks-
       --
worth
       :

    ' I have been particularly favoured in respect

of the remarkable solemnities in honour of the

memory of the great Duke. The present amiable

inheritor of the title called on me last Wednesday

to request that I would call on him to see the cast
that had been taken after the Duke's demise, and

give some advice to a sculptor who is restoring

the features in a bust, intending to show the noble

countenance as in the last years of the Duke's life.
It is a most extraordinary cast. It appears that

the Duke had lost all his teeth, and the natural

prominence of the chin and nose much exaggerates

the intermediate space caused by the absorption of
the alveoli.3 He of course wore a complete set

       3 There follows a little sketch of the cast.

394               PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. XII.

of artificial teeth when he spoke or ate. My last

impression of the living features is a very pleasing

one. I brought it away vividly in my mind from

Lord Ellesmere's great ball last July.'

     In this year Owen had the offer of the

Presidency of the Geological Society, which he

declined. Edward Forbes, who accepted the post,

wrote him the following letter on the subject, dated

Sandown, Isle of Wight, December 16, 1852 :
' I thank you heartily for your kind and frank
letter. As you know all the particulars respecting

the Presidency of the Geological Society matter,

I need not repeat them here. I was very much

astonished when the President mentioned my

name as that of his possible successor. There are

many members who have not filled the chair and

who have claims before mine, but pre-eminently

before them all is yourself. This is the opinion

of every member of the society, so far as I am
aware, and certainly is that of Mr. Hopkins. I

regret  that you  will not take  the  post,  and doubly
regret  the only  valid reason   for  your
                                             declining --

viz. the personal annoyance that it might cause

you through the body with which you are officially

connected. I feel ashamed of our country when

I think of it. . . .'

     Amongst Owen's favourite amusements was
that of fishing. He was always a keen fisherman,

and was constantly to be seen exercising the
' gentle art ' from the banks of the lakes or ponds

1852-54               A BIG FISH                      395

in Richmond Park. The following story is related
of him by Mr. George F. Wilson :--

' Walking with him in Richmond Park, we

passed a pond where some men were fishing.

One had put down his rod and was on his way to

the other side of the pond to put down another.
The Professor, as he then was, said to the man :
" There are heavy fish here ; you may lose your
rod." As we walked on, he said : " I spoke

feelingly. Soon after coming to Sheen Lodge, I

got up very early one morning to fish, and did

exactly what I warned that man against doing

with the result that one of my rods was dragged

into the pond. I took off some clothes, and went

in after it as far as the water and mud would

allow ; but the mud was deep, and it would not

have done for the Professor to make a specimen

of himself in the mud of his pond. After a time
an early sweep came by. He was sent for his

long-handled broom. After that the gardener

and some others came to help ; then a park-keeper

rode  up and  began :  ' You rascals,  poaching    '  but,
                                                 ;

on seeing me, held up his hands and exclaimed,

' The Professor    '  burst  out laughing  at the muddy
                 !

group, and galloped off. At last, I could just

reach the big fish, when it made a plunge and
broke." '

    To his sister Eliza, December 22, 1852, Owen
writes thus :--

     ' " Please, Sir ! Mrs. Liddell's compliments, and

396  PROFESSOR OWEN               ch. xII.

she is very much obliged to you ; " and so waked
up by Albert the page from my after-dinner nap.
The thanks from our neighbours being for three
out of half a score jack, caught in the great pond

this morning by Mr. Gould and me. . . . We
had two capital chess battles last night --each
winning one [Hon. Adolphus Liddell] 4-- and his

beautiful wife playing the most charming airs from

good old " Don Giovanni. " The breach being quite

practicable between the twogardens, three minutes'

walk in the bright moonlight clears the distance.'
      Owen's enthusiasm for the ' Cottage ' and its

beautiful surroundings knew no bounds. In a

letter to his sister Catherine (January 3, 1853), he
refers to a ' grand battue ' which took place in the
park on that day, and says : ' His Royal Highness
[the Duke of Cambridge] ordered a couple of
hares to be left for us at the close of the day, so

 what with these and the good Duchess's venison

and the carp, I begin to find the advantage of
living in a "preserve." I don't know that I ever

 enjoyed the snug place more than now ; but the
season has been so extraordinary that it is like a

 prolonged mild spring, and we have occasionally

splendid sunsets. The walks are very enjoyable,

 wet or fine, the exercise being always good.'

      On March 1, 1853, he sends an account of the

first ' Club ' dinner that season : ' Hallam was in

     4 The garden of whose house  of Sheen Lodge by a breach in
could be entered from the garden
                                  the hedge.

1852-54  A LONG GRACE  397

the chair. Duke of Argyll, Bishop of London,
Dean Milman, Baron Van de Weyer, Pemberton

Legh, Dundas (who used to go Northern
Circuit), Dr. Holland. Hallam said that Hall's
famous sermon on Princess Charlotte was copied
from, or founded on, one of Burnet's on a daughter

of Louis XIV. The Duke of Argyll, a propos of

monomaniacs, related an anecdote of a Highland
gentleman he visited, who insisted on walking
backwards as he showed him to his sleeping-room ;
also an anecdote of a worthy Scotch judge, who
travelling by rail at the time of the Great
Assembly, and finding himself at the place where
the train stopped for dinner with a number of
Scotch " meenisters," was asked by them to say

grace, he being taken for the oldest and most

reverend ; and thereupon he rose and, beginning
a grace in Gaelic, continued it till the bell rang for

the continuation of the journey.'

     The Hunter ian Lectures given this season by
Owen were on the ' Anatomy of Fishes.' He

notes in his diary that during this course of
lectures Hallam was again a constant attendant.

     A considerable part of this year was spent by

Owen in ' directing and selecting the restorations
of the megatherium and other extinct animals in
the geological section of the grounds of the Crystal

Palace at Sydenham.'

     In the address of the Chairman of the Crystal

Palace Company to the Queen the following

398  PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. XII.

remarks are made : ' The restoration from a
single fossil fragment of complete skeletons of
creatures long since extinct, first effected by the
genius of Cuvier, has always been considered one
of the most striking achievements of modern
science. Our British Cuvier, Professor Owen, has

lent us his assistance in carrying these scientific
triumphs a step further and in bringing them
down to popular apprehension. Aided by the
indefatigable exertions of the modeller, who with
his own hands moulded their forms, the gigantic
iguanodon, the ichthyosaurus, and other monsters
of the diluvian world will now present themselves

to the eye as they once disported themselves and

pursued their prey amongst the forests and
marshes of the secondary and tertiary periods.'

How far the labours of Professor Owen and other

learned men in setting forth these extinct crea

tures in the Crystal Palace grounds have succeeded
in educating the mind of British public, may per

haps be considered as doubtful.5

     5 The writer lately made a    even names of the creatures,
                                   From the remarks of the British
pilgrimage to the Crystal Palace,  holiday-makers he gathered that
and succeeded in effecting a       the popular mind was divided
                                   as to whether these images were
surreptitious landing upon the     inferior imitations, on a large
island where the forms of these    scale, of certain animals at the
                                   Zoological Gardens -- wherein
extinct monsters are displayed.
Here he found the specimens in     the popular mind had a vague
                                   sense of being defrauded -- or
question slightly dilapidated as   whether they were not creations
to tails and other extremities,
together with a total absence of
anything like explanation, or

1852-54    DINNER IN THE IGUANODON              399

Those who were engaged in setting forth the

forms of these extinct creatures celebrated the

completion  of    their  labours    by dining   together in
the inside  of    one    of the     largest of
                                                them -- the

iguanodon.

    A morning paper of the time says in an

article headed ' Dinner to Professor Owen in the

Iguanodon      '  ' Often as we have recorded the pro
            :

ceedings of meetings and banquets convened for

the purpose of giving expression of the feelings of

respect and esteem for eminent and scientific men,

we have never yet been called upon to record a

dinner given under such circumstances as that

last Saturday to Professor Owen in the model of

the iguanodon. . . . There was something so

grotesque and monstrous in the illustrations which

accompanied the card : "Mr. B. Waterhouse

Hawkins requests the honour of                  's company

at dinner in the Iguanodon at 4 p.m.," which
excited the curiosity and interest of some, of the

leading scientific men of the country, and which

induced them to be present at so novel a banquet.

The number of gentlemen present was twenty-

eight, of whom twenty-one were accommodated

in the interior of the creature, and seven at a

side table on a platform raised to the same level'

of some eccentric person's ima-     eyes of the public, as a terrible
                                    warning, the fantastic visions
gination. One individual was
of opinion that they were surely    sometimes seen by such as are
                                    in the habit of indulging too
placed there with the pious pur-    freely in spirituous liquors.
pose of setting clearly before the

400  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. x11

    At the end of April Owen received the

following letter from Lord Derby, who had just
been appointed Chancellor of the University of
Oxford, inviting him to attend the ceremony of

his installation :--

               Lord Derby to R. Owen

                                           St. James's Square : April 28, 1853.

    ' Dear Sir, -- I hardly know whether I am suffi

ciently justified by the extent of our acquaintance
in writing to you to say how much it would gratify
me if you were disposed to pay me the compliment
of attending the ceremony of my installation as
Chancellor of the University of Oxford on Tues
day, the 7th of June; and if you would further
allow me, in that case, to insert your name in a
small list of men distinguished in various capa
cities, whom, in accordance with the usual custom,

I am called on to recommend to Convocation for
the honorary degree of D.C.L. Allow me to
say that I should look upon your acquiescence
not only as a personal compliment, but that I feel
the University will do itself honour in conferring
such a mark of its respect on one whose scientific

claims are so universally known and acknow

ledged.
     ' I have the honour to be, dear Sir,

                                       ' Yours faithfully,
                                                           ' Derby.'

1852-54 SUNDAY TICKETS NOT FOR SIR X.  401

     Owen, in acknowledging this letter, informed

Lord Derby that he had already received the
degree of D.C.L. from Oxford University on

June 23, 1852, but that he would gladly attend the
ceremony of his installation as Chancellor in June.

    A letter which Owen addressed about this

time to a wealthy correspondent, whose name

need not be given, may be found of interest, as it

shows that he had very strong feelings as to the

proper use of the tickets of admission given to the

Fellows of the Zoological Society :--
    ' Dear Sir X., --A Fellow of the Zoological

Society is limited to the introduction of two

persons on each Sunday. . . . Your request
would, if fulfilled, deprive me of the power of
granting admission -- say, for the three or four
following Sundays. Hitherto I have restricted my

Sunday tickets for the behoof of our College

students and other young medicals having a

taste for zoology, and who cannot be expected to

subscribe for an ivory ticket. I have also not

infrequently letters from journeymen and others

of the weekly-wage class, representing their
inability to profit by the collection of the Zoo

logical Society on any day but Sunday, and I

could show you specimens of these applications

that would do honour to any class, save the rela

tion of means to the request. You will see,
therefore, that were I to send you a few cards I

should deprive myself of the power of supplying

vol. 1.  DD

402              PROFESSOR OWEN               CH. XII.

some that more need them, or of accompanying a
foreign anatomical friend, on the only day I have

at liberty, who might come to London.
     ' In general, when a town resident's income

equals or exceeds my own, I urge him to join with

me in helping on the good work of the Zoolo

gical Society.'

     The following extracts are taken from Mrs.
                       in 1853 :--
Owen's journal kept     with R. to  see  the  Aztecs

    ' July 11. --Went
at Hanover Square Rooms. Two most extra

ordinary dwarf children from Peru, whose minds
seem to go no further than those of ordinary

children of two or three years old. These were

given out to be about fifteen. I soon attracted
the attention of the boy by drawing objects he was
likely to know on a piece of paper. He recog

nised a duck at once, pointing and nodding his

head. A cat was not so familiar. They are very

strange beings, and their proprietor seems to be

making money.'6

     ' August 4. -- R. and I to Windsor to see the
troops reviewed by the Queen in person. Her
Majesty rode a black horse and had on a dark

blue habit with gold trimming across the breast,
like a general officer, and a pretty little hat with a

white and red plume. She returned salutes in

     6 Not long after this visit  the Aztec Race, followed by a De-
Owen contributed to the Ethnol.   scription of the so-called Aztec
                                  Children exhibited in 1853.'
See. Journal ' A Brief Notice of

1852-54  LECTURED AT 'INSTITUT'         403

the military fashion. Prince Albert rode on her

left side and the Duke of Cambridge on her right.
We watched the sham fight and afterwards went

to the tent of one of the officers who was a friend

of R.'s and had lunch in the mess tent of his
regiment. We saw everything -- hospital, stables,

kitchen, &c. Home at half-past eight.'

Owen spent the September of this year in

Paris with his wife, but nothing in this visit calls
for remark. Soon after his return to London, in

October, he writes to his friend White Cooper :--

' Made my first appearance, after our return

...from France, here at the old scene of my scientific
labours this morning.  I shall be here now

daily as usual, and might perhaps make a day

when we might dine at the Athenaeum together

and tell our adventures since we last met. I took

my seat at the Institute and lectured in French

to them on different matters for about an hour.

You will see the report in the " Comptes Rendus"
I think for September 5 or thereabouts. . . .
I expect soon to settle down into the old quiet

jog-trot working state.'

     ' October 1 5. -- R. busy dissecting the walrus
which lately died at the Gardens. The man who

had it to sell did a foolish thing in asking an

unreasonable price for it in the first instance--

750/. The Society allowed the walrus to have a

place in the Gardens at the man's own responsi

bility, but would not listen to such a sum. The

404  PROFESSOR OWEN               CH. XII.

animal died, and the man only gets the price of a

skeleton and skin.' 7

      Owen wrote but few papers this year, his most
important contribution being a description of the
' Fossil Chelonia of the Wealden,' 4to.

     In 1854 a small series of fossils from the
Purbeck Beds at Swanage were sent to Professor
Owen by Messrs. Wilcox and W. R. Brodie.
The majority of the specimens were remains of
small saurians, and consisted mainly of lower jaws ;
but the appearance of some teeth in certain of the
small jaws suggested evidence of a mammalian
rather than a reptilian origin and excited consider

able interest. A paper on the subject was con

tributed by the Professor to the Geological Society
in the same year, and a detailed exploration of the

place of deposit was undertaken by Samuel H.

Beckles at much cost and considerable personal

risk. The result of Mr. Beckles's efforts was

made known to the world in collected form by

Professor Owen in 187 1.

     In 1854 appeared Parts V. and VI. of his

work ' On Dinornis ' (' Zool. Trans.'), also Part

VI. of his ' History of British Fossil Reptiles.'

Amongst other writings this year his contribution
of the article ' Mollusca ' to the ' Encyclopaedia
Britannica' may be mentioned.8 Besides the usual

  7 A paper' descriptive of this     8 In this he received the as-

walruswas read at the Zoological  sistance of Dr. S. P.Woodward.
Society on November 8.            It was published in 1858.

1852-54  DOGS AS DRAUGHT ANIMALS  405

course of Hunterian Lectures, which were still on

the Anatomy of Fishes, Owen gave a lecture on
February 10, at the Royal Institution, ' On the
Structure and Homologies of Teeth.'

     Amongst the correspondence for this year
there is a letter from the Duke of Argyll asking
Professor Owen whether he considers that dogs
are physically unfitted for use as draught animals.
The Duke mentions the case of the Esquimaux dog,
and says that there will probably be a discussion
and division in the House of Lords in a few days
on the subject. Professor Owen replied that the
general framework and muscular structure of dogs

adapted them for draught purposes, and that the
larger kinds do the work with goodwill and with
out distress. But the physical unfitness for habitual

draught is seen in examining the foot and by
noting the evident soreness of foot in a dog which

has run for long on a hard road. He also remarks
that the case of the Esquimaux breed does not

apply, because they almost invariably run over

snow-covered surfaces, and not on hot and hard

roads such as exist in this country.

     In the summer of 1854 Owen devoted some

time to the water supply and sewage arrangements

of Lancaster. Whilst in the North of England
he attended the Liverpool Meeting of the British
Association, giving an address on ' Anthropo
morphous Apes ' at the ' New Hall ' there to an
audience of between two and three thousand. His

406  PROFESSOR OWEN              ch. x11.

entrance into his native town (Lancaster) was
welcomed by a peal of bells. After the comple

tion of the sanitary arrangements there, Owen
wrote a letter to the Editor of the ' Lancaster

Guardian,' from which the following passages may

....be quoted. He says : ' As a member of the Com
mission for the Health of Towns  I believe

myself able to give the town a trustworthy testimony

of the character and the value of the works that

have been completed and are in progress.' After
this he proceeds to contrast the work done with

that done in other Lancashire towns, and pays a

high tribute to the engineers and contractors em

ployed. His remarks on the policy of permit

ting the water supply of large towns to fall into
the hands of private companies may have an in

terest for the present day. ' A company,' he says,

' associated for profit to be made by doling out a

measured and intermittent supply of a necessary

of vital importance to a town, may be content to

have works good enough for their day, or perhaps

the next generation ; carried out, moreover, on
principles relating more to the profit of share

holders than the welfare of the parties supplied.
We, in London, have more than enough of sore
experience of the results of this way of supply

ing water ; according to which experience, water

companies are useful as warnings of what to avoid

in the plan of construction and mode of supply

of water to a town  My anxiety now  is,

1852-54  DARWIN'S CIRRIPEDIA             407

that the town should reap the full benefits of
the water supply. For that purpose the supply

must be directed, by combined sewage works,
irrespective of private and public streets, so as

to carry off the sewerage from every, even the
humblest dwelling.' Owen concludes with a
promise of some further remarks on the ' eco
nomical and profitable results of the water and

sewage works viewed merely as an investment.'

     In July, Charles Darwin wrote a letter to Owen
on the subject of the Cirripedia.9 Their place in

the system had occasioned considerable doubt and

difference of opinion amongst zoologists, but
Darwin's researches went far to settle the vexed

question of their zoological position, and so the

following letter may be found of interest :--

                   Down,  Farnborough, Kent : July 17 [1854].

         Owen, --.                I cannot tell you how
...' Dear
much gratified I am at what you say about the Cirri

pedia. I really feel rewarded for more labour than

you would readily believe it possible could have been

bestowed on the work. I have, however, made a

mess of for got so frightened at the thoughts of
'

         9

                it,

                    I
                                      I
all the seaside species, that have not illustrated and

given in nearly detail enough my anatomical work,

       A well-defined natural          are scarcely any seas without
group of marine invertebrate           some of the species, as they

animals, commonly known as             frequently fix themselves on to
 barnacles.' They are very             floating bodies,

widely diffused -- in fact, there

408           PROFESSOR OWEN                                     Ch. XII.

which is the only part of the work which has really

interested me. I find the mere systematic part

infinitely tedious. I can, however, honestly state

that all I have said on the males of Ibla and

Scalpellum is the result of the most careful and

repeated observation. If I am ever proved wrong

in shall be surprised. But my pen running
     iIt,                                               I

                                    ;                        is
                                       your fault, for have been
                          it
                                 is
away with me

so much pleased with what you say. Making out

the homologies of the shell and external parts of

Cirripedes, as fully believe correctly (and am                   I
glad to say that Dana admits the view), gave me
             II
great satisfaction. But must not bore you with
                   in                  II
my triumph.   have been very seldom in London

for the last year. When was last there called at
                                                        I

the College to see you, but you were just gone out.

Pray believe me, a great state of triumph, pride,
vanity and conceit, &c, &c, &c,

                                       Yours sincerely,
                                       '
                                                     '  Charles Darwin.'

     In December 1854 Owen was offered and de
clined the chair of Anatomy in the University of

Edinburgh, which was rendered vacant by the
death of Edward Forbes. Writing to his sister
(December 20), he says Poor Edward Forbes
There was never a scientific man whose unexpected

death caused a more general or sincere regret. . .
   declined the offer to succeed him, as was by-

no means sure that after fulfilling the duties of
I
                                                                      :
                                                                           '

                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                    !

1852-54   RAE AND FRANKLIN                                        409

a winter course of five lectures a week for six

months my strength, any more than my poor friend

Forbes's, would carry me through a continuous

course during the succeeding summer months.'

In a letter written a few days afterwards he

says : ' I met a very interesting party a few days

ago at breakfast at Sir Robert Inglis's --the new

President of the Royal Society, Lord Wrottesley,

Sir J. Herschel, Mr. Robert Brown, Captain
Fitzroy, Mr. Charles Darwin (who went round
the world with Captain F.), Dean Morier, Professor

Acland of Oxford, and Dr. Rae (who discovered
the remains of poor Sir John Franklin). We had of
...course all the particulars of that long and earnestly
looked for discovery.  Dr. Rae pointed out

on a new map of the Arctic Regions exactly the

spot where Franklin's party lay ; and he assured

us that the party to be sent out by the Hudson's

Bay Company would arrive there next July or

August.'

          END OF THE FIRST VOLUME

THE LIFE

                                                 OF

RICHARD OWEN

                   BY HIS GRANDSON

THE REV. RICHARD OWEN, M.A.

      WITH THE SCIENTIFIC PORTIONS REVISED
                     BY C. DAVIES SHERBORN

ALSO AN ESSAY ON OWEN'S POSITION IN ANATOMICAL                            SCIENCE

                                                                  BY THE

                RIGHT HON. T. H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.

      PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

      IN TWO VOLUMES-- VOL. II.

JOHN                LONDON           STREET
      MURRAY, ALBEMARLE

                               1894


            CONTENTS

                                           OF

     THE SECOND VOLUME

                          CHAPTER I

,S                        1855-56

j?   The Phoenix -- The Crystal Palace at Sydenham --Juror of the
          Universal Exhibition at Paris -- Knight of the Legion of
en   Honour 1855 -- Superintendent of
     Department of the British Museum   the Natural History
                                       -- Death of his Sister,
     Grace Owen -- Cardinal Wiseman, Dr. and Mrs. Living

     stone, 1856

B CHAPTER II

                          1856-81

     Owen's Scheme for a Natural History Museum -- His Report

     and Plan,    1859--  Parliamentary Commission of   Inquiry,
     1860-- The    Plan   negatived --The Plan adopted  by Mr.
     Gladstone --Again rejected by the House of Commons in
     1862 -- Purchase of a New Site for the proposed Museum
     sanctioned by Parliament in 1863 -- The Completion of the
     New Museum, 1881                                               28

[6] PROFESSOR OWEN

                       CHAPTER III

                                              1857-59

                       --                     The 'Prix                    -- Sus   PAG
ofLecturer on                                               Cuvier,' 1857  Life'--
                                                   Scenes  from Clerical               59
    pected of
 Palaeontology
the Authorship
Fullerian Professor of Physiology, 1857 -- Address as
President of the British Association, 1858 -- Discovery of
the Remains of John Hunter, 1859 -- Foreign Member of
the Institute of France-- Hon. LL.D. of Cambridge, and
--ReSdueccLeeectduerder,as18P5r9e--sidTehnet
                                              British Association at Aberdeen
                                               by the Prince Consort -- Lite
rary Work and Lectures -- Correspondence on Darwin's

' Origin of Species '

                       CHAPTER IV

                                              1860-61 ,,

Natural History Lectures at Buckingham Palace --Ascent of
the Cime de Jazi -- Edition of Hunter's MSS., 1861 -- Lord
J. Russell -- M. Du Chaillu-- Popular Lecturing -- Death
of his Sister Catherine --Death of the Prince Consort
                                                                               .    97

                       CHAPTER V

                                                       1862-64                      128

Jenny Lind -- Ruskin -- Dickens -- Made Chevalier of the Italian
     Order of S. Maurice and S. Lazare -- Inauguration of the
     Leeds Institution, 1862 -- Memoirs on the 'Aye-Aye,' and
     other Literary Work, 1 863 -- Lectures before the Queen at
     Windsor, 1864

                            CHAPTER VI

                                                1865-68
Social Life -- Letter from Tennyson -- Serious Illness -- Bones

     of the Dodo -- Plan of Sunday Lectures, 1865 -- His Love
     of Society, and wide Circle of Friends-- Death of Whewell,

         CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME                                          [7]

1866 --Marriage of his only Son, January 1867-- 'Way                            PAGE
side Gatherings and their Teachings,' 1867 -- Lectures                           157

at Bradford, 1868

               CHAPTER VII

                                                       1869-71                  190

First Visit to Egypt, 1869 -- Lecture on the 'Scientific and
     Literary Results of the last Nile Expedition,' 1870 --Se
     cond Visit to Egypt, 1870-71 -- Braemoreand Carlyle, 1871
     -- Refusal of Presidency of Geological Society -- Snake-
     charming

                         CHAPTER VIII

               1872-1882

Third     Visit to Egypt, 1873-- Death of  MLrso.wOe w--enE,arMl aRyus1s8e7ll3
     --  Companion of the B-nh -- Robert

-- Fourth Visit to Egypt, 1874-- George Eliot and G. H.
Lewes, 1876-- The Emperor of Brazil, 1877-- Oliver Wen
dell Holmes, 1878 -- 'Specimens of my Correspondence '
-- Opening of the New Museum, 1881 -- Mr. Ruskin --

Lord Tennyson                                                                   217

               CHAPTER IX

               1883-92

' Notes on Birds in my Garden ' -- Love of Poetry -- Retire                     248
     ment from the Museum and made a K.C.B., 1884-- Life at
     Sheen Lodge -- Love of Chess, Music, and Gardening --
     Letters to his Grandson -- Paralytic Stroke, 1890-- Last
      Illness and Death, 1892

Owen's Position in the History             of Anatomical
                                           Thomas Henry
Science.      By the Right Hon.
                                                                                 273
Huxley
                                                               -333
Bibliography
                                                                                 383
List of Honorary Distinctions
                                                                                 387
Index

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
             IN VOL. II

Portrait in Old Age with his Grand-daughter.

{From a Photograph by Messrs. Byrne &* Co.) Frontispiece

The Aye-Aye                   To face p. 136

Professor Owen and the Skeleton of

Dinornis maximus                              ,, 232

Bronze Head of Hypnos                         ,, 256

Fac-simile of Original Pen and Ink Sketch for a

National Museum of Natural History, found

among Professor Owen's Papers . . . page 32

The Accepted Plan for the Museum of Natural               51

     History

Cyamodus laticeps                                         70

dlcynodon lacerticeps, olven                              i34

Archjeopteryx macrura, Owen (Head) . . . . 140

,, ,, ,, (FOSSIL) . . .141

The Dodo                                                  164
                                                          211
Skull of Thylacoleo

Odontopteryx                                              226

PROFESSOR OWEN

               CHAPTER I

                              1855-56

The Phoenix --The Crystal     Palace    at Sydenham  --Juror of  the
     Universal Exhibition at   Paris  -- Knight of
               -- Superintendent                     the Legion   of
                British Museum
Honour,  1855                     of the Natural History Depart
ment of                           -- Death of his Sister, Grace
         the

Owen -- Cardinal Wiseman, Dr. and Mrs. Livingstone, 1856.

In the year 1855 Owen's work ' On the Archetype

and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton ' was
translated into French and appeared under the

title, ' Principes d'Osteologie comparee ; ou, Re-

cherches sur l'Archetype et les Homologies du
Squelettevertebre.' ' The publication of his lectures
on the ' Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of
the Invertebrate Animals' reached a second

edition. Before the beginning of his Hunterian

course, he gave a lecture to a large audience
at the Royal Institution on ' Anthropoid Apes.'

     The subject chosen for the Hunterian Lectures
this season was ' Fossil Remains ; ' but before de

livering them Owen gave as an introduction to

               1 Paris : J. B. Bailliere, 1855.

VOL. II.                                             B

2                         PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

the subject three lectures in the Theatre of the

Royal College of Surgeons explanatory of Hunter's
MS. essay ' On Extraneous Fossils.' In relation

to this course Owen remarks : ' The palaeonto-

logical is now the only department of the museum

which has not been systematically elucidated in

...this theatre, to the extent at least of the time at my
command.                  It will be observed that Hunter,

in his general collection, illustrates the three ways

in which the anatomy of animals may be broadly

and philosophically followed out.

   ' There is a series of organs in their mature

state, traced from their simplest to their most com

plex conditions, as in the first division of the

physiological series.

   ' There is a series of the progressive changes

or stages in the development of each organ in the
embryo and fcetus of different species, as, e.g., in
the second division of the same great series.

   ' There thirdly, a series of entire animals, oc
   '
casionally dissected to show the general collocation
                     is,
of their organs, and arranged, as in the physio

logical series, in the ascending order, commencing

with the more simple forms and proceeding gra-

dationally to the Mammalia and to Man.

   The Council of this College has confided to

me the making of the catalogues of these exemplifi

cations of animal structures, and of the methods

by which those structures may be studied. And

those catalogues have been completed and published

1855-56  HUNTER ON FOSSIL BONES                    3

with one small exception, relating to the verte-

...brated province of the series arranged according to
the classes of animals.      In the session of last

year I concluded the series of lectures in which the

animal organisation was treated of according to

the classes of animals, beginning with the lowest

and ending with the highest

' Now John Hunter had not neglected the field
of anatomical inquiry presented by fossil organic

remains. He lived to publish little respecting

them. The scientific world probably first became

aware of the fact that he had paid any attention

at all to them when Hunter communicated to

the Royal Society of London, in 1793, his paper

on the fossil bones presented to that Society

by His Most Serene Highness the Margrave of

Anspach. . . . Those men accustomed to think,

who heard or read that paper, would recognise in

it the mind of the great Master. It is character

ised by the same broad views and acute insight

into the phenomena under review, by the same

unexpected illustrations, which only a wide em

brace of facts could have suggested, by the same

bold excursions into fields stretching away far

beyond the immediate subject of the memoir, which

peculiarly mark all the papers from Hunter's pen.

' In those letters which are introduced into the

life of John Hunter prefixed to Palmer's edition
of his works, scarcely one of them omits a recom

mendation to Jenner to secure for his correspon

                                 n2

4  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

dent and revered teacher, Hunter, whatever fossil

remains might fall in his way.'
     Owen was evidently regarded more or less,

all through his life, as legitimate prey to the
numerous inquirers as to the nature and habits of
such monsters as the cockatrice, the phoenix, and

the bunyip (this last monster being an imaginary
creature which hailed from Australia, whose skull

turned out to be merely that of an embryo sheep).
He has left a description of his interview with an
Oriental personage who had come to inquire

about the phoenix.

     On April 1 5 he writes : ' A grave Oriental

with his interpreter were ushered into my study,
as I was preparing my lecture. After due salaams

and the visitors seated, the interpreter stated that

they were from the Turkish Embassy in order to

ask my opinion of the phoenix ; whether I believed
there had ever been such a bird, and what was

the last scientific intelligence regarding it. Of

course I told them nothing was known beyond old

tradition. The Turk then took from an inner

recess of his vest a crimson velvet case, which

contained a most beautiful ladle, the handle of

carved coral and gold, jewelled, the bowl of a kind
of fine horny material, half rose colour and half
cream colour, united at an angle. This, with a few
similar ladles, had been in the Sultan's jewel-house
for many centuries, and was held to be made-- the
bowl --out of the beak of the phoenix. My opinion

1855-56                   THE PHCENIX                                       5

was respectfully requested as to whether such was

the case, or, if not, from what bird's beak the bowl

had been made.

' After some research in the museum I found

the head and beak of the bird which must have

yielded such a bowl as that of the Sultan's ladle.

The bird is a very rare one, a native of Ceylon,
and called the " Helmeted Hornbill," or Buceros

galeatus. Sir Joseph Banks had presented a

specimen of it       The head and beak were brought
                it.
into my study and handed to the Oriental. He

examined very deftly, comparing the beak with

the bowl, and then exclaimed with astonishment
and reverence, " God great That surely the
                                      is  !                                 is

bird "      took large sheet of paper, and wrote                                          :
!

      I

                       a

a brief certificate of the nature and country of the

bird from which the Sultan's ladle had been made,

and gave to the Turk, requesting the inter
            It it

                                                                         :
preter to write down the name and titles of the

individual to whom the precious article had been
                     was as follows " Mohammed Abu
entrusted.

Said, Chief Spoon and Ladle-maker to the Com

mander of the Faithful."

'  So much for the phcenix.'

On April 20 Owen attended the opening cere

mony of the Crystal Palace, which had been removed

to Sydenham.                          thus described in the diary
'
                            ;

                     It

                                  is
To London Bridge about eleven. Babbage in our

carriage crowd tremendous. We kept together

till fairly in the Palace. R. could not find his

6  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

ivory ticket when he left home this morning, and

the official at the turnstile would not let him in,

in spite of Babbage offering to prove his identity.

At last Babbage found some person of import

ance who recognised R. at once, and so we got in
finally. We saw the Queen, Prince Albert, and
the Emperor and Empress of the French file

past as they walked along the gallery ; the

Empress, having gone a little way, sat down on

a chair, and we afterwards heard that she found

it so comfortable that Prince Albert gallantly
bought it on the spot and presented her with it.
The upper gallery was not open to the public, to

prevent crowding on the light spiral staircase.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Darwin there ; we walked
about a bit with them. The Honourable Artil

lery Company also there in full force ; the officers
of R.'s old corps seemed delighted to meet him
again. Home about eight.'

     The following extracts are also taken from
the diary :--

     'May i1. -- R. dined with Lord Ashburton.
He met the Duc dAumale there, who was

pleasant in manner and evidently knows some
thing of fossils. There were present Thomas

Carlyle, Mr. Thackeray, Lord Stanley, &c.'
     'June 5. --About three o'clock there came in

Landseer and E. W. Cooke, hot, weary, and
luncheonless. They had been to a private view
of J. J. Chalons pictures, which are to be sold, and

1855-56 THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1855                      7

had missed their train. Cooke has all the en

thusiasm of a child over the trees, shrubs, and

flowers in the garden. Landseer enjoyed them

as much, but was quieter. They were never

tired of looking at the pictures in the dining-

room, but had to go off early to a dinner of

Academicians at the Star and Garter.'

    On July 16 Owen started for Paris in order

to perform much the same services for the Uni

versal Exhibition of 1855 as he had done for the
Great Exhibition of 185 1 in London. On the

resignation of Prince C. L. Bonaparte he was

appointed Chairman of the Jury (XI.) on 'Pre

pared and Preserved Alimentary Substances.'

This, of course, included wines. Some half-dozen

of his letters are preserved, but as the proceed

ings are somewhat similar to those described at

the time of the Great Exhibition the following

extracts may suffice :--
    'July 18, 1855. -- I have attended a meeting

of the Institute, and, oddly enough, the learned

body was engaged in discussing my merits,

amongst others, relative to a vacancy in the list
                                             At present,
of  "eicgohrtresfoproenidginng  members.                  I am
                                    member  " only, like  Lord
a

Brougham, Brewster, &c.'

    'July 27, 1855. --[Milne Edwards] lives now

in Cuvier's old house, and many pleasing recollec

tions and associations arose on entering the well-

known door. The general arrangement of the

8  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

old dwelling-- its subdivision into many small
rooms -- is much as it was ; the fittings and furni
ture in a gayer Parisian style. . . . The morning
occupations of our jury are curious and various,

each one well adapted to its end, but performed
amidst a scene of gesticulation and action and a
Babel of seeming altercation which renders the

result, when we come afterwards coolly to sum

up the notes, surprising to me. Take the fol
lowing as an example : Time, 7 a.m. ; subject,
Wines of Austria ; scene, Grande Exposition, in

a small whitewashed chamber with a skylight ;

a table with green cloth, and books, papers,
writing materials ; another with rows of bottles of
wine, corkscrews, &c. Hampers of wine on one

side of the room. President and two or three

members of jury in green velvet fauteuils ; three
experts seated in a corner of the room with a tin
pail before them, each with a silver chalice like
a Highland quaigh, and a small napkin. The
Austrian Commissioner and the representatives

of the several wine-growers ; a man in green and
silver uniform to uncork ; a grinning negro to
serve the wine to the tasters ; a worthy ' blouse '
to hand and take back the sample-bottles. Com
missioner calls out the number and vintage-year of

the sample. A juryman enters it in a ruled book,

the uncorker uncorks the bottle ; the grinning
negro pours a little into the pail, then fills the
chalice. Each taster agitates the wine, carries it

1855-56  WINE-JUDGING  9

to his nose, draws it slowly into his mouth, rinces

and spurts it out into the pail ; then the three

interchange knowing remarks in a low tone, their
heads together, and bawl out a number, 3, 6,
 10, as the case may be, indicative of their verdict
as to quality. The same, entered by secretary of
jury and vouched by president. After each trial

the expert wipes his chalice and recommences.
After five or six trials water is served to each,

with which he rinces out his mouth and chalice,

then wipes his tongue with his napkin. The
trial recommences : Number and vintage of bottle
called ; clack goes the cork ; black Hebe bottles

up the sparkling ruby or gold-coloured wine in
the silver chalices ; sniffing, rincing, smacking of

lips, and all goes into the pail. Two of our

experts are ddcore's, and their jovial fellow is
bearded like the pard. Strange and outlandish
are the shapes of the bottles, and quaint their
labels, from Hungary and Bohemia. As the
tasting progresses, the din of discussion waxes
louder and fiercer. Any peculiarly fine wines are
submitted in petits verves to the jury ; the pro

gress is from the ordinary to the recherche's ; most

delicate and drome's were some, and more espe
cially the concluding sample entitled " Tokay-
Essence, du Cru de Monak, du Comte George

Andrassy." It was grievous to see the amber-

coloured, sparkling Tokays liberally added to

the now almost brimming pailful of the mix

io  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I

ture of all the choicest wines of the Austrian

Empire.'

    'July 31, 1855. -- You may expect me home

any day after the receipt of this. . . . The

Prince [C. L. Bonaparte] drove me in the Bois
de Boulogne yesterday, after the Institute, and
called upon one of his brothers [Pierre], to whom
he introduced me. In the evening I played two
games of chess with the Duke of Brunswick (the
Diamond Duke), and won one.'

    On August 3 Owen returned from the ' Ex

position Universelle ' ' with an opinion of the
French,' as he writes, ' raised to a high degree in
respect to their abilities and disposition.' For
his services given to the Exhibition the Emperor
of the French created him a Knight of the Legion
of Honour, but the decoration itself did not arrive

till Christmas.

     On Owen's return from Paris, his wife went

to Wirksworth for rest and change, and the Pro

fessor wrote her (September 13) the following
doleful account of his domestic experiences during

her absence :--

     ' Cook was seated in a chair, bending herself
double, shedding maudlin tears, and complaining

of great pain. Of course there was nothing to be
done before getting her to bed. When Sister E.

had helped her to undress and got her covered
up, I went upstairs. She was knocking her head

about the pillow, bewailing her fate ; maundered

1855-56  DOMESTIC EXPERIENCES  11

 about how her uncle loved me and how she loved

 you, and, when I asked her some professional
questions, said she would speak the truth. I
assured her I had not doubted it ; but when she

said she had taken nothing but a drop of tea, I
thought it had left a most uncommon odour of
gin and peppermint. Thereupon I gave her a
composing draught and took away her candle,
and of course she is quite well this morning. . . .'
' She took herself off last night,' he says in a letter
of the 15th, 'with a restoration of robustness and
voice which would have been miraculous if the

prostration and pangs of the previous evening
had been real.'

     In September, Owen had another visit from
Prince C. L. Bonaparte, who brought with him

his daughter and son-in-law, the Comte and
Comtesse di Campello. In this month an entry
in the diary states that Owen made the acquaint
ance of Staunton, the famous chess-player, with
whom he played several games of chess, ' at
which he came off with some credit, considering.'

      On October 2, 1855, Owen writes to his

sister Eliza :--

     ' I dined yesterday at St. Bartholomew's on
the occasion of the opening of the Medical
Session. I was placed at the right hand of the
chairman at the dinner, and on that of the Pre

sident of the Hospital in the grand old hall at

the introductory address, and was called upon to

12  PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. I.

return thanks for the visitors, which included

most of the distinguished medical men in town

who had been students at the Hospital. In

short, my reception was very gratifying to me.

It happened to be just thirty years that day

(October 1, 1825) when I first made my entry as
a strange shy pupil in the Hospital yard and first

listened to good old Abernethy's introductory

lecture. It was just twenty years since (in the

progress of my development) I gave my first

lecture as Professor of Comparative Anatomy at

the Hospital (the first they had had in that
science), so I had some topics that raised con

genial sentiments in many who had been pupils

at and before my day. . . .'   November 4, Owen

     In another letter, dated
writes :--

    ' I don't know whether I told you I had

enjoyed a holiday accompanying the Duke of

Cambridge and Colonel Liddell shooting in the
Park. The Duke is a fine tall man in the prime

of life, wearing the large and full beard and
moustaches which he let grow in the wars. He

chatted very freely with me in the intervals of the

shots, chiefly putting questions after the family

manner : asked how I went to town, the times of

the trains, the cost of the season ticket, &c. . . .

On Thursday I went to see, by invitation, the

photographs of the Crimea shown by gaslight ;

they marvellously exemplify the power of that

1855-56 SUPERINTENDENT AT BRITISH MUSEUM 13

application of science to obtain graphic records of
a campaign.'

     Before the close of the year 1855 Owen
issued his ' Catalogue of the Fossil Remains in
the Hunterian Museum,' 4to, but he never com

pleted it ; for, to use his own words, ' the
" Catalogue of the Fossils of the Hunterian
Museum " passed out of my responsibility and
care when I accepted the office of Superintendent
of the Natural History Department of the British

Museum.' 2 This office was generally understood
to have been created expressly for Owen. There

is no doubt that he owed his appointment, to a
great extent, to Lord Macaulay, with whom he
had as yet-but the barest acquaintance ; and with
reference to this, Macaulay's letter and the ex
planations accompanying it may be quoted from

his ' Life,' by his nephew, Sir George Trevelyan.
He says :--

      ' Long after Macaulay had abandoned all
other public business he continued to occupy
himself in the administration of the British
Museum. In February 1856 he wrote to Lord
Lansdowne with the view of securing that old
friend's potent influence in favour of an arrange
ment by which Professor Owen might be placed
in a position worthy of his reputation and of his
services. The circumstance which gave rise to

     2 The completion of the concluding volume was entrusted to
 Professor John Morris.

14  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 1.

the letter was the impending appointment of
 Signor Panizzi to the post of Secretary and Prin
cipal Librarian to the Museum. " I am glad of

 this," writes Macaulay, " both on public and

private grounds. Yet I fear that the appoint
ment will be unpopular both within and without

the Museum. There is a growing jealousy
among men of science which, between ourselves,
appears even at the Board of Trustees. There
is a notion that the Department of Natural

 History is neglected, and that the library and the
sculpture galleries are unduly favoured. This
feeling will certainly not be allayed by the
appointment of Panizzi, whose great object,

during many years, has been to make our library
the best in Europe, and who would at any time
give three mammoths for an Aldus." '

      Macaulay then went on to propose that,

simultaneously with Signor Panizzi's nomination
to the secretaryship, Professor Owen should be
constituted Superintendent of the whole Depart

ment of Natural History, including geology,
zoology, botany, and mineralogy. ' I cannot but

think,' he says, ' that this arrangement would be

beneficial in the highest degree to the Museum.
I am sure it would be popular. I must add that

I am extremely desirous that something should

be done for Owen. I hardly know him to speak
to. His pursuits are not mine ; but his fame is
spread over Europe. He is an honour to our

1855-56  MACAULAY'S PROPOSITION  15

country, and it is painful to me to think that a
man of his merit should be approaching old age
amidst anxieties and distresses. He told me that

eight hundred a year, without a house in the

Museum, would be opulence to him. He did not,
he said, even wish for more. He seems to me

to be a case for public patronage. Such patron

age is not needed by eminent literary men or

artists. A poet, a novelist, an historian, a painter,

a sculptor, who stood in his own line as high as
Owen stands among men of science, could never
be in want except by his own fault. But the

greatest natural philosopher may starve while his
countrymen are boasting of his discoveries, and

while foreign Academies are begging for the
honour of being allowed to add his name to their

list.'

     On May 26, 1856, Owen received the appoint
ment that Macaulay had suggested, with a salary
of 800/. a year.

     But before the final arrangements were com

pleted he confesses to have felt very unsettled, as

there was some uncertainty connected with the

nature of the appointment, and from the number
of suggestions which were brought forward he
was apprehensive of considerable delay. As
his connection with the College of Surgeons had
ceased, he had no more Hunterian Lectures to
give, but filled up a good deal of the time in
giving lectures elsewhere at various places. He

16  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. i.

also took the opportunity of attending some of
Faraday's at the Royal Institution. In describing
one of these lectures, which took place in January,
he says : ' The Prince of Wales and Prince Arthur

there. They seemed much interested, and sat on

chairs, with a footstool, as their feet did not reach

the ground. Faraday in great force-- on Metals.
Gold, silver, &c., were rolled into long ribbons.

The theatre crowded.'

    At another lecture ' Faraday explained the
magnet and strength of attraction. He made us

all laugh heartily ; and when he threw a coal
scuttle full of coals, a poker, and a pair of tongs
at the great magnet, and they stuck there, the
theatre echoed with shouts of laughter.'

     On January 8 Owen accompanied Sir Joseph

Paxton to Coventry, where, he says, 'there was

a deputation to meet us. Bells ringing, &c. Gave
lecture on " Ruminants" at 8.30 in an old hall to
a crowded audience, which was largely composed
of the ribbon-weavers -- men and women -- watch

makers and so on, all very attentive : a good

many open-mouthed listeners.'

     On April 13 Owen went to Manchester,
where he gave a course of four lectures, and then

to Liverpool, where he also gave a short course.

' At my first lecture at Liverpool,' he writes to

his wife, ' the managing committee had Haydn's
overture to the " Creation " played by a good
orchestra, whilst the audience was assembling in

1855-56      DEATH OF HIS SISTER GRACE                                 17

the great hall. All went off satisfactorily. The

only cloud is the news of sister Grace's serious

illness.'

As soon as Owen was able, he went to Lan

caster, and spent some time with his sister ; but

she never rallied, and her death occurred soon

afterwards. He had the greatest affection for all

his sisters, and deeply felt the loss of this one,

who was the youngest. He had a portrait of her

painted, and in his last illness it was placed where

he could easily see and he then would often

talk about her. He was, however, not able to
           5
                  2

                             '

                                    it,
stay long in Lancaster, but was obliged to hurry

back to London to lecture at the Royal Institution

on May        On the Original Cattle of Great

Britain,' and also to give a lecture at Richmond

on the th of that month.

    On May 22, 1856, Owen writes to his wife,

who was travelling in Germany with their son,

that he had a seat on the Judge's bench for
one day of the Palmer trial. He says: His
                                         !
advocate, Serjeant Shee, began at half-past ten,          ;

                                                                 !
                                                                    '
and left him speaking at half-past three he did
    ;I                                                                 A
not conclude his address till half-past six
         a;
course of lectures rolled into one The main

points were an attempt to show that the prisoner

had no motive for killing his friend, but the

reverse and that the deceased had died of

ordinary convulsions. Some parts of the speech

able         few, touching and eloquent. He has a

    vol. II.                                 c

18  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. i.

bad habit of beginning his sentence too loud, and
dropping his voice too much at the close, and
drowning the last and most important words of the

statement by a violent thump on the table. I

augur that the defence has nothing to offer to bar
a conviction ; but one cannot reason upon law

as upon anything else.'
     On May 26 Owen was formally appointed

Superintendent of the Natural History Depart
ment of the British Museum, and entered upon
office on June 8 ; but as his work in connection
with the museum is fully detailed in another

chapter, we need not dwell on it here.

     It is somewhat surprising that he makes

hardly any mention in his letters of the important

change which this new appointment made in his

mode of life. A brief note about ' taking office

at B. M. on Monday,' and ' after seeing Panizzi a
few more forms to be got through, all to be ended
by Saturday, when at twelve o'clock I make my
first bow to the Trustees and receive my formal

installation,' are the sole references to the occur

rence. A little later on he remarks (July 26,

1856):-
     ' Willie regards the British Museum as a very

superior position, chiefly, I believe, because, just

beneath my window, a sunburnt, rough-voiced

sergeant musters and turns out with the guard

every two hours. . . . Look out for the next
number of Blackwood and riddle me out my con-

1855-56  THE NEW APPOINTMENT                19

tribution thereto. I had a very flattering note

from Mr. Blackwood on sending me proofs of

the light little article I amused myself some time
ago by penning. . . . The College responded to

my resignation by a letter acknowledging my long

and valuable services, &c., in the usual official

terms.' The document in question was a letter

forwarded to him from the Secretary stating that
at a meeting of the Council of the College of

Surgeons on June    12, 1856, a resolution  was
passed, to express  " the great regret of   this

Council at the loss of the services of a gentleman

who has been so long connected with the museum,

and who has earned so wide a reputation, &c., and

of their gratification that the cause of his resig

nation is his appointment to an important office

connected with the same department of science in
the British Museum." '

Amongst the letters with reference to this

appointment which Owen received, the following

from Professor A. Sedgwick may be quoted :--

                                                      Norwich : June 20, 1856.

     ' My dear Owen, -- . . . I trust that your move

to the British Museum is for your happiness. If

God spare your health it will be a grand move
for the benefit of British science. An Imperator

was sadly wanted in that vast establishment.

                              ' Ever yours,
                                             ' A. Sedgw1ck.'

                                                                                       c2

20  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

     The following entry in the diary will show
that with his work at the British Museum Owen
still kept up his musical interests :--

     'July 13. -- Mr. Ella, Madame Halle, Signor

Piatti and his wife and the two Halle children,

spent the day here very pleasantly. Mr. Halle

could not come, being laid up with a sore throat.
Madame Piatti is small and fair and an accom

plished musician. She and her gifted, quiet
husband played some duets in the dusk of the
evening, Piatti playing on R.'s beautiful " cello." 3
They gave us tickets for Halle's morning concert

on the 17th.'
      On August 5 Owen travelled with his wife to

Bedford, where he gave a lecture on fossils found

in that county. ' We dined with the Mayor,'
Mrs. Owen writes, ' who made a speech after the

lecture. Hoped Professor Owen's presence and
lecture would incite the people of Bedford to set
up a museum of their own, and so on.' After
leaving Bedford, Owen went on to the meeting of
the British Association in Cheltenham, and then

travelled up to Scotland, where he was the guest

of the Duke of Argyll at Murray Castle, Inver

aray, stopping at Lancaster on the way, to leave
his wife with his sisters there.

     While at Inveraray he wrote them a long
account of the beauties of the scenery of that
district. Leaving on the 26th, he stayed a few

                                        s By Foster.

1855-56     DENTITION OF MASTODON                      21

days in Perthshire, and then went on to Dundrum,

' near Burns's country,' where he rejoined his

wife. They returned home on September 5.
     The article contributed to ' Blackwood's Maga

zine,' to which Owen refers in his letter of July 20,
was signed ENNfl, presumably an anagram for 0 N,

and was entitled ' A Visit to Selborne.' This was

an account of a visit which he paid to Thomas Bell,

who was then living in Gilbert White's old house.

Professor Owen was keenly anxious to add to

the collection of fossil bones at the British Museum,

and many of his friends who were on the look-out

for specimens were in the habit of communicat

ing with him at once as to opportunities of

purchase. These communications he evidently

looked upon as a personal favour to himself, as

the following letter which he wrote to Dr. Falconer4

will show :--

                                        British Museum : Oct. 10, 1856.

' My dear Falconer, -- It is most kind of you to

have thought of me and my peculiar interest in

...the dentition of mastodon whilst you were at
Darmstadt.  It's unlucky that the grant for

this year was exhausted by the grand Dinornis

collection of Mr. Walter Mantell (come and see
the skeleton of the Din. elephantopus, which I

have just had set up). But the specimen of the

Mastodon longirostris is one we ought to have ;
and I will do my best to have it purchased with

4 Kindly ccAnmunicated by Professor Prestwich, F.R.S.

22                    PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. I.

out delay. . . . Have you thought of the ' Swiney

Professorship      '  It is just the occupation or
               ?

amusement that would suit you, and do you good.

    ' I was glad to hear from old Kaup, one of the

worthiest of men.

                      ' Ever yours,
                                    ' Richard Owen.'

     On November 28 Owen writes to his sisters

to tell them of the death of an old friend, and

continues :--

     ' Yesterday, singularly enough, I was an hour
by the sick bed of another friend, at his special
request -- Lord Ellesmere. I fear he has not the
strength to fight through his present attack. The
Duke of Argyll called on me to acquaint me with
Lord Ellesmere's illness, and to tell me that he

had expressed a wish to see me. I went directly
after Museum hours to Bridgewater House, and

was immediately admitted on sending in my card.

The half-lit halls looked like dark unexplored
caverns ; the noble owner of all on a pallet in a
small closet-like room, which seemed like a recess
on one side. His fine features and expressive
eyes bespoke sickness and suffering. I talked on
a variety of topics, with intervals of quiet, until
the Duchess of Sutherland and the Duchess of

Arygll entered. . . . That morning (yesterday)
I breakfasted with Mr. Henry Taylor, and met
Lord Monteagle and a very interesting party. . . .

1855-56  MEETS CARDINAL WISEMAN      23

London is the place, after all, for interchange of

thought.'

     In this month Owen ' met Cardinal Wiseman

at a dinner party at a neighbour's house.'

     In a letter to his sisters he says :--
     ' The Cardinal was attended by two priests,

and there were two or three others of different

rank, including the pastor of their small chapel at

Mortlake. A very handsome dinner : about half

a dozen ladies. The Cardinal astounded me by

his attire ; it was a spectacle to behold, and, as you
know I was always fond of scarlet, it was quite

pleasant to have his Eminence opposite me at

the table. He wore a close-fitting Eastern tunic

and tights, of purple edged with crimson, fitting
close to the throat and at the wrists, Turkish

fashion ; short lace ruffles at the wrist, a close

white stock round the neck, covered by the ribbon
of an Order. Below the tights appeared the crim
son silk stockings, shoes, and large rich buckles.
Over his dress he wore a rich stiff crimson cloak,

with a broad embroidered margin, without sleeves,

attached round the neck by a broad embroidered

band. A large jewelled gold cross was suspended

by a long enamelled chain, and rested on his com
fortably prominent stomach. On his crown was

a shallow round scarlet skull-cap. He made an

excellent dinner ; contrasting  it,  however, with

one he had assisted at, at the Bishop of Malines',

in his route through Belgium, and which lasted

24  PROFESSOR OWEN                  ch. I.

four hours. The Cardinal's large jovial mouth,

turned-up pimply nose, bright astute eyes, with

some fire lurking in them, and broad bold front,

all seemed to correspond well with the outward

insignia of the worldly rank he had achieved, and
with all the environments --comfortable throne-like

arm-chair, champagne chalice, green hock glass

and " all other delicacies." He was my-lorded by

his flock ; I of course gave him only his Italian

honour, as ' Your Eminence '--with the distinc

tion. The priests, as they passed his Eminence

to take their places at the table, reverentially

stooped and kissed his hand. They maintained

a modest silence during the dinner. I was hon

...oured by a fair share of the Cardinal's discourse,
both before, at, and after dinner.  He is a

very clever man of the world, and knows well the

weak points of both Romanism and Anglicanism.

I have just returned from greeting and shaking

the hand of a very different man, Dr. Livingstone,

the African missionary and traveller ; he is at
this moment with Sir Roderick Murchison and the

Secretary of the Geographical Society, at Arrow-

smith's, the great map-man, where I left him before

a table overspread with the traveller's map, and

plans of his route across Central Africa from west

to east --the greatest achievement in that field

of exploration that has yet been done. Living

stone is looking less aged and worn than I ex

pected. I recognised his bronzed features imme-

1855-56  MRS. LIVINGSTONE  25

diately, although it is now near twenty years since
he took leave of me in the College museum,

where, as a young medical missionary, he called

for instruction as to observing and collecting

natural history. He has not been able, poor

fellow, to do much in that way : his chief zoolo

gical experience being the grip of his left arm

by a lion, which he had wounded with his pistol.

The arm was broken and badly set.'
     In a letter written not long after he narrates an

incident which happened to Mrs. Livingstone and

himself, which evidently entertained him vastly :--

      ' After the lecture [by Livingstone at the
Society of Arts], Colonel Sykes asked me if I had

a ticket for the Photographic Soiree at King's

College. I had ; so had he ; and as each ticket

admitted two, he took the Doctor, and /, Mrs.
Livingstone. It was a dress assembly in the
grand hall. Mrs. L., with a straw-bonnet of 1846,

and attired to match, made a most singular excep

tion to the brilliant costumes. Who can that

odd woman be that Professor O. is taking round
the room and paying so much attention to ? I

caught sight of Will's countenance (he and Carry
had gone with Dr. Farre, before I arrived).
Disgust and alarm most strongly portrayed. He

could not conceive what badly dressed house

maid I had picked up to bring to such a place !
Carry equally mystified. The extraordinary

scrutinies of many fine ladies as they shrank, at

26  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. I.

 first, from contact, as far as the crowd permitted !
 But when the rumour began to buzz abroad that it

was Dr. and Mrs. Livingstone --then at the acme

of their lion-hood, especially with the Church
party, through Lord Shaftesbury's speech the day

before -- what a change came over the scene ! It

was which of the scornful dames could first get
introduced to Professor O., to be introduced to

Mrs. L. ; and the photographs were comparatively
deserted for the dusky strangers.'

      Owen had several tales of similar discomfiture,

which he would often relate with the greatest

delight and amusement.

     The last lecture which he gave this year was on
' Ivory and Teeth of Commerce,' and was delivered
at the Society of Arts on December 19.

      On December 29, 1856, Owen writes to his
friend John Murray on the subject of an article on
' Parthenogenesis ' for the ' Quarterly Review,' in
the course of which letter he remarks : ' The first

question is whether your estimable editor of the
" Quarterly " or yourself would regard the details of
the reproductive economy and apparatus of a Rose

and a Bee as equally producible in respectable

society. . . . The facts bearing upon this myste
rious power of virgin-procreativeness are now so

numerous and varied as to form an important body
of physiological doctrine, of which the " Quarterly "
ought to take cognizance without squeamishness.

1855-56  SUPER-SENSITIVENESS  27

For this sensitiveness, truly akin to the Yankee
nether-clothing of the pianoforte legs, is shutting
out a vast and rapidly increasing store of most

interesting and important knowledge relative to
those animals which are nearest akin to plants.'

28         PROFESSOR OWEN                                     CH. II.

           CHAPTER II1

           1856-81

Owen's Scheme for a Natural History Museum -- His Report and
           n1e8g5a9t--ivePda--rliaTmheentPalrayn              of Inquiry, 1860 -- The
    Plan,                                         Commission  Mr. Gladstone -- Again
    Plan                                          adopted by
    rejected by the House of Commons in 1862 -- Purchase of a

    New Site for the proposed Museum sanctioned by Parliament
    in 1863 -- The Completion of the New Museum, 1881.

Soon after his appointment to the Hunterian
Professorship at the Royal College of Surgeons,

Owen's thoughts turned towards the elaboration
of a definite scheme which should allow of the

proper exhibition of the natural history treasures
of the nation. His frequent visits to the British

Museum impressed him more and more with the

conviction that the natural history department
was the most neglected branch of that institution.

This neglect arose from the inadequate space

     1 For the sake of greater                    Owen's life through which the
                                                  discussions were spread. The
clearness, it has been thought                    account is given as nearly as

advisable to devote a separate                    possible in his own words, the
chapter to the history of the
British Museum of Natural                         substance being taken from his
History at South Kensington,                      address to the British Associa
instead of dispersing it among                    tion at York in 1881.
the many years of Professor

1856-81  SCHEME FOR MUSEUM  29

allotted to the collections. The convenience of

the arrangements he had been enabled to make
in Lincoln's Inn Fields strongly forced upon his
notice the chaos at the British Museum, and even

as early as the year 1846 he addressed a letter

(vol. i. p. 276) to Lord Francis Egerton, in which
we may see the commencement of the scheme

which began to near completion in 1881.
     Others besides Owen had fully recognised the

gravity of the situation at the British Museum,
for in 1854 John Edward Gray, the keeper of
Zoology, had reported on the unfitness of damp
vaults for the storage of zoological material, and
prayed for additional accommodation. The appeal
was referred by the Trustees to the architect, and

on receiving the latter's report, they ' declined to
adopt Dr. Gray's suggestion,' and recommended
' that steps should be taken to obviate the deteriora
tion of the specimens ' by treatment of the vaults

in which they were stored. In the renewed
appeals of Dr. Gray, the Trustees apparently set

aside the architect as specialist on natural history,
and recommended the erection of 'an additional

gallery to the eastern Zoological Gallery, and the
substitution of skylights for the side windows,

with a view to a further gallery at an elevation
above the floor of the one in use.'

     Professor Owen entered the service of the

Trustees of the British Museum on May 26, 1856.
As already stated, he had been offered and

30  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. II.

 refused five years before a post vacant by the
 death of Charles Konig, the salary of which was
 reduced, but on this occasion a special office was
 created, and Owen became ' Superintendent of

the Departments of Natural History.' This office
gave place, on his retirement in 1884, to that of
 ' Director of the British Museum ' (Natural His

 tory), under which name he was succeeded by
 Professor Flower.

      On taking up the work of the departments
placed under his charge, Professor Owen became

better acquainted with the melancholy condition of

affairs, and determined to submit to the Trustees

a statement embodying estimates of space required
for exhibition of all the collections, adding to it
considerations on the ratio of increase during the
previous ten years, and the probable future in

crease by annual additions.

     In dealing with the British Museum, however,
Owen had a vastly different task from that which

he had previously undertaken. When at the
College of Surgeons, he was dealing with a Board
of Governors, who, whatever their personal idiosyn
crasies, were all impressed with the importance
of improving the collections placed under their
charge. With the British Museum and its
Trustees the matter was entirely different. Here

there were several ' departments,' each under the

charge of an energetic if not ambitious head, and
each anxious for a large share of the spoils ; while

1856-81  'REPORT WITH PLAN'  31

the spoils were then, as now, not in the keeping
of the Museum Trustees, but of a clerk in the

Treasury.
     Accordingly, on February 10, 1859, Owen

submitted a strong report to the Trustees, setting
forth his views as to a National Museum of

Natural History, accompanied with a plan, and
this was forwarded to the Treasury. The docu
ment was remarkable for the complete grasp of

the problem and the author's intimate knowledge
of the facts concerned ; it was too weighty to be
overlooked, and on 'March 11, 1859, the ' Report
with Plan ' was ' ordered by the House of

Commons to be printed.' 2 A fac-simile of the

original pen-and-ink sketch plan drawn by Pro
fessor Owen himself is given on the next page.

      This ' Report with Plan ' included estimates
of space for the then acquired specimens of the
several departments of natural history, together
with space for the reception of the additional
specimens which might accrue in the course of a
generation. It further recommended that ' such
a building, besides giving accommodation to
the several classes of natural history objects

. . . should also include a hall for a distinct depart

ment, adapted to convey an elementary knowledge
of all divisions of natural history, the large propor
tion of public visitors not being specially conver
sant with any particular subject.'

                             2 Pari. Papers (126 i.), fo. 1859.

a<             <£??                                 \     ken

    ^r-..yi-,·,,,.                                        <o

    £^--?-y~-^~s^*%^y*^*3cj                                     o«
                                                                 c-
                             ~^~>0
                                                       i.
    v^'?/*~rf~>l, ¥          ). £ ^n^dt2p*o
                                                                    <
k "? ~*-~m                                   <i -f
                                                                    eUn
    -- 'vU--'-/^| '          Q^' -^5  ^f--^-jl                      D
                                                                    <
fc                                                                     a S 12!s
                                                       tO
4                                                                 H    55
                                                                    <
i
   ^J l^'.'j^ '^-,-j^-J ^ ^f/                          V< u

                                                                  en

                                                              z

                                                                  CM
                                                                   J

                                                                Z
                                                       <I

1856-81     A LECTURE-THEATRE WANTED     33

' One of the most popular and instructive

features in a public collection of natural history

would be a portion devoted to specimens selected

to show type-characters of the principal groups of

organised and crystallised forms. This would

constitute an epitome of natural history, and should

convey to the eye in the easiest way an

elementary knowledge of the science. An esti

mate of the space required for such an exhibition

was given, and I ventured also on another topic

in connection with the more immediate object of

my report. Moreover, such a museum of natural

history should have wider influences ; and collec

tions of rarities and specimens so restricted as

that in Lincoln's Inn Fields (Royal College of

Surgeons) had impressed me with the conviction

that explanatory lectures had great influence on

their growth and applications. I concluded my

report, therefore, by referring to the lecture-theatre

shown in my plan, and expressed my belief that

administrators will consider it due to the public

that the gentlemen in charge of the several

departments of the National Collection of Natural

History should have assigned to them the duty of

explaining the principles and relations, by ele

mentary and free lectures, of such departments

as, for example, Ornithology, Botany, Geology,

Palaeontology, Mineralogy, &c.'

'I' After the lapse of twenty years,' Owen said
in 1 88 1,  have lived to see the fulfilment of all

VOL. II.                              D

34  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

the recommendations, save the final one (lecture-

theatre) of my report of 1859. The theatre

was erased from my plan, and the elementary
courses of lecturing remain for the future.'

     In communicating this report to Parliament,
Professor Owen felt that he was addressing
representatives of the greatest commercial and

colonising nation on the globe, and that such a
nation and empire might well be expected by
the rest of the civilised world to offer to students

and lovers of natural history the best and noblest
museum for the illustration of this great division
of general science.

      But for such a museum a site of not less than
eight acres was required. The effect of restrict
ing the site to the space, for example, on which
the Museum at Bloomsbury stands was signifi
cantly demonstrative of difficulties to come, and
Owen pointed to the wisdom which would be

manifested by securing, in a rapidly growing
metropolis, adequate space for future additions

to the building which might be in the first place

erected upon it.
     One or two of his intimate and confidential

friends dissuaded him from sending in his report.

They urged that it might be misconstrued, or

' interpreted as exemplifying a character prone to
inconsiderate and extravagant views,' and might

even lead to disagreeable personal consequences.

They further argued that the extended space for

1856-81  PLAN NEGATIVED                                                                 35

which he asked inevitably involved change of

locality, and that no other plan for gathering

together the whole of the national natural his

tory collections had previously been submitted

to authority. The legislative mind was there

fore unprepared for calm and due consideration

of the subject. Still, Owen considered that if the
details and aims and grounds of his report were

known and comprehended, no strong opposition
on the part of Parliament could be expected.

In this he was disappointed. An Irish member 8
made his ' Report and Plan ' the ground of a
motion for a committee of inquiry, which was

carried.

     This committee, after taking the evidence
published in the Blue Book (ordered to be printed
August 10, 1860),4 reported against the removal
 of the natural history collections from the British

 Museum. Indeed, as the report states, with one

 ' eminent exception, the whole of the scientific

 naturalists, including the keepers of all the depart
 ments of natural history in the British Museum,

 are of an opinion that an exhibition on so large

 a scale [as that proposed by Owen] tends alike to
 the needless bewilderment and fatigue of the
 public and the impediment of the studies of the
 scientific visitor.' The committee also recom

 mended a more limited form of exhibition, their

    3 Mr. Gregory, M.P. for co.  July 22, 1861).
Galway {Hansard, Debate of
                                      4 Pp. 238, with ten plans.

                                                                                    D2

36  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. n.

 recommendation being supported by Professors
 Huxley and Maskelyne, Drs. Gray and Sclater,

 Messrs. Waterhouse, Thomas Bell, Gould, Sir
 Roderick Murchison, and Sir Benjamin Brodie.

       ' Lest, however, the House might attach undue

 weight to this exceptional testimony, the chairman
 of the committee deemed it his duty, in bringing
 up the report, to warn the House of the character

 of such testimony, and his speech left, as I was

 told, a very unfavourable impression as regards
 myself. I was chiefly concerned to know what

 might be put upon record in " Hansard." In
 that valuable work hon. members revise their re

 ported utterances before the sheets go to press.

 I was somewhat relieved to find Mr. Gregory

 merely regretting that " a man whose name stood
 so high should connect himself with so foolish,

 crazy, and extravagant a scheme, and should per
severe in it after the folly had been pointed out

by most unexceptionable witnesses.

     ' " They had on one side, and standing alone,
Professor Owen and his ten-acre scheme, and on

the other side all the other scientific gentlemen,
who were perfectly unanimous in condemning
the plan of Professor Owen as being utterly
useless and bewildering." '

     One point in particular was especially ridiculed
by Mr. Gregory in the course of the debate in
the House of Commons, and that was 'galleries
850 feet in length for the exhibition of whales.'

1856-81 OWEN'S 'EXTRAVAGANT SCHEME'  37

 It is interesting to note that even this ' extra

 vagant scheme ' of Owen's will shortly be realized,
for the construction of an adequate gallery for
the skeletons of these huge cetacea is actually
 in contemplation at South Kensington.

      The proposal to remove the collections from

 Bloomsbury to another site formed a consider

able stumbling-block to Owen's plans ; but this
removal was inevitable, for the Government had

neglected to purchase the property surrounding
the British Museum, and thus secure an entire

block.5 The value of property in that area tended

in 1860 to increase rather than decrease, and fur

ther extensions of any magnitude to the British
Museum seemed then to be impracticable. Had

the Government thoughtfully considered the
probable needs of a growing collection of books,
antiquities, and zoological specimens, and pro
vided for it by judicious purchase of the sur

rounding property, no such anomaly as the
housing of the national collections in two build

ings three miles apart would have been neces

sary, and the opposition to Owen's scheme
would have been considerably lessened. More
over, the gradual passage of the later geological
periods into those of the historic, with the

accompanying development of the arts, might

have been seen under one roof. At present the

    * The Government purchased  from the Duke of Bedford for
this property in March 1894
                                200,000/.

38  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

history of man is broken off at South Kensington,
and taken up at Bloomsbury, at about the period
of the cave-dwellers ; though it is only fair to
mention that this is due more to the ' department '
system than to the fact of there being two sepa
rate institutions.

     Professor Owen's evidence before ' Mr. Gre
gory's Committee ' occupies some thirty pages in
the Blue Book. In it he disposes of the sug
gestion as to risk during removal by pointing out
that two such removals had been made, under his
care, at the College of Surgeons. The collections
of the British Museum were, he said, mainly dried,
and, therefore, would run considerably less risk in
transit than the innumerable delicate preparations
preserved in the collections of the College of Sur

geons.

      In the course of his evidence Owen made some

 interesting remarks concerning Darwin's work on
 the ' Origin of Species,' just published, which helps

 to strengthen the impression that he was at first
 much taken with the new views, and felt the same

 friendliness toward them as he had previously
 shown to the views expressed in the ' Vestiges of

 Creation.' Speaking as to the desirability of
 exhibiting every species, or only a proportion of
 the species of a group in the proposed new
 museum, Owen said before the committee : ' We
 are obliged not to have a Procrustean Law for
 all classes, but to be guided, as to the proportion

1856-81 VARIETIES SHOULD BE EXHIBITED                                39

of each class, according to the nature and signi
ficance of the differences that exist. With regard

to birds, I must say that not only would I exhibit

every species, but I see clearly, in the present

phase of natural history philosophy, that we shall

be compelled to exhibit varieties also. The whole

intellectual world this year has been excited by a

book on the origin of species'; and what is the

consequence ? Visitors come to the British
Museum, and they say, " Let us see all these

varieties of pigeons : where is the tumbler, where
                  "
is the  pouter       and     I   am  obliged   with       shame to
      "I        ?                                      "

say,        can show     you none    of  them         ;   B  and  yet

there we give what, we consider, some may think

an extravagant space to the pigeons ; but they

are the pigeons of the whole world. As to show

ing you the varieties of those species, or any of

those phenomena that would aid one in getting at

that mystery of mysteries, the origin of species,

our space does not permit ; but surely there ought

to be space somewhere, and, if not in the British

Museum,     where    is  it  to   be obtained      '      The chair

                                               ?

man of the committee said to Owen : ' I presume

that the persons who make these inquiries are, to

a  certain  extent, scientific       persons      '   to  which   he

                                               ?

replied : ' I must say that the number of intellectual

individuals interested in the great question which

    6 The reader will remember       and is exhibited in the Central
that this detail of Owen's great
                                     Hall of the Natural History
scheme has been elaborated by
Professor Sir William Flower,        Museum.

4o        PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. II.

is mooted in Mr. Darwin's book is far beyond the

small class expressly concerned in scientific re

search.'                  « ,.

    Among many other interesting suggestions

made by Owen before this committee we find that
he considered that those in charge of national
museums should be occasionally sent on a visit of

inspection to similar institutions abroad, and inti

mated that these visits should be made at the indi

vidual's own expense and in his own time.

     The rejection of his scheme by the Govern

ment, which considered that a supplementary
exhibition gallery to the British Museum was all

that was reasonably required, caused Owen con
siderable grief and mortification. But he says : ' I
now feel grateful that the sole responsibility of
the author of the " Report and Plan " is attested in

the pages of a work 7 which will last as long as,
and may possibly outlast, the great legislative

organisation whose debates and determinations

are therein authoritatively recorded.

     ' I was not, however, cast down, nor did I lose

either heart or hope. I was confident in the
validity of the grounds of my appeal, and foresaw
in the inevitable accumulations year by year the

evidence which would attest its soundness and

make plain the emergency of the proposed remedy.'
Moreover, there was one who, though not a

naturalist, had devoted more time, pains, and

          7 Hansard.

1856-81 GLADSTONE INSPECTS FOR HIMSELF 41

thought to the subject than had been bestowed by
any of those, whether naturalist or administrator,

who testified adversely thereon -- the Right Hon.

William Ewart Gladstone, an elected Trustee of
the British Museum. From Mr. Gladstone Owen

received the following letter :--

                          Penmaenmawr, Conway : August 24, 1861.

' Dear Professor Owen, -- I do not know whether

it is to you that I am indebted for a copy of your

lecture on a Museum of Natural History con
                           of the "              "
tained  in  some  numbers            Athenaeum      but
                                                ;

I have read it with great interest, and I shall be

very happy to enter upon the subject with you in

the course of the autumn. Indeed, the main

purpose of this note is to intimate to you that, so

far at least as my opinion goes, the time has
arrived when the question of space, for this and

other cognate purposes, together with that of

union or severance of the collections at the

Museum, should be not only seriously but de

finitely considered by the Government.
             ' I remain, my dear Sir,

                      ' With much respect,

                  ' Very faithfully yours,
                           ' W. E. Gladstone.'

     Accordingly, on October 21, 1861, Mr. Glad
stone made an appointment with Owen to inspect
the Museum. On Mr. Gladstone's arrival at the

42  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. II.

British Museum, 'he explored -with me,' the

Professor continues, ' every vault and dark recess

which had been, or could be, allotted to the non-

exhibited specimens of the natural history, those,
viz., which it was my aim to utilise and bring to
light. He gave the same attention to the series
selected for exhibition in the public galleries, and
appreciated the inadequacy of the arrangements
to that end. He listened to my statements of
facts, to the grounds of provision of annual ratios
of increase, to the reasons for providing space
therefor, to my views of the aims of such ex

hibitions, and to the proposed extended applica
tions and elucidations of the collections. Mr.

Gladstone tested every averment, and elicited
the grounds of every suggestion, with a tact
and insight that contrasted strongly with the
questionings in the committee-room, where too

often vague interrogations met with answers to

match.

     ' Conformably with Mr. Gladstone's convictions,
he, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, moved, May
12, 1862, for " leave to bring in a bill for removal
of portions of the Trustees' Collections in the
British Museum."

      ' On May 19, when the bill was to be read a

second time, a new, unexpected, and formidable
antagonist arose. Mr. Disraeli early got the
attention of the House to a speech, warning hon.
members of the " progressive increase of expendi-

1856-81     A FORMIDABLE ANTAGONIST                                                                    43

ture on civil estimates," and laying stress on the
fact that the " estimates of the actual year showed
no surplus." 8 The influence of this advocacy of

economy is exemplified in the debate which en

sued.9 For repetitions of the nature and terms of

objections to the Report and Plan, as already
denounced by Mr. Gregory, Mr. Bernal Osborne,

and others, reference may be made to the volume

of " Hansard," cited below. An estimable hon.

member, whose words had always and deservedly

carried weight with the country party, lent his
influence to the same result. Mr. Henley, repre

sentative of Oxfordshire, said : " All the House

knew was that a building was to be put up some
where. He considered this a bad way of doing

business, particularly at a time when nobody could

be sanguine that the finances of the country were

in a flourishing state. Let the stone once be set

rolling, and then all gentlemen of science and

taste would have a kick at
                         1                       and would be

knocked from one to the other, and none of themp.
                                    p.
probably would ever live to see an end of the
                                            it,

                                                                             ·

                                                      it

                                                                                                    :
'expense."
                      xPermit me to give one more example of the

baneful influence of the opening speech on our
great instrument of scientific progress. Mr.

Henry Seymour, member for Poole, said " If a

foreigner had been listening to the debates of that

         8  Hansard, 1862, 1927.                 lb.
                                      lb. 1932.

44  PROFESSOR OWEN                             ch. ii.

evening it must have struck him that it was, to

say the least, a rather curious coincidence that a
proposal to vote 600,000/. for a new collection of

birds, beasts, and fishes at South Kensington
should have been brought forward on the very-
evening when the leader of the Opposition had

made a speech denouncing that exorbitant ex

penditure -- a speech, he might add, which was
re-echoed by many Liberal members of the

House." 2

    ' It was, however, not a "curious," but a "de

signed coincidence." Mr. Disraeli, knowing the
temper of the House on the subject, and that the
estimates for the required Museum of Natural
History were to be submitted by Mr. Gladstone,

chose the opportunity to initiate the business by
an advocacy of economy which left its intended

effect upon the House. In vain Lord Palmerston,
in reply to the Irish denunciators, proposed as a

compromise to " exclude whales altogether from

disporting themselves in Kensington Gardens." 3
The Government was defeated by a majority of
ninety-two, and the erection of a National or
British Museum of Natural History was post

poned, to all appearance indefinitely, and in reality

for ten years.

      ' Nevertheless, neither averments nor argu
ments in the House on May 19, 1862, nor testi
monies in the hostile committee of 1860, 1861,

    2 Hansard, 1862, p. 1918.  3 lb. p. 1931.

1856-81  OWEN'S ANNUAL REPORTS  45

had shaken my faith in the grounds on which my

Report and Plan of 1859 had been based. The

facts bearing thereupon, which it was my duty to
submit in my " Annual Reports on the Natural
History Departments of the British Museum,"
would, I still hoped, have some influence with
hon. members of the legislature to whom those

reports are transmitted.

     ' The annual additions of specimens continued

to increase in number and in value year by year.
I embraced every opportunity to excite the in
terest of lovers of natural history travelling abroad,
and of intelligent settlers in our several colonies,
to this end, among the results of which I may
cite the reception of the aye-aye, the gorilla,
the dodo, the notornis, the maximised and ele

phant-footed species of dinornis, the representa
tives of the various orders and genera of extinct
Reptilia from the Cape of Good Hope, and the
equally rich and numerous evidences of the ex
tinct Marsupialia from Australia, besides such

smaller rarities as the animals of the nautilus and

spirula.
     ' Wherever room could be found in the ex

hibition galleries at Bloomsbury for these speci
mens, stuffed or as articulated skeletons, or as

detached fossils, they were squeezed in, so to

speak, to manifest mutely to all visitors, more
especially administrative ones, the state of cram

to which we were driven at Bloomsbury.

46             PROFESSOR OWEN                      CH. II.

    ' Another element of my " Annual Reports "

was the deteriorating influence on valuable spe

cimens of the storage vaults, and the danger of

such accumulations to the entire Museum and its

priceless contents. And here, perhaps, you may
deem some explanation needful of the grounds of

the latter consideration addressed to economical

granters of the national funds.
     ' The number of specimens preserved in spirits

of wine amounted to thousands. Any accidental

breakage, with conflagration, in the subterraneous
localities contiguous with the heating apparatus of

the entire British Museum would have been as

destructive to the building as the gunpowder was

meant to be when stored in the vaults beneath

King James's     Houses    of  Parliament.    the  stormy
    ' At this  crisis the  "   Times," after

debate of May 19, 1862, made the following
appeal to me : " Let Mr. Owen describe exactly

the kind of building that will answer his purpose,

that will give space for his whales and light for
his humming-birds and butterflies. The House

of Commons will hardly, for very shame, give a

well-digested scheme so rude a reception as it did

on Monday night." 4

    ' My answer to this appeal was little more than

some amplification, with additional examples, of

the several topics embodied in the original report,
and my little book " On the Extent and Aims of

    4 The Times, May 21, in a leader on the Museum Debate.

1856-81 SPACE NOT TO BE RESTRICTED  47

a National Museum of Natural History," with re
duced copies of the plans, went through two

editions.

     'Another element of reviving hope,' Professor
Owen quaintly remarks, ' was the acceptance by
Mr. Gregory of the governorship of a tropical
island. Mr. Gladstone accurately gauged the
modified feeling -- the subsiding animosity -- of

Parliament on the subject, and submitted (June

15, 1863) a motion "for leave to purchase five

acres for the required Natural History building."
The choice of locality he left to honourable mem
bers. Lord Palmerston pointed out that the re
quisite extent of site could be obtained at Blooms-

bury for 50,000/. per acre, and that it could be got

at South Kensington for 10,000/. per acre ; and

his lordship distinctly stated that the space, in

either locality, would be bought for the purpose of
a Museum of Natural History. The purchase of

the land at South Kensington was accordingly
voted by 267 against 135, and thus the Govern
ment proposition was carried by a majority of 132.
By this vote the decision of Mr. Gregory's com

mittee was virtually annulled.
     ' In a conversation with which I was favoured

by Lord Palmerston, I interposed a warning
against restriction of space, and eventually eight
acres of ground were obtained, including the site
of the Exhibition building of 1862, opposite Crom
well Gardens, and that extent of space is now se

48  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch II.

cured for actual and prospective requirements of
our National Museum of Natural History.

     ' Mr. Gladstone, adhering to the convictions

which led him to submit his financial proposition
of May 1862, honoured me, at the close of that

session of Parliament, with an invitation to Ha-

warden to discuss my plans for the museum
building ; and, after consideration of every detail,

he requested that they might be left with him.

He placed them, with my written expositions of
details, in the hands of Sir Henry A. Hunt, C.B.,

responsible adviser on buildings, &c., at the Office
of Works, with instructions that they should be put
into working form, so as to support reliable esti
mates of cost. I was favoured with interviews

with Sir Henry, resulting in the completion of
such working plans of a museum, including a cen
tral hall, an architectural front of two stories, and

the series of single-storied galleries extending at
right angles to the front, as shown in my original
Plan. I was assured that such plan of building,
affording the space I had reported on, would be

the basis to be submitted to the professional

architect whenever the time might arrive for
Parliamentary sanction to the cost of such

building.
     ' Here I may remark that experiments which

preceded the substitution, in 1835, of the actual
Museum of the Hunterian Physiology at the
Royal College of Surgeons, for the costly, cum-

1856-81               THE COST                                       49

brous, and ill-lit building, with its three-domed

skylights, which preceded had led to the con
''

                             I
                                    I : it,

                                                      is

                                                                                                :

                                                                            a

                                                                                                                                  ;-
clusion that the light best fitted for a museum was

that in which most would be reflected from the

objects and least directly strike upon the eye

and this was found to be effected by admittance

of the light at the angle between the wall and roof.

But this plan of illumination   possible only in

galleries of one storey, or the topmost in a many-

storied edifice.

    Sir Henry A. Hunt then wrote me letter

conveying his conclusions respecting the plan of

building discussed with him --

''                           "4 Parliament Street September 25, 1S62.

      " My dear Sir, -- return you the drawings ofis;                EI
                  is                                                       It
the proposed Museum of Natural History at SouthI
Kensington. In May last told Mr. Gladstone
that the probable cost of covering five acres with
suitable buildings would be about 500,000/., or

100,000/. per acre.

      " The plan proposed by you will occupy about
four acres, and will cost about 350,000/., or nearly

90,000/. per acre.
       " Having prepared sketches showing the

scheme suggested by you, have been able to
arrive more nearly at the probable cost than had
the means of doing in May last. But, after all,
the difference not great although the present
estimate a more reliable one than the other.

      VOL. II.

50          PROFESSOR OWEN                               ch. n.

is right, however, to state that the disposition

of the building as proposed by you will give a

greater amount of accommodation, and admit of

a cheaper mode of construction, than I had cal

culated upon in May (relatively with the space

intended to be covered), and therefore I think

your plan far better adapted for the museum than

the plan I took the liberty to suggest to Mr.

Gladstone.  ' " Believe me, &c.,

                  '"Henry A. Hunt."

     ' Sir H. A. Hunt had previously formed an
estimate of cost for the Chancellor of the Ex

chequer on inspection of the Report and Plan in

the Parliamentary paper of March 1859. The
letter to which I refer I regard as an antidote to

some previous quotations from adverse members

of Parliament.

    'The working plans of Sir Henry A. Hunt

were subsequently submitted for competition, and

the designs of the accomplished and lamented
Captain Fowke, R.E., obtained the award in

1864.  His untimely death arrested further

progress or practical application of the prize

designs.
     ' Mr. Alfred Waterhouse was then selected

as architect, and prepared         fresh  designs     5  and  I
                                                   ;

    5 Afac-simile of a tracing of  tees is here inserted, and will
the plan accepted by the Trus-     enable the reader to contrast

5C-i0O31iO031i 0tSni »& ~B  £     a
       B y 5C               "Jl^  -J s^fc
.cr    .-, h -         *^
H                      "J;
a
                         -

§ss& S3 £3 S 8

                                           I vaiNHOvav                                      ,      C
                                                                                                   H
                                           IJv«V3dJ3.didVO'VaHri331Ndia'vl03SNrVd31dOOId3T
                                                                                                   a!
          tS "8                                                                                    D
                                                                                                   H
. Qc   f&t;"Cc M&«;.        ^     °   a                                                            <
                            uj
                                  cj  *:                                                           o

-wco-5 c                    fl 1            ·                   ''                                 H
 id a                                         SU3T1NV   1
                                                SNdOH   I S31H3S 1V±N3a                            oM

                                           ADCT1031SO       '                                      <
                                                                                                   a.
                                                                                                   w
                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                   0.

                                                                                                   oU[d

                                                                                                   <

                                                                                                   w3
                                                                                                   i-

                                                        1.
                                                        vnvwwvw

t8 a -9 -a S 5 !                                                                               E2

S o -^ N 5 <*>
h ri n« n u t^

52  PROFESSOR OWEN          ch. II.

took the liberty to suggest that many objects of

natural history might afford subjects for archi
tectural ornament ; and at Mr. Waterhouse's

request I transmitted numerous figures of such

as seemed suitable for that purpose.

      ' I must mention that in 1867 Lord Elcho
pressed upon the House of Commons, through
the Hungerford Bridge Committee, the Thames
Embankment as a site for the new Museum
of Natural History, but unsuccessfully. The de

bates thereon, nevertheless, caused some further

delay.

    'In 1 87 1, a vote of 40,000/. for beginning

the museum buildings at South Kensington was
carried without discussion. In 1872 a vote of
29,000/. for the same building was opposed by
Lord Elcho, but was carried by a majority of 40

(85 against 45).

     ' At last the necessary building was com

menced after conflicts stretching over a score
or so of years.

     ' Mr. Alfred Waterhouse, R.A., for the reali
sation of the plans and requirements of our
Museum of Natural History, chose an adaptation
of the Round-arched Gothic, Romanesque, or
Romaic of the twelfth century. No style could

better lend itself to the introduction, for legitimate
ornamentation, of the endless beautiful varieties

the excellent arrangements  conveniences of the finished
agreed upon with the in-    structure.

1856-81  THE MUSEUM BUILT  53

of form and surface-sculpture exemplified in the

animal and vegetable kingdoms.
     ' I need only ask the visitor to pause at the

grand entrance, before he passes into the impres
sive and rather gloomy vestibule which leads
to the great hall, and prepares him for the
flood of light displaying the richly-ornamented
columns, arcades, and galleries of the Index

Museum.

     ' In the construction of a building for the recep

tion and preservation of natural history objects,
the material should be of a nature that will least

lend itself to the absorption and retention of
moisture. This material is that artificial stone
called terra-cotta. The compactness of texture

which fulfils the purpose in relation to dryness is

also especially favourable for a public edifice in a

metropolitan locality. The microscopic recep
tacles of soot-particles on the polished surface of

the terra-cotta slabs are reduced to a minimum ;

the influence of every shower in displacing those
particles is maximised. I am sanguine in the
expectation that the test of exposure to the Lon

don atmosphere during a period equal to that
which has elapsed since the completion of Barry's
richly ornamented palace at Westminster, now
so sadly blackened by soot, will speak loudly in
favour of Mr. Waterhouse's adoption of the mate
rial for the construction of the National Museum

of Natural History. A collateral advantage is

54  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. II.

the facility with which the moulded blocks of terra
cotta lend themselves to the kind of ornamenta

tion to which I have already referred.

     ' In concluding the above sketch of the develop
ment of our actual Museum of Natural History,
I may finally refer, in the terms of our modern
phylogenists, to the traceable evidences of " an
cestral structures." In the architectural details

of the new Natural History Museum you will find
but one character of the primitive and now ex

tinct museum retained --viz. the central hall. In

Montague House6 there were no galleries, but
side-lit saloons or rooms of varying dimensions
and on different storeys.

     ' In its successor (the Museum developed on

its site at a later period), we find galleries added ;
that, for example, which was appropriated to the

birds and shells being 300 feet in length. This
architectural organisation still exists at Blooms-

bury.

     ' The Museum, which may be said to have
budded off, has risen to a still higher grade of
structure after settling down at South Kensing
ton. In its anatomy we find, it is true, the

central hall and long side-lit galleries ; but in

addition to these inherited structures we discern a

series of one-storied galleries, manifesting a de
velopmental advance in the better admission of

    ' The original building occupied the site of the British Museum

Bloomsbury.

1856-81  CARLYLE'S OPINION  55

light and a consequent adaptation of the walls as
well as the floor to the needs of exhibition.'

     In concluding this sketch of Owen's great
scheme, it will be interesting to quote some of the

letters he received while awaiting its realisation.

     Thomas Carlyle writes from Chelsea :--
     ' Dear Owen, -- I hope you will get your

Museum. I am, for my own share, no great
judge of such matters, and have never myself

been able to do much good in museums ; but it
seems to me that a nation ready to spend any
amount of millions on any foolery that turns up,
really might as well take counsel of its chief
naturalist, and build such a museum as will satisfy
him, while its hand is in !

      ' I read from your little book, with intelligence
more or less complete, and always with pleasure in
proportion to my clearness. But what interested

me more than the museum question was certain
characteristics, brief, incidental, which started up

here and there--characteristics of the now pleader
for such a museum. For instance, that of the

winged gentlewoman 7 (in New Holland, I think),
who gathers rotten leaves and fermenting sub
stances to do her hatching for her, and how she
fared in the Zoological Gardens here. Or still
better, that of the cane-billed Passeres, who have

"a marriage-bower" (better luck to them), and

how the British jackdaw is still a Passer of that

                                          7 Megapodius.

56                PROFESSOR OWEN                                     ch. II.

kind, retaining his old propensities, but checked

in a crowded country and in the meanwhile

stealing bright objects to right and left, in hope

times may mend in that respect ! These and

the like of these seem to me eminently beautiful

indications.

    ' And in short my opinion                  is, the said pleading

                                                 if

                                                              it
Professor would gather himself steadily about such

a thing, and devote his whole soul to for a few

years, he might write, to be read by the like of me
who am exoteric altogether -- say in two vols, with

portraits (for ought to be very brief, and distilledit
to the utmost) -- such a book of Natural History
as was never written before which would far
                                               a!
outshine the biggest museum' even the British

nation could build, and might long time outlive

such --done by one's own right hand and head,

independent of committees                          am quite serious
                                               !                     ;
                                                 '
more so than you think.
                                                  I

                                                                  '
                                               Yours always,

                                                     T. Carlyle.'

    September 15, 1862.

     Lovell Reeve, the conchologist, says, June
1863 :--

    . . hope we may yet live to see your
    '
                   .

            I
                              I

                                            a
grand scheme, of what national museum ought

to be, carried out.                          quite dread the ultimate

destination of Mr. Cumming's collection [of shells],
unless more space and supervision are provided

for its reception. Mr. Cumming has, unfortunately,

1856-81        WHAT STUDENTS PREFER!            57

 no printed record of the vast amount of undi

 gested information still remaining unpublished in
 his drawers, written only on loose tickets, by
thousands, of which a puff of wind or a shake of

the drawer would involve an irretrievable con

fusion.'

      In his book on the Natural History Museum,
Owen quoted, and commented upon, a defence of
the existing state of things which had been
seriously put forward. The following extract
gives the quotation and the comment :--

     ' It seems incredible that such an assertion

could have been hazarded as the following, by
an advocate of the existing state of things.
" Students and scientific men greatly prefer to

have the specimens for examination in cases

occupying but small space in comparison, which
admit of their being much more easily handled,
compared, and measured." '

     The ridiculous aspect of this defence was not
likely to escape the keen eye of Dickens, who
wrote the following letter to Owen on the
subject :--

                                                                     August 7, 1862.

' My dear Owen, -- I have been reading with

unspeakable    interest and pleasure your charming
little book "  On the Extent and Aims of a National

Museum of Natural History." Pray tell me who is

the adventurous creature who made that astound

58  PROFESSOR OWEN                          ch. ii.

    '

                                        is
                                                     (p.
ing statement referred to in the footnote                 35)
regarding what " students and scientific                men

greatly prefer." A malignant desire upon me to

ticket that specimen of an infernal genus.

    Ever cordially yours,

    'Charles Dickens.'

1857-59 LECTURER AT ROYAL SCHOOL OF MINES 59

CHAPTER III

                           1857-59

Lecturer on Palaeontology -- The 'Prix Cuvier,'              1857  -- Suspected
    of the Authorship of ' Scenes from Clerical                    '-- Fullerian
                           --1D85is7c--ovAerdydreosfs        Life

Professor of Physiology,                                 as   President of the
British Association, 1858                              the   Remains of John
Hunter, 1859 -- Foreign Member of the
Hon. LL.D. of Cambridge, and Rede                      Institute of France --
                                                       Lecturer, 1859 -- The
British Association at Aberdeen -- Succeeded as President by
the Prince Consort -- Literary Work and Lectures -- Correspon

dence on Darwin's ' Origin of Species.'

Now that the development of the Natural

History Museum at South Kensington has been
traced from the early schemes which Owen formed
up to their practical realisation, it will be neces

sary to go back to the year 1857, m order to pick
up the thread of his life and work at that date.

     This year was marked by his appointment as
Lecturer on Palaeontology at the Royal School
of Mines, Jermyn Street. His first lecture was
given on February 26, at the Museum of Practical

Geology, and amongst the audience, as an entry
in the diary shows, ' were many old friends : Dr.

Livingstone, Frank Buckland, the Duke of
Argyll with his sons, Sir Charles Lyell, and Sir

Roderick Murchison.'

60  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. III.

     Nor was this attendance a compliment paid
by his friends at the commencement of the course.

Many of the most distinguished men in London
set aside their work at the busiest time of the day

in order to be present there. Of subsequent
lectures Mrs. Owen wrote in the diary : ' A good

proof of the worth of these lectures is afforded by
the number of busy men attending them at the
inconvenient hour of 2 p.m.'

     The interest of the lectures was maintained to

the end. 'At Lecture VIII.,' writes Mrs. Owen

in the diary, ' I heard the remark that these lec

tures, as well as their scientific interest, had all the

fascination of an Arabian Nights' story, with the
picturesque descriptions of the monstrous bears,
lions, and elephants. After lecture we called at
57 Sloane Street to see Dr. and Mrs. Livingstone.
An artist was painting a three-quarter length
portrait of Livingstone, while the latter was
writing his book, as he cannot afford time for a
regular sitting. Then after dinner to the Princess's

Theatre to see Kean as Richard III.'

     The last lecture was given on April 2 : ' Theatre
crowded. I cannot describe the feelings which
this last lecture produced on the audience. R.
evidently felt the importance of the address which
concluded the course. His design has been clear
throughout --to show the power of God in His

creation.'

      With regard to these lectures Owen himself

I8S7 59  SUCCESS OF LECTURES  61

writes : ' Their success had exceeded my utmost
expectations. Milman, Lord Lansdowne, and the
Duke of Argyll hardly missed one. I am arrang
ing with John Murray to publish them. Sir R.
Murchison made a grand party for Carry and me.
Poor Lady Franklin was there, also General
Sabine and Dr. Livingstone.'

     In a letter dated February 27, 1857, Sir
Roderick thus refers to Owen's first lecture and
to his work at the Museum :--

     ' I never heard so thoroughly eloquent a
lecture as that of yesterday ; and I can assure you
that I have not in the course of my life been more

gratified than by the proofs which Owen gave of
his admirable qualifications for carrying out those
higher behests which, as a Trustee of the British

Museum, it has been my pride to have warmly

assisted in promoting. It is the first time I have

had the pleasure of seeing our British Cuvier in

his true place, and not the less delighted to listen

to his fervid and convincing defence of the

principle laid down by his great precursor.
Every one was charmed, and he will have done
more (as I felt convinced) to render our institution
favourably known than by any other possible

event.'

     At this time Owen saw much of Dr. Living

stone, who was preparing for publication an account

of his African experiences. The great traveller
presented Owen with a large elephant's tusk,

62  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. hi

twisted like a corkscrew and bearing the in

scription on a silver plate which is fixed into the

ivory, 'From David Livingstone to Richard Owen.'
This tusk, which is of considerable weight, the

Professor could hold out firmly at arm's length,
even in old age. There are frequent references
in the diary to visits which Livingstone paid to
Sheen Lodge. On one occasion, in the early
spring, Mrs. Owen writes : ' I asked the Doctor
at dinner the feelings he had when the lion seized

and crunched his arm, especially whether the

physical pain was great when the lion bit it again

and again. He said : " No, not very great. A

feeling of faintness was most observable." I
asked him whether the suffering was greatest
afterwards. He said : " By far." The left arm is

the injured one : the tendons act well, but the

bone has not joined properly. It seems, from

what R. told me afterwards, that there is little
chance that an operation will succeed. Livingstone

is going to take advice from Sir Benjamin Brodie
as to a fresh division of the broken pieces of bones,
so as to join them again. Dr. Livingstone told me
he would like to be back in Africa in June at the

latest, and he is anxious to complete his book before

that time.'

     Owen gave as much help as he could to Living
stone in looking over his MS., &c. ; but the book
took him longer than he anticipated. ' Poor
Livingstone,' Owen writes as late as July 1857, 'he

1857-59    'SCENES FROM CLERICAL LIFE'  63

little thought what it was to write a book when

he  began     '  In the autumn, after the book was
           !

published, he notes : ' Livingstone's book has

already gone through seven editions, and I am

glad to hear that he has cleared something by it.'

     Early this year the French Academy awarded
to Owen the ' Prix Cuvier,' an honour to which he

attached the greatest importance.

    About this time he again suffered much from

overworking his eyes. Mrs. Owen notes : ' Mr.

White Cooper came over without delay, and was

much concerned at the appearance of the right

eye. He told me that if it had been neglected

much longer it might have been too late to save
it.' However, by avoiding night-work and spar

ing his eyes as much as possible, it was not long

before Owen could revert to the accustomed use

of them.

     Strangely enough, the authorship of ' Scenes
from Clerical Life ' (which was at first published
anonymously), was at this time attributed to him.

On April 4 there is this entry in the journal :
' An interesting note from Mr. John Blackwood
to R. He says that, while he was lodging in

Jermyn Street, he happened to be out one day
when R. called. His brother was in, but, as R.

was in rather a hurry, he left his card, after a

"Ishort conversation, and went away. When Mr.
Blackwood came back his brother said :  am

sorry you were not in. Professor Owen has been

64  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. m.

 here. He is a deuced clever-looking fellow, with
 a pair of eyes in his head ! I should not wonder
 if he is the author of ' Scenes from Clerical Life '

 and had come to unbosom himself." '

       Mr. Blackwood's conjecture was not a mere
 surmise founded on Owen's appearance. The

 idea that he was the author seems to have grown
 out of a certain similarity which existed between
 Owen's handwriting and that of George Eliot. In

a work by George Willis Cooke called ' A Critical

 Study of George Eliot,' he says, & proposed ' Scenes
from Clerical Life : ' ' The editor's (Blackwood)
 suspicions had all been directed towards Professor
Owen by a similarity of handwriting.-'

      There must also have been a certain similarity
of thought and feeling, for Professor Owen often
used to remark that no works of fiction appealed
to him like George Eliot's, and that his favourite
novel was ' The Mill on the Floss,' of which she

sent him a copy soon after its publication.
      Concerning his work this year at the British

Museum, there are brief entries in his own diary,

to which he has added : ' See Carry's diary for
1857.' From her journal we find that he went
over to Caen in the middle of June to look at a
collection of marine fossils which had been offered

for sale to the British Museum, and that, after

spending a week there, the purchase of these
fossils was concluded. There is also a record of

a meeting of the Trustees of the Museum on

1857-59   LETTER FROM DICKENS                        65

July 17, at which Macaulay, Murchison, the
Speaker of the House of Commons (Denison),
and Sir P. Egerton were present. On the 22nd
the Queen of Holland visited the Museum, and
Owen showed her the chief things of interest in

his own department.

     His August holiday was spent with his wife
in the Isle of Wight, and at a visit to Carisbrook

Castle he notes with indignation ' the bronze

armour carefully rubbed bright ! ' He spent his
time ' walking about antiquity-hunting ' and ' get

ting very wet in rides about the island on the top
of stage-coaches.'

     Shortly after their return to Sheen Lodge,
Charles Dickens wrote Mrs. Owen a characteristic

letter, in which he mentions the efforts he had

been making in order to raise a fund for the

widow of Douglas Jerrold :--

         Gad's Hill Place, Higham by Rochester :

                                             Wednesday, September 2, 1857.

' My dear Mrs. Owen, -- Your pleasantest of

letters finds me here, stopping to breathe after

the fatigues of the last two months, which have

been on the whole as great as I have ever under

gone, and which have left me, for the moment,
just a little dashed. However, we have happily

gained the limit I presented to myself in setting

out--we have raised two thousand pounds -- and

our success has been enormous.

VOL. II.                                          K

66         PROFESSOR OWEN                                                     ch. in.

    ' On Monday I am going away for a run to

certain out-of-the-way places in opposite corners
of the map of England, with an eye to " House

hold Words." It is probable that I shall not be

back here until September is far advanced. I

shall then have to give myself up for a week or

two to some friends who are coming, and then

the dreary leaves will begin to fall and my wintry

plans will gather about me.
     ' So I am afraid I shall not see the old house '

this summer. But you describe it so wonderfully

well, that I seem to have seen it already and to

be perfectly acquainted with                                                  That -- and your
    '

                      '
                                                        it.
and Owen's remembrance of me -- are my con

solation.

    With kindest regards to him, and to your

son, in which all here join, believe me,

           Always most faithfully yours,

                            'Charles D1ckens.'

     In this month there was an interesting dis

covery made by some engineers at Newcastle,

which Owen was called upon to inspect. We
have in the diary an account of his report and
explanation of the same --

    'September n. -- R. going to Newcastle to

examine into a discovery which has been made
there of the fossil stump of an old forest-tree,

       An old house in Mortlake which Charles Dickens had said he
would like to see.
    1
                                                                           :

1857-59                   'DARBY JOE'      67

found in the bed of the Tyne thirty feet deep
whilst the Tyne Dock was being made. This

was considered a testimony to the antiquity of man,

as the fossil tree was certainly cut by man's hand,

and there were fossil chips lying around in the mud,

and the stump, which bore marks of chopping,

was covered with silt to a great depth. R. , with

his usual caution, listened to the various accounts,

and then inquired if any workmen had ever been
employed there before. At last he ascertained that
a Northumberland workman called " Darby Joe"

and his gang had been employed about a year ago

to make a horizontal cutting before draining the
whole area. This excavation had then been filled

up. R. insisted on having the man brought from a

distance, where he and his gang were employed,

and, when he arrived, asked him if he remembered

anything about cutting down a hard or stony tree.

Darby Joe considered a moment, and then said he
remembered perfectly coming across a tree which
was in his way -- " the hardest bit of wood he ever
see " --and hacking at it with his adze. " And
                                   "  " Oh, hereabouts," said
where    did  this  take  place
                                 ?

Darby Joe. R. showed him the stump of the tree ;
         it

                                                                                      !

                                                                                     ?

                                                                             F it,

                                                                                                                                             2

                                                                                     it,
and the man exclaimed on looking carefully at
" Them's my marks, sir." " About how much of
the tree did you cut from the stump " " About

four feet, sir." R. then instituted a search for the

cut-off piece, and after a bit they found  and

fitted on to the old stump So much for the

68  PROFESSOR OWEN             ch. III.

 antediluvian hewer of wood. R. made a pleasant
 stay at Mr. Armstrong's and returned home on the

 1 6th.'

      In this year appeared an interesting paper by
 Owen ' On the Affinities of Stereognathus Ooliti-
cus,'2a mammal from the Stonesfield slateof Stones-

 field, belonging to the horizon of the Lower Great
 Oolite. The remains submitted to Owen consisted

of two to three inches of a jaw, containing three
molar teeth. In his paper Owen gives a clear
statement of the province and application of
physiology in the determination of fossil remains,

and in the singularly cautious manner peculiar to

him compared the stereognathus' jaw with that of
a hoofed mammal. In the light of more modern

science, however, it is thought to belong to a

peculiar group intermediate between the marsu

pials and the monotremes.3 The paper attracted

some attention at the time, for the bare suggestion

of a hoofed mammal or ungulate so low down
in the series of rocks and so remote in age would

throw a new and unexpected, light upon the whole
of palaeozoology, the known remains being ex
clusively those of marsupials at that time.

     Towards the end of 1857 Owen was offered
and accepted an appointment which some years
previously, while at the College of Surgeons, he
was obliged to decline : it was the Fullerian Profes-

    2 Quarterly Journal Geol.       3 Animals like the Echidna
                               and Ornithorhynchus.
Soc. 1857.

1857-59  FULLERIAN PROFESSOR  69

sorship of Physiology at the Royal Institution of
Great Britain. As the course of lectures was to

begin in January 1858, the latter part of 1857 was
spent in preparing materials for these lectures,
the subject of which was ' Fossil Mammals.'
The course lasted from January 25 to April 12,
1858. As lecturer to the Royal School of Mines,
Jermyn Street, he gave a course on Fossil Birds,
the first lecture being delivered on March 8.

     Besides these two courses in the spring of

this year, he also lectured at the South Kensing
ton Museum on the 'Animal Kingdom and its
Economic Use.'

     One of Owen's chief discoveries was made this
year-- the identification of the fossil skull known

as Cyamodus (Placodus) laticeps as a reptile in
stead of a fish. Figures of the skull are here

given, and show the great crushing teeth on the

palate.

     In a letter to one of his sisters he refers to this

year's course of lectures at Jermyn Street. ' When
they are over,' he says, ' I shall have to buckle-to
with my "Address to the British Association."
I look forward confidently to that being the last
public post or position the duties of which I can
not well decline, and I hope some years of com
parative ease may be spared to me. The pencil-
sketches on this page are by Admiral Moorsom,
to whom I have been expounding the action of

fishes' tails in reference to improvements in the

7o  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                      CH. III.

screw propeller. . . . The other day I walked
over to Lord John's (Russell). They were going in

    Cyamodus laticeps

    Upper and lower aspects of the skull of one of the Placodont reptiles from the
    Muschelkalk of Bayreuth. Originally referred to fishes by Agassiz,       first
                                                                        and
    correctly determined as reptilian by Owen. \ natural size.

to dinner (at 3 p.m.), and made me go in and sit

1857-59 PUBLIC DINNER TO LIVINGSTONE            71

with them. I had a plate of soup and a pleasant

chat, and Lord Dufferin, who was of the party,
walked back with me home. Lord John looking
wonderfully well. Says he will walk over to see

us, now we are come back. No politics, only a

little bit of British Museum matters, to prime him,

as he has to move the Estimates in the House.'

In February 1858, both Professor Owen and

his wife attended the public dinner given to Dr.

Livingstone, and Mrs. Owen gives the following

account of it in her diary :--

     ' I found Mrs. Livingstone in the ladies' gal
lery, and we sat together. Miss Burdett-Coutts

came in and sat on the other side of her, and then

Lady Franklin next to her. There were between

three and four hundred at the dinner. Poor Mrs.

Livingstone was in a stout linsey dress, and thick

bonnet, and, as the heat was overpowering, even

the rest of us (who were in evening dress) suffered

considerably from  it.    persuaded her to take

                      II
off as much as she could. She bore the scene

wonderfully well, but saw she kept her eyes

intently fixed on her husband the whole time.

The honours, paid with three times three, to one

woman by such an assembly would have been

almost too much to bear for most people, but no

Hottentot could have betrayed less emotion under

the trying circumstances than she did there
                                   ;

                                      a
                                                  is
doubtless much activity of mind hidden under her

extreme quietness. She betrayed, by   slight

72  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. III.

twinkle in her dark eyes, that she was gratified
at the Duke of Wellington's speech about her,
as the true helpmate of her honoured husband,
and also at his drinking to her in a glass of wine.
After the whole room had risen to salute her, and
when the cheering and waving of handkerchiefs
had subsided, I told her she ought to acknow

ledge the attention in some way, and she did it
at once with a calm curtsey. Miss Burdett-

Coutts has been a good friend to her.

     ' After the speeches were over and we had gone
to the tea-room, I had to introduce many people to

her, and was glad to shake hands for the last time

with her husband before his renewed labours and

dangers. Sir R. Murchison's speech was good ;
the Bishop of St. David's was tremendously heavy
and long. R.'s speech came first after. Mrs.

Livingstone seemed pleased at having the differ
ent people pointed out to her, and also at my ex
plaining the names of the Scotch airs the band
was playing in honour of their Scotch birth. She
did not recognise any of them, for I suppose

that music was never heard in her father's house.

She, however, expressed her liking to me much
as she might speak of some new and rather extra
ordinary thing. After the band had ceased play
ing she whispered, " I think I like music." '

     Owen still used to seek his favourite relaxation

at the theatre. On February 24 he went to the

Princess's to see Charles Kean as Louis XL, and

1.857-59              A DINNER AT 'THE' CLUB      73

was afterwards introduced to the actor. ' Kean

appeared gratified at R.'s appreciation of his Louis

XL, and said he would like him to see his Hamlet.'

Accordingly, on March 8 Kean sent them a

ticket for a box at the Princess's, where he was

playing Hamlet that night. Owen remarks, in

a letter to his sister Eliza, on the pleasure that

this performance afforded him. In another letter

to his sister, dated May 1, 1858, he says :--
     ' I have dined at the last two meetings of " The

Club." One of these included Lord Lansdowne,

Duke of Argyll, Lord Macaulay, Dean Milman,

Whewell, Colonel Leake, Gladstone, Dr. (Sir H.)
Holland, Lord John Russell, Dr. Hawtrey, and it
was a very brilliant intellectual evening. Glad

stone favoured me with an invitation to his

Thursday morning breakfasts. At the last meeting

poor Hallam was borne in by two men : his meat
cut for him. His last stroke leaves but the use of

one hand, and his speech is affected, but his in

tellect is bright, and he expressed himself much

pleased at once more meeting his old friends.

Lord Enniskillen and Mr. Liddell dined with us

yesterday ; we had a merry chatty evening. I
have just been lunching in the " Medal Room " on

prawns, roll and butter, and soda water, introduced
by my Lord in defiance of " orders of the Trus
      "               I go to the " Academy dinner " to-day,
tees      .  .  .  .

afterwards pick up Will at Dr. Farre's concert.'

      On June 8 Owen writes in a short note to

74  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. III.

his sisters : ' Whewell called on us on Sunday-

afternoon and confided to Carry his matrimonial
intentions, . . . and when Mrs. R. heard who the
intended was, she merely observed, " He'll get a
' temper.' " But I dare say they will be very
well matched, and that there will still be a Master

as well as a Mistress of Trinity.'
     In this month Professor Owen ' was honoured

with an invitation from the Prince of Wales to

dine at the White Lodge on Saturday,' for so he
writes to his sister Catherine. The Prince was

then in his eighteenth year, and on this occasion had
gathered round him a small party of five. There
was ' much agreeable conversation,' Owen says,
' the form of waiting for a remark or question from
the royal host not being observed. I told the
Prince the latest news of Dr. and Mrs. Livingstone,
and of Madame Pfeiffer, just returned from Mada

gascar. The history of Richmond Park coming
up, General Bowater remarked that Charles I.'s
enlargement of it was one of the causes of his un
popularity. " Why should that have made him un
popular? "asked His Royal Highness. "Because,"
replied Mr. Gibbs, " he took other people's land
arbitrarily, or not quite according to law." I
noted the use of such an opportunity of imparting

constitutional principles.'

     The frequent memoranda of sums of money
in the corners of letters sent to Professor Owen,

in which a request was made for help, form a

1857-59 ADDRESS TO THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION 75

pleasant memory of one who cannot be said to
have been wealthy during his working life. And
that he was ever ready to assist those who applied
to him, in spite of the fact that he had himself
suffered from the usual gratitude of borrowers, is
evident from the following observation in a letter

to his sister Eliza, July 21, 1858: ' A friend to

whom last year I lent 50/. (a most culpable pro
cedure in a worldly point of view, and of which
sum, from experiences of less amount, I mentally
took leave for ever, expecting also to lose my
friend at the same time agreeably to rule) called
on me on the morning of the 20th, and honour
ably repaid me, with expressions that showed that
the loan had been of important service ; so, the
sun being very bright, all things concurred to
make the day so [his wedding day].'

     Owen's Presidential address to the British
Association this year, of which he made mention
in an early letter to his sister as weighing on his
mind, was delivered in the autumn at Leeds.
This address contains a prodigious collection of
facts, and embraces a large area of scientific

knowledge. A part of it he devoted to his

views on a Natural History Museum, and he
concluded with the following remarks : ' The
simplest coral and the meanest insect may have

something in its history worth knowing, and
in some way profitable. Every organism is a
character in which Divine wisdom is written, and

76  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. m.

which ought to be expounded. Our present
system of opening the book of Nature to the
masses, as in the galleries of the British Museum,

without any provision for expounding her lan

guage, is akin to that which would keep the
book of God sealed to the multitude in a dead

tongue.'

     In the course of his address he also touched

upon the progress made in the investigation of
magnetism and electricity, and the attempts ' to
explain the change in the variation of the mag
netic needle.' This subject was evidently one of
interest to Prince Albert, for later on in the year
Owen received a letter from Lord Grey enclosing
' a letter which the Prince has signed himself,
and which you can quote in your communications
with the Government expressive of the interest
which he takes in the success of your endeavours
to ascertain, as certainly as you can, the causes of
the deviation of the magnetic needle in different
parts of the world.'

     On November 5 Owen was again a guest
at the Prince of Wales's table at the White

Lodge ; Lord John Russell also being invited.
' It was a farewell dinner to Richmond Park,' as

the Prince was leaving for Windsor a few days
later, to go to Potsdam. ' We were received,' says
Owen in a letter to his sister Catherine, ' in the

great drawing-room, where we used to play the

" round game " with the good old Duchess [of

*857-59 BANQUET AT MANSION HOUSE          7.7

...Gloucester].    A most pleasant, varied chat all

the dinner time ; no sort of formality.'
' A card of a foot square from the Lord Mayor-

elect, who this year invites the representatives of

British science to the annual banquet.' So Owen

tells his sister, to whom on November 29 he sends
particulars of the Mansion House meeting: --

     4 The assembled citizens in the room signify
their opinion of the guests named-- if worth any
-- somewhat in the fashion of the undergradu
ates in the Senate House. After the dinner,
poor Samuel Warren came up to me. " Why,

Professor, you were received like the Prime
           "
Minister      I made my best Court bow to the
          !

Lord Mayor, said a few words to my Lord of my

pleasure at seeing Science recognised on this

great occasion, and sailed off to one side to

witness other receptions. Lord D. cross and

fidgety ; old Malakoff very ddbonnaire and jolly,

the Lord Chancellor with his most benevolent

smile. Disraeli with his unmeaning, impassive

aspect. I had a good place assigned me near the
" Court-end " of one of the long tables in full view

of the magnates. Next me a young bride with

widely-developed skirt. Her husband and I had
to lift her, first upon the " form " (which was

fixed close to the table), then to fold her nether

half tightly up and glide her in like a mummy !

Same operation needed with everybody, and ib.

to get them out.'

78                   PROFESSOR OWEN         ch. m.

     In January 1859 Frank Buckland was struck
with the idea of rescuing the remains of John
Hunter from the vaults of St. Martin-in-the-
Fields, and re-interring them in Westminster
Abbey. An account of his proceedings is given
in his 'Curiosities of Natural History.'4 There

he narrates how he found in the queer-looking
old register of burials in St. Martin's Church the

following mysterious entry :--

    'Oct. 22, 1793.                         Leisester Squar.

    ' M. John Hunter, Esq., £ past 4 o'clock,
61. 10s. 2d. No candles.
                                      N.-3-V. Duty, 3d.

C.4.1J. yrs.                                ' Aperplexy.'

     He examined literally hundreds of coffins until
there were only two left. But finally, on the
brass plate of the last, to his great joy he read
the inscription :--

                 'John Hunter, Esq.

                           Died 16 Octr.

                               1793-

                     Aged 64 years.'

The Hunters' arms-- viz. a hand with an arrow
on it--also the three horns of the hunter, were

engraved upon the plate.

                     4 Vol.  ii.      159.
                                  p.

1857-59 RE-INTERMENT OF JOHN HUNTER                                    79

     Professor Owen was greatly interested in this
discovery, and Mr. Bompas, in his ' Life of

Frank Buckland,' gives the following extract from
Buckland's diary, February 23 :--

     ' Down into the vaults . . . again with Pro

fessor Owen, who expressed himself much pleased.

I wish I could have made a sketch of him, with

his hand on the coffin, looking thoughtfully at it.

It would have made an excellent subject.'

     Owen himself, who had just attended a Levee

on that day, thus alludes to the incident :--
     ' After resuming ordinary costume, I went

with Frank Buckland to the vaults beneath St.

Martin's Church, which are now being emptied,

to see the coffin of John Hunter, which was
found in a corner of one of them. It was in good

preservation, and I have written to Dean Milman

about getting it into St. Paul's. But such a

scene ! A score of Irish labourers hauling along

the coffins, higgledy-piggledy, from one dark
recess to the other. The sexton, to show the

conscience of undertakers, pointed to one large

coffin, supposed to have included a leaden one,

but never had. Putting his foot upon
it                                                                     he

                                                        !

                             I

                                                ."
                                                                  it,
pressed down and drew back the top and one

side, exposing to view the black shrivelled
remains of the "Hon. Lady  A mask of

the features had been taken by a mass of the

chrysalises of the Dermestes, or darkling-beetles,

an inch thick. Faugh       quitted the scene,

80       PROFESSOR OWEN                      CH. 111.

thinking that it and the Levee had been two of
the greatest contrasts which London could have

exhibited in the same afternoon.'

     In reply to Owen's letter asking permission
to move the coffin to St. Paul's, Dean Milman
wrote the following letter :--

                                             Deanery, St. Paul's : February 25.

    ' My dear Professor, -- Are you quite sure that

it is the genuine John Hunter ? I had some cor
respondence a few weeks ago with my friend Dr.

Sutherland, and conversation with Professor Bell

Jon the subject. Since that a rumour reached us

that it was the wrong ohn. Remember that your

credit is at stake. If you impose upon us the

bones of a worthy grocer or warehouseman

instead of the immortal surgeon, we shall never

trust you again. We shall believe not a word of

all your science ; nothing you advance about the

ornithorynchus paradoxus, the dodo, or that

refined  chimpanzee which you are making     out to
be our
         first cousin -- only once removed.

    ' However, if he be the real John (and it is

not necessary for that to anatomise the anato

mist), I should be the last person not to wish to

do him proper honour. The only difficulty is the
anomaly of the case. It must be done quietly.

The body cannot be removed without a faculty in
the Bishop's Court ; of that I presume you can at

once ascertain the cost. Nor can there be much

1857-59 FOREIGN MEMBER OF 'INSTITUT'           81

Allobstacle in the way as to any demands of the
Dean and Chapter.  should be done very

quietly, for reasons not less of respect for the

dead than lest any excitement should be made

among the living.

' I shall be at the Museum at the Committee

on Saturday, and will most readily talk over the

subject with you.
           ' Ever, my dear Professor,

                   ' Very sincerely yours,

                   ' H. H. MlLMAN.'

The coffin and remains were afterwards re

moved to Westminster Abbey.

     In the early months of 1859 Owen received
the news of his friend Broderip's death. Sir

Roderick Murchison, in writing to him on the

subject on March 7, says :--

' You will see in my Anniversary Geographical

[Address] of 1857 how I spoke of Broderip
when speaking of Buckland, for the Dean was

really and truly turned to geology by our

deceased friend.'

Honours were still accumulating on Owen.

In April he had the distinction of being elected

one of the eight foreign members of the Institute

of France.

He had now resumed his lectures at the

Royal School of Mines and also as Fullerian Pro

fessor at the Royal Institution. ' I have capital

vol. II.                                    G

82           PROFESSOR OWEN   ch. m.

audiences,' he writes to his sister, ' at both

Albemarle Street and Jermyn Street. Thacke

ray told me the other day that "two young ladies

(I suppose his daughters) were among my great

admirers." '

     He also delivered in 1859 the ' Rede' lecture
at Cambridge. He gave this lecture, which
was on ' The Classification of Mammalia,' on

May 10. and afterwards received the degree of

LL.D., the first honorary degree given by that

University.

    ' I went to Cambridge last Monday,' he writes

to his sister Catherine, ' to fulfil my duties as

" Sir Robert Rede's Lecturer " in that Uni

versity. . . . Next day I gave my lecture at

2 p.m. in the Senate House, before the Vice-

Chancellor and University. . . . Wednesday I

had a long morning's work in the Anatomical and

...Woodwardian Museums, with Professor Clark
and others.  As the new constitution and

statutes of Cambridge now give the Senate the

power of conferring honorary degrees, a special

grace was passed for meeting on Thursday to

confer the first they have given on me ; and mine

...is the first name in the book prepared for the
record of those so honoured.  I was arrayed

in a scarlet robe and cap, led by the public orator

to the middle of the hall, addressed by him in a

Latin oration, then conducted to the Vice-

Chancellor's throne ; knelt down, placing my

1857-59  LETTER FROM LIVINGSTONE                                          83

hands within his, and receiving the admission in
the name of the Holy Trinity.'

     In the summer of this year Owen received an
interesting letter from David Livingstone, which

is dated May 30, 1859, at Shupanga :--

' My dear Friend, -- . . . We went down to the
mouth of the river called Kongone in expectation
of meeting a man-of-war with salt provisions for
our crew, but  my letter to
been detained    somewhere   --thenoAdsmhipiraal pmpeuasrtehdavoen

24th, the day appointed. We are now going up
the Tette to embark my brother and to make some

magnetical observations for General Sabine at
[Lake] Shirwa. We go back to
                                          it,

                                             It

                                                    is
                                                                   ;
                                                                       5
                                          and will, of
course, make a push for [Lake] Nyinyesi but
say nothing about          lest we fail.
                     a it                                               more

pleasant to speak after than before. You will
get the [elephant] jaws some time or other pro
                                                          :

bably we may meet vessel in July. We make
our appointment in a bottle buried in an island in
Kongone Harbour. We could have had more
frequent calls, as the Admiral very friendly, but
         men were lost,      I
         for our letters.
                                   is
some                       Aandslightfordbiaffdeerensceendtihnigs         in
boats                                                                      a

year without letters, and the penny-post nuisance
with which
         5           was deluged  !    My wifeI                           at

               I                                  is
                  I
Kuruman, believe, with her parents, but hope

         A lake then only known from reports of natives.

                                                          G
                                                               2

84  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. 1ll.

to meet her after her confinement, possibly about

the end of this year.
                       ' Ever yours,
                                        ' Dav1d L1v1ngstone.'

      In September Owen paid one of many
delightful visits to his friend Mr. (afterwards Sir
John) Fowler at Glen Mazeran, near Inverness.
His letters are full of the pleasure which he
derived from his visits there, and the enjoyment
with which he entered into the fishing and shoot
ing expeditions. On this occasion he went from
Glen Mazeran to the British Association Meeting
at Aberdeen, which, under the presidency of
Prince Albert, to whom Professor Owen resigned
the chair, was a great success.

     On September 18 he writes to his wife :--
     ' The rush for admission cards ( 1 /. Associates)

to see and hear the President was such that, at

twelve, it was reported to me that 1,900 had been
issued. Now, there were at least 500 regular
members of the Association ; so, knowing the
spirit of a Scotch mob (pardon me, Jessie !6), who
might have paid for their tickets, and can't find
seats or standing-room, I signed and issued an
order that no more Associate tickets were to be

issued after the No. 2,000 had been reached. . . .

Well, at half-past seven we rose from table,

were marshalled to our carriages, and returned to

    6 Daughter of Dr. Farre, who was staying with Mrs. Owen.

1857-59 THE PRINCE AND THE PROFESSOR          85

Aberdeen.  Bell-ringing, population cheering.

Convener, Provost, and I waited in the Hall to

receive the Prince and conduct him to the plat

form. When he had sat down on my right hand,

I took the chair, and, silence being restored, rose
and spoke for a few minutes; motioned H.R.H.
...into the President's chair, and took his.
                                                  I

send with this a copy of H.R.H.'s address. He

read it with good effect. We then re-conducted

him to his carriage, and all went off perfectly well

and quite to my satisfaction.'

     The Prince Consort, in the address referred
to, spoke of Owen in the following terms :--

    ' If it were possible for anything to make me

still more aware how much I stand in need of

your indulgence, it is the recollection of the

person whom I have to succeed as your President

--a man of whom this country is justly proud,

and whose name stands among the foremost of

the naturalists in Europe for his patience in

investigation, conscientiousness of observation,

boldness of imagination, and acuteness in reason

ing. You have no doubt listened with pleasure

to his parting address, and I beg to thank him for

the flattering manner in which he has alluded to

me in it.'

    On the 20th Owen writes again to his wife :--

' To-morrow (Wednesday) I go to Sir James
Clark's to dine and sleep, and next day to Bal

moral, where Her Majesty gives a dejeuner to the

86  PROFESSOR OWEN                       ch. III.

chief members of the Association. By this kind

arrangement of Sir James I avoid a forty-miles'
journey in crowded vehicles on Thursday, for most

of the party will have to go and return the same

day from Balmoral, there being no sleeping ac

commodation. From Balmoral I return to sleep

Thursday night at Sir J. C.'s, and then proceed
on Sunday to Lancaster, and have a couple of

quiet days there to recruit before going on to my

lectures at Manchester and Liverpool, . . . and

have given up visits to the Earl of Aberdeen, Earl
of Caithness, Lord Ashburton, Grant Duff, &c.'

    Owen's plans, however, were altered, for in

another letter, September 21, he says: 'Soon

after I despatched my last, I received a kind

invitation from Lady John Russell to spend a few
days with them at Abergeldie (where the Prince of
Wales was staying) after visiting Balmoral, and it

is arranged that I am to sleep there after visiting
Her Majesty to-morrow.'

    Owen states in his diary that he lectured at

Manchester on September 26, 29, 30, October 3,

7, 10, and at Liverpool on September     27 and
                                         brought
October 4 and 6.
     His position at the British Museum

him into contact with many interesting questions

not primarily connected with his own line of work.

He had always been a careful student of Shake

speare, and had this year the opportunity of making

an examination of a copy of the second folio

1857-59  THE 'COLLIER CORRECTIONS'  87

annotated and ' corrected ' throughout in a hand
of about the middle of the seventeenth century.

The facts of the case were these :-- Early in 1852,

Mr. Collier, a well-known Shakespearian scholar,
came into possession of this volume, which he
presented to the Duke of Devonshire. On the
death of the Duke in 1859, the volume was de

posited for examination at the British Museum,
at the request of Sir Frederick Madden and others.
The result of the scrutiny, made with the micro

scope by Professors Maskelyne and Owen, went

to prove that the pretended old corrections were

nothing but modern forgeries in a pseudo-antique
script, traced first in lead pencil and afterwards

inked over.

     Amongst the reviews and articles written for
various magazines by Owen in 1859 maybe men
tioned an article on David Livingstone's travels
in the ' Quarterly,' and a review of the ' History
of Ceylon,' by Emerson Tenhent, who wrote the
following letter of thanks, dated from the Board

of Trade, October 15, 1859 :--

    ' My dear Sir, -- I have just laid down the

" Edinburgh Review " after reading your article on
my book : and with as much composure as I can
assume after the ecstasy of so much praise I

hasten to offer you my earliest acknowledgments

and my most grateful thanks. You have most

successfully condensed in one attractive chapter

88  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. III.

what I had spread over many ; and I am fully con
scious of this service rendered to me and my work

by your invaluable review.
                               ' Faithfully yours,

                              ' J. Emerson Tennent.'

     On reaching London, Owen writes to his
sister Maria, October 10, 1859, noting his safe
arrival. He had passed the last few days of his
holiday with Mr. James Bateman at Congleton,
' whose grounds and gardens form our friend
Cooke's beau-iddalJ He says : ' I spent a day
and night at Leasowe Castle, and was compelled
to bring away two live turkeys of Lady Cust's

pure white breed, which are now ornamenting
our front lawn, as beautiful as silver pheasants.
I had a narrow escape of another kitten ! Then
I spent a Saturday and Sunday at Biddulph

Grange, near Congleton, Mr. Bateman's, who has

a fine show-garden and good estate, bringing
away a large hamper of rare and pretty outdoor
shrubs and plants. So you may imagine my
luggage had grown to a large and miscellaneous
collection, including a folding-seat, worked for
Carry by Miss Gregson, a sage-cheese, and a
sloth in spirits, fossils, &c., &c. Got all of them

safe to the Cottage.'
      On November 17, 1859, Owen writes to his

sister Catherine : ' Frank Buckland called here

                               7 E. W. Cooke, R.A.

1857-59  JOHN BROWN'S BEQUEST  89

this morning to ask me to write the epitaph for
his father's monument in Westminster Abbey.

I shall try, to-night. . . . We have had severe
winter weather --thermometer at 20° -- and have

been lighting coke fires in the sunk-pits, where
the most delicate flower plants are wintered.'

     On December 3, 1859, he sends a letter to his
sister Eliza, announcing the death of John Brown,
of Stanway, and stating that he has been be
queathed some books, instruments, and collections,

and a legacy of 50/., and that he is going down
with the executor, Professor Henslow, to make
arrangements for the funeral. He continues : ' I
send Kate a " Times," in which a " leading article "
may amuse her. The "Thunderer" proclaims to

the universe that he believes in your affectionate
brother, R. O.'

     Mr. John Brown's collection, amounting to
some 8,000 specimens, was bequeathed to Pro

fessor Owen, who immediately transferred it to
the British Museum, ' with the view that a selec

tion might be made of all such objects as were
found to be * desiderata to the geological de
partment.' The National Collection was thus
enriched by a large number of interesting spe
cimens relating to the Pleistocene geology of

Essex.

     In the latter part of 1859 Charles Darwin
published his ' Origin of Species,' and we gather

the value he set upon Owen's opinion from the

go  PROFESSOR OWEN                   CH. ih.

following note written to Lyell, which is included

by Francis Darwin in his ' Life ' of his father :--
     ' How curious I shall be to know what line

Owen will take ! Dead against us, I fear ; but he
wrote me a most liberal note on the reception of
my book, and said he was quite prepared to
answer fairly, and without prejudice, my line of

argument.'
     After a meeting with Owen, Darwin writes

him the following interesting letter respecting the

' Origin --:'

                            Down, Bromley, Kent : December 13 (1859).

     'Dear Owen, -- . . . You made a remark in

our conversation something to the effect that my
book could not probably be true as it attempted
to explain so much. I can only answer that this

might be objected to any view embracing two or

three classes of facts. Yet I assure you that its

truth has often and often weighed heavily on me ;
and I have thought that perhaps my book might
be a case like Macleay's quinary system.8 So
strongly did I feel this that I resolved to give

it all up, as far as I could, if I did' not convince
at least two or three competent judges. You

smiled at me for sticking myself up as a martyr ;
but I assure you if you had heard the unmerciful
and, I think, unjust things said of my book and to

     8 ' An artificial attempt at a  among naturalists.' -- Diet. Nat.
natural system of classification     Biogr.
which soon became a byword

1857-59 DARWIN'S 'ORIGIN OF SPECIES'                                         91

me in a letter by an old and very distinguished
friend you would not wonder at me being sen
sitive, perhaps ridiculously sensitive. Forgive
these remarks. I should be a dolt not to value

your scientific opinion very highly. If my views

are in the main correct, whatever value they may
possess in pushing on science will now depend
very little on me, but on the verdict pronounced

by men eminent in science.

                              ' Believe me,

                                ' Yours very truly,
                                                ' C. Darwin.'

     In the early part of this letter Darwin says
he is not able to hunt up some information for
which Owen has asked, as his ' notes for the
latter chapters are a chaos.' The 'old and very
distinguished friend ' Dr. Francis Darwin con
siders to be Adam Sedgwick.

    If not 'dead against' the theory of Natural

Selection, Owen at first looked askance at prefer

ring the idea of the great scheme of Nature which
he had himself advanced. He was of opinion

that the operation of external influences and the
resulting contest of existence lead to certain
species becoming extinct. Thus came about, he
supposed, that, like the dodo in recent times, the

dinornis and other gigantic birds had disappeared.
But he never, so far as can be ascertained, ex
pressed a definite opinion on Darwinism, and
'

                                                                          '

                                      it
                                                         it,

92            PROFESSOR OWEN         ch. 1ll.

in the 'Historical Sketch' which prefaces the
sixth edition (1882) of ' The Origin of Species,'
Darwin traces Owen's ideas so far as he could
comprehend them. The singular impartiality of
Darwin and his increasing endeavours to arrive at

the truth, whether it turned against or supported
him, permit the quotation of his own words in ex
planation of the question.

     Darwin writes : ' When the first edition of this

work (J was published, I was so completely de
ceived, as were many others, by such expressions
as "the continuous operation of creative power,"
that I included Professor Owen with other palae
ontologists as being firmly convinced of the im
mutability of species ; but it appears 1 that this
was on my part a preposterous error. In the
last edition of this work2 I inferred, and the

inference still seems to me perfectly just, from
a passage beginning with the words ' no doubt the
type-form,' &c.,3 that Professor Owen admitted

that natural selection may have done something
in the formation of new species ; but this, it ap
pears,4 is inaccurate and without evidence. I

also gave some extracts from a correspondence
between Professor Owen and the editor of the
" London Review," from which it appeared mani-

    9 Nature of Limbs, 1849.             2 Origin of Species.
Address to British Association,          * Anat, of Vert., vol. i. p.

1858.         of Vertebrates,  vol.  xxxv.

     1 Anat.                              * Ibid., vol. iii. p. 798.
iii. p. 176.

1857-59  OWEN'S OPINION  93

fest to the editor, as well as to myself, that Pro
fessor Owen claimed to have promulgated the
theory of natural selection before I had done so ;
and I expressed my surprise and satisfaction at
this announcement ; but as far as it is possible to

understand certain recently published passages,6
I have either partially or wholly again fallen into

error. It is consolatory to me that others find

Professor Owen's controversial writings as difficult
to understand and to reconcile with each other as I
do. As far as the mere enunciation of the prin
ciple of natural selection is concerned, it is quite
immaterial whether or not Professor Owen pre
ceded me, for both of us, as shown in this histo

rical sketch, were long ago preceded by Dr. Wells
and Mr. Matthews.'

      ' Owen could never be induced to follow,'
writes Mr. Smith Woodward, in ' Natural Science'
(February 1893), 'the new school of anatomy
and zoology that arose with the epoch-making

...researches of Von Baer and Rathke in embryo

logy.

     ' This marked disregard of embryology as the
essential adjunct, even if not the key, of compara

tive anatomy, is all the more surprising, since so
large a proportion of Owen's researches on verte
brate animals were devoted to the fossil remains

of past ages. If any phase of biological research

can benefit by embryology, that is assuredly

                         5 Anat. of Vert., vol. iii. p. 798.

94      PROFESSOR OWEN                   CH. III.

...palaeontology.    His statements on the suc

cession of genera and species, and their possible

derivation one from another, were always vague,

and capable of more than one interpretation ; and

though there is not much doubt he leaned to

wards the views of Geoffrey St.-Hilaire, and

those who believed in the evolution of life, his

work, for the most part, is eminently Cuvierian--

a laborious description of the facts, with a detailed

discussion that rarely extends beyond strict com

parative anatomy and the phenomena of geo

graphical or geological distribution. Only on two

occasions6 does he appear to have attempted any

broad philosophical deductions, and, even in those

cases, it is not quite clear how much he admits.

He was perfectly well aware that the facts of pro

gression noticed by the anti-evolutionist Agassiz

among fishes were equally conspicuous among the

higher  vertebrates     7  but       he   contented himself
                     ;                   " the inductive de

with the bare statement that
monstration of the nature and mode of operation "
of the laws governing life would " henceforth be
the great aim of the philosophical naturalist." '

    Professor St. George Mivart speaks of Owen's

position in these terms. Writing in the same

journal (January 1893), ne says: ' Owen . . -

     6 References to horse in        xl. p. 157 (1884).
Anat. and Physiol. Vert., vol. iii.       7 Palaeontology, ed. 2, p. 444

Jp. 791 (1868), and to crocodiles    (1861).

in Quart. out. Geol. Soc, vol.

1857-59  SEDGWICK'S OPINION                95

spread abroad in England the perception that

a deep significance underlies the structure of

animals --a significance for which no stress or

strain and no influence of heredity, and certainly

no mere practical utility, can account. The tem

porary overclouding of this perception through

the retrograde influence of Darwin's hypothesis
of " Natural Selection " is now slowly but surely

beginning to pass away, for which no small thanks

are due to the efforts of his zealous disciples,

Professors Weismann and Romanes. It would be

out of place to trouble readers with a re-statement

of simple facts.8 . . . We will confine ourselves to

once more repeating that homologies for which

neither heredity nor utility will account reveal

themselves in the limbs of chelonians, birds, beasts,

and most notably in those of man.'

On the subject of the origin of species, Owen

received the following letter from Sedgwick
                                      --'
dated ' Cambridge,  Friday  morning
                                     :

'My dear Owen, -- . . . There are many
things I want to talk to you about --about

Darwin's book, &c., &c. Though the published

letter contains an outline of my objection to the

theory, yet 'tis a mere sketch written without a

shadow of a thought that the editor would send

it to the Press ; but on seeing it in print I liked

it far better than I expected, and there is not now

     8 Readers interested in such questions may be referred to Proc.
Zool. Soc, 1884, p. 462.

96        PROFESSOR OWEN                    ch. in.

a word I would wish to keep back. The second

publication was in consequence of a complaint to

the editor of some glaring misprints --e.g. your

name being put for that of Oken, &c., &c. I never

asserted that creation (or the appearance of a new

or modified fauna) was not by law. But by what
law ? Not, I may say, of natural transmutation --,

not by turning fishes into reptiles, whales into

pachyderms, or monkeys into men, in the way

of natural generation, but by a higher law, of

which we may reach the conception hereafter,

as you have reached the conception of an

archetypal form. But that conception does not

mutilate  rather magnifies and consolidates) our
          (it
                          is,
conceptions of final causes and of a Creator. Our

conception of law in most cases, only a concep

tion of a certain definite succession of phenomena
                                                      II ;
but in every case there lurks behind the word
law a conception of a higher kind -- of an ordinary

and sustaining power exterior to the phenomena

themselves. But have no time, or head, now
          I
for such discussion. Do you know who was theI
author of the article in the " Edinburgh " on the
                     'I
subject of Darwin's theory On the whole,
                               it,
think very good.
                                      ?

                                     it I
    it                         once suspected that you

must have had a hand in and then abandoned

that thought. have not read with any care.

must conclude or miss the post.

                               Yours ever,

                                 '  A. Sedgwick.'

86o 61       FULLERIAN LECTURES                                            97

                       CHAPTER IV

                       1860-61

Natural History Lectures at Buckingham Palace -- Ascent of the
              Jazi --                                        1861 -- Lord
Cime     de  M. Du     Edition of      Hunter's      MSS.,  -- Death of     J.
Russell                  Chaillu --  Popular     Lecturing
         --                                                                his

sister Catherine -- Death of the Prince Consort.

' I began my Fullerian course to a crowded audi

ence at the Royal Institution last Tuesday,' Owen

writes to his sister (January 14, i860); 'but,

as my voice was still a little affected by cold,

I gave them only three-quarters of a lecture, and

stayed at home all the next day.'

Owen had some years previously made the

acquaintance of Jenny Lind (Mme. Goldschmidt),
who was at that time residing at Wimbledon. On

January 14 Owen and his wife met M. and Mme.
Goldschmidt at Sheen House, then occupied by

Mr. Joshua Bates. Thackeray was also one of
the party, and ' an American who must have been
the model of Dickens's Jefferson Brick --a little

red-haired, self-sufficient youth in spectacles.

During dinner there was a sharp exchange of

shots all round on the subject of the abolition of

the slave trade, or of at least ameliorating the con-

VOL. II.                                                    H

98  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. IV.

dition of the slaves. Our host got a little riled,

for Jenny unexpectedly spoke out vehemently.
"'Jefferson Brick" declared that it was out of the
question to think of treating the niggers as human
beings. R. would not allow for a minute that the
admitted inferiority of the negroes was any argu

ment in favour of the slave trade. It then ap

peared that cur host was possessed of two estates

worked by slaves which fell to him through a

mortgage, so the discussion dropped. After din

ner Jenny was much pleased to sit and talk
with R.'

     On April 23, 1860, Owen gave, by request
of the Prince Consort, some lectures to the royal

children at Buckingham Palace.
     ' I think you may like to know,' he writes

to his sister, ' the arrangements made for these

lectures. After consulting with me, Sir James
[Clark] had a drawing-room at Buckingham Palace

fitted up at one end with a large green-baize cur

tain, on which I have the selected illustrations

fastened. Sofas and arm-chairs are arranged in

a semicircle at a little distance from that end, on

which sit the Prince Consort and the children ;

behind them are seats for the lords and ladies

and gentlemen of the Court. They muster about
30 to 40. These enter first, and then the Prince
with the children ; one day I had the Prince of

Wales, on the other days all that remain at home ;
the young sailor Duke of Edinburgh is amongst

1860-61 LECTURES AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE  99

them, and I make as much of my discourse suitable
to him as I can, and generally introduce two or
three anecdotes for the younger children. They
are all attentive, and seem often to be deeply
interested ; and much of what I have had to say

is evidently new to all.

     ' My first lecture was on Mammalia, the second
on Birds, the third on Reptiles, and the fourth on
Fishes and other marine animals and insects. My
continuous discourse is about three-quarters of an

hour, and the rest is occupied by question and
answer, in which the Prince Consort takes a good
share in explaining to the youngest children any

matter that seems difficult to them. I have given

little Prince Arthur a coloured illustrated book on

Natural History, and to Prince Alfred a Manual

for observing Natural History phenomena at sea.
They took leave of me to-day very affectionately,
and the youngest Prince waylaid me in the cor
ridor and played me a tune on his large musical

box, and begged Major Elphinstone, his tutor, to
let him come to the British Museum to see my
animals there. The three young Princesses are

very sweet and unaffected in their manner, and
I think they have all been rather struck by hearing

so much in an uninterrupted extempore discourse.

. . . The Prince wishes me to publish my dis
courses, and, if I can find time for an elementary
work, on the plan I have adopted, I would gladly
endeavour to carry out His Royal Highness's

                                                                                       h2

joo                   PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iv.

desire. A good elementary work is indeed much

needed. But I have no notes of my lectures and
had no time for it.'

     Soon after the course of lectures at Bucking
ham Palace was finished, the Prince Consort sent

the following autograph letter to Professor Owen,
accompanied by the portraits of the royal children

who had listened to the lectures :--

    ' My dear Professor, -- Might I ask you to ac
cept the accompanying prints ? The faces, I

hope, will recall to your recollection the attentive

little audience, to whom you devoted part of your
valuable time in the delivery of your late interest

ing lectures.

                      ' Ever yours truly,
                                           ' Albert.

     ' B. P. V '60.'

     That his hearers did not forget these lectures
is shown by the following letter from Prince Alfred,
who sent to Owen the head of a dicynodon and

other fossil remains which he had obtained in his

travels in South Africa :--

                                                                         November 12, i860.

     ' Dear Professor Owen, -- In the course of my
journey in South Africa I met with two very inte

resting fossil remains, one, the larger, being the
head of a dicynodon.1 I hope you will accept

                                  1 See Bibliography, 1862.

1860-61 LETTER FROM CHARLES KINGSLEY             iol

them from me as being the best specimens I ob

tained, upon the Prince Consort's suggestion on

the occasion of your last lecture, of which series I

shall always retain the most agreeable recollec

tion.                    ' Yours truly,

                                     ' Alfred.'

     Amongst Professor Owen's correspondence
there remains, unfortunately, but little record of

his intimacy with Charles Kingsley, beyond let

ters from the latter asking for appointments to go

round the Museum. The following letter, received
in the April of this year, is perhaps the most cha
racteristic :--

                         Eversley : April 30, i860.

' My dear Professor Owen, ---I have got a

wonder for. you, which has opened my eyes so

wide that I cannot shut them again --an adder

with two hind legs. They are one-half to three-

quarters of an inch long, just behind the vent

(like a tortoise's in form, but with irregular fangs
or prickles, instead of nails). I only describe it
roughly, because I don't like to cut it or finger
I
                                        aI
                                                                   I

                                                                                        it,
but leave that for you.  suppose you would
wish to have him and trace his " morphology."

  have put him in spirits, and will send him up.
His slayers say he stood bolt upright on the
said legs and his tail " like Christian," and sprang

at them, which he may well have done.  can

102  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

hardly believe my own eyes ; but here he is in
flesh and blood.

                         ' Yours ever faithfully,
                                             ' C. Kingsley.'

     Although Owen was constantly the recipient
of similar curiosities, ' I have never permitted
myself,' he writes to his sister Maria, ' to begin
a private collection, and, of the thousands of
objects that have been sent to me, I have always
presented them in the name of the senders to
the British Museum, or that of the College of

Surgeons. . . .
     ' Yesterday evening I played (and won) a

game of chess with Mr. Liddell, and his wife
played some charming music of Beethoven ; but

my greatest treat yesterday was an admission to
a private view of Holman Hunt's painting of

Christ in the Temple with the Doctors. . . . You

may remember that Hunt went to Jerusalem five
years ago to make the requisite studies on the spot,
and he has devoted all those years, at which his
powers were greatest, to this marvellous work. The

painter's devotion to his subject is most exemplary.'

     July 20, 1860, was Professor and Mrs. Owen's
silver wedding day. ' We spent this happy day,'
Mrs. Owen writes, ' quietly and gratefully. Silver

dishes, cruets, spoons and forks, &c., arrived to
celebrate our " Silberhochzeit," and my dear hus
band's fifty-sixth birthday.'

1860 61  VISIT TO SWITZERLAND  103

     In the following August Owen visited Switzer
land, and he has left an account of his first visit

to a glacier and his first mountain climb in a letter

to his son, dated Riffelburg, August 24, 1860: --

     ' On Wednesday evening, August 22, the
party was made for the ascent of the Cime de Jazi,
a mountain of the Monte Rosa range, and the
next to it eastwards, the summit of which, 13,200
feet above sea, commands a view of the lakes, hills,

and plains of Italy, including Milan and part of
Tyrol -- Mr. Hinchliff, secretary of the Alpine
Club ; Mr. Hardman, a stout friend of H.'s ; Mr.
Clerk, son of Sir George ; Mr. and Mrs. H. Cole,2
myself, and a young German botanist. We had

five guides ; two were to leave us on gaining the
summit, and to go on to their native place in a
valley on the Italian side. Mr. Clerk had his own

guide, and our two were to return with us.

     We were to start at daybreak, weather being
favourable. But at 4 a.m. appearances led the guides
to think that it would not do ; at 5 things looked
better, and we breakfasted all round, and were off
with due supplies, ropes, &c., by 6. 15. The mists
were rising from the valleys, and we were soon

in them, but the sun had risen too, and we were

often amused by the mist rainbows. Our main
route to the Gorner glacier was along a narrow
rough footpath along the steep sides and often
above precipices of the Gornergratz. Fortunately

                                   2 Sir Henry Cole.

104  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. IV.

for my head, the mists surrounded everything,
save a few yards of the path before us, and I was

surprised and rather bored by the empressement
with which, the guides helped me over several

parts which offered no particular difficulty. I

knew the reason better when we returned !

    'At 8 a.m. we passed up the glacier, the first I

had stepped on. The ice rose with a bold convexity,

was rough, and my nailed shoes clung pretty

well to it. With the alpenstock, soon got to the
level, much crevassed ; but most of them we could

step or easily jump across : the blue shining
sides of their ice-walls extending down to depths
indicated by the rushing of the hidden river.
The surface of the glacier ice was like sugar candy
in masses, sparkling in the sun, and crunching
under our feet. After an hour's scrambling walk,

leaping the awful fissures, crossing them by ice-

bridges, and dodging round the treacherous
snow-bridges, we left the glacier for some rocks,
which we gained at 9 a.m. Here we rested and
took some refreshment, preparatory to the main

part of the ascent. This was over snow-covered
ice, of mostly a gentle rise, and the snow at this

hour still hard enough to yield, but only foot- or

ankle-deep, guides carefully probing suspicious
parts as we advanced. The mists were dispersed,
the bright and hot sun lit up the enormous plain
of dazzling snow and the grand mountains bounding

it-- Monte Rosa, M. Cervin, &c. --which towered

1860-61  ASCENT OF THE CIME DE JAZI  105

higher as we ascended. A group of chamois was

discerned by the guides, and seen by some of
the party, but I had my green-glass goggles and
had adjusted my veil, and would not disturb the
essential arrangement against snow-blindness for
the chance of detecting the little antelopes on a
distant rock. Some of the party had white cloth
masks, with holes for the green spectacles, for the
nose and mouth, and presented most grotesque
figures. We got to more frozen but finely

granular snow on a steeper rise, sinking in it

often knee-deep or more. I followed as closely
as I could the footsteps of the guide before me.

     ' Every now and then was a halt, and we gazed
upon the wonderful and ever-varying environment ;
new snow-capped mountains, with their dark
rocky precipices, coming into view, but, as yet,
not the summit we were bound for. We passed
some grand crevasses, the openings of yawning
chasms of more than 2,000 feet sheer ; we must

occasionally have traversed snow-bridges over
such. On one occasion my left leg sank suddenly
up to the hip, and as the guide lifted me out I felt
certain that the foot had no resting-place, but had
projected into a subnival space. On surmounting
the ascending part of our snowy route we saw the
base of the summit of the Cima, distant by a vast
tract of the glacier, along which we went for a
mile or so by a slight descent or undulating plain.

At length we reached the base of the consummate

   106           PROFESSOR OWEN              ch. IV.

   cone. There a long halt was made ; the wind

   had increased as we rose ; here it was cutting,

   and driving fine particles of frozen snow against

   faces and hands ; the veil became less manageable.

   I resumed my coat, which I had stript on entering

   the glacier. Every step of the steep ascent sunk

   knee-deep in the powdery frozen snow. Our stout

   party was long before obliged to progress, each

   hand upon an alpenstock, carried horizontally be

   tween two guides ; here his friend Hinchliff lent

   additional help, and we left them bearing him

   up, like Sisyphus his stone. Only once I felt the

   nausea described by many who toil up declivities

   in much rarefied air. I stopped, held down my

   head, and then proceeded by slow steps, directing

   volition strongly into the leg-muscles, and it soon
   went off. I kept the same position, and only

   became aware of the near termination of the
   climb by hearing a " Hurrah ! Bravo Professor!
                                          "
   Here's  a macintosh  ready  for  you      Upon which  I
                                         !

   gladly threw myself at full length and breathed

   more freely.

        ' I then looked round and saw nothing

   higher, save the now distant summit of Monte

   Rosa, which had seemed nearer until its true

   magnitude with that of the base of the Cima

   could be appreciated. A keen and strong current
   of biting air from the north-west. All on that

   side, to windward, in bright and cloudless sun

   shine ; all on the opposite Italian side in closer

X

1860-61  'MR. BRIGGS ON THE ALPS'  107

and driving mist. An eagle soared above us,
with lordly mastery over the gale : made a circular

sweep, scrutinising the figures who had dared to
invade his region, and then sailed off with the
breeze into the clouds overshadowing fair Italy,
to seek its prey there. Whether it were Austrian
or French I could not make out. Cole reached

the summit after me ; Mrs. Cole, with Clerk and

two guides, had preceded us ; then came the
young German, much exhausted, and with hae

morrhage from his nose. Lastly appeared poor
 Hardman, the stout gentleman, his head drooping,
as he was dragged along by a guide at each arm
and pushed behind by his friend. It suggested
to me a new series of illustrations in " Punch "

-- "Mr. Briggs on the Alps!" We were soon

all in high spirits. Brandy flasks, sherry and
light red wine and lemonade ; bread and cold
mutton, for which my appetite was quite prepared ;

a few could not manage solids.

     ' We were soon ready to move again, urged
by the biting cold. My feet felt frozen, and the
tips of my fingers. We descended the steep
summit in a wild scamper, the light disintegrated

snow permitting you to draw out the leg in
time to prevent a summersault, and were soon
at the bottom, when the guides called halt ; then
began the more careful retracing our steps over
the snow-covered glacier ; and now the sun had
softened the snow, and we swayed to and fro like

108            PROFESSOR OWEN                ch. IV.

a drunken man, sinking deeply and often ob

liquely in the snow. We had gained the top at a

quarter to one, and left it at quarter-past i ; at

3 p.m. we had gained the rocks, whence we

passed on, the unsnowed glacier revealing its

crevasses. At 5 we commenced the precipitous

mountain path, all its sheer descents too clearly

revealed. At 6.15 we were greeted by cheers

from the visitors at the chalet, who had spent the

day on a neighbouring height, watching with tele

scopes our progress. I changed, had a glass of

milk with a teaspoonful of rum, and lay down till

summoned to the table d'hote, to which I did

ample justice. Mr. Hinchliff has descended this

morning (23rd) with much inflamed eyes. Mr.
and Mrs. Cole next appeared, only showing the
effects on the skin of the face. We rest and

lounge about to-day, and cross into Italy by the

St. Theodule Pass, crossing the great Gorner

glacier to-morrow (Friday), the 24th, when we

shall be in Italy, and see Monte Rosa from the

Val d'Aosta.'

     Early in September 1860 Owen returned

home, and during the following month, while on a

visit to his friend Mr. White Cooper, at Fulmer, he

took the opportunity of going over Fulmer Place,

the old residence of his family. He gives the

following account of his visit in a letter to his sister

Catherine   : ' On  the rising ground, near  its [the
village's]  upper    end, stands " Fulmer    Place."

1860-61  FULMER PLACE  109

The old brick wall, rounding in on each side the
entry gate, is original ; and the noble " Balm of
Gilead Fir Tree " within the entrance was doubt
less planted by Richard Eskrigge. The two fish

ponds where he fed the carp are exactly as our

poor father saw them when a very little boy. I

fancied the old great-grandfather and the child de
scending the gentle slope of the lawn from the front

door to the margin of the ponds. The views from

the house are beautifully undulated and wooded,

as charming a retreat as a philosopher could
desire. Cooper and I had walked down a path
way by the side of the house to the ponds, where
one of them extends beyond the garden, when
we saw Mr. Wanklyn coming down the opposite

slope. He welcomed me most kindly, as the
great-grandson of the founder of the house, which
he has almost rebuilt and largely added to. He
fully enjoys his place and property. . . . He is a
man of taste, and has laid out the gardens and

grounds so as to effect a very beautiful residence.
. . . To-morrow I shall worship in the old church.

The leaves enclosed I plucked from an old apple-

tree in the orchard.'

     During the latter part of 1860 Owen was

busily occupied in bringing to a conclusion his task
of editing two octavo volumes of Hunter's MSS.
He himself attached considerable importance to
this work, ' the preparation of which,' as he says
in his dedication of the book, ' terminates the

11o  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                CH. IV.

editor's labours in making known the thoughts and

works of the founder of philosophical surgery.'
The work itself was received with no little inte

rest, partly perhaps because there was a special

history attached to
It

                                    it.

                                   It

                                                               it
     When John Hunter died in 1793, he left a con
siderable quantity of MSS. behind him. These
MSS., which were in the custody of his executor,

Sir Everard Home, soon afterwards mysteriously

disappeared, and on investigation                                  was dis

covered that the baronet had ruthlessly com

mitted them to the flames.                     This strange

proceeding gave rise to considerable suspicion

against Sir Everard.                           was well known that

he himself was given to natural history pursuits,

ana, although not a man of eminent ability,

was the author of scientific papers announcing

certain small but not uninteresting discoveries.

     was, therefore, surmised that he was indebted to

Hunter's MSS. for his discoveries, and had burnt

the original papers in order to avoid detection.3
Unfortunately for Home's reputation, but fortu
nately for the literary and scientific world, William
Clift, Hunter's favourite pupil and assistant, had

made a practice of copying out these MSS., and
having for about half century carefully kept his

work, handed over in his later days to Owen to

use as he thought best.
     Apart 'from this story, the two volumes of
     it

                3

                      it

                                         's a
     See Charlesworth Geological Journal, 1846.

186o-61  EDITS JOHN HUNTER'S MSS.            m

' John Hunter's Essays and MSS.,' which Owen
edited, are certainly full of interest. Charac

terized as they are by a strange diversity of

thought, they give the impression that the writer

either did not live long enough to complete his

own account of himself, or else that, though

possessing endless industry and immense powers

of observation, he had neither time nor inclina

tion for concentration of thought. His essays on

natural history contain remarks on the classes of

animals, on the distinctions between animals and

vegetables, the origin of natural production and of

species and varieties, and the properties of matter,
and so forth. In treating of the origin of species,

while he fails to take the extreme Darwinian view,

he nevertheless asks : ' Does not the natural grada

tion of animals from one to another lead to the

original species ? For example : Are we not led

on to the wolf,' he says, ' by the gradual affinities

of the different varieties in the dog, and is it not

possible to trace out the gradation in the same

way in   the horse,  sheep,  or  cat      '  Beyond this

                                      ?

Hunter does not advance. In his 'Observations

on Psychology ' the illustrations that he gives are
exceedingly quaint. He tells us, for instance, that

' the mind is often in opposition to itself : the state

of the mind if strong shall get the better of another

state which is weak, or the stronger state shall

not allow the weaker to rise ; although the mind

is so circumstanced at the time as to have one

112        PROFESSOR OWEN                              ch. IV.

state raised, if the other state which is stronger

had not already taken possession of the mind, or
driven the other out ; ' and, having delivered this

proposition, he illustrates it by something which

once took place within himself when he went to
see Mrs. Siddons act. He entered the theatre

with the strong conviction that he should be very

much affected and weep copiously ; but he found

to his dismay that he had forgotten to bring a

handkerchief, and the misery and anxiety that

he was in, when he found he was without that

requisite for drying up the eyes, and the feeling
of horror lest he should cry under those circum

stances, so stopped up every tear that he not only

did not cry, but actually could not do so.

     On December 1 2 Owen writes to his sister :

' I have just finished my edition of Hunter's MSS. ;

it will come out, January, in two vols. 8vo. I shall
also then bring out my " Memoir on the Mega

therium," in 4to, with 27 large plates ! Messrs.

"BlPaaclkaewornittoelotgoy,s"ayantdhaItatmheayt  have  only 100 left of
                                                 work  on a new edition.

I enclose a syllabus of my next and last course of

Fullerian Lectures. The matter of the Jermyn

Street lectures is not yet settled, but I have

spoken to Sir R. Murchison of my wish to give

them up.'

     On December 30 he writes again : ' On
Christmas Day I lunched with Lord John Russell,
and chatted awhile with him in his study at Pern-

1860-61  AT LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S            113

broke Lodge. The floor was literally strewed
with despatch boxes ! and he looked like -the

hardest-worked man in the realm. Lady John
told me an amusing anecdote of the younger
children. Their pet jackdaw had died, so they

hoisted a black flag on a little castle in the garden,
and the youngest confided to Mamma " that they
had determined not to play at ' railroads ' for a

whole week ! " --a beautiful kind of Court-mourn
ing devised by the little dears. The " Times "

has given my " Palaeontology " a review.'

    At the end of this year David Livingstone

wrote a long letter to Owen, from which some

extracts are given here : --

         Senna : December 29, 1860.

' My dear Friend, -- . . . By the way, Mr.

Darwin's book upsets my ideas somewhat. There

does not seem to be any great struggle for exist

ence going on in this wide continent. There is

room enough and to spare for both man and

beast. The latter seem to live quite jovially, and

often attain old age. They are subject to various
diseases --whole herds are sometimes swept off by

epidemics, and we meet with diseased animals

constantly. Disease does not select or elect to

leave the strongest, for it cuts off the ox and horse,

and leaves the goat and sheep. . . . My thoughts,

however, may only show my ignorance ; for the

book itself has not yet come this length.  I speak
   vol. II.
                                                 1

ii4  PROFESSOR OWEN                        ch. IV.

only from what I see in reviews. . . . The flesh
of a. fat eland has upset the whole party of about

seventy persons ; this may have given rise to the

feeling that they may be better after domesti

cation. It is an old complaint against the meat,
however. A she-giraffe is very much better, but

good English roast beef beats them all. . . .
                     ' Ever affectionately yours,
                                   ' Dav1d Livingstone.'

     On January 21, 1861, Professor Owen began

his course of Fullerian Lectures for the season,

and on the 8th of the following month he resumed

his lectures at the School of Mines, Jermyn

Street, on ' Reptilia.'

     His edition of Hunter's papers had now been

published. ' On the 28th,' he writes to his

sister Eliza, ' I had a very pleasant dinner at Sheen

House, meeting the American Minister and his

family, who seem rather low at the thoughts of

returning to private life in 160th Street, Phila

delphia. . . . To-morrow, after lecture, I dine and
sleep at Henry Cole's, who " wets " his " silk " with

a few friends. I had much conversation with the

...young Comte de Paris on Monday at the Geo
graphical dinner.        I called on Van Voorst

the other day, and received 200/. for my edition

of Hunter's posthumous papers, just out.'

     One of the first people to whom Owen sent a

copy was Thomas Bell, who wrote him the fol-

1860-61            M. DU CHAILLU                  115

lowing acknowledgment, dated New Broad Street,

March --1 :

     ' What thanks do I not owe you for so kindly

sending me that marvellous book ? If anything

were wanting to place Hunter in the highest po

sition of human intellect, and as the rarest com

bination of genius and practical observation, this

would do           never read so full a. book.  sat
          I it.                                is '
                                                           1
                 I                                         ' it

                        I
an hour with Sir Benjamin Brodie the other day,

and when went in found his secretary reading

this book to him. He asked          had seen this new
                                    Iif
book of Hunter's, and said with great emphasis,
" a marvellous book." He seems more struck it
It

    it is
                I
with than ever saw him with anything before.
Your arranging and publishing has conferred

a great benefit on the scientific public, whilst

has done justice at last to that great man.'

There appeared an amusing cartoon in Punch

the last week in January, in which Owen threat

ened with being skinned by the South American

States for giving as his opinion that Adam and
                   it

Eve were coloured people.

In February he met the African traveller

M. Du Chaillu for the first time, and on the 25th
attended his lecture on gorillas at the Great Room

of the Royal Society, at which lecture Owen

made some prefatory remarks on the structure of

these creatures. Amongst those present was

Mr. Gladstone, and when the lecture was over,'
                       '

                                 '
the Professor writes, and Mr. Gladstone had

u6           PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iv.

made a short speech, I took the opportunity of
saying a word on the subject of such valuable
acquisitions to science not having proper accom

modation, &c., at the Museum.'

     ' On March 18,' Mrs. Owen writes in her diary,
' R. and I drove to the Royal Institution, to hear

another of M . Du Chaillu's lectures. A tremendous

crowd rilled the theatre, Sir Roderick Murchison
in the chair. M. Du Chaillu gave a very quaint,
clear, and interesting account of his travels in
Africa, and his meeting with the gorillas, a row
of which hideous creatures was overhead : some

skulls were before the lecturer, who traced his pro

gress on a large map as the lecture proceeded.'

    A few days after this lecture Owen received,
the following letter from M. Du Chaillu :--

                                       129 Mount Street : March 22, 1861.

    ' My dear Sir, -- Allow me to present you with

a gorilla skin. . . . When I prepared it in Africa

it was with the intention that I should present it

to you myself, and on this account I did not send

it to you from America.

    ' I think that it is quite time that you should

put your foot on the skin of an animal the anato

mical character of which you have so thoroughly

described in several of the memoirs you have

published, and the reading of which has delighted

me so much.

             ' Yours very truly,

                     ' P. B. Du Chaillu.'

1860-61 PRINCE CONSORT ON MOUNTAIN RANGES 117

Another African traveller whom Professor

Owen met at this time was Mr. Petherick. In a

letter to his sister  Maria,  March   19, 1 861, he
                      I took  Consul  Petherick to
says :--

     ' Last Thursday

the Palace at five minutes before eleven, and Lord

Caithness looked into the waiting-room to have a

chat before we were called into the Prince Con

sort's Library. H.R.H. ordered his last map of

Africa down, and we drew out much curious and

minute information from the traveller. H.R. H.

said, that when he saw a chain of mountains

stretching along a desert part of a map he al

ways suspected them to be put in for the appear

ance, and it is curious what masses of mountains

do get destroyed, especially in Africa, as soon as
travellers reach their whereabouts. The Prince

then sent for his album of photographs. They

include people of all countries. One was of a Thug,

100 years old, who had committed thrice as many

murders, and the most extraordinary example of
living-skeleton humanity I ever beheld. Sir C.

B. Phipps and Ur. Ruland, the new librarian, were
of the party, which lasted an hour. The problem
of the source of the Nile, and the cause of its

annual overflow, has been almost solved by Mr.
Petherick, and if he is spared he will discover the

remaining facts in his ensuing expedition. I had a

rare audience on Friday --Jermyn Street blocked
up with carriages. Jenny Lind laughed when I

118  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

told her ; and commended my intention to bid
them a lasting farewell ! I really believe I shall

be able to manage it. How odd that, besides an

acquaintance with a Bonaparte, spending a week
at his Palazzo at Rome, with the old Emperor's
Longwood furniture in my bedroom, I should come
to have a letter from a son of Napoleon's beau
sabreur, as he used to call the fiery Murat.
Some of my scientific relations have brought me
into such cognizance with one of the family as to

have procured me this sheet from the would-be

King of Naples.'
     In May 1861 Professor Owen delivered a

series of four lectures at Norwich on ' Recent

and Fossil Mammalia.' These were of a some

what elementary description, as may be seen from

the following extracts from his introductory lec
ture ; but they may serve as an example of his
style of 'popular' lecturing. He began by remark
ing that all animals were divided into two great
groups -- one in which there was no backbone, and
no internal hard framework or skeleton, the other

in which these characteristics existed. The latter,

which was the higher division, was called the
vertebrate division. This was divided into other

divisions ; one-half being of about the same
temperature as the atmosphere in which they
lived, while the other half were enabled, by the
more perfect and complex character of their or

ganisation, to preserve a more fixed and definite

1860-61  LECTURE AT NORWICH  119

temperature, which was usually higher than the
temperature around them. These were the
cold-blooded and warm-blooded vertebrates. One

class produced eggs, the other produced living
young. Some moved on four limbs, others on
two ; some had no lower limbs, properly so called.
Aristotle had divided the group into bipeds, quad
rupeds, and impeds. The quadrupeds formed
the great bulk. The impeds living in the sea,
as fishes, were warm blooded and breathed air ;

the bipeds were ourselves.

     The quadrupeds were so large a proportion that
it was necessary to subdivide them ; and Aristotle
had said of them that one-half had their limbs

terminating with digits ending in claws or nails,
while the others had the ends of the digits
enclosed in a horny thimble or hoof. Conse

quently, he divided them into the hoofed and

clawed quadrupeds. The hoofed quadrupeds he
divided according to the number of the divisions
of the hoofs, and the others he divided according

to their dentition, as carnivorous, graminivorous,

and so on. Linnaeus was the first who definitely
and properly divided the mammalian groups, and
it was he who gave them the name Mammalia.

The Mammalia also were characterised not only
by having living young, but by nourishing their
young in a peculiar way. Another characteristic
was that of having hair upon their bodies, for

those that were not covered with hair were

120  PROFESSOR OWEN                                CH. IV.

partially adorned with  and was a curious
                        it,
fact that even very young whales had mustachios
                                                ;
and whiskers. Again, all Mammalia had a com
                                     it
plex heart, with ventricles and auricles, which

received and circulated the blood. No other

animals but those belonging to the class Mam

malia had a diaphragm. Cuvier had pointed

out some other characteristics but there were

in his system some apparent anomalies, such as

ranking the mole higher than the lynx, the bat

above the dog, and even the duck mole of

Australia he placed above the elephant.
     He (Owen) himself, from the examination he

had made, arrived at the conviction that there

were two or three, or perhaps four, well-marked

steps in the development of the brain, and that

the brain was the organ on the modifications and

differences in the structure of which the Mam

malia should be divided. There were in all Mam

malia the little brain, or cerebellum, the optic

lobes, in which the nerves going to the eye were

chiefly rooted, the cerebral hemisphere, and

the olfactory lobes, with which the nerves of

smell were connected. In all the cold-blooded

vertebrates, in reptiles, fishes, and birds, the cere

bral hemispheres were almost quite detached,

there being nothing between them except a little

cord, and this was the case with a certain por

tion of the Mammalia, which were called loose-

brained, or, as Professor Sedgwick had quaintly

1860-61 'SCATTER-BRAINED' MAMMALIA  121

 suggested, scatter-brained. Then there was the
brain in which there was a curious apparatus of
 cross fibres that brought every part of one hemi
sphere in contact with the other. The next step

 was where the cerebral hemispheres began to

 increase in size, and there would not be room

in the skull to contain them if they were not

folded and packed as we should pack a nap

kin in a box. This type of brain, which charac
terised a certain class of Mammalia, was called

the wave-brain. Then there came a sudden and

marked step in the increase of the relative size

and complexity, number and depth of the con
volutions of the brain, which was called chief-

brain, and marked a fourth well-defined group.

The loose brain was peculiar to two kinds of

quadrupeds that belonged almost exclusively to
Australia, and the duck mole and the kangaroo
might be taken as types of these orders.

     Owen then described the construction of various

mammals characterised by the different types of
brain, proceeding from the lowest to the most per
fect in regular order. The gorilla he characterised

as the nearest approach to man. It was an animal

that had been known, from more or less perfect

specimens, for the last eight or ten years, and
from the enterprising traveller, M. Du Chaillu, to
whom we owed the most perfect of these speci
mens, he had obtained the skeleton of a full-

grown gorilla, which was placed in the British

122  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. iv.

Museum. There was in this animal a marked

characteristic in the organisation of the innermost

digit-- the thumb --which was found on both

feet and hands, and showed it to be a creature

of the forest. The trunk of the animal was the
trunk of a giant. The chest was girt with thir
teen pairs of ribs --one pair more than ours--and

the lungs were well developed, a development
that was always in accordance with the physical

powers, and which was nowhere greater than

in this singular animal. The arms were very
long in proportion to the height of the animal ;

but, with regard to the brain, it was not one-fourth
the bulk of the brain of the lowest form of the

human species. The brain, like the eye, was

an organ that very rapidly attained its full size

in all creatures. In the gorilla, as he had said,
it was small compared with that of the human
race. The animal had formidable teeth, corre

sponding with the character of the skull, but the
development of the canine teeth was almost
peculiar to the males. With the immense

strength he possessed, the gorilla could combat
the lion, and it was certain that the lion never

went near the forest where the gorilla dwelt.
He could strangle the leopard, and he was
able to defend himself and family from all
enemies except man and his rifle. The gorillas
had acquired a certain range of rich country
on the equator of Africa, and they held their

1860-61  CONCLUSION OF LECTURE  123

possessions as long as their strength endured.
In compensation for the absence of intellectual

power, the inability to put two ideas together, to
construct a weapon of defence, or to articulate

a word, the gorilla had allotted to him the maxi
mum of physical power.

      Compared to the gorilla, man was physically
but a weak and feeble creature, but man possessed
the highest type of brain, his whole structure was
beautifully balanced, the lower limbs were equal to
the upper, the trunk was not disproportioned to the
rest, and the structure of the spine, which bore,

well poised, that wonderful bony globe which
contained the cerebral region, was beautifully ar
ranged. Man was more independent than any
other animal ; the backs of the gorilla's hands
gave evidence that when he walked on land he

was obliged to use his arms as well as his legs
for locomotive purposes ; but man, and man

alone, could walk erect, and use the upper limbs
free and independent of the rest of the body.

     In the summer of this year M. Du Chaillu
was a frequent visitor at Sheen Lodge, and
Professor Owen remarks on the pleasure which
the purchase of the Gorilla Collection by the
British Museum had afforded him. ' Those se

lected for the Museum,' he says, ' are the best.'

    To his wife, who had gone for a holiday to

Boulogne, Owen writes, on August 6, 1861, a
long letter, full of particulars of his engagements.

124  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

He mentions a dinner at Mr. Huntley's, where

' he had out some good maps of the (dis-) United
States before dinner, and interested us by the
comments of General Sir De Lacy Evans on
the great battle, which has been attended with
such disastrous consequences to the Northern

party. . . . Will and I retire to a tete-a-tHe

dinner to-day. When we left you on Thursday

evening we went to Evans's, and the worthy
proprietor, recognising me, begged me to order
any kind of music I liked, and at Will's
suggestion we had a succession of their best
part-songs and choruses. I think I shall

persuade you and Jessie to accompany us to a
private box to hear the music and see the scene !
The old German imitator performed, and a good

acrobat party. So, you see, we have done our

best to assuage our sorrows under the bereave

ment, but we shall truly rejoice to see you both

safe back again.'

     In September Owen writes to his wife, giving
a few details of the British Association Meeting
at Sheffield, where he gave a course of lectures,
lecturing afterwards at Manchester. This letter

is chiefly occupied with meetings with old friends,

but he does not forget his garden. He says :
'You will think the Chief Baron [Pollock]

in a conspiracy with me to invade your lawn !

But I don't know what he may have sent, except
one Cryptomeria -- a little one.'

1860-61 DEATH OF HIS SISTER CATHERINE              125

Before returning to London Owen paid a

visit to his friend Bateman at Congleton, with
Dr. Daubeny, Du Chaillu, E. W. Cooke, and

Dr. Garner,4 and, after staying a few days there,
left for Lancaster, Glamorganshire, the Wrekin

and Shrewsbury, and so back to London. At

Shrewsbury he went to the Museum, which

' contains some old fossil friends, including my

Rhynchosawus, and the best of the Roman anti

quities of Uriconium.'

He had scarcely returned home when he was

summoned to Lancaster to the death-bed of his

sister Catherine. On hearing of her illness he

wrote at once to say he was coming, and enclosed

a letter to his dying sister (October 22) written
in large text hand, so that she might be able

to read it. ' Believe me, dearest Catherine,' he

says, ' I shall ever think of you with the warmest
affection and love, forgetting none of the instances

of your kind, warm heart and true affection.'

' Her death,' he writes in his diary, ' has come

more suddenly than I expected.' He returned

home after spending a week at Lancaster with

his two surviving sisters.
A few days later (November
4                           he gave the

             '

                                                     6),

                                                            if
inaugural address of the Brighton and Sussex

Museum. The collection of the beautiful works

of Nature,' he remarked, 'is a work in which all of

us ought to feel some pleasure. Everywhere,

Robert Garner, author of History of Staffordshire

126  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IV.

we had but the inclination to examine the ope
rations of Nature, are we placed in a museum.

Look at Gilbert White, who, while living in the
little village of Selborne, devoted his intellect to
the common objects of the country around him,

and who has given us. from the results he then
achieved, a book which will probably remain so

long as the English tongue is spoken.
     ' There was also Gideon Mantell, who, when

practising in a small obscure town in the provinces,
found leisure time to look into the marvels of
the country around him, and, as the result of
that labour, had enriched scientific literature with

descriptions of some of the most extraordinary
extinct animals with which his name was linked

to science.'

     After mentioning the new forms, particularly
in fishes, which the rich fossiliferous deposits of
that neighbourhood had brought to light, Owen
insisted on the importance of local museums,
especially as preserving the objects of extinct
natural history found in their immediate locality.
He closed his discourse by saying' that he was
brought to the same conclusion at which Newton

himself arrived --that there is a great First Cause

which, he was convinced, is not mechanical.

     In December 1861 the fatal illness of Prince
Albert caused a deep feeling of sorrow through
out the country. To Owen the Prince's death
was a personal loss. ' You may imagine with

1860-61  DEATH OF PRINCE CONSORT  127

what grief,' he writes to his sister Eliza on the
1 6th, 'after returning home on Saturday with
hopes of the Prince Consort's recovery, I learnt
the sad news of his death yesterday morning.
His Royal Highness had been a constant and
valuable friend to me, and I was one of the few

who, having access to his private life, were able

to appreciate his kindly and truly natural unassum
ing disposition. His loss is a great and unlooked-
for shock to all his friends ; still greater to the

Queen and his children.'

     In another letter to his sisters, written on the

24th, he returns to the same subject : ' Every now
and then the boom of the minute gun came heavily
over from the Park or Tower. Collins went

down to take his turn at the long peal of muffled
bells in the old church-tower. To-day I am at
my post here [British Museum] ; to-morrow will
be another holiday ; yesterday was a sad one.'

128           PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

              CHAPTER V

                                                       1862 64

Jenny Lind -- Ruskin -- Dickens -- Made Chevalier of the Italian
     Order of S. Maurice and S. Lazare -- Inauguration of the Leeds
     Institution, 1862 -- Memoirs on the ' Aye-Aye,' and other
     Literary Work, 1863 -- Lectures before the Queen at Windsor,

      1864.

On January 10, 1862, Owen writes to his sister

Eliza from Dr. Arthur Farre's, Mayfair, where he
was staying :--

     ' We are now in comfortable London quarters

here. Yesterday we all drove over with the

doctor's pair of horses to dine with Mr. and Mrs.

Goldschmidt.  Jenny was in good voice and

kindly sang us a song from Handel's old opera of
"Susannah" --such a beauty ! besides other songs ;

and Mr. G. played charming selections from

Beethoven, &c. Her youngest boy is now a year

old, her golden-haired lassie, about six, very like

herself; there is every sign of a happy, well-

ordered household.'

     In February Owen was the guest of Sir

William (afterwards Lord) Armstrong, during a
lecturing tour in the North, spending some days

with Lord Ravensworth during his stay there.

1862-64    LECTURES IN THE NORTH       129

He sends a special note with a message for Mr.
Liddell, to say that he won a game of chess from
Lord Ravensworth, and read ' Guinevere' to the

ladies. His letters are full of the interest he found

in the Elswick Works and his astonishment at the

methods of manufacture of the guns.
     While in the North of England Owen notes

in his diary that he gave four lectures at New

castle and one at Shields. Mrs. Owen writes

that her husband, on his return home, showed her

an interesting letter sent him, after one of his
Newcastle lectures, by a ' clever and evidently

deep-thinking, though uneducated, working man,'
in which he thanks Professor Owen for his lectures,

and expresses his admiration of his powers of
mind. ' It was an uncommon letter,' Owen re

marks, ' and was very agreeable to receive.'

     The following record of one of Dickens's

readings   at St. James's Hall, to  which he invited
Professor   and Mrs. Owen, occurs
                                     in the diary :--
'April 10. --Yesterday evening there came
a note from Charles Dickens, asking us if we

would like to come to St. James's Hall to hear
one of his readings. I met R. at the Athenaeum,

and then we drove together to St. James's Hall,
where we were welcomed by Miss Dickens and

Miss Hogarth, who sat with us just in front of

Charles Dickens, whose reading, or rather acting,

was wonderful, and the immense audience seemed

to feel it to be so. They applauded at parts

VOL. 11.                            K

130              PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. V.

which showed that every point told. I was in

formed afterwards that Dickens was heard at the
farthest end of the hall, and, if so, it is extra

ordinary that one voice should fill such a large

space. Both R. and I will long remember the

treat. I asked Dickens to come over one June
day to see the garden.'

     On May 2 Owen writes to his sister Eliza,

telling her that his Fullerian Lectures at the

Royal Institution began on April 7 and were ' on
Birds.' After speaking again of the beauty of

his garden, he says : ' May-day was such as the
poets sing of: a bright sunny summer day. I

passed it pleasantly in my garden, only wishing

y"oPuhilhipad,"  been here    to enjoy it.     I was reading
                 in the last  " Cornhill,"  under my cedar,

listening to the trill of the nightingale, about the

time of the opening procession amid the crowds

at the International Exhibition. I felt my happier

position.'

     The charm of Owen's country home was felt

by others besides himself. Among his visitors

was Mr. Ruskin.

    ' Sunday, April 27. -- Mr. Ruskin came as ex

pected, and had a walk with R. At dinner we

had much pleasant conversation on art and lite

rature. Afterwards R. read part of one of the
" Idylls." '

     Other interesting visitors appear in the diary.

     'Sunday, June 1. -- We had Charles Dickens,

1862-64  DICKENS AT SHEEN LODGE                                                                                                                            131

Miss Dickens, Miss Hogarth, and Mr. and Mrs.

John Forster over here to spend the day.

' C. D. is not improved in appearance by the

scanty beard he has now grown. I think his face

               He greatly admired the picture,
is spoiled by  it.
                           is
the " Monastery Interior" in our dining-room, and

he and Mr. Forster were much interested at the

story of it. Mr. F. as cheerful as ever, and we

were all very lively at dinner. Dickens told us

some funny anecdotes about Frenchmen he had met

abroad, and told him an adventure which befell
         I

me when dining with M. and Madame Leverrier
in Paris years ago --how M. Leverrier spilt a

glass of champagne over my new dress just after

having taken me in to dinner, and how having
                                 I,

recovered from the first shock, was astonished by

his suddenly dropping down on his knees, and

frantically catching me round the petticoats till he

had ascertained, breadth by breadth, that there

was no stain. The conclusion of this affecting

narrative brought us to the end of dinner, and we

retired into the garden, where we wandered about

till was time for Dickens to go.'

    'July 17. --A visit from Mr. Waterhouse,

just returned from Pappenheim, where he has
is
     1 it

                                                                                is

                                                                                                                                                        2
been in treaty for the collection of fossils, in which

the curious fossil with the alleged feathered

vertebrate tail.1 The old German doctor ob

stinate about his price, and Mr. W. has come

The Archaopteryx macrura, a feather- winged vertebrate.
                                                                              K

132  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

away empty-handed. We ought not to lose the

fossil.'

     The following extract from Mrs. Owen's
diary gives striking evidence of the widespread
popularity of Owen's labours :--

     'July 28. -- A letter to-day from the Principal

of the College at Amherst, Massachusetts, U.S.A.,

who encloses a printed sheet with extracts from

 R.'s Rede Lecture, delivered at Cambridge in
 1859. He says this printed sheet is hung up in
every public room and every sleeping room in the
gymnasium at Amherst.'

     The extracts referred to consist of the conclud

 ing words of Professor Owen's Rede Lecture.
After a description of the human body, the

lecturer concludes : ' Such are the dominating
powers with which we, and we alone are gifted ! I

say gifted, for the surpassing organisation was no

work of ours. " It is He that hath made us, and not
we ourselves." This frame is a temporary trust, for

the uses of which we are responsible to the Maker.

O you who possess it in all the supple vigour
of lusty youth, think well what it is that He has

committed to your keeping ! Waste not its

energies ; dull them not by sloth ; spoil them not

by pleasures ! The supreme work of creation has

been accomplished that you might possess a body,
the sole erect, of all animal bodies the most

free, and for what ? For the service of the soul.

Strive to realise the conditions of the possession

1862-64       ABNORMAL DEVELOPMENTS  133

of this wondrous structure. Think what it may be
come-- the Temple of the Holy Spirit ! Defile

it not. Seek rather to adorn it with all meet and

becoming gifts, and with fair furniture, moral and

intellectual  '

Owen never let an opportunity pass of seeing

with his own eyes any curious or abnormal deve

lopment of the human frame. He once remarked,

a propos of violin-playing, how much stfuck he

had been in examining Ernst's long, bony, and

muscular fingers, which the great violinist had

obligingly offered for the Professor's inspection.

On one occasion (August 8), ' Frank Buckland

came to the British Museum for R. and took him

to see the French giant, Joseph Brice, now being

exhibited in London. They found him in bed with

a cold. He looked, R. said, quite a Goliath as he

lay his full length, with his great hands spread

out on the bed, but he is not quite so tall as he is

represented to be. He is really 7 ft. 6 in. He is
a great favourite of Frank's, and is certainly ami

able and pleasant.'

On September 22, Professor Owen received

a document from the Italian Legation, creating

him a Chevalier of the Order of St. Maurice and

St. Lazare, in the name of the King, Victor

Emanuel.

Owen was the guest of Mr. Gladstone at

Hawarden in September 1862, and wrote to his

sister from that place on the 27th. He gives little

134  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                 CH. v.

information about his stay, beyond mentioning
that Mr. Gladstone sang two songs, and that he

had had some conversation with Sir Stephen

Glynn and Miss Burdett-Coutts, and that they had

' a pleasant chatty dinner and evening.'

     His lectures at Buckingham Palace were still
bearing fruit. He was now called upon to de

scribe the Dicynodont reptiles and the fossil

remains collected in South Africa by H.R. H.

                        Dicynodon lacerticeps (Owen).
     Skull of a primitive reptile from the Karoo formation of Cape

        Colony. The first evidence of a new order of animals deter
       mined and described by Owen. \ natural size.

Prince Alfred.2 Sir C. B. Phipps wrote the follow

ing letter by command of         the Queen     in  acknow

ledgment of the paper :--

                                            Windsor Castle : October 8, 1862.

    ' My dear Professor Owen, --The Queen has
commanded me to return you Her Majesty's best

thanks for your paper upon the fossils collected in
South Africa by Prince Alfred, which you have

    2 This description was pub-  Transactions  of the Royal
lished in the Philosophical      Society.

1862-64 OPENS THE LEEDS INSTITUTION               135

sent to her. The Queen knows with what interest

this paper would have been read by the lamented

Prince, and she will attach particular value to it

as coming from one for whom he had a very high

respect and regard.

' There is not one of the royal family who does

not look back with pleasure to the lectures which

you were good enough to deliver to them, and at

which I had the high privilege of being allowed

to attend.           ' Sincerely yours,

                                ' C. B. Ph1pps.'

     In December 1862, Owen inaugurated the
Leeds Institution, and he writes to his sister Eliza
on the 18th : ' The secretary of the " Institution"

was in waiting, and we drove first there, where I in
spected the new museum, &c., &c., and then Mr.

James Marshall called and drove me to Headingly.
On Tuesday the inauguration came off, very
successfully. Yesterday Mr. Marshall drove me
to a country seat of a gentleman, Mr. Fawkes,3
who has a wonderful collection of Turner's finest

paintings and drawings, and it happened to be a

bright sunny day for seeing them. This morning
I bade adieu to Headingly, and took my quarters

with an old medical friend in the town, for the

better convenience of my lectures, of which I gave

the first this evening.'

   3 Owen makes a note in his   gentleman was a ' descendant of
letter to the effect that this  Guy F.'

136             PROFESSOR OWEN       ch. v.

     On February 26, 1863, Owen writes to his

sister Eliza a long account of the first Levee held
by the Prince of Wales, and says : ' His Royal

...Highness had a severe taste of that part of his
future duties: 1,000 presentations!  It was

the most crowded ever known, and I was lucky

...to escape with no other loss than a shoe-buckle.
        I met the American Minister and Mrs. and
Miss Adams, Mr. Bates and M. and Madame

Goldschmidt at Mr. Stuart- Wortley's at Sheen

last Saturday. The etiquette is not to ask Jenny

to sing ; but she kindly proposed it after dinner :
began with " My mother bids me bind my hair,"
and ended with a glorious solo from the " Messiah,"

singing four pieces to perfection, her husband

accompanying.'

     Another entry in the diary refers to the great
singer. When Jenny Lind was coming out of

church on a cold day in the very early spring, she

expressed her annoyance at the way in which

people stared, at her, whenever she opened her

mouth, and said : ' I think I will never sing again

in church.' ' I told her,' writes Mrs. Owen, ' that it

was only natural, and that I had a friend staying

with me to whom it was a great disappointment

that she was too  to come and see her to-day.
a

            if
                           ill

                                   I
                                                                                    :

                                                          a

                                                                                                                                                              !
Jenny, who evidently felt that the cold had given
   tinge to her nose, said " My dear Mrs. Owen,

tell her of my nose, and that will be quite enough.
Tell her, you like, that am very ugly woman "

    8.
    s

    a

w>
>l  u=:

<

w "J

<

w    -J

as  £
    X
H

    "i

     z
    <o

    ^

    o


1862-64  GOES TO ASCOT  137

But she is never that, and I have seen her look

quite beautiful when singing.'

     As the summer of 1863 advanced, the beauties
of Owen's garden again fill his letters. On June
5, 1863, he writes to his sister Maria a long
account of its glories, and concludes : ' Will's holi
day began yesterday, and I accompanied him and
a young friend of his to Ascot, my first appearance
on that stage. We went by train, and at the
Twickenham Station I was recognised by the

young Comte de Paris and the Duc d'Aumale,

who rallied me on my gay propensities. Of

course I found many who knew me, whom I did

not know, and had divers civilities proffered, but

declined all save one cigar. Enjoyed the races
much -- a glorious day. The young Prince of

Wales drove, in state, to the ground.'
     In this year Professor Owen published his

interesting ' Memoir on the Aye-Aye ' (Chiromys
madagascariensis). In the course of this memoir he
points out in the case of this little Madagascar

quadruped the striking instances of the special
adaptation of parts to certain uses.

     ' The aye-aye is stated,' he remarks, ' to sleep

during the heat and glare of the tropical day, and
to move about chiefly by night in quest of wood-
boring larvae. The wide openings of the eyelids,

the large cornea, and expansile iris, with other

structures of the eye, are express arrangements

for admitting to the retina and absorbing the

138  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. V.

utmost amount of light which may pervade the
forests at sunset, dawn, or moonlight. Thus the
aye-aye is able to guide itself among the branches

in quest of its hidden food. To discern this,

however, another sense had need to be developed

to great perfection. The large ears are directed

to catch and concentrate, and the large acoustic
nerve and other structures of the organ seem

designed to appreciate any feeble vibration that
might reach the tympanum from the recess in the
hard timber, through which the wood-boring larva

may be tunnelling its way, by repeated scoopings

and scrapings of its hard mandible. How safe

might seem such a grub in its teak or ebony-cased
burrow ! Here, however, is a quadrumanous

quadruped in which the front teeth, by their great
size, strong shape, chisel structure, deep implanta

tion and provision for perpetual renovation of

substance, are especially fitted to enable their

possessor to gnaw down with gouge-like scoops to

the very spot where the ear indicates the grub to

be at work. The instincts of the insect, however,

warn it to withdraw from the part of the burrow
 that may be thus exposed. Had the aye-aye
possessed no other instrument -- were no other
 part of its frame specially modified to meet this

exigency --it must have proceeded to apply the

 incisive scoops in order to lay bare the whole of
 the larval tunnel, to the extent at least which

 would leave no further room for the retracted grub's

1862-64              'MEMOIR ON THE AYE-AYE'                          139

retreat. Such labour would, however, be too much

for the reproductive power of even its strong-built,
wide-based, deep-planted, pulp-retaining incisors; in

most instances we may well conceive such labour

of exposure to be disproportionate to the morsel
to be so obtained. Another part of the frame of the

aye-aye accordingly, modified in a singular and,
    it

                is,
as seems, anomalous way to meet this exigency.

We may suppose that the larva retracts its head

so far from the opening gnawed in its burrow as

to be out of reach of the lips or tongue of the aye-
aye. One finger, however, on each hand of that

animal has been ordained to grow in length, but

not in thickness, with the other digits                               remains
                     is
                                                                   ;
                                               it
slender, as a probe, and provided at the end with

a hook-like claw. By the doubtless rapid inser

tion and delicate application of this digit, the grub
   seized and drawn out. For this delicate man
is

oeuvre the aye-aye needs a free command of its

upper or fore-limbs and, to give                        that power,
one of the digits of the hind foot                      so modified
                     it
                          ;

                                   is
                                         is
                                                 is it
and directed that can be applied thumb-wise to

the other toes, and the foot made a prehensile

hand. Hereby the body steadied by the firm

grasp of these hinder hands during all the opera
tions of the head, jaws, teeth, and fore-paws
required for the discovery and capture of the

common and favourite food of the nocturnal

animal.'

    The living aye-aye, may be added, was visited
                     it

   140   PROFESSOR OWEN                                                 ch. v.

   in 1864, as the following entry in Mrs. Owen's

   diary records :--
       ' August 6. -- To the Zoological Gardens with

   R. to see the living aye-aye and the new monkey
   house. We were glad to see the faithful and good-
   natured keeper Hunt, the old friend of our early
   days at the College of Surgeons. He made the
   hippopotamus come out of the water and show

   himself.'

                           Archaopteryx macrura (Owen).             in
         Head, as seen in the second known specimen, now preserved

            the Berlin Museum of Natural History. Natural size.

        Amongst Professor Owen's writings which

   appeared in 1863 may be mentioned his memoir
         the Archaeopteryx ' ('
   ' On                          aTnradnsV. IIIR.oy.('TSroacn.'s) .;
         Dinornis,' Parts VII.
   'On

   Zool. Soc.') ; ' Osteology of Troglodytes and Pithe-
   cus,' Nos. IV. and V. ; and ' Osteology of An
   thropoid Apes,' Nos. VII. and VIII.

        In September 1863, Owen, accompanied by

   John Gould, was the guest of the Duke of
   Northumberland at Alnwick Castle. Afterwa/ds
   they went to Lord Tankerville's, where, among

   other things, they inspected the Chillingham cattle.

^

         Archceopteryx macrura (Owen

A fossil from the Lithographic Stone of Solenhofen, Bavaria, determined by Owen to
ibe a primitive bird, showig certain reptilian characters.  In the Natural History
Museum,  natural size.

142                  PROFESSOR OWEN                                               ch. v.

     ' I arrived here [at Alnwick] to dinner on
Wednesday,' he writes to his wife (September

 and found Professor Tyndall and Lord and
Lady Tankerville, &c. On Thursday there was
'

                                                                                       ; 5),
a grand flower and fruit show in the grounds

since then have arrived, among others, Sir R.
Murchison, Captain Grant of Nile celebrity, Sir

William Armstrong, and a dark native of Ceylon

in gorgeous costume.  ; is      a wilderness of corridors,

      Alnwick Castle
     ''
staircases, and rooms as Lord Ravensworth re1

marked last night as we were going to bed,
                                     I
                                                   it
was hard on gentlemen past sixty to have to

mount 70 steps to get to rest   !
       Breakfast bell will soon ring, and have to

get ready to start with Lord Tankerville, and so

good-bye.'

                                Chillingham Castle, Alnwick.

     Here at Lord Tankerville's am enjoying a
4
hearty and lively time.'        have had a good view

        is
                             a

                                 I

                                                  a

                                                        I

                                                                              7,
of the wild cattle, and have seen a red deer

pulled down. This morning am off to Edinburgh.'

     In the following month, October                                              1863,

Owen sends in report to the Trustees of the

British Museum about            whale which was

stranded on the coast of Caithness, and which he

was anxious that the Museum should possess.4

       It the skeleton of this  Natural History, South Ken-
                                sington.
whale that now stands in the
entrance hall of the Museum of

1862-64  SKELETON OF A WHALE  143

He says : ' Professor Owen has the honour to
report to the Trustees that, having heard of the
stranding of a whale on the coast of Caithness,
upon the estate of Captain Macdonald, near
Thurso, he wrote to that gentleman, who in
reply stated that, if Professor Owen would inspect

the specimen and superintend or give directions
for the preparation of the bones, he might have

them at his own valuation.

        ' Professor Owen, after conferring on the
subject with the Duke of Northumberland and

Sir Roderick Murchison, proceeded to Thurso,

inspected the whale, which proved to be a full-
grown female cachalot (Pkyseter macrocephalus),
and, after ascertaining the probable cost of clean

ing, preparing, and packing the bones, offered the
sum of 30/. for them, which was accepted by
Captain Macdonald. Part of one paddle was lost,

and the jaw was fractured, and some teeth of the

lower jaw were missing, but in other respects the

skeleton was more complete than is usual with

those of full-sized whales. Its length was sixty
feet. After forming the nearest estimate of the

specimen which circumstances would permit, Pro
fessor Owen engaged the services of an intelligent

carpenter, to assist in the examination and dis
section of the whale, and confided to him, with

written instructions, the cleaning, bleaching, and
packing of the bones. Professor Owen believes
that the bones of the cachalot will be received in

144  PROFESSOR OWEN                     ch. v.

London at a cost not exceeding 80/., covering all

expenses. There is no skeleton of this species in

the Museum, and he requests the sanction of the

Trustees for the steps he has taken to acquire it

for the department of Zoology.'

    There is added as a postscript :--

     ' On his return to the Museum, Professor

Owen has found a letter from Captain Macdonald,

liberally offering to present the bones to the
Museum under certain conditions. In acknow

ledging this letter, Professor Owen has begged

leave to omit the reference to himself in the pro

posed inscription [of the whale], inasmuch as he
had simply performed his duty as an officer of the

Trustees in regard to the specimen.'

     In various quarters of the globe Owen had

friends who were working to enrich the natural
history collection under his charge. He received,

in this and the following year, valuable specimens,

which were sent him from Africa. The first col
lection was sent by Dr. John Kirk, Livingstone's

companion and fellow-traveller ; the second by

M. Du Chaillu.
     In December 1863 Dr. Kirk wrote the follow

ing letter to Professor Owen with regard to the

specimens which he was sending :--

     ' After our last interview the African fever

again returned, and haunted me, coming on at the

...most awkward times when in company, and forcing
me to retire to bed.  I have been to-day at

1862-64 LIVINGSTONE'S FELLOW-TRAVELLER     145

Kew and packed up a case of birds' skins, which

will be sent off to-morrow addressed to you at

the Museum, that you may take whatever is of

interest from among them. . . . Among the birds
you will find, I fear, little new. The ornithology

seems to differ little from that of the West Coast

and contains very many South African species [a
long list of names follows] ; one species of duck

is wanting, the specimens having been destroyed

by insects before leaving the Zambesi while I

was away with Dr. Livingstone on one of the

land journeys.

' The only specimens I have got of a small

agapornis were stolen along with my baggage at

Lake Nyassa, by the treacherous natives of that

part, who nearly had our scalps as specimens to

adorn the trees which constitute their Zoological

Gardens, or to form part of some powerful fetish

to be worn by their headmen.

' Still, the collection will give some idea of what

kinds inhabit these parts.

' There is one bird, a corythaix, which Dr.

L. and I found on our first trip among the

Mangunja Hills, one of the handsomest in the

country, and very local in its distribution. Even

the common birds will be of interest to me when

...determined, as giving the native names some
degree of interest.         I shall only be too glad

to go over them and give any details I may know.

Those that are not of any value to the Museum

VOL. II.                                L

146  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

I shall be glad of as a means of thanking Mr.

Young, whose kindness to the expedition through

out has been very great. Among the skins is one
of a young crocodile, and it will be followed by

two more ycung ones preserved in spirit. I find

many things sadly injured from wet ; they lay at

Mozambique, having been left to take their chance
after they had gone out of my hands. I learn
from the owners that the vessel in which I ex

pected the remainder of the specimens of 1862
and 1863 will be here in January or February.'

     The other specimens came from M. Du Chaillu.
The French hunter, on his first visit to England,
was severely if not rancorously attacked by cer
tain persons in London, who refused to believe
the story of his travels, and even went so far as

to deny that he had ever seen a live gorilla.
Though Owen, Murchison, and most of the lead
ing scientific men stood staunchly by him, it was
impossible that Du Chaillu, a young man and a

foreigner, should not feel their taunts keenly. As

the best means of proving his own veracity, he,
in 1864, returned to the Gaboon, and in due

course sent to England a fresh consignment of

dead gorillas and one living one, which only

survived a short time.

     In October 1864, Sir Roderick Murchison

wrote Professor Owen the following letter from
Torquay with regard to M. Du Chaillu: --

     ' . . . I have had a charming letter from Du

1862-64  GORILLAS                                147

Chaillu. It is so good, so superior to his earlier

letters, so full of fire, noble, and self-sacrificing

resolution, that I shall read it as our opening

morceau at the Geographical, November 12.
     ' He tells me he has sent to the British Museum

many insects, butterflies, &c., &c., and twenty

gorillas, and a live one for the Zoological. You
have probably heard too. He was just going off

into the vast interior with a stout heart and in

good spirits at having been replenished with his

scientific instruments.

' Never were we more in the right than when

we stood up for this fine little fellow.'

    A few weeks later, arrived some African articles

from M. Du Chaillu for Owen himself. These con

sisted of a number of mats, a piece of native cloth,
a drum, and a kind of harp, ' a well-made but
primitive instrument. The piece of skin which is

stretched over the wood-work is an elephant's ear.'

With such incessant work on his hands, Owen

would have been more than human if he had

altogether escaped illness.    At the close  of 1863
                                               White
--on December 28 -- he       writes to Mr.

Cooper : ' For a wonder (and I can't be suffi

ciently thankful for having been free so many

years), I am tied to my house by sciatica in the

left limb, which keeps me awake half the night.

. . . Poor Thackeray's departure was a sorrow

ful shock to me ; I had been greeted by him only

the Friday previously at the club.'          l2

i48  PROFESSOR OWEN           ch. v.

     The sciatica seems, however, to have soon

yielded to treatment. Within a few weeks he was
again on his travels. Towards the end of January

1864 he paid a visit to the South of France, to
the Vicomte de Lastic at Salette, to report upon a

collection of human remains associated with flint

implements and bones of Mammalia found in the
caverns of that district. ' I was met at the

station,' he writes to his wife, January 21, 1864,

'at 5 p.m. by the Vicomte, and have had a most
kind reception. Found a blazing wood fire in my

dressing-room (for all was hard frost this morning
when I got out at Perigueux and began my day's

journey) ; the last forty miles through mountain
scenery like that we passed through in our High

land trip --very beautiful. At Paris I spent some

hours in the Jardin d'Acclimatation, arriving at
7.30 A.M., and quitting the same hour the same

evening. . . .'

    ' February 5. -- This is a charming family,

...the representative ddbris of one of the old seig-
norial lords of the country.  an old chateau,

hid in a valley alongside the river Aveyron, with

hills and precipices on each side. An old coach,

and coachman, and pair of black horses with long

manes and tails, just as figured in old books. No

neighbours.'

     In view of this expedition, Owen only gave

three lectures (on Fishes) at the Royal Institution,
as Fullerian Professor, before starting for France.

1862-64 TOO QUICK FOR THE EMPEROR  149

These lectures were delivered on January 4, 11,

and 18.

    To secure the safe arrival of the collection a

second visit to France was necessary. On Feb
ruary 13, 1864, he writes to his sister Eliza : ' The

/Trustees have bought the whole of the Vicomte

de Lastic's collection, and must go, with a pro

fessional packer from Paris, to superintend the

packing . . . The Emperor sent a commissioner

to see and report on the collection the day after I
left Salette, but I have been too quick for him.'

     ' This time,' Owen writes to his wife (February
19), ' we had a frightful passage, being detained for
a long time off Calais in a dense fog. I arrived
at the Vicomte de Lastic's feeling desperately
queer, but nothing could be kinder than my nurses
here. I have been able to superintend the
packing (February 22), and all will go off to
London to-morrow. . . . My dear old femme de
chambre seems to have slept by snatches of fifteen
minutes during the last few days and nights, for I
think she has not left me longer out of her sight
day or night, and our colloquies have been of the

most comical description.'

     In March and April 1864 Owen had the
honour of lecturing before the Queen and royal
children at Windsor Castle in the White Drawing-

room. There being no conveniences for the

display of diagrams, the Professor utilised a high-

backed chair as an easel and illustrated his lecture

ISO  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

by Wolf's coloured drawings of animals. His
audience on March 29 included the Queen,
the Princesses Helena and Louise, and Princes

Arthur and Leopold ; and that of a later lecture,
the King of the Belgians. Of this later lecture,
Owen has left an account in a letter to his sister
Maria, April 5, 1864 :--

      ' I was much interested in seeing the good old
King of the Belgians walk in ; he bears his height
well. Both he and the Queen honoured me with
a long conversation after my lecture, asking many
questions. The Queen told me they were plagued
with toads at Osborne, and that they had the

spawn destroyed whenever it could be found near

the house. Her Majesty wrote to ask me to give
the lecture yesterday at one, instead of three, as
" she should have visitors at that hour." I

reached the Castle a little after twelve, and got my

diagrams on two large clothes-horses, which were

brought into the grand drawing-room assigned for

the purpose. As the luncheon hour is two, I

made my lecture short, and this left more time

for the conversations and questions, about dogs,
and the gorilla, and M. Du Chaillu, and whether

babes had ever been brought up by wolves, and

if such children could speak, and a very amusing
variety of chat ; old King Leopold asking many

thoughtful questions suggested by the lecture.

The Dean of Windsor (Gerald Wellesley), who

was present with all the Court, and Highnesses,

1862-64 LECTURES AT WINDSOR CASTLE              151

both Serene and Royal, " had no idea before
                                         "
that  the  frog  was  ever  a  tadpole      or  that the
                                        !

tadpole turned into a frog ! I had described

the chief part of the metamorphoses. After

their Majesties' departure there is of course much
chat with the lords and ladies in waiting. Her
Majesty sent to ask if I would see " Beatrice "

after luncheon, and accordingly about a quarter to

three I was conducted from the Lords in Waiting's

luncheon table, by an usher, to a long gallery,

with oriel windows and beautiful paintings. The

lady in special charge of little Beatrice led me

some way along the gallery, where a short dis

tance further we came upon Lord Russell, and

I had a very cordial greeting from my neigh
bour in Richmond Park. Then we went on a

little further, and again stopped, and I could see

the Queen and King Leopold walking arm-
in-arm along the further end of the gallery,

which is in a curve, and coming towards us ; we
stopped in the embrasure or oriel till they had

turned back, and then crossed the gallery and

out of a door which led along the passage to

the Princess Beatrice's room. She has beauti

ful long sandy golden hair, hanging wavy down

her back. She will be eight years old on the
14th of April. We went to the lecture-room,
and I told her stories about the animals in the

diagrams for about half an hour. She is con

sidered too young to come in to the lectures

152  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

 Lord Russell and I returned by the same train

home.'

     In June Owen read a paper at the Royal Society
' On the Cavern of Bruniquel and its Human Re
mains.' Writing to his sisters on the subject of
these remains, he says : ' The case contained skulls
and other bones of the men who made flint tools,

and by means of these made weapons and imple
ments out of the bones and horns of the deer and
oxen they killed and ate. The deer were reindeer,
the oxen a gigantic extinct kind which we call Bos

primigenius. Of the flint and bone implements

there are thousands, all got out of the cave, which

must have been inhabited for generations by this
primaeval race of men. They even made needles
of bone, so perfect you might hem with them.'

      Some years previously Professor Owen had
delivered a lecture to the Young Men's Christian
Association at Exeter Hall ' On some Instances
of the Power of God as manifested in His Animal

Creation.' Certain statements in this lecture ap
parently gave offence to the Committee of Pub

lication, for its publication was cancelled. It

appeared, however, this year (1864) as ' Instances
of the Power of God, &c.,' 12mo.

      Professor Owen defended himself in a lecture

given at Leeds, in which he says : ' If the letter

 killeth and the spirit giveth life, . . . how deeply
 ought we to be concerned in more fully and clearly
delivering the religious truths which we accept

1862-64  ON HOLY SCRIPTURE  153

and reverence as teaching us the things essential

to eternal life !

      ' Those who contend that such vital truths rest

essentially on the basis of the literal and verbal
accuracy and acceptability of every physical pro
position in the Pentateuch, hazard much, and

incur grave responsibilities.
      ' When the canonical statement and the scien

tific demonstration do concur, who rejoices more
than the Christian philosopher ? When they do
not, and the opposing statements are irreconcilable,
who is more bound than the Christian philosopher
to deliver the truth and declare the error, and

fling from him the sophism by which the error is
salved or veiled, that it may still be reverently
cherished, notwithstanding the admitted demon
stration of its erroneous nature ? For such

demonstrations are not to be confounded, as they
have been by those against whose prepossessions

they jar, with the speculative philosophies con
demned by the Apostle. Nothing can be further
from the uniform experience of the temperament
and character of great inductive discoverers than
to ascribe the results of their patient and laborious
research to arrogant and wilful intellect soaring to

regions of forbidden mysteries. For the most

part the discoverer has been so placed by circum
stances as to have his work of investigation allotted
to him as his daily duty, in the fulfilment of which
he is brought face to face with phenomena into

154    PROFESSOR OWEN                          CH. v.

which he must inquire, and the results faithfully
impart -- acting, in all this, as the servant of his
Master, and with the sense of responsibility for
the use of the talents allotted to him. " So man,"

in the noble and eloquent language of the revered
and lamented Prince Consort, " is approaching

a more complete fulfilment of that great and

sacred mission which he has to perform in this

world. His reason being created after the image

of God, he has to use it to discover the laws by
which the Almighty governs His creation, and by
making those laws the standard of action to con

quer Nature to his use : himself a Divine instru-

ment.

     Owen spent his holiday at Swansea, and took

the opportunity of inspecting the museum there.

' It has a fine collection of local fossils,' he says,

' but a ridiculous looking stuffed wild boar leaning

against the wall in a most maudlin attitude.'

     On October 3 he started for Birmingham,
where he gave a short course of lectures, and then

proceeded to Leamington. Writing to his sisters
on October 26, he says :--

     ' I am writing in a bedroom, looking into one

of the large squares of this pretty town. I am

staying with a friend who was an     influential
member of the Philosophical Society  of Leeds
when I opened their new buildings.
                                      He now

lives at Leamington, and came over to my lectures

at Birmingham, of which I delivered the last on

1862-64  'GENERAL' TOM THUMB  155

Monday evening. I was then the guest of an
old Bartholomew's friend. On Tuesday I left
Birmingham to meet by appointment the Council
of the Philosophical Society there at the museum.

Inspected that, and the beautiful church ; then to

the Castle. Much interested in all I saw. To

day I see Kenilworth, to-morrow home.'
     On December 1 Owen had two strange

visitors at the British Museum -- ' General ' and

Mrs. Tom Thumb. They called upon him in

great state, and were shown up to the Professor's

room by the hall-porter. In going over the
Museum, Mrs. Tom Thumb, it seems, hung her
head, as if not liking to be looked at by the people

there, but the ' General ' was quite self-possessed,

and looked at the different things in an observant

way, beguiling the time with conversation about
his visit to the Prince of Wales.

      ' I had a pleasant gossip,' says Owen to his

sister Eliza (December 6, 1864), ' with the Dean
of Westminster last evening, who sat next to me
at the " Literary Club," about the weddings at
Alderley, and the Holy Land, and the extra verse
in the Cambridge copy of the Greek MS. of the
N. T., and about the Davenport Yankee Brothers
and conjurors in general, and the geology of
Westminster. My other neighbour, the Under-
Secretary of State for India, confessed to having

paid his guinea and been banged by the guitars, &c.5

   5 At one of the spiritualistic stances of the Davenport Brothers.

156  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. v.

Other members present were -- Mr. Walpole (in
the chair), Judge Erie, Dr. Travers Twiss, Dr.
Southey (interesting to look at such a represen
tative of the poet, now old and drooping), the
Editor of the " Edinburgh Review," Richmond the
painter, Newton the discoverer of the Mausoleum.
The old Bishop of Lichfield sent his resignation ;
had been a member since 1824. . . . We like our

clergyman much ; and his curate, who preached
his first sermon at our little iron church, I also like,

and am glad we are so well provided in spirituals.

The vicar has organised evenings for amusing his

poorer parishioners by " Readings," to give which
gentlemen volunteer. I have consented for Mon

day, 19th, and have chosen some quiet chapters

from Gait's "Annals of the Parish " to begin with.
I may give a bit of Milton or of Tennyson before
I have done with them.'

1865-68  SOCIAL LIFE                              157

         CHAPTER VI

         1865-68

Social Life-- Letter from Tennyson -- Serious Illness -- Bones of the
Dodo --Plan of Sunday Lectures,      1865 -- His
and wide Circle of Friends -- Death  of Whewell,  Love of Society,
                                                   1866 -- Marriage
of his only Son, January 1867-- ' Wayside Gatherings ' and their
Teachings, 1867-- Lectures at Bradford, 1868.

On January 28, 1865, Owen writes to his

sisters :--

     ' We have now a Siberian landscape from

...the Cottage, very bright and beautiful though.
          I was tempted by an invitation from a

railway millionaire on Wednesday to Chipstead

Place, a fine old manor house once owned by a
son-in-law of Oliver Cromwell, full of wainscoted

rooms and a very fine library full of choicest
editions -- all the 410 plays of Shakespeare, a first
edition of the folio, &c. On Thursday drove to
Penshurst Place, where I saw all the relics of Sir
Philip Sidney : the card table which Queen Eliza
beth had worked for him, the pair of glass chan

deliers which she presented to the ballroom after

her "progress" to Penshurst, and a most quaint

158  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vi.

painting of Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of

 Leicester dancing a saraband. . . .'
      On March 4 he tells his sisters to get their

 ' migratory plumage into proper order for the end of

April. Large parties,' he continues, ' are already
going on. On Tuesday Mr. Gladstone's rooms were
crowded. I looked in there after dining with " The
Club," and heard a chorus and a tenor solo ; it was

a musical evening. I glanced at my watch to save

the midnight train, and meanwhile had got so
jammed up into a corner of a far sofa that it

required an exertion to drag myself between the

gilt legs of a heavy table and the green velvet
folds of the ample garment of the middle-aged
lady with whom I had been talking. LadyWalde-
grave's " early evenings " similarly crowded.' De

scribing a dinner at the Comte de Paris' he says :
' The bride of the Comte de Paris is beautiful ; the
wife of the Comte d'Eu looks old, with eyes of
a wearied expression. He is handsomer than his
cousin, and will be Emperor of Brazil ; the other
may be King of the French. The portraits of
the Duke and Duchess d'Orleans, of the ex-

Queen and King of the French, are full of inte

rest ; the furniture in the large drawing-room at

York House is that worked by the ladies of Paris
for the youthful pair -- glorious flower-groups on

cream-coloured silk or satin ! I wish I knew the

French dame who sailed me in to dinner ! There
I tasted for the first time " bustard " in a pie, like

1865-68  AS UNIVERSAL PROVIDER               159

a Yorkshire one, which had been sent to them by

the Queen of Spain from Madrid ; it was of a
snipey flavour, very good.'

     On April 13, 1865, he writes to his sister

Maria, in anticipation of the coming visit from
his sisters : ' We have now a lovely bed of

hyacinths out, and the adjoining tulip-bed is
beginning to show colour. The horse chestnut

leaves are unfolding, but it is unseasonably dry.

The orchard-house shows a glorious blaze of

blossom, with the bees busily humming, and the

warmth giving quite a midsummer character to
the interior. The wild hyacinths, arums, &c., I

brought last year from Norfolk are all springing
up or in flower. I think you will find the garden

this year quite up to the mark.' .

     In a brief scrap of a note to his wife in May

1865 Owen refers to the extraordinary applica
tions which he was constantly receiving from

persons who seemed to think that they had

merely to apply to him, and he, by some myste

rious arts, would immediately obtain for them

their request, however wild and extravagant it

'might be :--
     ' Among my letters this morning,' he says, ' I

have one asking for a royal living (vicarage, &c.),

another for a lieutenant-colonelcy        '
                                    !!

In another amusing letter to his wife Owen

relates an incident which occurred this year in

a certain small town in Suffolk in which he was

i6o          PROFESSOR OWEN              ch. VI.

lecturing. After saying that the inhabitants seemed
to derive some occult pleasure out of his lecture

' On Birds generally, and Dinornis specially,' he

continues : 'Just before going in, the beadle came

with Mr. Mayor's compliments, and he was very

sorry he could not take the chair, as his wife had

died that afternoon, and would I be so good as to

let his daughter have my autograph ? Fact ! !

I gravely wrote it and gave  it,   with due condo

lences, and walked on to the platform.'

     In 1865 Livingstone was again in England,
and from an entry in Mrs. Owen's diary we find
him on May 14 one of a large party of friends at
Sheen Lodge. There came Dr. Livingstone and
             '
his daughter, now grown up, and going on with;
her father to Paris Charles Halle and his two
eldest daughters, Dr. Becker, &c., &c. Halle
played several times during the evening. Dr.

Becker took away with him the long-guarded cast

of Shakespeare's face.'4.

    'July -- R. lunched at the Deanery, West
minster, to meet the Queen of the Netherlands,
who talked a good deal on scientific matters, and

knows something of the subject. Tennyson and

Max Muller were also there.'

    'July 12. --To Nuneham Park (Mrs. V. Har-
                             with   Lady Houghton
court).    Travelled down    also  going there. The
and her  daughter, who were
election prevented many from coming. The next
day we made up a party to go to Oxford, consist-

1865-68    VISIT TO SCOTLAND                                  161

ing of Lord and Lady Houghton and their

daughter, aged thirteen, R. and myself, and one or
two others. After seeing the College gardens, in
full bloom, called on Sir Benjamin Brodie. Re

turned that evening to Richmond Park, found

Mr. John Ella1 there, who stayed for a day or
two. He played all the evening, while we had the

large telescope out on the verandah and looked at

Jupiter. Next morning Professor Babbage came.

He sent in a curious bit of metal, like a cogwheel,
                                                       and the words, " No
with his name in red on
                                    it
                                         is

                                                  it,
cards." Believe                     a bit of his calculating

machine.'

     Owen spent part of his August holiday in
Scotland. He writes to his sister, in a letter dated

August     care of                  Fowler, Esq., Inverbroun
         5,

                       J.
Lodge, by Dingwall, Ross-shire, N.B. If you
                                                           :
                                                                '

                                                                      I
glance at a map of Scotland you will see the west

coast, opposite the Isle of Skye, indented with deep

inland bays. One of these forms the large lake

look out upon as raise my eyes from the paper
                It I
to the window.                      enclosed by mountains, the
                      is

furthest shutting out the sea, and bathed in the

deep pearly blue light that poor Robson knew so

well how to render. Yesterday our drive took us
to rocky chasms, waterfalls, and mountain " tarns,"

the road in part like those Swiss roads on the

edge of    precipice, but safe enough with the
           a

                          ;
                                 1
steady horses though, by the way, when we got

                                    Of the Musical Union.

VOL. II.                                                   M

162  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. v1.

to the high ground, the gnats stung them almost

to unmanageableness.'
     On August 30 he writes to tell his sisters that

he is back home again and ready for work at the
Museum. But he miscalculated his strength and
powers of endurance during his Highland tour, as
will be seen from a letter written to his friend

White Cooper :--
     ' You know that my wife and I spent August

among the mountains of Ross and Inverness.
There I stalked with the stalkers, and walked or

scrambled with the grouse and ptarmigan-shooters,

and even waded the salmon streams, rejoicing in

my well-conserved vigour, outlasting younger
men. Foolish philosopher ! to think of doing at
sixty the feats of fifty or forty. Since our return
home I have become affected with loss of muscular
power -- my arms more feeble than my legs. I've

not long been able to hold a pen, and have made,
I see, a shameful blot by mismanaging the ink

stand.'

      Soon after his Highland holiday he wrote to
Alfred Tennyson to ask the ' quantity ' of the word
' embryonic.' He received the following reply

from Faringford :--
     ' My dear Owen, -- I suppose when you say

"quantity," like most English people, you mean
accent. "Embryonic" would be the accent,
though the syllable is a short one-- embryonic,
not embryonic. As for " embryonal," I never

1865-68  LETTER FROM TENNYSON  163

heard of such a word, but if there be such, it may

be a moot point whether you laid the accent on
the first syllable or on the one before the last ; for
there is a word " embryonate" (being in the state
of an embryo), which I find accented on the first.
" Embryonal " would be certainly wrong ; but ex

cept you really want the two words for some
scientific distinction, it would be better to stick to
" embryonic."

      ' I and my wife too are grieved to hear that
you have overtasked your muscular powers in

your Highland holiday. Pray, for your own and
your friends' sake, obey your doctors (you can
scarce have a better or a kindlier than Paget), and
cease to work for awhile that you may work better
hereafter. We cannot afford to lose your brains

-- not at least till all our lizards are dug out, and

this stretch of red cliff which I see from my attic

windows no longer needs such an interpreter.
                               ' Believe me,

                                   ' Ever truly yours,
                                           ' A. Tennyson.'

     On October 18 Owen writes to his sisters :

' My doctors -- Paget and Farre --were with us,

dining on Sunday, and considered me convalescent.
I have had no particular ailment, but a general
loss of muscular power, rather more in my arms
than legs, with loss of appetite. This has come
back, and so, I trust, shortly all my old strength.

                                                                                                             M2

1 64  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VI.

As for giving up work, poor creatures of habit and
circumstances as we are ! Not while I can do it
and it comes in my way -- at all events, in finishing
what I've made good progress in. Ask Pearson2
[Langshaw] if he thinks it likely ! '

                            r the DODO. 5 natural size

     In October 1865 Owen received a parcel
of bones of the dodo, through the Bishop of
Mauritius, and in acknowledging these important
remains he says : --

     ' Through your kind offices my eyes have at
length been gladdened by the sight of the bones

                               2 His Lancaster friend.

1865-68  THE DODO  165

of the dodo. Mr. George Clark's second parcel

has been brought to me, and, having completed

the first comparisons and rough determinations

of their nature, I lose no time in acknowledging
and replying to your most acceptable letter.
Mr. Clark's collection includes most of the bones
of the skeleton and all those of importance for
testing the hypotheses of the affinities and place
in nature of this most strange and extinct bird,
the Didus ineptus of Linnaeus. Besides bones
of the dodo, there are a few referable to a small

beast and a large tortoise.

     1 The dodo's bones belong to five or six

different individuals ; the toe bones are wanting ,
. . . and now, having gratified my long-felt
yearnings to know more of Didus, I find those
with regard to sEpyornis growing stronger.
Madagascar marshes and turbaries may yield
similar evidences of this gigantic extinct bird.
After the aye-aye the sEpyornis is the main

desideratum from that island for zoology. . . .
Thank you again for all the kind and valuable

interest you have taken in this matter.'
     Respecting this parcel of dodo's bones, Owen

writes to his sister : ' The dodo I owe mainly
to the Bishop of Mauritius : it was found --its
bones to wit --in a morass by one of the diocesan
schoolmasters, for whom I hope to get 100/.
I have been working in the day and dreaming at
night about my Xmas bird for a fortnight past.

166          PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vi.

It proves to be a great ground pigeon, grown

too big to fly, and so let its wings go to

waste.'

     The last fortnight of November was occupied
in a course of lectures delivered before the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Hull. Here,
and elsewhere, Owen experienced the great in

terest which he was able to excite in the subject
of his lectures, and he felt that the opportunity

only was wanting to arouse the same intelligent

interest among artisans. With this object, and
also in the hope of supplying profitable occupation

for their idle moments, he desired to organise a
course of Sunday lectures for the working classes.

In this scheme, which he had deeply at heart,
Charles Dickens warmly sympathised.

     But apparently the working man first thought
he would like them, then thought he would not,
and finally was not at all clear as to what he did
like or want. The two following letters from

Dickens were received on the subject :--

                                                       Saturday, November 4, 1865.

     ' My dear Owen, -- Is it quite settled and

resolved on that you begin the Sunday lectures

for the Sunday League ? Because if it be, I will

certainly follow so noble a leader, and give them

a Sunday reading. One word in answer will be

sufficient.  ' Ever faithfully yours,
                         ' Charles Dickens.'

i86s-68 DICKENS AND SUNDAY LECTURES             167

     After the lapse of a month came the second
letter :--

                                                             Sunday, December 6, 1865.

     ' My dear Owen, -- I have sent the Secretary
of the Sunday League a letter, of which I enclose
you a copy. It is clear to me that they are

wrong in their facts, and that the time is not ripe
for the proposed lectures. They ' cannot get
working men together in sufficient force to
declare their desire for that Sunday recreation.
On the other hand, their opponents can (and do)
get working men together in sufficient force to put
them down, and declare that they don't want

                       Ever cordially yo'Curs,d;
                          '

                                                                       it.

Amongst the papers written by Owen which

appeared in 1865 the following may be men
tioned On the Homology of the Tooth
('                                       ;
                       :
                      '                     '
Archives of Dentistry,' vol.
                                                                        '
                          ('             309) On the

                                i.
                                     p.
Marsupial Pouches, Mammary Glands, and Foetus

of the Echidna hystrix' Phil. Trans.') On;
Indian Cetacea' Zool. Trans.').
                                             '
     In society he found hjs relaxation, and he en
I
joyed to the full the pleasures of social life. Mrs.; 5, is
                   ('
Owen's diary full of such entries as the follow

ing :--                   1866. -- R. and dined at Pem
     'January                 I

broke Lodge sat next to Lord Russell, with

whom always get on well. After dinner he took

168           PROFESSOR OWEN                     CH. VI.

" Punch " off the table, and showed me a caricature

of himself with a baby in his arms, and John Bright
as clown pulling it away ; but he said he did not

think the likeness as good as usual. He was

much amused with an anecdote which I told

him about R., who was coming down from town
one day, and bought " Punch " at the station,

with his lordship figuring in it in some ridiculous

way. When he got into the train he did not
notice the other occupant of the carriage, who had

got in just before him, and was beginning to laugh

loudly over the picture, when, on lifting his eyes

from the page, he was suddenly petrified to see

the original of the sketch sitting opposite. He has
tily crammed " Punch " into his pocket, but was

in another moment relieved, and much amused

to see Lord R. produce a copy out of his own

pocket, and read it with much apparent enjoy

ment.'              -- R. went to dine
                    friends there-- Mr.
    'January   15.                       at the  Garrick
                                                 Murray,
Club. Many    old                        John

M. Du Chaillu, Mr. Pentland, &c. Our bust

of Shakespeare, which was bought by the Duke

of Devonshire, and presented to the Club, looked

very well.'

     Other references to his wide circle of friends

constantly occur in his letters. Thus, in January

1866, he went with Mr. Fowler to the Isle

of Wight, where he visited Alfred Tennyson.

On the 21st he writes to his wife from St.

1865-68          AT FARINGFORD   169

Lawrence : ' Mr. F[owler] and I return to Lon
don to-morrow. Mrs. Tennyson sends her best

love to you. . . . My host and hostess were

charmed with their reception at Faringford ; we
were there from 1 to 3 p.m. The poet is very

well ; we had fair weather for our drive, and I

had half an hour to look over the Rev. Mr. Fox's

fossils 3 at Brixton en route.'

... 'IWriting to his sister Eliza on February 14,
1866, he 'says:      have just returned from

The Club.        I sat next the Premier and

opposite the Lord Chancellor. The Duke of

Argyll was in the chair, supported by the Duc

d'Aumale and the Dean of Westminster ; then
Lord Stanley, Earl Stanhope, Lord Kings-

down, Sir H. Holland, Froude, Dean Milman,

Mr. Stirling, Sir Edward Head, Spencer Wal-
pole, and the Editor of the " Edinburgh Review "

(Reeve) completed the party. . . . There are two
vacancies, and Sir Hugh Cairns and a Mr.

Twiselton --a wonderful Hebrew scholar --are

proposed. Wonderful French bons mots were

passed across our end of the table between the

Duc d'Aumale and Lord Stanhope ; Lord Russell

and I talked about our gardens, primroses, male
aucubas, and new things from Japan. We all had

pancakes ! according to custom. I've a whole

holiday to-morrow.'

     3 Mr. Fox discovered the Poikilopleuron and other interesting
fossil Dinosaurs.

170         PROFESSOR OWEN                      CH. VI.

     The last two sentences of this letter read

more like those of a boy at school than of a

busy man of sixty-two, and serve to illustrate the

wonderful spirits which Owen enjoyed throughout

his life.

     ' Poor Whewell,' he writes to his sister Maria

on February 27, 1866, 'is reported rather more
                                   " Times   "
favourably  of in  this morning's               but  it
                                            ;

is not a very hopeful case. I think it not

unlikely that he had a kind of stroke while

on his horse, and so startled the animal before

he fell. There will be expectancies now raised

that were kept in abeyance through belief in

the long-aged constitution of the strong-looking

man.' A few days afterwards Whewell passed

away, and by his death Owen lost a school

fellow and an old and lifelong friend.

     Owen thus writes to a correspondent in

Germany who is desirous of translating his

' Palaeontology' into German (March 16, 1866): --

     ' I have communicated your request to

Messrs. Black, who have the copyright of my

"Palaeontology," and have this morning heard

from them. They have no objections to the

translation of the work into German, and I

shall have pleasure in its being undertaken

by so devoted a zoologist and palaeontologist
as yourself. Whatever additions you may think

fit to make will receive my best attention in

relation to a third edition of the English issue,

1865-68  'TRICHINA SPIRALIS' AGAIN  171

which may shortly be called for. The organic
character of Eozoon 4 is still contested by some

of our experienced names ; but not conclusively,

to my mind.

     Now and again a touch of pardonable pride at
the verification of his discoveries crops out in his
letters. Writing to his sisters in April 1866, he
says :--

      ' To-night I preside at the Royal Academy of
Arts, when a paper is read on Cattle Disease,

including that singular form occasioned by my

wee worm Trichina spiralis, which some of my
friends are at length obliged to own that I did

discover.'

     With his friend Mr. (now Sir John) Fowler,
who was President of the Institution, he dined with
the Civil Engineers. To his sister Maria he sends,
on May 16, 1866, an account of the banquet :
'After the great dinner H.R. H. Prince of Wales

sent to ask me to come to him in the smoking-room,

where a select party were gathered for more social
chat than the formal banquet and its speech-making

     4 'Eozoon' is a singular    of the Geological Record, 1881.
                                 The mineral nature of ' Eozoon '
structure discovered by Logan
and Dawson in the Laurentian     was, however, strongly insisted
Rocks of Canada, which was       upon by King, Rowney,Moebius,
                                 and others, and the recent re
said to be Protozoan, and sup-   searches of Gregory and John-
                                 ston-Lavis upon the lavas of
posed to represent the earliest
form of life preserved on this   Vesuvius have practically de-
planet. The history of this      monstrated its inorganic nature,

structure may be found in King
and Rowney, An Old Chapter

172          PROFESSOR OWEN     ch. VI.

allowed. His Royal Highness, after alluding to

the pleasure he had in my lectures at Buckingham

Palace, and to the cosy little dinner-parties at the

White Lodge, chiefly chatted about the interest

of his sport in Germany, stalking and shooting

bustards, and whether they could be got back into

Norfolk, &c. At the dinner I sat opposite Prince

Alfred, and had some conversation with His Royal

Highness there, as well as after in the smoking-

room. There were gathered the Duke of Buc-
cleuch, Lord Caithness, Lord Stanley, Hon. Mr.

Cowper, &c.

     ' The Prince of Wales's Equerry, Colonel

Teesdale, gave me a very interesting account of

his Crimean adventures, and the siege of Kars.

I walked home with Fowler, sincerely congratu

lating him on the success of his great day. I

...also had the honour of a conversation with Prince
Teck.        Mr. Cooper writes that " Fulmer
Place " is in the market. The owner has had

losses. I think if I had thirty or forty thousand

pounds to spare I should be tempted ; it will

bring now a good figure, being so easily reached

by the Great Western Railway.'

     On August 26, 1866, he writes to his wife, who is
away from home on a holiday : ' On Monday Lord

Russell rode over here before I had returned from

the British Museum, so yesterday I went over
to Pembroke Lodge. Lord R. was out riding,

but was expected shortly, so Lady R. pressed

1865-68  LECTURES AT BRADFORD  173

me to stay, and showed me her garden and pet

flowers. . . . Then the Earl arrived and we had

much talk, and he listened to all I earnestly urged
about the British Museum, and promised to do

his best next year : in the middle of which, bang !

went a gun, close to the drawing-room window.

Lord R. rushed to the window, past which
the smoke was drifting. It was Willie (Lord
Russell's son) who had shot a rabbit. He brought

it to the window to show his father in triumph.
" Take it to the cook, boy, take it to the cook,"
said the noble Earl testily. I walked home after

a cup of tea.'
     Part of his own holiday was this year spent

at Lord Stratford de Redcliffe's. There he met,
as he tells his sister in September, Sir Henry

Storks, ' and I heard much curious and interesting
talk on Jamaica and the negroes at first hand.
Also much on the Turkish Empire and Russian

policy.'

     In the autumn he resumed his work as a
lecturer. His diary records that he gave two
lectures at Bradford in October, as he had pur
posed to do in the early part of the year. On his

return journey, he writes to his sister : ' I found

Sir J. Kay-Shuttleworth and his son in the car

riage I got into, and we had some vigorous talk
en route, so much so that a gentleman seated in

the corner begged to ask to whom he was listening.

We duly enlightened him, and he told us his

174                  PROFESSOR OWEN                                             CH. VI.

name ; he was a lecturer to factory and other

wage people.'

     This year appeared Owen's account of the

packet of bones sent him in 1865 by the Bishop of

Mauritius : ' Memoirs on the Dodo,' 4to ; ' Evi

dence of a large Parrot contemporary of the

Dodo {Psittacus                                                  '  ('  Trans.  Zool.

                     mauritianus)
Soc.') ; ' The Anatomy of the Aye-Aye ' (' Trans.
                                   and last, but
Zool.  Soc.,'  vol.  v. p.  33) ;                                       not least,
Parts                        and    XII. 'On                            Dinornis,'
        IX.,   X.,   XI.,

which appeared in ' Trans. Zool. Soc.,' vols. v.

and vi.

     In January 1867 Professor Owen wrote and re

ceived many letters on the subject of the marriage

of his only son, which took place on the 5th. To
his friend Mr. White Cooper he says : ' You

may be sure we bore off in triumph what I think

the most tasteful of all the gifts that were contri

buted to what we called the " International Ex

hibition." For a thorough winter's morning nothing

could be brighter : the whole park was frosted like

a gigantic bride-cake, the sun shone at its best

between eleven and twelve, and our little church,

with its Xmas ornaments and painted windows,

looked decked for a wedding. A charming sister of

the bride, aet. sixteen, was bridesmaid. I returned

to a rich and tasteful wedding breakfast at Percy

Lodge, and the happy pair rode off in a shower of

old shoes.'

    Among those who wrote Jo congratulate him

1865-68  PROPOSES A TOAST  175

on the event was Charles Dickens. ' I must write,'

says the novelist, ' the word of congratulation to

you all on the interesting intelligence you give

me. Your delight in it has delighted me, and I

cannot too cordially assure you of my heartfelt

sympathy. . . .'

    To a correspondent who asked for information

regarding the Siamese twins, Professor Owen
replied in a letter dated March 27, 1867 : ' I made,
at the request of the late Sir Astley Cooper, a

minute examination of the connecting band of the

...Siamese twins in 1835, in relation to a possible
and safe severance, but  it was evident that

the operation would have been attended with im

minent danger of peritonitis and death of probably

both, unless, as suggested, a long continual com

pression of the under part of the band had ob
literated the part of the peritoneal cavity there

situated. To this the youths and their guardian
objected. The firm elastic part of the connecting

band was formed by a continuation, not of the

sternum (breast-bone), but of the xiphoid cartilage
below it from one individual to that of the other.'

     Writing to his sister on April 12, 1867, Pro
fessor Owen says :--

     ' Yesterday I went to a big dinner at Fish
mongers' Hall, where Mr. Fowler, as President of
Institute of Civil Engineers, had been invited. And

lo ! the toastmaster came to charge me with the duty
of proposing the health of the " Prime Warden "

176  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VI.

in the chair ! I can generally manage a " return "
for the Royal Society and Science, &c., but this
was a new departure. . . . Not long ago I met at
a dinner at Lord Leven's, Dhuleep Singh and his
wife, who was in grand Oriental costume. The
Maharajah is intelligent, and talked much to me
on the subject of fossils. The Maharanee is deci

dedly pretty.'

     In the early spring of this year Owen gave
the inaugural lecture of a literary and scientific
society at Hampstead, ' Wayside Gatherings and
their Teachings.' This lecture was afterwards
printed in the July number of the 'Gentleman's
Magazine,' 1867. Extracts from it are subjoined,
as they may serve to show Owen's power of
extempore lecturing and of investing the com
monest objects with interest and attraction. ' I

looked forward,' he begins, ' to leisure for some

preparation (for this lecture), but one pressing call
for work followed another until, being immersed
in the additional labours which this season entails

of annual summaries, stock-taking, and reports on

the year's increase to our vast and ever-growing
national Departments of Natural History, I found

myself suddenly driven so closely to the appointed
evening that I had no other resource but to

throw myself on your indulgence for such unpre

meditated remarks as might be suggested by a
few common objects of natural history which I

hastily gathered together on my way, and have

1865-68   WAYSIDE GATHERINGS     177

brought for the occasion. And now that I am

here launched into my course with this unpro
mising cargo, it strikes me -- and I am encouraged

by the thought --that it will be an advantage to

younger members of a local association for the

mind's improvement to see how independent

they may be of rare, strange, or exotic products of

Nature for subjects of thought and means of expand

ing their knowledge of her laws and operations.
     ' I proceed, therefore, to empty my bag of the

specimens I put into it that lay nearest at hand

when I left home on my present mission. They

are, in fact, such common objects as lie about my

dwelling, or may be picked up on the roadside

along which I pass daily in Richmond Park to my

work in London.

' First I set before you these handfuls of dead

leaves. These withered glories of the summer,

their fall in the sere and yellow state of autumn,

are symbolic. There are vivid and noisy plea

sures ; there are those also of the quiet kind,

and not the' less pleasing, even perhaps more

cherished in memory, when tinctured with some

sadness : and in such a mood have I watched, on

a still, calm day in latter autumn, when no breath

of wind was stirring, the leaves settling straight
down in silent tremulous fall, " one after one,"

suggesting and recalling the friends and loved

ones that had successively and peacefully passed

away out of my life. . . .'

VOL. II.                      N

178               PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. vt.

     The Professor then proceeds to discuss the

question, ' Do Leaves fall in Autumn because

they  Die      '  and when  that  question  is concluded
           ?

he dips again into his bag and brings out a series

of deers' horns. ' In Richmond Park,' he con

tinues, ' we have a great quantity of deer, both

red and fallow but chiefly the latter kind ; and

I go out in May, when the antlers are shed, and
pick up such varieties as I can find. The horns
of the deer consist of pieces of bone, which grow

out as processes of the skull. They are not like
the horns of sheep or our ordinary cattle : they

have no true horny matter about them, but are
wholly bone, and are not retained or " persistent."

I have selected from my gatherings of the horns

of deer, which fall every year like the leaves of

trees, the series I now exhibit, varying in size and
character and shape. These horns, or " antlers," as

they are properly called, are renewed, grow, and

develop year by year as they are shed. They

begin to be formed in the latter part of the month

of May. At the end of August they are complete,

and remain from August till May, more or less

perfect. About the middle of that month they

are shed. Such are the phenomena that take

place annually with the fallow-deer in Richmond
Park.'

     Specimens of horns in their various stages of

growth were then exhibited and their develop

ment explained : ' and so we discern the provision

1865-68  THEIR TEACHINGS  179

for the growth of a stronger, or better, or longer
antler, year after year, till the antler acquires its
perfection as a weapon of combat.

     ' The last series of objects,' the Professor
proceeds, ' which for the present purpose I have
picked up by the wayside are a number of peb
bles --common wayside stones. They abound
in many parts of Richmond Park, in accumula
tions of gravel resting upon hollows of the clay
--the " London Clay " of geologists --which there

forms the general substratum.

     ' In some of these deposits we find that the

pebbles for the most part are broken, with the

edges slightly rounded. In other heaps we find

the pebbles are completely or smoothly rounded.

Such at once suggest a resemblance to those

pebbles which you may have seen on a tidal

shore, worn to the same state by the incessant
operation of the ebb and flow with the more

violent washing of breakers and surf-waves. Are

we required to believe that the rounded pebble

 was so created, and placed as such, where we

happen to pick it up ? If not, what a series of

 thoughts and conjectures such a stone conjures

 up ! We know the cause in operation adequate
 to its rounding. We have seen and heard the
 ceaseless roll of the sea-bed moved by the surging
 tide. On what shore did this take place ? . How

 was the rounded pebble transported, with its

 gravel bed, to its present position ? In the

                                                                                                   N2

180  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VI.

first place, I have to remark that all these pebbles
are composed of flint -- of the same mineral sub
stance as the dark masses which at some parts of

 our white coast-cliffs you may see studding, in
parallel but distant rows, the face of the chalk in
which they are imbedded. Our pebbles are frag
ments of such flints that have been more or less

rolled and rounded by the action of the sea. In

the gravel-heaps they are dispersed through sili

ceous sand-- i.e. flint in a more comminuted state,

with a small proportion of clay or loam, stained
yellow or reddish by oxides of iron, as is the
surface of the pebbles also for some depth. Are

we to suppose that the pebble was created so
stained, or that it acquired the stain by being
subjected long enough to the colouring cause ? I

assume the latter.'

     The Professor then gives an account of the
' London Clay ' and some of its deposits, and
concludes : 'Wherever you contemplate Nature

you see renewal prepared for wearing out and

passing away.

     ' How narrow, how selfish, how akin to

Egyptian darkness of thought, seemed it then to
repine that life must end -- to deem of death only

as an evil ! Whereas, therein is the necessary

stipulation for that succession which involves the

purest pleasures of life --the reverential love of

parents, the sweet affection for children, the
closest union of hearts, as of husband and wife.

1865-68  DAILY WORK AT THE MUSEUM             181

Furthermore, add the assurance that all ends not
here, that powers of work are entrusted gifts, with

the glorious hope of a higher sphere of action, if

they have been used as intended by our beneficent
Creator.'

     Owen was occupied with his daily work at the
British Museum until September, when he writes

an account of his holiday to his wife :--

         Westbrook Hey, Hemel Hempstead : September 5.

'After the British Museum on Thursday, 1

took the train to Boxmoor, and arrived here about

five, had a cup of tea and a turn in the garden

with  Lord S.  de  Redcliffe and Mr. Motley (author
of "  History  of  Dutch Republic"), then to dress

for dinner. After dinner a rubber of whist, with

Lady Stanhope for partner, against Lady Sophia

Macnamara and Mr. Motley ; won is. 6d. Next

morning a long ramble and much interesting

and instructive discussion with Mr. Motley. Next

day a drive to Ashridge ; looked over house,

pictures, and gardens, and so back to the same

party at dinner. Afterwards I was positively

ashamed of my winnings at vingt-et-un ! To

day Lord Lyons comes, prior to his going as

Ambassador to Paris.'

The question of the building of the Natural

History Museum was at this date very far from

being settled, as will be seen from the account

given in the chapter devoted to the subject.

182                 PROFESSOR OWEN                                 CH. VI.

     Sir Roderick Murchison wrote the following

letter to Owen on the subject of an article which
                                                              --'
appeared  in   the  ' Pall  Mall  Gazette
                                                             :

          Sir R. Murchison to R. Owen

                                    November 3, 1867.

     ' My dear Owen, -- I see by the second article
signed " C."   [or " O." ?] (Saturday's
" Pall Mall "  that the writer is taking                       paper) in the
                                                               a line which,
ifit succeeded, would quite suit my book --viz. that
the colossal Greek and Egyptian statues should be

united with the old pictures of the best masters
in the National Exhibition. This is just the

moment to show that Nature's products can well

fill the whole of the British Museum around the

Great Library.
     ' This arrangement would be peculiarly gratify

ing to Cockneydom, provided it be decided that
the Parliament will not pay for the grand exten
sion in situ Bloomsberiano which would be

required.

     ' You will best know how to deal with the

suggestion of exhibiting types only.
     ' But whoever he the author seems to have
     '
                                  '
                                                            '

                                      is,
                                                    I.

                                                       I
his line distinctly marked out.

     When he has done his best, hope you will

try your hand.

               Yours sincerely,                              Murchison.'
                          Roderick

1865-68 MORE LECTURES IN THE NORTH               183

But to this letter Owen apparently never

replied.

     The holiday was short. In November, Pro

fessor Owen gave two lectures at Bradford, and
afterwards two at Newcastle. From Bradford he

wrote a  long descriptive    letter to his wife  b(Neloovwem:--
ber 16,  1867), extracts of  which are given

'     .  .  On Tuesday and Thursday we drove to
   .

the Lecture Hall at 8.30 each day, and got back

soon after 10 ; I slept well after holding forth to

large and apparently gratified audiences. To-day
the members of the Philosophical Society give
me a dinner. Yesterday I was driven over to see

...the wonderful establishment for woollen and alpaca
at Saltaire.  I was most struck, I think, with

the spectacle of the men, women, and children

leaving for dinner at 1 2 o'clock.

' Returned to Bradford in time to dress for

another public banquet, in which I had to respond

to Science and Literature. From the dinner we

adjourned to the great music-hall, crammed in the

centre with four thousand operatives : the haut

ton of Bradford (I was obligingly informed), male

and female, were in the side boxes. Addresses

were delivered by various political notabilities. I

was much interested, having a good seat on the

platform, near the chairman, and came in, on
entering, for a round of applause. . . . On Wed

nesday morning I had a seat on the bench to see
the Mayor administer justice in the Town Hall, for

1 84  PROFESSOR OWEN                                              CH. VI.

the first time. There were some civil cases, and
among other indictments, school boys " had up "
for stealing pigeons. The whole scene' strangely
recalled Sancho Fanza's administration of justice in
Barataria. . . . After a quiet day's rest to-morrow,
I proceed to Sir William Armstrong's at New
castle, and give at that town the same two lectures

as here. . . .'

     On hearing of the illness of his sister Eliza,

Owen writes, December 26 :--

      ' Nothing could have been kinder or more
prompt than (Dr.) Pearson Langshaw's reports of
your symptoms. Any wish of his or yours I will
fulfil at once, for I have escaped cold hitherto,

though at the Museum almost daily.
     ' On Wednesday I made a pilgrimage to St.

Gabriel's, Warwick Square, in my new and proud

capacity as grandfather and godfather.'

     The following letter illustrates Owen's readi
ness, even in the busiest moments of his life, to

interest himself in those who had to make their

own way in the world. It was written to a young

working man who had endeavoured to educate
himself in geology and was anxious for a position

in the British Museum :--

     ' I have received your letter of January 1868,
and have read with interest the essay accompany
ing The evidence of worth in both made me
feel, what have often felt before on like occasions,

sorry for my inability to offer you position in
      it.

             I
                                                               a

1865-68 LETTER TO YOUNG WORKING MAN                               185

the Geological Department of the British Museum.

Every appointment is made by the principal

Trustees, and depends as a rule upon vacancy.

It is perhaps natural that you should suppose me to

have . a power or influence in such appointments

which I do not possess. . . . With regard to the

position of Science and certain statements in Holy
Writ proved by God's instruments to be incorrect,

we must remember that in those writings, truly

called sacred, there are higher truths than those of

Science, sufficing for all guidance and every need.

. . . Next as to calling names. It is well to avoid

is
                                                             it,
lending the least countenance to even through

repeating such remarks as " They say So-and-so
   a scoundrel." Now those who call Lyell "in

fidel " mean by that something much worse than

scoundrel. Do the work that lies before you.

Some might add "In whatsoever position you
.

       .'

         it

                is
                         3, :
                                           a

                                                        if I
have been placed, therewith be content."                          don't

altogether think so. At your age the ambition to

rise above  legitimate, indeed a duty, you

feel your powers to rise by their legitimate exer

cise. .

On February 1868, Owen received a letter

from the Emperor of Brazil, accompanying the

official notice making him Knight of the Order

of the Rose. Some years later the Emperor, when

in England, paid Professor Owen a visit at Sheen

Lodge.

A  large part of this year was spent by Owen

i86  PROFESSOR OWEN                       ch VI.

in working at his papers on the great extinct birds

of New Zealand. There appeared in the ' Trans

actions of the Zoological  Society     '  ' On Dinor-
                                    :
nis,' Parts XIII., XIV., XV. (Aptomis and
Notornis), XVI. (Apteryx, brain), and XVII.

These gigantic fossil birds had occupied Owen's

attentions since 1833, an^ collections of their

bones were often sent to him by his corre

spondents. For some years it was believed that all

the bones were from different species of the same

genus, but it soon became apparent that many

different genera were represented by the imperfect

remains. Now the family of the Dinornithidae,

as they are called, contains, according to modern

authors, many genera and numerous species.

    Part II. of his researches on the dodo was

also issued this year.

    To his sister Maria, writing on March 2, 1868,

Owen says : ' I lecture at Hampstead to-night.

It may be my last, but people seem very fond of

them. I, however, begin to feel sixty-four years.

I have finally settled with the Government archi

tect on the plans for the new museum. There
remains the " passing of the bill," if it be brought

in, then the erection of the building, so that

one may look for two years before anything to

the purpose can be done.'

    On April 8, 1868: '. . . I presided last

evening at " The Club "-- Duc d'Aumale on my
right, and Lord Clarendon on the left, and a very

1865-68 NINE BART.'S CONTEMPORARIES LEFT 187

pleasant chatty dinner. Lord Dufferin, Sir H.

Holland, Froude, &c.'

And again, May 20, 1868 : ' Last evening we

had a visit which was interpreted in the village
as a royal one -- barouche and pair, two outriders

on fine grey horses - second barouche and pair.

They brought Beresford Hope, my Lady Mildred,

and four daughters. Arriving at five, they stayed

till half-past seven, had tea and cake, perry and
muscat wine ; and I believe thoroughly enjoyed

...themselves in the garden and park and over all
the cottage.  I dined with the remnant of
my old Bart.'s contemporaries -- nine of us -- our

thirty-seventh anniversary ! on Tuesday last.'
     In September 1868 Owen paid another visit

to Mr. Fowler at Braemore, Ross-shire, and, writ

ing to his wife on the 7th of the month, he

says : 'Mrs. Fowler has received a few guests
since I last wrote, but Sir Edwin Landseer alone

now remains.' He goes on to say, in reference to

his wife's feeble health, that, having received a

hundred pounds from his publishers, ' if we should

be moved to make a winter in milder climes, I

can well devote the needful to easy journey ings to

Cannes, Naples, Rome, Florence, Venice, &c., for

January, February, and March. I have not been
permitted to take one " stalk," or do more than

agreeable walks. Always wishing you could be
with us by means of a "wishing carpet " to waft

you over the 400 odd miles.'

188  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vi.

     After his return home, his sister becomes again
his correspondent. In November he describes an
interview with the Queen of Holland :--

     ' Last Monday was a fine bright day, so I

walked across the park to Pembroke Lodge, and
at 1.30 the Queen of Holland arrived, attended
by a young lady and a Dutchman with a riband
in his button-hole. I was the only guest invited
to meet Her Majesty, who had intended to have
proceeded to Bushey to visit the Duc de Nemours,
but had received a call to Windsor, so we had a

long talk on divers subjects, for Her Majesty

knows much both as to things and persons.'
      On December 5 Owen was subpoenaed to

appear on the 9th at the Court of Common
Pleas, Guildhall, in the case of a vessel which

claimed damages from the underwriters on ac
count of a hole, some three inches in length,

which had been bored in the side. The question

was, whether the leak was made purposely or
whether it was the work of a swordfish. Owen's

opinion was asked as to the power of the fish to

withdraw the sword after piercing the ship, which

seldom happens. His evidence persuaded the
jury that the leak was not an intentional act of
dishonesty, as had been supposed. The hole was

made by a young swordfish, and as it had only

entered three inches, its sword could have been

withdrawn. This would not have been the case

"-

    1865-68  A RELIEF TO GLADSTONE  189

    had it entered much deeper. Frank Buckland

    also gave evidence to the same effect.
         On December 16, 1868, Owen writes to his

    sister Maria : '. . . I lately attended one of our

    ...Club meetings, Marqp is of Exeter in the chair.
           It must have been a relief to Gladstone to

    have a quiet literary gossip without a bit of politics.'
         There were present on this occasion, according

    to a plan of the table appended to the letter :
    Duke of Argyll, Lord Romilly, Grote, Holland,
    Walpole, Murchison, Twiselton, Reeve, Smith,
    Lord Stanley, Lord Dufferin, Sir David Dundas,
    the Lord Chancellor, and Earl Stanhope.

190  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VII.

                 CHAPTER VII

                                                      1869-71

First Visit to Egypt, 1869 -- Lecture on the ' Scientific and Literary
     Results of the last Nile Expedition,' 1870-- Second Visit to
     Egypt, 1870-71-- Braemore and Carlyle, 1871 -- Refusal of Presi
     dency of Geological Society-- Snake-charming.

In 1869 Owen paid his first visit to Egypt. He

could scarcely have made such an expedition
under circumstances more favourable to sight
seeing, for, at the instance of the late Duke of
Sutherland, he was invited to join the Prince of

Wales's party. In communicating his plans to
his sister Maria, January 3, 1869, he says : ' My

medical friends have strongly urged me to
pass January and February in a milder climate,
and, this coming to the ears of the Duke of
Sutherland, he communicated to me a gracious
intimation that I should join the Prince and

Princess of Wales's party to Egypt. The expedi
tion is under the direction of Sir Samuel Baker
(Nile discoverer) and Mr. Fowler, who is to

inspect the Suez Canal and explain the, works,
and who is ordered with me to embark along with

Sir Samuel in the steamer from Marseilles to

1.869-7 1     FIRST VISIT TO EGYPT            191

Alexandria on the 9th. . . . The Prince of

...Wales, Duke of Sutherland, and their suite join
us at Cairo.  It is impossible to imagine

more favourable conditions for enjoying what I

have long cherished --a desire to see that won

derful old historical country.'

Owen kept an interesting record of all his

experiences during his Egyptian tour. These

notes, despatched at intervals to his wife on this

and his subsequent visits to Egypt, would of

themselves easily fill a volume ; but only a few

extracts of general interest are given here.
     ' On board the " Nyanza," ' he writes (Janu

ary 11), ' were the Bishop of Bombay (Dr. Dou
glas) and His Excellency Nubar Pacha, who

promised me a practised fisherman for the Nile
and salt lakes. . . . The steamer lay to about

forty miles from Alexandria, waiting till daylight

to be piloted through the intricate passages

Then we saw that all the Egyptian ships were

dressed out in holiday colours, and as we came

among them to the anchorage a salute was fired

from the fort and answered by the men-o'-war.

It was a most unexpected gala. Some said it

was for the arrival of Nubar Pacha, some for the

Bishop, others for the Professor. One rationalist

of the party suggested that with the new moon

the feast of Rhamadan ended this year and the
feast of Beiram began. And so it was.

' After landing, Nubar invited Mr. Fowler, Sir

192               PROFESSOR OWEN                           en. vII.

S. Baker, and myself into his carriage, and off we

went. Everything that now met my eye was
new. White storks in the fields, great plovers,

large kingfishers, and the Fellah ploughing with

an ox and a dromedary, the kites and hawks

hovering above, and all with explanations from

the amiable Pacha of any objects of interest.
While the old stave from " Bluebeard " would

run in my head, " 'Tis a very fine thing to be

father-in-law to a very magnificent, &c., &c." '

    'January 15. --Took counsel how to see the

Pyramids. Hear that the Viceroy will give us

a special audience at his Levee to-morrow morn

ing at eleven o'clock. Evening dress ! white tie ! !

gloves!!!      --(hRaveeceni'vt eadny).the.  .   .'

      ' 16th.                                   following  invitation:
" Le Maitre des Ceremonies, parordredu Khedive,

a l'honneur de prier M. le Professeur Owen de

vouloir bien assister au bal qui sera donne au

Palais de Gizereh le 18 Janvier, 1869, a neuf

heures du soir."

     ' Arrived at the Palace at 9.45 (the Viceroy
had intimated that when he invited guests for

nine he did not expect them at eleven). Amongst
the guests, pachas, beys, civil and military officers,

blazing with orders, turbaned sheiks, red-capped

Turks, &c. The supper-rooms were opened soon

after twelve. Now when I say everything was

perfect, you will imagine the style in which it
was all conducted. . . . We left about T.30 and

1869-71   THE DESERT                         193

so got our carriage. Those who stayed later did

not get home till six or seven, through difficulties

with their various conveyances. Estimates of the

cost of this ball, bridge included, with the illumina

tions in the gardens, its kiosque, grottos, &c.,

ranged from 20,000/.  to 100,000/.     '
                                    !

'21st. -- Made an expedition, consisting of a

carriage with four horses, also six donkeys and

nine men, to the Desert in order to inspect the

petrified forest. Drove along, escorted by donkey

boys, through a very finely wooded suburb and

came upon 'the Desert, where the Tombs of the

Caliphs--mosque-like structures of the colour of
the ground -- rise in great number and various

proportions ; then on and on over the roughest

ground under difficulties --not from sand but mud,

the Desert being saturated by the extraordinary

rainfall and presenting exactly the appearance

of the sands at Morecambe Bay. The nature of

this boundless tract as an upraised sea-bed was

vividly impressed upon me. Owing to the rain

the scattered clumps of Desert shrubs were at

their greenest, and snails of new forms to me
were feeding on them. . . . As we approached

the scene and object of our journey, detached

bits of petrified palms were to be picked up,

with odd fossil oysters and murex shells. I

suppose the palms must have been floated down

on some branch of the Nile when the Desert

was a delta, their own natural silex attracting

vol. 11.                                  o

194  PROFESSOR OWEN                                                          CH. VII.

that of the sea water during the long ages before'
the uplifting. Acres and acres were strewed       '

with petrified fragments of palms of all sizes. At(it

the centre of the bed the trunks, many feet in
length, lay imbedded. We had two large fragments
broken off and gathered divers small specimens '

    ' 22nd. --This morning inspected Miss Whate-

ley's school for native girls and the Viceroy's
school for the boys to be taught English. Some

...of these repeated their lessons to us.

After luncheon drove to the Viceroy's stables
and saw his stud and museum may be called) of
carriages. The Duke of Sutherland arrives to

morrow.'

     Amongst his other amusements, Owen de

scribes a visit to a celebrated wizard and an ex

amination of the magic crystal."
       Time, 11 p.m. Scene, grand drawing-room

of Nubar Pacha's palace. Dramatis persons, the
Duke of Sutherland, Sir Samuel Baker, Lord Staf

ford, myself, a Nubian, a young boy and the old
Arab conjuror with his brazier sending up ever
and anon bright perfumed flames as he dropped
in pinches of incense. The charm on paper laid

upon the boy's head, beneath the turban, the
end of the half sheet overshadowing his brow
and eyes, he bends over, intently gazing upon the

magic glass. The old wizard mutters his charm.
Such group for Phillips --the obscure smoky
atmosphere of the room, ill-lighted by wax
     a

                                                                          !

                     1869-71  THE MAGIC CRYSTAL                                   195

                     candles, and fitfully illuminated by the incense-

                     burning brazier.
                          ' Each put his question. Being appealed to,

                     I said there were three people I should like to ask

                     about, but would take one of them, Archbishop
                     Manning. " What was Manning doing ?" What
do you suppose was the answer ? " Nursing his
        "
baby ! !                      (quite  seriously  given  by the boy,      who

saw                  '        he said, in the magic glass, and gravely

                        it,translated by the beneficent Bey, who in Nubar's

absence acted as host.)

      The only good shot was a question about

                     the Prince of Wales, but           could see the old
                                         a
impostor, muttering so that the boy might hear,is

" He was neither short nor tall, was on the        I

                     sea, and had lady with him."a
                           After a few very bad guesses the conjurors
a
                     were dismissed with couple of sovereigns.'
     '. '                 The next day Owen visited the Suez Canal in

                    .
                     small screw steamer with a little cabin.

                              . The canal        not as broad as the

Thames at Hampton, usually with high banks

made of the stuff dredged or dug out. Occa
sionally we had views of the Desert on each

side.                :
                         .

                              '.

                               .'

                                                                      a
     He then gives an amusing account of the way

in which M. de Lesseps played little trick upon
him The steamer had taken us to sea, so

that we might view the piers of huge artificial

blocks of stone intended to keep open the entry

                                                                         o

                                                                               2

196  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vn.

of the harbour. We then returned to inspect the
artificial stone-work. M. de Lesseps with an
innocent air brought me a piece of stone with

some shells embedded in it and asked me what

formation I thought it belonged to. I said it
was the most recent I had seen, and from the

fossils evidently new to geology. On the whole,
I should describe it as la formation Lessepsienne ,
which pleased the old gentleman amazingly ;
he would have it repeated several times over

before we got to our quarters. . . . Fowler and I

are installed in a neat ground-floor bedroom, still
as guests of the Viceroy ; and I have scribbled
this while waiting for my friend to go to dinner,

having dressed quicker than he.'

     The Professor makes notes of the fossils, &c.,

which he finds, and describes all that he sees of

interest until he arrives at Cairo. ' At the hotel,'

he says, ' no bells, no nothing, a black Nubian boy
stays all day and all night (seemingly) in one
corner, and obeys the clapping of your hands to

light your candles or call the waiter.'

     ' February 1. -- After a dawdling breakfast the

Duke drove up to our hotel, and we were driven
to the Musee d'Antiquites. Here we were

joined by Mariette Bey (the Director) and
Hekekiah Bey, from both of whom I got a
clearer notion of the dynasties and ethnology of
this country than I have ever yet had.'

     Owen then minutely describes the entry of

1869-71   WALKS THE PLANK                        197

the Prince and Princess of Wales into Cairo,

with the attendant festivities, and on February 4
gives an account of the entry of the pilgrims into

the city, with rough sketches. ' Good old Hekekiah

Bey,' he adds, ' gave me two jars of fine baccy,
and also lent me a book and some maps of the

voyage.'

   After the arrival of the Prince and Princess,

the voyage up the Nile was almost immediately

begun. The entry in Owen's diary for February
                               : '--
7  begins with ' On  the Nile   afterglow --for
     ' After sunset  and the
                                                 here

night follows quickly and the stars seem to
assemble above in a hurry -- we came to moor

ings under a high black bank, on which we saw

many indistinct dark figures and a few pale ones

-- the muffled faces of the " women in white,"

and a wonderful picture they presented. . . .

A plank was shoved off from the bank, across

which came the Duke to tempt us on shore to

see the village . . . We climbed the bank, not

until after crossing the plank, at which at first

I own to have jibbed. It crossed a deep, dark

gulf, along which the rush of the river was
heard. The Duke went first, then Fowler, and

then I put one foot on and hesitated, but with the

help of the firm hand of my friend I crossed, and

...was not sorry to step on to the Nile deposit and
clamber up the bank  I had been wandering

by myself about the strange characteristic scene

198                PROFESSOR OWEN           ch. vn.

on the banks of the Nile, which beats any
allegory, when the Duke came up and said,
" The Prince wants you to dine with them ; there's
no dress, so you can ' clean yourself ' in my cabin."
I dipped into a basin with about a pint of soup-
coloured water in and off we were again to the
                   a
bank, requiring hands and feet to climb up, and
                          I it,
then on to the plank leading to the royal yacht.in

  had on a light summer suit, Sir S. Baker one ofI
I

                a
whitey-brown canvas, and all the party were in

shooting or yachting costume. The Prince

talked good deal about the White Lodge in
Richmond Park, and the Princess about the

scenes in Cairo.   asked her            if  she had read

Tennyson's " Haroun-al-Raschid " and she said

she had. Before leaving, took the opportunity

of putting in word for Miss Whateley's school

at Cairo for native girls, hoping the school might

be germ, growing   time to put an end to the
     a

cruel superstition which prevents the mothers

from driving away the flies from the poor babies'
eyes, and from ever washing them till they are
able to wash themselves, of which sad absurdities

H.R. H. had never heard. The Princess soon

afterwards said good- night, and retired. Then
chat on deck for a short time, a few refreshments,
I

                                                                                                 a
and the Prince accompanied us back to the plank.

   was the last to cross the plank, and was about
half way over, when out of the darkness one of
the party rushed back, and, grasping both of my

 1869-71 IMPROMPTU LECTURES ON ROYAL YACHT 199

hands, landed me across. I was protesting with
dignity that such assistance was unnecessary, as
 I was now quite used to the plank, when by the
flare of the torches I saw it was the Prince who

had come to the rescue. The Duke of Sutherland

had told him of my first hesitation with the plank,
and the Prince had hurried on for this bit of fun.'

      After visiting Siout, some impromptu lectures
were got up.

     ' The Prince showed me all his bird-skins (I

forgot to say he had an excellent taxidermist with
him), and he had just shot a fine wild drake.
Fowler had with him his Report and Plans of the
Suez Canal, and I had some fossils illustrative of its

geology. It being announced that the Princess was

ready, we proceeded to the dining saloon, at the
door of which Lord Carrington posted himself with
" Tickets, gentlemen." I produced the smallest

of Egyptian coins (value ^th of a farthing), and
went in to find the chairs already arranged. A

large plan of the isthmus hung in front of the
piano ; on one side of it stood Fowler to give his
discourse, and on the other side I sat with the

Princess's parasol to point out the localities re
ferred to. Fowler gave an excellent clear account
of the wonderful undertaking. I followed with a
brief reference to the geology of the isthmus,

showing a very large shark's tooth -- one of the
fossils. The Prince then gave me his seat to

tell the ladies how the geological changes had

200       PROFESSOR OWEN                 CH. VII.

taken place --with the Sahara dry desert and its

salt, &c. &c., and an hour and a half was spent in

a very entertaining way. Before leaving the

saloon the Prince put on my broad-brimmed

wide-awake hat. People don't know the size of

my head,  till they try  on my hat    '
                                    !

     On February 16, Owen visited Thebes with

the Royal party, made a few pen-and-ink sketches,

and wrote a long description. They then pro

ceeded to Karnac and luncheon. ' During luncheon

I took off my wide-awake for coolness, when

H.R.H. remarked: "Professor, I see you have

reserved your visit to this palace in order to

assume the purple." Some one else chimed in :

" The Professor has not lost the grace of blushing,
but it is at the top of his head." The Princess

pointed out the crimson silk lining in the crown
of my hat. The heat of the ride and the clamber

among the glories of Karnac had transferred

that rosy tint to the top of my pate ! Before

we parted the Prince remarked that he had a

special "physiological curiosity" to show me to

morrow. . . .

     ' " For symmetry of architecture and elegance of

sculpture, the Memnonium may vie with any other

Egyptian monument." Truly so, Sir Gardner,

and much obliged for the rest of your account,

for I am getting rather tired, and have had enough

sight-seeing for to-day. . . . After returning to

our vessels, I made what toilette I could (morn-

1869-71  MUST RETURN IN MARCH                          201

ing clothes with dust shaken out), and then on

to the Prince's boat to dinner. The Princess
had a curiosity for me --a mummy foot. After

dinner and chibouks, we proceeded to Mustapha's

house in the Luxor Temple, and there beheld the
" physiological  curiosity " (tell                      --
                                    it  not  in  Gath
                                                       !)

the dancing girls. One of these ladies, in richly-

coloured gown, with old ornaments and coins,

seemed like one of the old frescoes which had

stepped out of the wall of her tomb for an hour

or so ; the attitudes were exactly those which are

often reproduced on the walls.

' I was hard pressed to accompany the royal

party to the Cataracts, but had to explain reasons

for returning to the Museum and work, as soon

in March as might be.
     ' Next day the party went through " the Valley

of the Shadow." We were nearing a bank where a

practicable road was narrowing, when Fowler said :
" More to the left, Professor." Turning round,

I saw the Princess on her white donkey and the

rest of the party which had overtaken us. Her

Royal Highness said : "Where were you last night,

Professor ? Oh, I know," lifting up a finger.
" Then I shall write to Mrs. Owen and tell her of

your doings." Lunch was laid out in the shade of

the corridors and massive columns of the Memno-

nium. . . . After lunch the Admiral got to fencing

with Abdul Kader Bey with palm sticks, to our
great amusement. I took the Princess and Mrs,

202  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VII.

Grey to show them the very beautiful face of one
of the large coloured basso-relievos on the wall.
Then we looked at the figures of Rameses re
viewing the tale of hands cut off the victims of
war, very similar to the Assyrian sculptures where
heads are counted. Then the ride back to the

river. . . .

     ' After visiting the " Leaning Pillar " by torch
light, I bade farewell to the Prince and Princess
and to the rest of the party, for they start at day

break to- morrow on the upward voyage to the Cata

racts. You may imagine, amid the manifold con
course of the royal party and all its attendants, the
pachas and Theban authorities, with sundry ex
traneous visitors, the difficulty of recovering in

so extensive a wilderness your own particular

donkey. I held up my stick more in fun than
expectation of any result, when from behind
the gloom of a mighty pillar glided forth that
marvellous donkey-boy and his beast (the " good

donkey"). He had never lost sight of me. . . .
At the Palm Avenue I dismounted, and made

my donkey-boy happy with well-merited " back
sheesh." '

      Returning to Siout, Owen ' landed there, and
Fowler, with me as assistant measurer, went off
to inspect the neighbouring canal wall.' The
journey home had now begun, Brindisi, Mont

Cenis, and Milan being visited on the way. ' At

Paris,' says Owen, ' I occupied my seat at the

1869-71  HIS PAPER AT THE INSTITUT'  203

" Institut" as one of the eight foreign members,
read a paper there " On the Geology of Egypt,"
and so home on March 18.

     On the occasion of the Royal Geographical

Society dinner, which was given on May 25, 1869,
Owen, in answering the toast ' The Scientific and
Literary Results of the last Nile Expedition,' gave
some account of his observations during his recent
tour. He said: ' In the grand and praiseworthy

labours of the accomplished engineers of the Suez
Canal I had opportunities of seeing sections of the
Desert --deposits of unusual depth and extent.
In parts of these were alternations of strata, thin

beds of argillaceous deposit between thicker ones
of silico-calcareous and gypseous materials, which
suggested that the old ocean of that locality -- for
all the Desert is an upraised seabed -- had begun
to receive, about the close of the Miocene period,
alluviums, or the wear by fresh water of an adja

cent land, and these at regularly repeated intervals.
The phenomena and fossils suggested to me that
the surface contour of the African continent

might about that time have gained so much of its

present form as to cause a watershed in the direc

tion indicated by the course of the present Nile. In

the Desert deposits of the nummulitic and creta
ceous periods there is no trace of this fresh water
alternating admixture. So far as my limited
opportunities of observation extended, I found
no evidence of those repeated disturbances or

204  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VII.

changes of condition of which the various marine
and fresh-water strata of the Pliocene and Post-

Pliocene periods in Britain and Europe are results.
In that part of the Lybian Desert remarkable for
the quantity of silicified wood and tree trunks

superficially distributed, there is evidence of vol
canic action, probably submarine. But in the
main the origin of the dry land resulting in
fertile Egypt seems to be due to slow elevation
and annual alluviums, which for long ages were
spread out beneath estuary seas, but finally adding

to and superficially forming upraised dry land.

     ' Of fertile and habitable land Egypt is the most

recent or last formed, and it is that which yields
the most ancient evidences of social and civilised

man. Of these marvellous evidences --marvellous
for their magnitude, number, and variety -- I shall

only say that they transcend all previous concep

tion. With regard to the Egyptian fauna, how

interesting was it to the naturalists to witness, as
they steamed along, so many kinds of birds,

previously studied as stuffed specimens in our

cabinets or as captives in our Zoological Gardens !
to witness and compare the flight of flocks of

flamingoes, spoonbills, pelicans, the varied forms
of waders, the graceful undulatory course of the
crested hoopoes, the darting of the kingfishers,
the manoeuvres of the birds of prey, from the

 vultures and eagles to the kites and sparrowhawks !

Of the rarest of all these Egyptian birds, I had

1869-71 SPEECH AT GEOGRAPHICAL DINNER  205

the opportunity, so much valued by ornithologists,
of handling the recently killed specimens which

were shot by the Prince. The addition to the

staff of a skilled taxidermist, equal to the prompt
preparation of any rare bird, bat, beast, or fish,
was no suggestion of mine, but of the Prince, as
was likewise the provision of a seine net, the use

of which enabled me to observe, fresh or living,
the curious forms of siluroids, snouted mormyri,
and other Nilotic scaled rarities, which previously
I had known only in a dried state or preserved

in spirits. Of crocodiles I saw none : steam

and improved rifles have driven them to the

Cataracts. The consequence is that between

Cairo and Thebes the fishes have marvellously

multiplied, and, correlatively, the pelicans, flamin

goes, spoonbills, and all the varied forms of

heron, ibis, and curlew that feed upon the spawn

or fry of fishes. This is interesting evidence of the
effects of disturbing a natural balance in the
contest for existence. So much for zoology.

      ' Nor was I less indebted to His Royal High
 ness for occasions of adding to my physiological
 knowledge. Through the Prince's kindness, I

 for the first time had the opportunity of observing,
in the living state, that remarkable species, the

Lacerta agilis, seldom to be seen save in Oriental

and sub-tropical countries. They are highly

 organised, though belonging to a low class.'
      On June 27, 1869, Owen received at the Col

206  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VII.

lege of Surgeons the ' Baly medal, the first given

since its foundation.

     The summer holiday was spent mainly in

Ireland. On September 20 Owen writes to his
sister from Florence Court : ' I have been passing
a very pleasant holiday with my old friend Lord
Enniskillen. I leave to-morrow, sleep at Dublin,

see my scientific friends and their museums there,
and then sail for Holyhead, go on to Barmouth,

spend a few days there, and then home.' ' Your
rival as regards my pen, ' Owen writes to his

sister, December 6, ' has been a monster kanga
roo, which I have been hunting for more than

thirty years, and at length have caught, all but
his feet. However, I cannot wait any longer for
them, and so shall introduce him to the Royal
Society next week, and prop him up as well as I
can. His head is a yard long, his bones and teeth

(fossil) have been gathered from divers localities
in Australia.'

      Meanwhile, the struggle in Parliament over

the new museum was gradually coming to an

end. If Owen had not obtained all that he

wished, he was more than satisfied with the result.

The passing of the Bill gave an additional charm
to the summer holiday of 1870. Writing to his
wife on August 4, from Pendell Court, Owen
says : ' You would perhaps see that the Museum
Bill has passed the House. They gave me four
acres for the building, and 3,500/. We ask this

1869-71  SECOND VISIT TO EGYPT  207

year only enough to clear the ground, but the
main matter is now safe and much better than I

expected.'

     In November 1870 Owen made his second
journey to Egypt. On this occasion he accom
panied Mr. McClean, M.P., and his family. It
was hoped that the dryness and warmth of the
climate would benefit his health. The expedition
at least enabled him to escape two of the most

trying months in England. ' December and
January,' he tells his sister on the eve of starting
for the East, ' passed in the climate of the Nile will
strengthen my lungs for the rest of the winter.'

     He kept a journal as heretofore, but, as he

travelled over much the same ground as in 1869,
a few brief notices only need be given. On De

cember 10" the party arrived at Alexandria.
From Cairo, on the 1 7th, Owen writes to his wife :

' To-day I took the opportunity of renewing my
acquaintance with worthy old Hekekiah Bey, and
had a chat with him and his wife -- a nice old lady.
Nothing in Cairo has changed. I feel like an
old inhabitant. Indeed, the number of greetings
that met me at the station was more like a return

home than getting out upon so far-away a rail

road station.'

      Christmas Day was spent at Thebes. ' Much

sand has again accumulated round the base of
our obelisk, which the Prince had cleared out in

March 1869.'

208           PROFESSOR OWEN                             CH. VII.

     ' Esneh (Latopolis), December 29. --On the

walls, among other subjects, are many sculptured

fishes --the old name of the place indicating the
special worship of the Lates (a Nile fish), com

bined with the giant deities, made me suggest the

possible origin of the exclamation, "O ye gods

and little fishes ! " '
     ' 30M. -- Reached our furthest point, the Isle

of Philo, and returned to Assouan, below the

First Cataract, and there saw the new year in.'

     On the voyage from Alexandria to Brindisi

he encountered rough weather. ' I tumbled out,'

he says, ' and got on deck, where I danced a sort

of impromptu and irregular hornpipe until I finally

settled down to my sea legs.'

    'Naples, January 19, 1871. -- At Foggia the

main part of the train runs northward, and our

part was closely packed with passengers. I was

the only man who ventured into one of the few

first-class carriages, which was already occupied

by a young couple and their three months' old

baby, and as one after another of the males (the

ladies being  stahfeelycrsietoswoefd)"  put their heads  in at
the window,                             Bambino" put     them

to a precipitate flight. As a grandfather, I

stuck to my seat, and no sooner was the train in

motion than the infant went to sleep, and I, having

the whole of the opposite side, slept blissfully till
daybreak. In the intervals I studied the whole

process of swathing, and a very artful piece of

    1869-71 DISCOVERIES IN PURBECK ROCKS                                             209

    broad bandaging it is; when done, "Bambino"

    was propped upright in a corner and seemed to

    like crowing loudly, and its two fore-paws like
a
         it,
      little Punch, sticking out of the top of its

    mummy case. After the process of wrapping,

    the little mummy smiled and shook its little hands

    in very pretty way to my advances to intimacy.
      a

    . . . Reached Naples at 9.30 and found the other
    men of our party had been packed like herrings

    and got no sleep   !
                          '

         Early in February 1871 Owen returned to
    England and to his work at the British Museum.

    In this year he contributed to the Palaeontographi-

    cal Society Monograph of the Fossil Mammalia
              a
                    '

    of the Mesozoic Formations.' This publication

    was chiefly devoted to a detailed account of the

    remarkable discoveries made since 1854 by Mr.
    Beckles in the Purbeck Rocks near Swanage.

1 It  established the existence of large fauna of
                                 '

                                        a
    small marsupial mammals, insignificant in size

    and power, adapted for insect food, for preying

    upon small lizards, or on the smaller and weaker

    members of their own low Mammalian grade.'
         In August 187 Owen visited Mr. Fowler
                             1
                                                     :

                                          I'

                                                                   is

                                                                                  p
    at Braemore, Ross-shire, whence, on August 13,

    87 1, he writes to his wife  am now the only
guest. Lady Ashburton and T. Carlyle drove

over and took tea with us on Friday (nth), and

    strolled along the easier walks. He                                            much

emaciated, can digest but little, and hardly gets

     vol. 11.

210          PROFESSOR OWEN     ch. VII.

any sleep. He was most friendly and, I thought,

took his last leave of me at parting. They drive

twenty-six miles, and the same in returning.

Lady A. intimated it was mainly his wish to see

me that brought them so far. He painfully, with

a pencil, put his name in the Visitors' Book.'

    'From Braemore, August 20. -- On the 19th

Prince Hassan and his tutor arrived at Braemore.

He has quite fallen into English ways and speaks

English perfectly. On Monday he made his first

stalk on the mountains, and was so excited by the

thought of it that he threw all the cushions about

in the drawing-room ! I ascended Ben Derig

yesterday --the highest mountain in these parts.

I saw the rare " parsley-fern " peep out from under

the flat stones which protect its long roots. To

morrow we are to have a yachting day.'        I

    ' September 24. --At the British Museum.

am shaking hands, literally, with the Iguanodon,

having got both his fore paws, each with a bayonet
like weapon of great power.' Of his other papers

this year may be mentioned ' Extinct Leonine

Marsupial ( Thylacoleo carnifex) ; ' ' On the Fossil
Mammals  of  Australia,                          '
                         genus  Phascolomys   ;

' Fossil Reptilia of Cretaceous Formations,' 410,

37 plates.

     On October 4, 1871, he writes again to his
wife : ' I went to lunch with " Rob Roy," who

inquired most kindly after you. His chambers
in the Temple are a quaint museum --an epi-

1869-71  THYLACOLEO  211

tome of his various journeys. I went mainly to
see the human skull he brought from Holland.'

     In 187 1 Owen was again offered the Presidency
of the Geological Society. This he refused, giving

as his reasons the increased duties and responsi

bilities of his official position, his advanced age,
and declining health. With reference to this

event, it is interesting to read the following re
marks from his old friend Sir Philip Egerton,

which occur in a letter dated December 22, 1871.

   Skull of Thylacoleo, an Ext1nct Australian Marsup1al

     described by Owen as a ' Pouched Lion.' A Natural size. J

Sir Philip says : ' I am exceedingly glad for your
sake that you have declined the G. S. chair. It

would be a great clog round your leg for two
years ; ' and, with the characteristic spirit of an

old member, he adds : ' The social aspect of the

Society is very different nowadays from what it
was in the halcyon days of yore.'

     Owen contributed an interesting article this
year to ' Blackwood's Magazine,' descriptive of

212  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VII.

some serpent-charming he had witnessed in Cairo.
He was convinced that the ' charmers ' were frauds

after an examination of their methods :--

     ' The charmer came to appointment, accom

panied by a boy with a bag, said to be for the

snakes that were to be captured.

     ' The houses were of the low tumble-down
character common in those suburbs ; most of

them detached, in patches of slovenly-cultivated

ground.

     ' I suggested that the charmer should have his

garments searched before entering ; but he re
fused, and even resisted the temptation of half a

sovereign extra --a large sum in piastres --which
I thought suspicious. The outer garment of the

villainous-looking old sheik was the long, loose
frock of a coarse blue-cotton stuff, called " gala-
bieh," with large baggy sleeves, or what looked

like sleeves from the mode of its adjustment. A

conjuror could have concealed the major part of

his property in its ample folds.

     ' He entered a house, followed by his boy
and ourselves. The sheik, on entering, stepped
forward, mysteriously glancing to the right and

left, muttering and occasionally whistling, and
passing from room to room, closely followed and

watched by us ; he, however, left that house,

intimating that it was free from snakes. ·
     ' In the next house-- and whenever any inha

bitant was visible, the charmer was reverently wel-

1869-71  SERPENT-CHARMING                                                                                                                        313

corned -- on entering the second room I noticed

that a doorway led from it to a darkened apart

ment without other entry or exit. The charmer

stood at this doorway, his legs apart, his arms on

the lintel, his turbaned visage poked forward, and

the incantation and whistling becoming more
emphatic. I tried to get into the place, but there

was no passing without shoving the fellow aside,

and the boy loudly protested against my proximity
and disturbance. The charmer next stretched

forward the hand carrying his stick and tapped
the wall of the darkened room ; then, suddenly

turning round to    us, exclaimed, according    to                                                                                                my
interpreter, " The  snake, my cousin, there   he                                                                                                 is ! "

and stepped down into the room. We followed,

and a small specimen of the common harmless

house-snake of Egypt {Coluber atrovirens), half
coiled in seemingly a semi-torpid or sluggish

state, lay on the floor. On the supposition that
it had been coaxed out of a chink in the wall, I

should have expected to see some movement of

the reptile or endeavour to escape ; but we were

given to understand that it was charmed. The

boy seized it behind the head, and, after I had

inspected popped into his bag, which ob
served to contain others, apparently of the same
     '
kind.
                  it,
                                  it

                                                                                                                                              1
       We visited four or five other houses, in two

of which a serpent on the floor was the result of

the incantations and movements exhibited by the

214  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vn.

charmer at the entry to the alleged infested apart

ment.
      ' I noted that he never " charmed " save when

he came upon a room to which there was no other

entry than a doorway from the apartment we

happened to be in.

     ' To my strongly-urged desire to first enter

such cul-de-sac, in order to see the issue of the

mesmerised serpent from its lurking-place, I was
told that the charmer objected, on account of the
evil influence of the presence of an " uncom-
plimentarily-specified individual " upon the opera
tion of the magic process.

     ' It reminded me of the objections of our own

spiritualists to the presence of a sceptic, and to
too much light in the room.

      ' I thereupon watched the sheik the more

closely, and distinctly detected a slight but rapid
and energetic quivering movement of the left arm
and sleeve, immediately preceding his announce

ment of the success of his incantation. The poor
snake, which had been jerked out, lay, like the

first, in a half-coiled, sluggish state on the floor.
     ' I charged the impostor with the fact, and

was happily unacquainted with the meaning of
the loud and voluble remonstrances of the dervish

and his gathering of dusky believers, to which my

friendly conductor put a stop by threatening to

thrash the saint.

     ' I returned to the hotel with the conviction

1869-71  A HAPPY NEW YEAR  215

that " serpent-charming " was not conducted

under circumstances favourable to a rational or

scientific explanation of the process ; that, on the

contrary, it was attended, like other marvels

which dread the light, with purposive obstruc

tions to fair and accurate observations ; and,

finally, that it was a rude mode of conjuring, in

which the snake, professed to be charmed out of

a hole in the wall, was concealed upon the person

of the conjuror, and transferred by sleight of arm

and hand to the floor of the room alleged to have

been infested.'        187 1 Owen received the
                       one of his oldest friends.
    At the close of

following letter from

Thomas Bell :--

      From Thomas Bell to Richard Owen

                                                                         December 27, 1871.

     ' I find as I get on further and further towards
the close of life that I feel more and more drawn
to those whom I have most and longest esteemed,
and, as there are few whom I have known longer
and none whom I have more esteemed than
yourself, I feel impelled to offer you my best and
most cordial wishes for a happy and peaceful new
year. Amidst the jarring and discordant ele
ments of which the present scientific atmosphere
is almost exclusively composed, it is a relief to
bring oneself into contact with such men as your

216  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VII.

self, dear old Sedgwick, and a few others who

have not been led astray from the simple pursuit

of Truth for her own sake, unbiassed by personal

vanity and love of notoriety on the one hand, and
the opposition of self-seekers on the other. May
you and I yet be spared to see the downfall of
scientific quackery, and the triumph of simple

philosophical truth.
               ' Ever, my dear Owen,

                   ' Your affectionate old friend,

                                      ' Thomas Bell.'

1872-82          APTORNIS OWENII                                  217

             CHAPTER VIII

                     1872-1882

Third Visit   to Egypt, 1873-- Death of  Mrs. Owen, May 1873 --   Com
     panion  of the Bath -- Robert Lowe  -- Earl Russell -Fourth  Visit

to Egypt, 1874-- George Eliot and G. H. Lewes, 1876-- The
Emperor of Brazil, 1877-- Oliver Wendell Holmes, 1878 --
' Specimens of my Correspondence '-- Opening of the New
Museum, 1881 -- Mr. Ruskin-- Lord Tennyson.

In January 1872 Owen received a letter from Dr.
Julius von Haast, announcing the discovery of
the remains of Aptornis owenii in the swamp

at Glenmark, New Zealand. This letter he com

municated to the Zoological Society, January 16.

    There appeared this year also Part XIX.

' On Dinornis,' containing descriptions of a new

genus of large wingless bird, Dromornis australis

(Owen), from a post-tertiary deposit in Queens
land, Australia.1

Owen spent the August                    of   1872    at Braemore
                                         his
(Mr. Fowler's).  --  Writing   to              wife,   he says :--
     'August 5.      Got up   at
                                         5 a.m., and drove to

the head of the loch, and there we got on board a

screw steamer. The colour of the lake and sky

was like that of the Bay of Naples. Medusae

             1 Trans. Zool. Soc, viii. pt. vi.

218          PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. vn1.

were swimming with their rhythmical movements

in the clear blue, and there were many varieties
of Northern sea-birds to be seen. Fished, but

the sky and water too bright for much sport. . . .
As we steamed out of the loch I saw a pair of

grand sea-eagles soaring above the rocky preci

pices.'

     This letter occupies many pages, describing

the local scenery and the great Druidical circle at

Callernish.

     On August 28 he writes to inform his sister
of his safe arrival home, and of the renewal of his

work at the British Museum.

     Writing to his wife on Wednesday, September
4, he says : ' This day last week Albert Giinther

accompanied me from the Museum. We sat down

to chess before dinner, when the Bishop of London

was announced ; as he rode over with one of his

pretty daughters, Albert held his lordship's horse

...and chatted with the young lady while I took the
Bishop round the garden.     I went to Fulham

on Friday ; rambled through the gardens, dis

cussed the trees, was shown the additions to the

palace, and so home to a quiet seven o'clock

dinner.'

     An amusing incident occurred on October 9,
when Owen was engaged to dine with Mr. John
Murray at Wimbledon.2 He arrived half an hour

late, and pleaded as an excuse for his unpunc-

                   2 Kindly communicated by Mr. Murray.

1872-82  THE BEAR'S HAM  219

tuality the fact that just as he was getting into
his carriage a groom rode up to the gate, pre
sented a note, and requested an immediate answer.

The note ran as follows :--

                                                                               October 9, 1872.

    ' My dear Sir, -- I should feel greatly obliged
to you if you would be so kind as to inform me
whether this is or is not the tooth of a dog. It

was found in a sausage, and I should like to feel
sure about it before saying anything about it

to the tradesman. Will you kindly return the

enclosed with your reply ?
                                 ' I am, dear Sir, &c., &c.'

      Owen returned to his study, and in reply to his

correspondent, who evidently suspected the intro
duction of unlawful meats into the sausage skin,
wrote that the tooth was merely that of a sucking-

Pig-
     On another occasion a footman came over

from Pembroke Lodge with a large bone wrapped
up in paper, and a note from Lord John Russell
requesting Owen to let him know to what animal
the bone belonged. The Professor looked at
and at a glance perceived that was a ham bone
of an ordinary pig. The description was trans
ferred to paper, and the footman returned to
Pembroke Lodge, leaving Owen at a loss to
understand why ham bone should have been

sent to him.
         a

                              it
                                                               it,

220  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. VIII.

      Some days passed, and, hearing nothing further

from Lord John, he walked over on a Sunday-

afternoon to ask for an explanation.

     ' The fact is,' Lord John Russell said, ' Presi
dent Grant made me a present of what purported

to be a bear's ham (which is considered a great

delicacy), but as I had my doubts about it I sent

you the bone.'

     Early in 1873 Owen made his third journey
to Egypt, this time in the company of his friend
Mr. Fowler and his family.

     From Cairo he wrote to his wife :--
     ' February 1 5. -- Oddly enough, I heard of

Emerson's arrival in Cairo yesterday, and of his
having expressed his pleasure that I was here, men
tioning some civilities we showed him when he
was in London twenty years ago. He wrote to me
yesterday : " I am not without hope that I may

find or make an opportunity to thank you for
your old kindness to me in London, and to be
able to say to Mr. Agassiz at home that I have

seen you."

      ' Yesterday also (John Hunter's anniversary)
 I enjoyed the hospitality of young Prince Hassan,
whom I had lately met in England. I had the
 Khedive's carriage and servants all to myself on
 the way to the Abbasieh Palace. The guard

 turned out as we drove through the gateway into

the brilliantly-lighted courtyard. Two large

 reception-rooms were filled with uniforms, stars,

1872-82  THIRD VISIT TO EGYPT                                   221

and decorations. I was the only person without

any, and did not explain to His Highness that

Mrs. O. kept my museum of such specimens at

home carefully locked up. I was placed at dinner
considerately near a Minister of the Khedive, who
had accompanied him two years ago to London,

whom I had met at the Athenaeum, and who spoke

English. . . . After dinner the guests went to

billiards, coffee, and cigars, and then there was

the most splendid display of fireworks I ever saw.'

Then there follows a long account of the pro

cession of Prince Hassan's bride, which Owen
'Awitnessed on the 13th.
                                                lady friend,' he says,

' gave me an account of her presentation at the

Harem. The bride, in white, about fourteen or

fifteen, was led, looking much abashed, and

attended by six bridesmaids in green, to a chair

of state between those occupied by her grand-
mother-in-law and her mother-in-law. After re

freshments had been handed round, the two old

ladies showered handfuls of small gold coins upon
their guests. The grandmamma-in-law threw a

large handful over my friend, who said she shook
forty or fifty out of her dress when she got home.

A valuable shawl was presented to each guest

' I have had two days in the Desert, doing my

twenty miles on donkey-back at each. One to

athcecouPnettriftioedtheFo"reGsat rd(eonf  which I have sent"),  an
                                               and the next to  the

Southern Necropolis of Memphis.'

222  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VIII.

      On his return journey Owen visited Naples

and Malta.

     ' The Ambassador's yacht was put at our dis

posal to take us on to Naples from Malta, as the

steamer for Syracuse and Naples could not wait.

It is wonderfully swift, and beautifully fitted up.
The ground for this favour was the opportunity

of having the sanitary condition and water-supply
of the forts, barracks, and island generally sur
veyed and reported on by my fellow-traveller,
Mr. Fowler, assisted by the old " Commissioner
for the Health of Towns." While at Malta I

inspected the Museum, and was kindly received

by the keeper, who had some fossils to show me,
and then went on to see St. John's Church, which
is a museum in itself of marbles and mosaics.

On Sunday we went, by Admiral Sir Hastings
Yelverton's invitation (he is the late Lady Hast

ings' husband), to morning service on board the

flagship. The boat was in waiting for us, and we
were rowed to the ship at ten. The service was

held 'tween decks, and was exceedingly well sung.

After service went over the " Lord Warden," and

after luncheon Mr. Emerson had provided car
riages for a drive to that part of the coast where
St. Paul was wrecked. He read to us on the

spot the account of the shipwreck in the Acts,
which brought the whole scene plainly and vividly

before our eyes. A quiet dinner with Emerson

closed the day.'

1872-82  MADE A C.B.  223

     On his arrival in England (March 15), he
found his wife seriously ill, and throughout that

month and those following he records in his diary
the various stages of her illness. She made no

improvement, but on May 7 passed away, and
Owen lost one who had been his fitting helpmate
for nearly forty years, and who had, in her younger
days especially, assisted his work in no small
degree both by her acute powers of observation
and by her artistic skill. After the severe blow of

her death, Owen's letters became far less numerous.

    On May 10 he wrote to his sister: 'We

have just returned from my dear Caroline's last,

resting-place on earth, in the quiet, peaceful
churchyard of Ham ; a sweet summer's day.
Should I be called away here, I should desire to

rest by her side.'
      On May 15, 1873, ne received a letter from

the Prime Minister, Mr. Gladstone, saying that
he remembered ' with dissatisfaction that a name

so distinguished in the history of research remains
without a note of honour from the State,' and so
offering him a choice of distinctions. In reply
to this letter, Professor Owen intimated that

he would prefer the C.B., and on June 17 of the
same year he received the official announcement
from the College of Arms.

      Considerations for the completeness of the

new Museum were always present in Owen's mind,

and it is interesting to note from the following

224             PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VIII.

letter that Mr. Robert Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke),
when Chancellor of the Exchequer, was one of

the earliest to see the importance of properly-

organised lectures on natural history subjects

at the Museum.  Even now there is no lecture
         --
theatre
         :

                  ii Downing Street, Whitehall : July 14, 1873.
    ' Dear Sir, -- With reference to the memo

randum you sent to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, I am desired to say that he would be

much obliged if you would be good enough to tell
him if the plan of the Natural History Museum,

now in course of building, comprises a theatre for

a lecture-room. It has been represented to Mr.

Lowe that no provision of the kind has been
made, and he is desirous of ascertaining for

certain whether or not what appears to him to

be a serious omission has been made. He would

also be glad to be favoured with any observations

you may have to make in reference to this

matter. . . .

                    ' Yours very faithfully,
                                      ' E. W. Hamilton.'

     In a letter to his friend Pearson Langshaw,

November 2, Owen mentions that his sister has

come to live with him and keep house at Sheen

Lodge. He says she ' has now settled down very

...comfortably in her new home, and has made it less
lonely for me.  I dined yesterday with good

1872-82   FROGS IN STONES     225

old Lord Russell. He sat down to dinner in a

comfortable cloak and black cap, like a lively,
keen-eyed mummy : as full of bright mind and
anecdote and fun as ever.'

     Owen had not yet heard the last of ' frogs in
stones ' and other wonders. In November he

writes to a lady, who affirms that she saw ' with
the utmost surprise,' a frog come out of a bit of
rock which was taken out of a pit, and asks how

long it had been there. ' My dear madam,' the
Professor replies, ' the time during which the
frog was in the pit will depend a good deal upon
whether it came out of a cleft in the stone, into

which it could have crept before being disturbed
by the men, or whether it had been imbedded in

the substance of that stone. If the latter, it must

have got in before the stone was stone--when, e.g.,

it was sand.

     ' The living state of the frog tells against that
hypothesis. The astonishment and " utmost sur
prise " of the spectators are unfavourable states
of mind to clear insight and cool consideration of
the circumstances of the case. . . . No coal or

stone exists in any museum bearing the impress

of a toad or frog therein embedded. Verb. sap. I

            Madam, yours faithfully and obliged,

                                          ' Richard Owen.'

     In 1873 Owen described in the Journal of the
Geological Society the skull of a toothed bird

VOL. II.                   Q

226  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VIII.

from the London Clay of Sheppey, which he
named Odontopteryx toiiapicus. This was one of
four birds which he had from time to time made

known from this geological period.

                          odontopteryx. § natural size

     In January 1874 we find Owen for the fourth
time wintering in Egypt.

     Writing from Cairo to his sister, he says :
' I often thought of you at your quiet fireside
on my journey, wondering how I could have been
beguiled into undertaking some thousand miles of
land and sea at my time of life. Well, it will be
the last, and it must be a strong lever which will
again dislodge me from home. Yet, now that the
journey's over, I feel it to be well worth being
here. E. W. Cooke, R.A., is one of our fellow-
travellers, and we joined Carl Haag, Frank
Dillon, and other artists here.'

     Owen saw a good deal of Carl Haag at Cairo.
After the voyage the artist presented him with a
water-colour that he had painted there of a
Nubian standing with a pitcher, in an Egyptian

landscape, with the inscription :--

1872-82  A 'LONG STOP'                        227

         ' To Professor R1chard Owen.

In grateful remembrance of happy hours spent

with him at Cairo. --Carl Haag. 1874.'

    The following notes are taken from letters to
his sister, written from Egypt :--

    ' February 22. -- At the breakfast table I was

greeted by Colonel Gordon (Chinese Gordon), on
his way to the scene of Sir S. Baker's adven

tures. . . . Captain Stuart kindly agreed to take

us through the canal to Timsah, but we were to

go on board that night.

    ' 23rd. -- We were flattering ourselves that we

should have got into Lake Timsah in time for the

train to Cairo ; or at least in time for M. de Lesseps'

dinner, to which he had telegraphed an invitation

to Suez. But, alas ! at 3 p.m. we stopped. The

captain pointed to a distant semaphore, in which
two balls indicated a " stop " till a vessel in the

canal had emerged into the Bitter Lakes. The

"Simla" was in charge of a Suez Canal Com
pany's pilot and nothing could be done. At 4.30
we saw the masts of the opposing vessel. At

5. 1 5 she emerged from the canal, a large French
screw with the mail-bags. We then moved on

nearer to the entry and stopped for the night.'

Owen returned home by Brindisi, Bologna,

Turin, and arrived in London on April 3.    On
May 12 he writes to Dr. Pearson Langshaw
                                          :--

' Last Friday I dined with the Junior Contem

                                          Q2

228  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. viii.

porary -- Bartholomew men. It was odd, with my

recollections of many of them as they looked in

 1835, to find them grey and bald ; and there was

I, with Burrows and Frederick Farre --the ddbris

of an older set.'
     The Professor notes in his diary that on

September 14 he delivered an address to the

' Ethnological Section ' of the Congress of Ori
entalists, and on October 1 he presided at the
dinner of the St. George's Hospital Medical
School. In this year he wrote ' A Sketch of
Hunter's Scientific Character and Works,' which

appeared in Tom Taylor's ' Leicester Square.'
     On July 10, 1874, his old friend Sir Henry

Parkes wrote informing him that the Government
of New South Wales had voted him a sum of

1 50/., to enable him to issue in a separate form

his papers on the 'Fossil Mammals of Australia.'
The two volumes devoted to this subject appeared
in 1877, and consisted of collections of separate
copies of papers which had appeared in the publi

cations of various societies, bound up, indexed,

and issued with a new title-page.

    At the close of this year Owen was made

' Associe Etranger ' of the Academy of Medicine,

Paris.

1872-82      STILL IN HARNESS                      229

         Richard Owen to Mr. White Cooper

             British Museum : September 7, 1875.

' I cannot keep away from my work-room :

some singular new sauria from South Africa

absorb my thoughts.

     ' Your news of Fulmer3 interests me much.

If I could, with a small mortgage, have raised the

amount, what could I do with it ? Willy, also, has

his lot and work in life made for him in Downing

Street.

    ' If any of his lads should take to money-

getting lines of work, they may care to bring the
property into the old line. But the world fades

as one ages, like a receding landscape, and one

feels more and more that it is no abiding place.'

On November 24, 1875, Professor Owen

writes to Mr. Townsend-Mayer from the British
         --
Museum
         :
' I am still able to come here--well muffled --

to daily task-work. When brain gives signs of

weariness I toddle homewards, and, after dining,
rest the tired organ with a " St. James's," or " Mrs.
Burton," or a novel till bed-time. I am loth

to " put on the spur " --as dear old Walter did --
till the machine gave way. For an old friend --
Froude -- I did so, in behalf of his young suc

   3 Mr. William White Cooper  formed Professor Owen that the
at that time had a house near  old property of Fulmer Place
Fulmer Place, and he had in-   was for sale.

230               PROFESSOR OWEN                    ch. vin.

cessor -- as Editor of " Fraser " --a poet whose

acquaintance I made at Tennyson's. But it was

a work of groans, lazy groans perhaps. Quarter

lies, also, besiege me, mostly in vain. A life

long friendship with Livingstone led me to do his
" Last Journals   " in " The Quarterly."4 Murray
told me Miss       Livingstone that was --she, I
think, is now wedded -- asked for the secret of the

authorship, and I felt well repaid by being told

that the family liked it better than any other

notice. Poor dear Livingstone ! He brought

me the tusk of an elephant, twisted like a cork

screw, from his first great journey. My best

remembrances to your good and kind wife. I

hope we may meet next summer. I am not yet

bad enough to take flight to Brindisi ; but the
irritation and extra secretion of the "bronchials "

won't go at my age.             sympathising but poor
      ' Believe me, a
                                       ' Richard Owen.
" broken reed,"

   ' P.S. -- Our  good friend "Orion's"* reve
lations of Mrs.
                  B. make me afraid of putting pen
to paper.'

    In 1876 Owen brought out a ' Descriptive and
Illustrated Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia of

   4 Review of H. Waller's The  1865 to his Death.
Last Journals of David Living-     b T. H. Home.
stone in Central Africa, from

1872-82  'DANIEL DERONDA'             231

South Africa ' in the collection of the British
Museum. He varied his more serious work by
contributing an article on ' Petroleum and Oil
Wells ' to ' Fraser's Magazine.'

    A frequent correspondent of Owen's was G.

H. Lewes. The following letter, dated Christ
mas Eve, 1876, is interesting, as it gives a few
particulars about George Eliot's ' Daniel Deronda,'
and will also serve to show the strong feeling of

friendship which existed between both of them

and Owen.

         G. H. Lewes to Richard Owen

' My              The Priory, 21 North Bank, Regent's Park :

                                                      Christmas Eve, '76.

         dear Owen, -- It was a most pleasant

reminder of the bygone happy days when we

used to see much of each other, greatly to my

profit, that letter of yours, with its accompanying

paper !

     ' It is cheering also to contemplate the work

you are still doing, though I am forced to admire

it at an ignorant distance, feeling how much I

need to approach and appreciate it. I don't find
my own powers of work at all what they were --
very far from it-- but I go on "doggedly," as

Johnson said, with the uncomfortable sense that
the more I study the nervous system the feebler

my grasp of it gets, and the profounder my con

viction that most of what is taught in the text

232  PROFESSOR OWEN                            CH. VIII.

books is a " false persuasion of knowledge "

which needs uprooting.

     ' The kiss you pressed upon the last page of
" Deronda" was at once transferred to its proper

place on the lips, which gratefully accepted it.

     ' The English public seem to have been

amazingly dead to the attempt to enlighten it

a--bofruotmthGe eJremwainsyh,  race ; but the  Jews themselves
                                 France, and   America, as well
as England -- have been deeply moved, and have

touchingly expressed their gratitude. Learned

Rabbis, who can alone appreciate its learning,

are most enthusiastic.

     ' Is it not psychologically a fact of singular

interest that she was never in her life in a Jewish
family, at least never in one where Judaism was

still a living faith and Jewish customs kept up ?
Yet the Jews all fancy she must have been

/brought up among them ; and in America it is

positively asserted that am of Jewish origin !
     ' With the best wishes of the season, believe

me, dear Owen, ever yours truly,

                                           'G. H. Lewes.'

     The opening paragraph of this letter probably
refers to the pleasant rambles in Richmond Park,

often enjoyed by the three friends, and often

referred to by Owen.

     On July 12, 1877, the Emperor of Brazil

arrived in London, between five and six o'clock

PROFESSOR OWEN AND THE SKELETON OF D1N0RNIS MAXJMUS.

                                                 Taken about 1877.


1872-82 EMPEROR OF BRAZIL AT SHEEN LODGE 233

in the morning, and came down to Sheen Lodge

about an hour later in order to breakfast with

Professor Owen. The Emperor, who was much

interested in scientific questions, stayed some time

looking at the Professor's collections of different

curiosities, greatly admiring the garden and the

beautiful trees in it. Some years previously

when the Emperor came over to England he

had paid Owen a similar visit.

    It was rarely that Owen omitted to date his

letters ; but about this time he wrote an undated

letter to Dr. Milroy, in which he says : ' You have

done good work in the thorough investigation of

leprosy, and I trust you may be spared to receive

evidence of the predicted results of the more

rational treatment of the afflicted ones.

     ' In my less practical or applicable labours, I
have to report that the " Researches on the Fossil

Mammalia of Australia," 2 vols. 4to, are now in

the binder's hands.

     ' This being issued, I push on to completion a
similar series of researches on the " Fossil Birds

of New Zealand" (this with 150 plates, the other

130). But     then   there remains the completion
of a greater  work   (already partially issued), " On

the Fossil Reptiles of Great Britain." Will my

old cephalo-thoracic mucous tract outlast that

labour ? ' 6

  6 The two volumes relating     land to which Owen refers in
to the fossil birds of New Zea-  this letter consisted of separate

234           PROFESSOR OWEN            ch. vm.

     Owen relates an amusing interview which he

once had with the Income Tax Commissioners

on the subject of the supposed profit arising from

the sale of his works.7 ' I was once very much

amazed,' he said, ' by receiving notice that the

return I had made to the Income Tax Com

missioners was to be surcharged. I had made a

perfectly honest return, and felt indignant that my

figures should be disputed. I was told that I

might appeal on a certain day and hour at the

Board Room. I arrived at the time stated, at
some inconvenience to myself --for I was very
busy --and found that it would be at least an

hour before I could be heard. I spent the time

in an untidy old churchyard, just under the

Board Room windows, and occupied myself in

reading inscriptions, &c. When my turn came

I expressed my surprise at the notice I had

received. The chairman said, with much suavity :
" Oh, Professor Owen, we know that you have

published some important works, and we thought

perhaps you might have forgotten to mention the
                                     "
proceeds  in  your  return              I assured him I had
                                    !

forgotten nothing, produced what evidence I

copies of papers published in           logical map of New Zealand,
the Transactions of the Zoologi-        showing the localities from
cal Society between 1844 and            whence these fossils were ob-
1877, with the addition of a            tained.
paper on the ' Anatomy of the
Apteryx australis,' a plate (life-        7 In a letter to Dr. Pearson
size) of the Notomis, and a geo-
                                        Langshaw.

1872-82        'SHUT THEM WINDOWS'  235

"Ifcould, and added :   any of you gentlemen will

pay me the cost of publication, you are quite

welcome to the proceeds." The Board was satis

fied, and bowed me out. I was not quite so

satisfied, especially when I thought of my wasted

morning, so, turning to the Commissioners, I

proceeded to describe the unhealthy state of the
churchyard, and observed : " Gentlemen, are you

aware of the fact that this room must be full of

the most deadly germs ? I may add that I should

be sorry to answer for the health of any of you,

especially as you have been sitting here all the

morning with those windows open." With that

Parthian shot I retired, and as I left the

room I heard one of the Commissioners shout,
" Shut                   "
         them  windows      I think I paid them
                        !

out.'

     On April 25, 1878, Professor Owen wrote to
Mr. C. T. Newton with reference to a letter from
the Duke of Somerset, suggesting the opening of
the galleries of the British Museum on all days of
the week. Owen intimates that, as the removal

of the natural history portions of the collection is
taking place, the reduction rather than the in
crease of hours of admission for the public is to

be desired. But he adds : 'His Grace will be

gratified to learn that arrangements in the
Museum of Natural History were suggested in
the original plan (February 10, 1859), and have
been carried out in the building, to allow of daily

236  PROFESSOR OWEN                CH. vm.

admission of the public, and also of nightly admis
sion and admission on Sundays, to portions of
the building, with exhibited objects of interest
and extent sufficient to gratify any reasonable
expectation, and requiring a minimum of super

vision.'

     The removal from Egypt to England of

Cleopatra's Needle greatly interested Owen, who

was anxious that the Government should have the

obelisk placed in the great forecourt of the
Museum at Bloomsbury, where it would form a
fitting supplement to the antiquities within. He
accordingly wrote letters on the subject, and inter

viewed officials at the Board of Works.8 H.R.H.

the Prince of Wales, in 1869, was at the cost

of removing the dust and displaying England's
obelisk in its whole noble length.

     This obelisk, however, was eventually placed
on the Thames Embankment, not without pro
test on the part of Owen and other Egyptolo

gists, who objected to its incongruous position.

    A long letter from Oliver Wendell Holmes

written to Owen, and dated Boston, December 18,

1878, is characteristic and interesting. Some

extracts from it are given below.

     ' My palaeontological accomplishments are but

     8 The obelisk in question is  moration of the victories in

the fellow of that now in          Egypt in 1801, but remained,
                                   half buried in the sand, till
America, for it is one of a pair.  Erasmus Wilson paid for its
It was given to England by         removal to London in 1877.
Mohammed Ali in comme-

1872-82     LETTER FROM O. W. HOLMES                237

slight, my museum in that department consist

ing of a single trilobite given me by Professor
Gray the botanist, and which I keep before

my eyes (mounted in the form of a paper-weight)
to make the aeternitas a parte ante in some

measure palpable to my apprehension, and to cool

my egoism when it gets too warm with exercise

and needs to be reminded that its subject is one

in a long procession. But I have been a lecturer

on human anatomy for more than thirty years,

and so can understand your paper9 and see its

interest, for, without having made an express
study of comparative anatomy, I have necessarily

rubbed against it so much and from so many
points of view that I find myself in possession of

a certain amount of knowledge, hardly knowing

how I came byI it...                     have a reminiscence

                     a
                                      .
                           it I
which will call up a name well known to you. In

the year 1834, think                     was, that  visited
                                         is,
London and carried letter to your father-in-law,
Mr. Clift, from an old fellow-student. He receivedI

me very kindly, and have a distinct recollection
               I

of passing an evening most agreeably at his
            was for many years-- that during his
house.   I

whole residence in America -- on intimate terms of

friendship with Louis Agassiz, being one of the

four whom he had as associates under the name

     'On the Occurrence in North9 England' (Annals and Maga-
America of Rare Extinct Verte-    zine of Natural History).

brates found fragmentarily in

238                    PROFESSOR OWEN                    ch. vm.

of " Faculty of the Museum," holding the purse-

strings of his expenditures, which was not a sine
cure. I suppose you know all about his son Alex,
and his monograph on the " Acheenodaarms,"1

as his father used to call them ; also how he went

up to Lake Superior and got hold of some copper

mines, which made him and his friends so rich

...that some of them do not know what to do with
their money.           I beg your pardon for gossip-

ping as I have done.'

     On December 17, at a meeting of the Royal

Colonial Institute, Owen made a speech on 'New
Guinea,' which was printed in 'The Colonies,'

December 21.

     In May 1879 Owen again delivered a lecture
at the Colonial Institute on 'The Extinct Animals

of the British Colonies.' As is well known, he

always, made a point of asking colonial officials

and travellers to collect and forward to him as

many remains as they could procure of the extinct

animals to be found in the localities which they

visited. Bishops, governors, missionaries, and

medical men from all parts of the globe worked
for him in that way. His appeals ' to be borne in

mind when the opportunity of collecting such

fossils might occur ' (as he writes to a Governor of

Queensland who had contributed part of the
           of          Fossil             of             '
materials      his  '          Mam  mals      Australia      were
                                                          )

                       1 Echinoderms.

1872-82 THE 'PLEASURES OF THE CHASE'  239

generally liberally responded to, and a large
variety of specimens was frequently sent to him.
These miscellaneous contributions he kept in
memory, and as occasions offered, pieced together.
Sometimes years elapsed before he had received

sufficient material to afford him conclusive proof
of the facts at which he had perhaps long ago
arrived by induction. Threads had often to be
dropped which he had no opportunity of picking
up again for long intervals of time. But when
some missing link arrived, it was at once utilised
in the construction of the extinct animals on

which he was patiently engaged.

     In this lecture at the Royal Colonial Institute
he spoke of the ' absorbing pleasures of the chase,'

which these pursuits afforded him, and declared that

' in the sporting world there was no hunt that was
so exciting, so full of interest, and so satisfactory,
when events prove one to have been on the right
scent, as that of a huge beast which no eye will
ever see alive, and which, perhaps, no mortal eye

ever did behold. Such a chase is not ended in a

day, in a week, nor in a season. One's interest

is revived and roused year by year, as bit by bit of
the petrified portions of the skeleton comes to
hand. Thirty such years elapsed before I was able
to outline a restoration of Diprotodon australis?

      Sometimes, however, other materials than

extinct fossil remains were submitted to Owen

240  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. VIII.

for examination. ' In March,' he writes in his
diary, ' I spent some time at the Home Office

comparing microscopically the surface-characters

of the bullet from the body of the policeman
murdered by Peace, with those of a bullet

fired for that purpose, from the burglar's
revolver, and of bullets from other revolvers. I

was able to testify that the bullet which slew the
policeman agreed so closely with one subsequently

fired from Peace's revolver, as to impress me with

its identity ; there were unexpected and marked
differences in bullets fired from revolvers of

another make. Sir Richard Cross and Sir Adol-

phus Liddell were glad to have this result and
testimony as far as it went.'

     In November 1879 the Professor received
the freedom of the Leathersellers' Company. It

was enclosed in a casket beautifully engraved,
mounted in silver, bearing a suitable inscription

engraved and the note : ' This box is made of

hippopotamus leather which required nearly four

years to tan.'
     Owen's chief desire was to live long enough

to see the removal of the British Museum speci
mens to South Kensington. Writing to a friend

in September of 1879, he says :--
     ' As my strength fails, and I feel the term of

my labours drawing nigh, how I long to see the
conclusion of their main aim! -- the exposition of
our national treasures of natural history in a

1872-82 MELBOURNE EXHIBITION COMMISSION 241

manner worthy of the greatest commercial and
colonial empire of the world.'

     Writing on the same subject to Dr. Pearson
Langshaw, December 21, 1879, he says: --

  I' I nurse my old chronic "bronchitis" by the

fireside, whenever can, hoping still to survive
the arrangement in systematic order of the
national treasures of natural history in their
noble new building. But the halter of an Affghan

is a costly affair ; so is a bullet in the body
of a Zulu. Mr. Robert Lowe let the " tail
of the cat " out of the bag, when he told the
public that the sum for the purchase of books for

the National Library had been cut down. If he

had let out the "whole animal," he would have
dealt a better blow. " We cannot afford the

furniture," &c., &c. ! and the prospect of getting
in, even in 1881, is poor, unless we have a
Chancellor of the Exchequer who will lay on a

is. or is. 6d. in the pound income tax, and pay
the debts of the year within the year like decent,

honest people.'

     In 1879 a fitting tribute was paid to a man
who had been an active member of the Com

mission for the first Great Exhibition. Nearly

thirty years had elapsed between that appoint
ment and Owen's nomination to be a Member

of the Royal Commission for the British Section
of the International Exhibition of Melbourne,

1880.

VOL. II.  R

242             PROFESSOR OWEN                    CH. VIII.

     A man who held for so many years so pro

minent a position as Owen inevitably becomes the

victim of strange requests. As years passed,

he formed a small collection of letters, which

he labelled ' Specimens of my Correspondence.'

One of these he received on January 23, 1880.

It was a twelve-page letter, closely written, from

a gentleman who forwarded at the same time a

large packet of poems of his own composition,

which he desired the Professor to read through

with comments and return. The letter contained

a biography of the writer, with a minute account

of his poetic instincts and aspirations. Owen

answered the letter politely, but at the same

time begged to be excused from perusing the

poems on account of their length, and con

cluded his letter with the following words : ' In

my seventy-sixth year, with rare materials

awaiting examination and the impending labour

of the transfer of our Natural History Museum

hence to South Kensington, you will condone a

request to spare both our brief allotted time for

work--yours in writing, mine in reading and

replying.'

     Another specimen may be quoted, which the
Professor has endorsed 'A characteristic request !
                                              It   runs thus :--
from             a perfect stranger ! !  '   A
                Dear Professor Owen,              few months hence,
             '                           --

all being well, I leave England to return to the

United States. My wife and I are gathering

1872-82 'SPECIMENS OF MY CORRESPONDENCE' 243

"memories" of literary favourites, friends, and
acquaintances, to carry with us to our home across
the Atlantic. By parcels post I have ventured
to send you a page of my wife's album, and we
shall feel grateful if you will enrich it with a
brief autographic contribution. We shall hail the
veriest trifle with very great pleasure.

                          ' I remain,
                                 ' Yours most truly,

     ' Since the old Park mole-catcher went to

earth,' the Professor wrote,2 March 1, 1880, 'my
plague of moles has returned, and my front lawn
is seldom free from one or more evidences, cumu

lative, of the wonderful little tunneller's operations.
In our village there is a belief that " the 'Fessor
keeps a mole," and I have seen children, when
they come to play about the Pond, peer through
the light fence to see the " 'Fessor's mole." Well !
I have lately benefited by an unexpected ally.

A fine young cat, reared by the cook, has taken

to catching moles. She steals out in the gray
of the morning, listens, and sits where she
hears the little grubber coming near the surface,
and, when he pushes his head above the earth-
mound, Puss pounces upon him and hales him

out.'

     The mole-catcher in question, from whom the

a To Dr. Pearson Langshaw.

                            R2

244  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. Vin.

Professor used to extract a good deal of amuse

ment, was a disreputable old person, long since

deceased, whose nefarious proceedings were de
scribed in an article contributed by Owen to

' Blackwood's Magazine' in 1871.
      From 1880 to 1884 Owen was engaged in

superintending the removal of the specimens from
the British to the Natural History Museum at

South Kensington, which was now prepared to
receive them. He thus lived to enjoy the realisa
tion of his life-long wish. Before his retire
ment he had the gratification of seeing the collec

tions --many of which had been crowded in the

dark vaults of the old Bloomsbury Museum, where

it was impossible that they could be properly

exhibited -- now safely transferred and displayed

to their best advantage in the new museum.

     The new museum was not a source of un

mixed delight to everybody. Mr. Ruskin wrote
the following letter to Owen about this time in
answer to an invitation to go over the building : --,

               John Ruskin to R. Owen

                                                                                     November 6.

     ' Dear Professor Owen, -- I am entirely grateful

for your most kind letter and memory of me ; but
I can't come to-day (for cold in teeth and throat).
Alas ! My dear old musty Museum was as much
a hobby to me as your new one to you, and it
would be mere misery to me to see your new

1872-82  RUSKIN DISAPPROVES  245

abode I wished yesterday Guy were himself

again, and would blow up both Houses of Parlia
ment, and all the West End with them ; then

there might be a chance for the east, and for the
Sun and Aurora again.

                   ' Ever yours affectionately,

                                              ' J. Ruskin.

     ' I can write steadily still when I am not in a
rage-- but that's not often.'

     ' I dine with Paget,' Owen writes3 (March 23,
1 88 1 ), ' the day after to-morrow to meet Tennyson.
I fear the poet will miss his pet pipe.' In another
letter (March 27) he gives a description of some
of the conversation, and continues : ' When the

ladies retired our host benevolently sent for the
Pipe ; we accompanied, with mild cigarettes,

gtshiomeoidleP,")o.eatn, dBwurhteoaidnthtteohneubdsergahwaisnin"gto-Mroauounmdrol"lh--e(aIwhateshding"kevheohrgiys

favourite.'

     In the Grosvenor Gallery of 1881 Professor
Owen's portrait appeared., painted by Mr. Holman
Hunt. The ' Times,' in speaking of this portrait,
says (May 2) : ' Perhaps the finest portrait in the

gallery among so many that are very fine is the

" Professor Owen " of Mr, Holman Hunt. This
is a work which is full of Mr. Hunt's peculiarities
of colour. The flesh of the face is that curious

                           3 To Dr. Pearson Lan-gshaw.

246  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. vni.

reddish yellow with purple shadows in which the

artist delights, and it is painted with all the
sculptured accuracy that is familiar to us in Mr.
Hunt's religious subjects. None the less is it a
fine portrait and also a fine likeness.'

     In the same year Mr. Hamo Thorn ycroft ex
hibited a bust of Owen. In a letter to the writer

he mentions how exemplary a sitter the Professor

was. ' He was good enough,' he writes, ' to give

me about a dozen sittings for the portrait bust.

His very charming and genial manner, as he sat
and told me anecdotes of men long past --Turner
and Chantrey -- made these occasions very delight

ful and interesting to me. I modelled the bust in

1880, but the marble was not exhibited in the

Academy until 1881.'

     On April 6 Owen went to Folkestone in order
to unveil a statue of William Harvey. In memory
of this occasion the Mayor and Corporation of
that borough presented him with a copy of
Harvey's works. Under the title of ' Experi
mental Physiology' (1884), we have, in an

amplified form, and with various additions, the
substance of the address which Owen delivered

 there.

      Until 1883 the Professor was almost daily at

 the new Museum, where there was still much to

 be done. With regard to the skeleton of the

 whale which now stands in the entrance hall, he

 writes to Mr. A. Waterhouse, July 31, 1882 :--

1872-82  WHALE IN ENTRANCE HALL  247

...' After much consideration,  I concluded

that the skeleton of a fine cachalot whale would

least interfere with the ensemble unglazed. It is

low, like all Cetacea, though long, leaving ample

room on each side, and not obstructing the view

of the staircase. My scientific object was to give

the public an idea of the bulk that might be

attained by an animal of the existing kinds. No

extinct monster equals it.'

248             PROFESSOR OWEN                 CH. IX.

                CHAPTER IX

                                                      1883-92

'Notes on Birds in my Garden' -- Love of Poetry -- Retirement
    from the Museum and made a K.C.B., 1884 -- Life at Sheen
     Lodge -- Love of Chess, Music, and Gardening -- Letters to his
     Grandson -- Paralytic Stroke, 1890-- Last Illness and Death,

       1892.

In 1883 Owen received from Frederic Cuvier
the present of a seal which had belonged to

Georges Cuvier. The high value that he placed

upon this important relic is shown by his reply to
                                          --'
his ' dear and  truly  esteemed  friend
                                         :

     ' For such is the relation in which I have

ever held yourself, bearing the honoured name

of the great teacher from whom I received my

final instructions, as pupil at the Jardin des
Plantes, in the sciences I have since cultivated.

Whatever success may have attended my labours

is due to the principles there inculcated, and to
the example there manifested. I was favoured

by admission at 6 a.m. to the laboratory, where

the master examined and noted the characters of
the subjects of his last great work, " Sur les

Poissons."

1883-92  RELIC OF CUVIER  249

     ' Of the many recognitions, by my Sovereign,

by her Prime Minister, by my late masters the
Trustees of the British Museum of Natural

History, and by my fellow-officers, not any has

yielded me more heartfelt gratification than the
precious relic you have been pleased, with most
estimable and characteristic forethought, to enrich

me with. It will be worn by me whilst I live, and
I believe it will be cherished by my son and his
sons as evidence of their regard of the representa
tive of the name they have so often heard me

mention with grateful reverence.
     ' There are fashions of thought as well as of

dress. A somewhat prevailing one, to which you

allude, I have occasionally referred to as the
Biologie conjecturale ; but the science of living
things which will endure is based on the foun

dation of the fails positifs made known, with the

true methods of their discovery, in the immortal
works of Georges Cuvier.'

     In his declining years it was one of Owen's
favourite amusements to observe the habits of
the birds which frequented his garden. The

notes which he made upon his feathered visitors
were, as he writes in his diary, ' communicated to

my friend Robinson's weekly paper " The Garden "
in successive numbers.' A few extracts from
these ' Notes on Birds in my Garden,' which

were published in 1883, throw light on Owen's
interests and occupations. The* number of birds

250          PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. IX.

which the Professor noted in his garden at Sheen

Lodge is surprising :--

     ' I have entered in my garden book,' he

writes, ' the name of every kind of bird which I

have noted there, distinguishing the permanent

dwellers from the occasional residents, and the

latter according to the periods of their temporary
sojourn, whether to breed or to feed -- in other

words, the summer and winter visitors.

     ' The list, however, would have been incom

plete without the aid of my lamented friend,

John Gould. It was ever with him a favourite

summer afternoon's holiday, after a ramble in

the park, to pass an hour in the garden. On

one of these occasions, in early June, we rested

on a seat overshadowed by a weeping ash, but

allowing a view of the lawn. Happening to

show him my ornithological list at that date,

Gould said, " You have got more birds in the

garden than I see here, I expect." Now he

possessed in a remarkable degree the faculty

of imitating the various notes of all our vocal

species.  He bade us sit still and be silent ;

then began.  After emitting a particular

"motivo" for a few minutes, he would quietly

point to a little bird which had flown from an

adjoining bush upon the lawn, and was there

hopping inquisitively to and fro, gradually

nearing the locality of its specific song. We

could then recognise the species to which Gould

1883-92  'BIRDS IN MY GARDEN'  251

gave the name. This attraction and its result

was repeated ; and we enjoyed the same in
structive amusement in subsequent summer
vacations, to which I am indebted for additions

that would otherwise probably have escaped

my observation.'
     There then follows a list of birds, with

characteristic remarks and observations. Con

cerning the tits he writes :--
    ' These lively little birds --the greater tit

(Parus major), blue    tittit(Pa(Pruasruscoscrualieiduast),us)w--ithI

the rarer long-tailed

tempt into view at the time of hardest frosts.

Then to the leafless branch of a creeper1 which

crosses my bed-room window I suspend by a

wire, with a fishing swivel, a small wire cage,

about the size of a nutmeg. This is filled at
night with a lump of suet. At early dawn 1

note from my pillow the swift flight of a little

bird to a branch of the Gleditschia, also in view,

on which it turns or jerks about as if moved by a

spring. Then mustering courage it darts upon

the suet cage, clinging like a parrot to the wire,

and whirling about to show all its plumage. It

is the blue tit ; but hardly has he enjoyed a few

pecks when he suddenly lets go and is off again

to his post on the great tree. What has startled

him in this calm dawn of prevailing frost ? The

handsome greater tit takes his place, and not

         1 Pyrus japonica.

252  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

until he is satisfied does the smaller one resume

his breakfast. But the pugnacious robin is not
to be so scared. It is true he cannot cling
while fighting like the tits ; but he takes his
stand on the window-sill, ruffles his plumage out
to make the most of his size, and attacks Parus

major by successive flights, assaulting him from
below. The tit gives way, and the redbreast
then makes a series of flying pecks at the suet.'

    Of the throstle he says :--

     ' There are a few old cherry trees in the
garden ; one of them a Bigarreau. This I

netted in my first summer's possession to pre
serve the tempting fruit. When the dish came
to table, I thought of the frequent pleasures
which the morn and evening warblings of the

little robbers had given me, and felt ashamed at
fencing off what I could cheaply get, as fresh

and better, from neighbouring market gardens.
I never repeated the practice, but left Bigarreaus

with the other cherries as " salary of the orches

tra."

     ' Sparrow [Passer domesticus). -- Our colony

remains pretty stationary as to numbers ; they

are never molested, and are fed in winter.

Being formerly accustomed to coax these town
birds at that season to the windows of my
official residence in Lincoln's Inn Fields, I was

hardly prepared to do justice to the well-marked,

agreeable, un-sooted attire which both sexes, and

1883-92  FEATHERED BURGLARS  253

especially the males, present in the clear atmo
sphere of my present abode.

     ' From the rook (Corvus frugilegus) I have
received nothing but favours. They take their
share in diminishing lawn pests and other insect
plagues ; their ways and instincts afford endless
interest. When I took up my abode at Sheen

Lodge there was in the elm wood leading there
from Sheen Gate a small rookery at our end. I

am bound to say that at the nesting season
complaints of being awoke and kept awake, from
3 A.M., were frequent and well founded ; but this
is the only exception to the pleasure which the

cawings at evening and other seasonable times
have given to one whose busy life, in great pro
portion, is spent in London.

     ' Broderip, the author of " Recreations in
Natural History," especially enjoyed his visits

at the rooks' breeding season, and the worthy
magistrate declared that he should unquestion
ably commit certain members of the cawing

community for theft and burglary if they had
been other than feathered bipeds. The case

was this. A young married couple could always

be discriminated by the unusual activity dis
played in preparing the abode for the incubator
and her coming brood, yet, by reason of the
unconscionable practice of their elders, and

possibly parents, they spent twice the time
and trouble in completing the nest than did

254  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

 the more experienced birds or than was fairly

 needful.

      ' The old couple, perched near the frame
 work of their former nest on a higher branch,
 instead of flying forth to collect their own lining
 materials, awaited the return of the younger
 pair, each with a beakful of moss or wool, which

 they then busied themselves in properly dis

posing in their unlined nest. This being done,
forthwith off they flew again to gather more

material, whereupon the stationary old rooks, who

had generally monopolised the topmost localities,
would hop down from twig to twig and delibe
rately transfer the lining material of the young
pair's nest to their own ; nor, until the old birds
had thus provided for themselves, were the young
couple permitted to finish theirs.

     ' We sometimes fancied we saw movements

of the plundered ones, after fruitless flights,
indicative of suspicions of foul play. But, in
the long run, all went on well ; the coming gene
ration was duly hatched out and provided for.
Food could not be larcenously fetched from the
beaks of the new-wedded one's brood so easily as
the wool from their nests.

     ' I can well understand the condition of our

latitude and environment, which tempts the night

ingales to our groves and gardens for their breed

ing ground.
     ' And here I may remark how rarely I have

1883-92               THE NIGHT-JAR             255

succeeded in finding a nightingale's nest, though

more than one pair annually rear their brood in

the garden. On one of these occasions the nest

was hidden near the base of a holly ; the soft,

warm, nursing chamber was walled round by a

ring of dead and shed holly leaves stuck upright

with their margins overlapping each other.

    ' Night-Jar, or Churn Owl {Caprimulgus
europtzus). -- I owe an occasional sight and more

frequent hearing of this strange bird to the ad

vantageous location of my garden and abode.

Close to it begins a preserve, which extends along
the eastern boundary of the park to near Roehamp-
ton Gate. On one side of the preserve is the

park with old oaks ; on the other side is the

quietest and   least  frequented of commons,    hight
" Pale-well,"  from   the spring of pure water  rising

therein. No cultivation is carried on outside the

garden wall. Such are the conditions suitable to

the night-jar's singular habit of oviposition and

hatching of the eggs, usually a pair, on the bare

ground ; of nest-building the bird seems ignorant.

She selects some bare spot with which her own

colours so closely match that she is hard to

recognise even when you are near, and she is so

hardy that you may stand and contemplate her

for some time, and may have to move a step or

two nearer before she takes to flight. Since my

first acquaintance I have never disturbed mother

or eggs, but always quietly retired when I have

256  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. IX.

come in view of them. And, so retiring, I have

marvelled at the seeming knowledge possessed by
the bird of her own tints, and have pondered

upon the instinct which has guided her choice of
the limited patch of ground best according with

them. If a night-jar possessed the strange faculty

of the chameleon, the trout, or the cuttle-fish, and

was able to change its colour to that of the spot
on which it rests and nidificates, the explanation
of the baffling correspondence would be easy ;
but the mystery of the colorific movements in the
skin and of the volition, conscious or unconscious,

which the chameleons obey, remains. I have

generally recognised the advent in May of this
migratory bird by its singular jarring note. But
when its favourite food, the large moths and
chaffers, abounds, its active wheeling flight about
the old oaks is remarkable.'

     The mention of the night-birds suggests a
characteristic story of Owen which is told by Dr.
A. S. Murray, of the British Museum : --

     ' One day when Professor Owen was passing
through the room of Greek and Roman bronzes,
as he often did in his Bloomsbury days, I happened
to be at work there. He stopped to speak, and

while speaking observed close beside him the
well-known bronze head of Hypnos with the wing

still springing from one of its temples. The form
of the wing caught Professor Owen's eye, and he
asked, " Have you observed that this is the wing

w

s

w
H

O

--

o

<

SB

a

N

o


1883-92     THE GOD OF SLEEP                             257

of a night-bird which  flies      noiselessly    "  and  then
"Itadded :
                                               ?

            was a beautiful idea of the Greeks to

give the God of Sleep wings which would enable

him to visit his patients without a murmur of
sound." 2 He knew the passage in the " Iliad"

where Hypnos takes the form of the bird which
" men call Chalkis but the gods Kumindis." I was

greatly struck by the observation, not so much

because of the identification of the wing of the

night-bird -- that must have been easy for a

naturalist, and had indeed been once remarked

before, as I learned afterwards --but because of

what appeared to me the singularly poetic insight
which had led Professor Owen to note the noise-

lessness of the night-bird's wing and its beautiful
appropriateness to the God of Sleep. These were

two points which no archaeologist had dreamt of,
and yet this particular head of Hypnos had been
made the subject of an elaborate investigation by
the most practically minded of German critics,
Heinrich Braun. But surely the true beauty of

the conception was lost until we recognised what
Professor Owen was the first to point out.'

     Nor is this an isolated instance of the imagina

tive faculty which is essential to any great exponent
of science. Owen was always a reader of poetry,
and drew from the stores of his retentive memory

    2 It is curious to contrast   with the wings of a swan, one
with this the practice of modern  of the most noisy of birds,
painters to represent angels
                                                                                     S
      VOL. II.

258  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

an abundance of apl quotations and illustrations.
It was his habit to write such quotations on the
fly-leaf of his different works. From his own
interleaved copies the following examples are

taken at haphazard :--
     In his ' British Fossil Mammals and Birds,'

for example, there is the appropriate quotation,
' Bones bear witness.' 3

     In his work descriptive of the extinct gigantic
sloth, the Mylodon, he has written : ' Framed in
the prodigality of nature.'

     In his earliest volume of Hunterian Lectures,

when he was just starting on his scientific career,

he has written : ' If the Lord will, we shall live,

and do this or that ' (James iv. 15). And in a later
volume of lectures :

             ' Ut primum inspexi, me non vigilare putavi,
                  Luminibusque meis visa neganda fides.'

And as another example ('On the Nature of

Limbs ') : olov Treirovdev ovv£ vpb<s ottXtju Kai xeLP
77/oos XV^W (Aristotle).

                  ' Each part may call the farthest brother,
                    And hand with foot hath secret amity.'

     The autumn of 1883 found Owen still hard
at work completing the arrangement of the
Natural History collections in their new home.
On September 22 he wrote to Pearson Lang-

shaw regretting that he could not attend the

                           3 Comedy of Errors, iv., 4.

1883-92 RETIRES FROM THE BRITISH MUSEUM 259

Southport Meeting of the British Association,

and thus continued : ' To the usual inquiry from

our masters the Trustees, I replied that " I had no

intention to take any vacation this year." So, at

present, I am almost the only officer on duty at

the New Museum. But my work there
                        ;                                                          as

                                                                              is,The birds
you may imagine, one of love

have been received into their gallery, and the

beasts into theirs and both are steadily getting

into their proper places. We are also receiving,

without interruption, the other classes of the

existing creation, to which the west wing of the

New Museum devoted.
' 'I
What a contrast the two gatherings which
          '
give food to columns in the daily papers present                                   !
     of
         i!tPhilosophers in sober garments emperors, kings,
                                       ;
                    is
princes and princesses in gorgeous uniforms and

brilliant orders, watching the evolutions of thou

sands of well-drilled soldiers
                        I
derived a wholesome lesson from the inau!

gural address of my old friend the Cambridge

Professor of Mathematics. could not comprehend

a word                My brain was a blank Palaeonto
                                             !

logy may be as strange to him          !
     'With this year (1883),' Owen has written in his'

diary, end my official relations with the national

collections of natural history, the several de

partments -- Zoology, Geology, Fossils, Minerals,
Plants -- being arranged and displayed in their

respective galleries. felt that could now "depart
                        I
                                        I

260  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

in peace," for mine eyes had seen their sal

vation.'

     On January 5, 1884, Professor Owen was
gazetted K.C.B. on his retirement from the
Museum ; on Mr. Gladstone's initiative, his pen

sion was supplemented by 100/. annually.

    A few words will suffice to tell the story of

the remaining years of his life.
     After the death of his only son in 1886, shortly

followed by that of his sole remaining sister, his
eldest grandson lived with him at Sheen Lodge
until 1889, when his daughter-in-law and the
rest of her children came also to reside there.

The Professor occupied his time chiefly with his
correspondence and in reading. He would read

anything that came to hand, from the latest
scientific work that was sent him to the ' Queen '
newspaper, which journal was a source of unfail
ing amusement to him, owing to the numerous
advertisements of hair-dyes, washes for the

complexion, and the ' anatomical impossibilities,'
as he called the ladies of the fashion-plates.

     Two red-letter days in the year were Christ
mas Day and his birthday, July 20. On these

occasions a few old friends, up to the last, came
to keep the feast. Prominent amongst these
was Mr. R. D. Blackmore, whose novels, one of

which is dedicated to the Professor, occupied an

honoured place in his well-filled library.

    A keen chess-player himself, Sir Richard was

1883-92  DECLINING YEARS  261

always ready for a game in the evenings, and

until very recent years played exceedingly well.

His chief relaxation, however, was music, of which
he had always been passionately fond. He was
never tired of listening to his favourite composi

tions, although as he grew older his taste in music
became much narrower, and he could only listen

with pleasure to the music admitted to be ' clas
sical ' in his younger days. Wagner, Grieg, and
more modern composers were to his mind ' toler

able and not to be endured.' The keys of his little
old-fashioned piano had been touched by many of
his musical friends -- Moscheles, John Ella, and
Halle, and had served many a time to accompany
Jenny Lind and his own famous 'cello by Forster.

     The love of his home and of his beautiful

garden only grew stronger with his declining
years. Every day he would gc round his garden

-- no small distance -- supported by his favourite

curiously-carved stick ; then he would generally
make his way to an extraordinary specimen of a
garden-seat, made out of the vertebra of a whale,
which he himself had put up. There are many

such curiosities to be seen in that picturesque

piece of ground. The skull of a huge crocodile,
most of whose teeth are missing, owing to dental

experiments made with champagne-nippers by
certain small grandchildren, grins out of a rockery.

The plaster cast of a seated Egyptian figure rests
on a pedestal at the end of the ' west walk,' and a

262  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

few great bones repose gracefully against a tree
in that wooded part of the garden which has
always been left entirely to Nature. These little
woods are still full of the wild flowers which the

Professor gathered in his travels on the Continent
or his rambles in the country, the roots of which

he brought home with him and planted himself.
     Thus his latter days peacefully glided away.

His old friends were gradually leaving him, and
of his scientific contemporaries hardly any re
mained, so many changes of scientific thought

had he lived to see, and so long a period had his

life embraced. The last letter which he received
from perhaps the oldest of them, Lord Enniskillen,
is dated August 19, 1885 : ' Neither of us,' he

writes, ' my dear old friend, are so young as we

were, nor nearly so active as when we used to

clamber over the cliffs with Mary Anning.4 By-
the-by, I have just bought from a nephew of
Mary's a number of drawings and manuscripts,
many of them by De la Beche and Conybeare,
but I have not examined them yet.'

     In proportion as Sir Richard's memory

became more failing with regard to present-
day matters, it became all the clearer as to the
time of his schooldays and early youth.

     He often used to tell stories of his school

fellows, and still oftener of his mother, of her
goodness to him, of her love of music. He

                          4 The collector at Lyme Regis.

1883-92  AN OLD FRIEND           263

never forgot those friends with whom his

younger days were intimately associated, and in
this connection a letter from Mr. William White

Cooper is interesting :--

                                                                           May 28, 1886.

      ' My very dear Friend, -- I think it due to you

as my oldest and most valued friend to com
municate direct to you the information that I

have this day received from Mr. Gladstone --the

announcement that the Queen intends to confer
upon me the honour of knighthood. . . . When
I look back upon the incidents of my life I am

struck with the part played by you in them :

How you went down to Derby to my wedding
and gave away my dear wife ; how I owe to

you the delightful tour we had together in
Germany, of which memory recalls so many

little incidents ; how we "faced" one another in
the ranks of the H.A.C. at the Coronation ; how

we went to the Grand Review at Woolwich and

saw the great people, including old Soult, and
saw the big gun fired, the report of which gave

me a kick in the stomach ! But I must stop. It

has been my proud lot to see you receive the

honours so justly your due, and at a very humble
distance I follow ! . . . .

                ' I am ever most sincerely yours,

                                ' W. White Cooper.'5

     5 Mr. White Cooper's death  knighthood could be actually
took place very shortly after-   conferred upon him.
wards ; befoie, indeed, the

264  PROFESSOR OWEN  ch. IX.

     Another of his oldest friends was Pearson
Langshaw, of Lancaster. The following anecdote,

gleaned from his experiences as a commissioner to
inquire into the water-supply of his native town, is

extracted from a letter written to his fellow- towns

man by Owen in March 1889. It at least illustrates

the way in which his mind reverted to the home
and familiar accents of his childhood. ' I knew,' he

writes, ' the wretched character of its water-supply

from household wells and pumps, which yielded
very hard water. I also knew that a hill of
primitive rock, a few miles from the town, going

from a level higher than the church steeple,
carried off the purest rainfall to the neighbouring

sea. That fine water was brought to the town,

and has proved an unfailing supply to every class
of dwelling. There were two elderly widows,

inhabiting neighbouring abodes, who had adopted
the economical habit of taking tea with each
other alternately. On the first occasion of using

the purer water, the visitor exclaimed, " Eh !

Betty, thou's put a power o' tea into pot to-neet ! "
" Nay, Jennie," replied the hostess, " it's nobbut
t' new watter." '

     As the circle of his old friends contracted it

was hardly to be expected that their places would

be taken by new. Sir Richard lived out of
London, almost in country retirement. Unable,

except at rare intervals, to travel to town, and
especially incapable of night journeys, he was

1883-92 HONORARY MEMBER OF 'THE' CLUB 265

obliged to give up his attendance at ' The Club.'
Of this body he had been since 1879 6 the senior

member in point of priority of election, and he

was also the first honorary member who was

elected. On April 16, 1886, he received the

following letter from Mr. Henry Reeve, Treasurer
of ' The Club : '--

     ' My dear Sir Richard, -- The Club having

unanimously agreed to the proposal for electing

honorary members, who are precluded from habi

tual attendance, their first act was to confer that

distinction upon you, and you were so elected.

' As an honorary member you retain all the

privileges of membership, and I am particularly

desired to say to you that it will give The Club
very great pleasure if you can occasionally join

its meetings.

               ' Believe me,

'With the greatest regard,

               ' Yours very faithfully,
                                   ' H. Reeve.'

     While his grandson was at Cambridge, Sir
Richard wrote him letters nearly every week.
Their cheerful tone is surprising in a man over
eighty. In spirit they were still young, and, to
the last, the writer took the keenest interest in

everything that went on at the University.

    A few extracts from these letters from Sir

          6 He became a member of that society in May 1845.

266             PROFESSOR OWEN                            ch. IX.

Richard Owen to his grandson Richard Owen are

given below :--

                                                                          Nov. 16, 1886.

     ' I read with pleasure your sketch of Dr.

Harvey Goodwin's 7 visit to Cambridge and of

his University sermon. . . . We were always on

friendly terms, and Mrs. Harvey Goodwin keeps

up an occasional correspondence with me.

     ' Your account of the Musical Society concert

makes me think of the old days when I had my

seat at St. James's Hall. I seldom missed a
" Pop," and did not give up my stall till I was too

deaf to hear the first violin. I have been a fellow-

guest of Madame Patti's more than once at my

hospitable friend Hume Dick's house at Thames

Ditton. I found her very agreeable and quite

disposed to have a chat with me.  .  .     '
                                        .

     I'         enjoyed                               October 13, 1887.
          ....
                                 a charming dinner at

White Lodge since you left for Cambridge, but

time passes very quietly and peacefully with me

at home ; a brief sunshine occasionally tempts me

round the garden. I can hardly conceive a more

thankworthy condition, at the close of a busy life,

than that which I am now enjoying.                     '
                                        ...

                                                                        May 29, 1888.

     ' . . . . Chadwick drove me to London on the

24th for the anniversary of the Linnean Society.

     7 Late Bishop of Carlisle.  which the Professor kept on his
He was an old friend of Owen's,  library mantel-piece was a
and one of the few photographs   framed portrait of this bishop.

1883-92          LETTERS TO HIS GRANDSON            267

My part in the proceedings was comparatively

easy, being confined to the reception of the Gold

Medal. This concluded the Linnean meeting,

which was fully attended, with a gallery of fair

ladies. I was kindly led to an arm-chair near

the President, but the meeting was longer than

Chadwick could wait for, so I got a train to

Mortlake, and found a spare cab which set me

down at my gate. . . . Quartos and other forms
of publications arrive almost daily from divers

parts of the world. I enclose a cheque, so I
trust you will not think " there is nothing in this
leltlteerr- " '
                                  March 8, 1889.

' I was glad to know the interval between this

date and your arrival here is so brief. The ice is

now off the pond and my white ducks on
                                  ;
         find eighty-five years a heavy weight to
I'                                             it.
          I
carry, but shall endeavour shortly to get up to

town and look in at the Athenaeum again.'

                                                                                           Sept. 27, 1890.I'

          look forward to lasting to greet you here at
your Christmas holidays. You deserve a longer

letter than my late severe illness has left me the

power to write. Should you finally determine to

take Holy Orders,                 please myself in believing
         a

                          I
                               I
that you will do well in the Church but, however
this may happen, pray God that He will guide

you to satisfactory career.'

Sir Richard still received occasional commu-

268  PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

nications from his scientific confreres abroad.
On August 7, 1889, the following telegram was
despatched to him from the Zoological Congress
which met at Paris on that day : ' Congres

Zoologique exprime son admiration pour vos

beaux travaux et ses vceux pour la continuation

d'une santd si utile a la science. -- Le President,
Milne Edwards.'

    To this telegram Owen replied to Professor

Milne Edwards : ' Be pleased to convey to the
Congres Zoologique the expression of my deep
sense of the honour conferred upon me by the
distinguished members of that scientific body over

which you so worthily preside, and my deep
interest in the success of that association for the

advancement of our common science. -- Your faith
ful friend and fellow-labourer, Richard Owen.'

     Other proofs were not wanting that Sir

Richard's lifelong labours were not forgotten.

The gracious permission of Her Majesty the

Queen that his family should, after his death, con
tinue to reside at Sheen Lodge was a recognition
of his services which afforded him the keenest

satisfaction. But he was now growing daily more
feeble in body. Except at his own home, he
rarely saw his friends. There his Royal neighbours
in Richmond Park not unfrequently paid him a
visit, and he often spoke of their constant kind
ness to him in terms of much affection. Beyond the

1883-92  PARALYTIC STROKE  269

gates of his garden he so seldom ventured that
an occasional dinner at White Lodge or a rare
visit to the Athenaeum and the Bank were almost

the only exceptions to what had become the habit
of his life. Almost the last of his expeditions to

London was made in the autumn of 1889. He
was driven to town by Sir Edwin Chadwick,
accompanied by Dr. (now Sir) B. W. Richardson,
and the party took the opportunity of being photo

graphed together.

     Early in the following year Sir Richard was
seized with an attack of illness very like a paralytic

stroke, from which he never entirely recovered.
By sheer force of will he rallied from it in a way
which was little short of marvellous. When he

was considered to be almost at death's door, he

left his bed without assistance, dressed himself,

and was found sitting in his library as if he had

never been ill at all. But this attack enfeebled

his memory, and to a great extent deprived him of
the use of his limbs, though it did but little to

impair his handwriting, which remained almost as

neat and clear as ever.

      After his illness he scarcely ever moved out

of his two rooms, the library and bedroom, which
open out of each other. The library is an old-
fashioned room, with a low ceiling, and with

windows looking on to the park at one side and
into the garden at the other. On the wall-spaces
of this room not filled with book-shelves hang

270         PROFESSOR OWEN             CH. IX.

medallions and miniatures of various men --

Newton, Cuvier,    John     Hunter,    William Clift,
Joseph Banks, and          -- as well  as oil-paintings
                   others

of John Hunter and Oliver Cromwell.
     In this room he would sometimes sit for hours,

looking out wistfully at the park view, the little

piece of water with the two old oaks by its side,

the wide expanse of green, and the dark back

ground of trees.
     His favourite library companion was a little

black and white Persian cat. He was always fond

of cats, and his last intelligible words were spoken
to this animal, which was with him to the hour of

his death.

     In the early morning of his last birthday (July

20, 1892), the tree which he admired more than

any in the garden -- the Gleditschia -- fell down with
a crash, leaving only part of the trunk and a few

branches, although there was little or no wind at

the time.

     By a curious coincidence, on that day Sir

Richard showed marked symptoms of failing
strength. But as he did not feel positively ill,

and was in very good spirits, no particular alarm

was felt. It was not till the end of August that

any anxiety was felt at his symptoms, and Dr.
Palmer, of East Sheen, who visited him con

tinuously with unfailing kindness and considera

tion to the end, was called in.

     On August 25, Dr. Palmer writes : ' I found

1883-92  LAST ILLNESS  271

him in bed, suffering from a severe form of stoma
titis. His temperature was normal, pulse good

though irregular, but his articulation and degluti

tion very difficult.'

     His throat at this time was so much blocked

up by exudation that conversation had to be carried

on by signs or in writing, and for some days he
lay in this serious condition. On August 30 his
old friend Sir James Paget paid him a visit, and
tried to converse with him ; but Sir Richard,

owing to his prostration and difficulty in articula
tion, was unable to sustain the effort long.

     These symptoms, however, cleared up entirely
in September. His throat resumed its natural

appearance, and he was able to take solid food
again, but, although he made satisfactory progress
towards recovery, he never made any attempt to

leave his bed.

     ' In reply to my repeated inquiries,' Dr.
Palmer continues, ' Sir Richard invariably an
swered : " I feel no pain at all, but I have no desire
to rise from this bed." In direct proportion to

the improvement in his symptoms, his intelligence

returned and his faculties recovered. His deaf

ness became less marked, and he was able to con

verse for a short time without fatigue. He would
even occasionally discuss some of the questions of
the day in his usual kind and courteous manner.
While in this condition Sir Richard received a

visit from the Prince of Wales, who called to see

272 PROFESSOR OWEN  CH. IX.

him with Princess May and the Duke of Teck,

and stayed for some time and talked at his bed

side. This visit Sir Richard greatly appreciated,
and when he was told that His Royal Highness

was downstairs and wished to see him, he put
his black velvet skull-cap straight, smoothed
his hair, and said : ' Then I must try and pull

myself together.'
     Although his deafness made conversation very

difficult on this occasion, he was still able to con

verse for a short time with his royal visitors.
     During the whole of his illness the Duke

and Duchess of Teck and Princess May fre

quently came to Sheen Lodge, and were often
good enough to stay and talk with him.

     Towards the end of November he seemed to

be not so well again, and complained of coldness
in the extremities. Any attempts at conversation
now exhausted him exceedingly ; he began to
take less and less nourishment, and from the first

week of December he never exhibited the smallest

disposition to rally. On December 16 he ceased
to recognise those that were standing round him,
and became very restless. Soon after his breath
ing became stertorous, and it was plain that the

end could not be far off. A little before three

o'clock on Sunday morning, December 18, 1892,

he passed peacefully away, without a struggle,
leaving the world poorer by the loss of an untiring
worker and of a most genial and kind-hearted man.

OWEN'S POSITION IN THE HISTORY
        OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE

                                                                    BY

  THE RIGHT HON. THOMAS H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.

The attempt to form a just conception of the

value of work done in any department of human

knowledge, and of its significance as an indication

of the intellectual and moral qualities of which it

was the product, is an undertaking which must

always be beset with difficulties, and may easily

end in making the limitations of the appraiser

more obvious than the true worth of that which

he appraises. For the judgment of a contem

porary is liable to be obscured by intellectual

incompatibilities and warped by personal antago

nisms ; while the critic of a later generation,
though he may escape the influence of these

sources of error, is often ignorant, or forgetful of,

the conditions under which the labours of his

predecessors have been carried on. He is prone

to lose sight of the fact that without their clearing

VOL. II.  T

274 OWEN'S POSITION IN

of the ground and rough-hewing of the foundation-
stones, the stately edifice of later builders could

not have been erected.

     In view of these considerations, it was not
altogether with a light heart that I assented to
the proposal Sir Richard Owen's biographer did

me the honour to make, that I should furnish him

with a critical estimate of the extensive and varied
labours in the field of natural science carried on,

for some sixty years, with singular energy, by that
eminent man. For I have to reckon, more than
most, with those causes of imperfect or distorted
vision to which, as I have said, the eyes of con
temporaries are obnoxious ; and, however con
fident of the will to correct their effects, I can

hardly hope to be entirely successful, without more
good fortune than I have a right to look for.

     It is an enhancement of the difficulties of the

task set me, that what I have to say must be
addressed not to experts, but to the general
public, to the great majority of whom anatomy
is as much a sealed book as the higher mathe

matics. Even if some few have penetrated a little

way, their progress has probably been arrested by
the discovery that discussions about anatomical
topics are, as a rule, pre-eminently dry and tech

nical. It must be admitted that there is some

justification for the popular distaste for anatomical
science. The associations of the subject are not
wholly pleasing ; and, undoubtedly, a long and

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 275

weary process of initiation is indispensable to the
neophyte, who aspires to become an adept and to
feel at home in the arcana of the higher anatomy.
But I think it ought to be possible to lead any one,
who will give a reasonable amount of attention, to
a point, from which he may obtain a sufficiently
accurate general view of the scope of anatomical
science, by a shorter and easier road. In any case,
it is laid upon me to attempt to show the way
there, inasmuch as the purport of much of Sir
Richard Owen's work cannot be understood, nor

can his position in science be properly appreciated,

unless such a point of view is attained. And in

proffering such guide's service it may be well to
remind those who accept the offer, that in this, as
in so many other cases, ' the longest way round is
the shortest way home ; ' there is nothing for it
but to follow the path of history and eschew short
cuts, however tempting they may be.

    Etymologically, the word ' Anatomy ' signifies

no  more  than  ' cutting  up,'  or  ' dissection     '  but,
                                                   ;

in course of time, the idea of the chief means

by which the structure of animals and of plants

was ascertained merged with that of the results

it yielded. And since structure, or inward form,

is practically inseparable from shape, or outward

form, the latter also fell within the range of the

anatomist. Further, it was natural enough that

the ' function ' or use of the parts, the inward and

276  OWEN'S POSITION IN        j

outward form of which they described, should

also be treated of by the early and mediaeval
anatomists ; but, as the subject grew, division of

labour not only became practically necessary, but

was theoretically indicated by the diverse cha

racters of its moieties. Form can be considered

without any reference to function ; and function
can be studied with very little reference to form.

One need know nothing of the structure of the

eye, for example, to make sune that it is the organ

of vision ; and a minimum of anatomical lore

suffices to establish the familiar truths that the

stomach is largely concerned in digestion, and

the lungs in respiration. Moreover, the preli

minary training required for the effectual prose

cution and advancement of the several studies of

form and of function is so different, that, in

modern times, the two have steadily tended to

fall into different hands. The doctrine of form,

whether in the shape of anatomy, histology, embry

     is,

            it
                   is
ology, taxonomy (that systematic arrangement),
or distribution, has become the business of the

'  morphologist,' to whom  a matter of no

essential importance whether the subjects of his
inquiries are alive or have been dead for millions of

years. On the other hand, since functions are the

modes of manifestation of the activities of living

matter, in ultimate resort they must be studied

in living beings. The exact forms which the me

chanisms of the functions may assume a matter
                           is

        THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 277

 of subordinate interest. By a curious and some
 what unfortunate chance, the name of ' physi
 ologist,' originally applied to those primal philo
 sophers of ancient Greece who took all' Nature for

 their province, has been inherited by the investi
gators of function, to whom it has no more special
application than to any other students of Nature.

      Arrived at the parting of the ways,1 the one
of which leads to the province of physiology, the
other to that of morphology, we must take the

latter. It is no disparagement to Owen to say

that he was not a physiologist in the modern

sense of the term. In fact, he had done a large
part of his work before modern physiology, in

which no progress can be made without clear
mechanical, physical, and chemical conceptions,
came into existence ; and I think it may be
doubted whether he ever became fully aware of
the vastness of the interval which separates the

physiology of John Hunter from the physiology
of Johannes Miiller and his successors.

     Morphology has grown out of anatomy ; and
anatomy, like most branches of science, if not

begotten and born amongst the ancient Greeks,

was nurtured and brought up in the way it should

   1 It will be understood that  mena of form or to those of
the separation between Morpho-   function. Both are equally
                                 important to the aetiologist,
logy and Physiology can be       who seeks for the causes of
maintained only so long as the
                                 biological phenomena.
view is confined to the pheno-

278 OWEN'S POSITION IN

go by them. Aristotle, with his immediate pre

decessors and successors, took the broadest

possible view of the subject ; the structure of

cuttlefishes and crayfishes interested them as

much as that of the higher animals. And inas

much as the taint of impurity which, in ancient

times, attached to contact with the dead human

body, hindered them from obtaining a knowledge

of the structure of man directly, they were com

pelled to divine by way of analogy, from their
observations on apes. In fact, their over-con
             it,

                           It

                                                                                                     ;
fidence in the extent to which the likeness ex

tended led them into serious errors. At the revival

of learning, things took another turn. Anatomy
sank to the level of a mere handmaid to practical

and theoretical medicine.  was only very much

later, as the anatomical, like other pure sciences,

progressed backwards to their original dignity
and independence, that the position of Democritus

and of Aristotle was once more reached and,

the study of the living world being taken up for
the sake of knowledge alone, man assumed his

place as neither more nor less scientifically in

teresting than his fellows. In the sixteenth and

seventeenth centuries, however, the great anato

mists of the Low Countries and of Italy had pushed

their investigations so far, that more was known
of the structure of man than of that of any other

animal.  It  was therefore natural, and indeed

unavoidable, that the structure of man should

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 279

become the standard of comparison, or, in other
words, the ' type ' to which all other kinds of
animal structure were to be referred. The organs
of animals were interpreted by the analogy of
those of man ; the terminology of human struc
ture was extended to the structure of animals in

general.
     Thus the anatomy of the whole of the rest of

the animal world came to be regarded as a sort
of annexe of human anatomy ; it acquired the
name of ' comparative anatomy,' and the concep
tion of the relations of man to the rest of the living
world was completely falsified. Man, regarded
merely as an animal, was held to be the most
perfect of all the works of Nature, below which
all the rest could be arranged in a graduated
series of forms to the lowest animals ; from thence,

the descending steps were traced through the
vegetable world to the lowest plants ; and through
the definitely formed to the apparently indefinite
mineral constituents of the globe. Hence arose
the conception of une fahelle des etres, a ladder
between stones and men, the rungs of which are
the species or kinds of living things.

     But gradation implies a certain community
between the grades. Degrees of colour are
shades of the same colour, or mixtures in which

the same colours exist in varying proportions ;
gradations of form imply similarities of form
between the successive steps of the gradation.

280 OWEN'S POSITION IN

Thus the idea of a scale of organised beings fore
shadows the conception of a more or less widely
prevailing unity of organisation among them, and
we may regard the promulgation and wide accept
ances of Bonnet's doctrine of the ' scale of beings '
as the dawn of the higher morphology of modern

times.

     Though but an imperfect apprehension of a
great truth, this doctrine exerted a highly bene
ficial influence upon the progress of comparative
anatomy. The gradations in structure of the
parts and organs of animals were carefully studied.
Immense pains were bestowed on the formation
of collections of preparations illustrative of grada
tion ; and there is no more remarkable example
of such a collection than that formed by the skill
and industry of John Hunter, which was the
origin, and still constitutes the nucleus, of the
present admirably complete museum of the Royal

College of Surgeons of England. A full descrip

tive catalogue of such a collection must needs be,
in itself, an encyclopaedia of comparative anatomy.
Daubenton, the collaborator of Buffon in France,
went to work upon a different, but quite as
important, principle. As Buffon opposed the ex
treme systematizers, who seemed to think it the
end of science, not so much to know about an

object as to be able to name it and fit it into
their system, so Daubenton insisted on the
study of each animal as an individual whole.

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 281

Zoologists who knew and could properly apply
every technical term of the systema naturce with
out the least real acquaintance with animal
structure in general, or with that of any single

animal in particular, were not to his mind. He

occupied himself, therefore, with the production
of the series of admirable monographs appended
to the descriptions of Buffon in the ' Histoire

Naturelle.' s

     The effect of the co-operation of many zealous
workers, along the first of these lines, culminated
in the ' Anatomie Comparee' of Cuvier ; while, to
the followers of the second method, we owe a

host of monographs upon species, or groups of
species, belonging to all the divisions of the
animal kingdom. In virtue of these labours it

came about that, by the year 1830, the province
of anatomy had been systematically and, in many

regions, minutely surveyed. An adequate, though
far from complete, knowledge of all the higher

forms had been attained ; and, with the improve
ment of the microscope, the structural characters
of the very lowest forms were beginning to be

elucidated.

     Thus, the foundations of anatomical science
in accurately recorded observations of structure

   2 It is very much to be re-   a history of even the little group
gretted that his example has     of British Mammals up to the
not been more largely followed   level of the work of Buffon and
for the commoner animals. We
                                 Daubenton, now nearly a cen-
do not possess, at this moment,  tury and a half old.

282 OWEN'S POSITION IN

were solidly and securely laid sixty years ago. In

fact, the importance of the work done by that

time cannot be over-estimated ; for, as Cuvier

has somewhere said, whatever may become of

hypotheses, the man who has made a permanent

addition to our knowledge of facts, has rendered

an imperishable service to science. Nevertheless,

it is an equally profound truth, of which no one was

more conscious than Cuvier himself, that the

ascertainment of facts, in the narrowest sense of

the word, and the methodical recording of such

facts, though it is the beginning of scientific

righfeousness, is only the beginning. To reach

the end, that which is common to groups of de

tails must be carefully sifted out and expressed in

general propositions ; and these, again, must be

tentatively colligated by the guarded and re

strained play of the imagination, in the invention

of hypotheses, susceptible of verification or nega

tion by further observation.

The vulgar antithesis of fact and theory is

founded on a misconception of the nature of

   is,
scientific theory, which or ought to be, no more

than the expression of fact in general form.
                              a
                                            is
Whatever goes beyond such expression            hypo

thesis and hypotheses are not ends, but means.
;

They should be regarded as instruments by

which new lines of inquiry are indicated or by
                                      ;

the aid of which a provisional coherency and

intelligibility may be given to seemingly discon-

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 283

nected groups of phenomena. The most useful of

servants to the man of science, they are the worst

of masters. And when the establishment of the

hypothesis becomes the end, and fact is alluded
to only so far as it suits the ' Idee,' science has
no longer anything to do with the business.

     The nature of plants and animals, on the one
hand, and of the human mind on the other, is
such that the process of generalisation and that
of classification, which is the correlate of generali

sation, take place instinctively and find expres

sion in common language. The terms ' beasts,'
' birds,' ' fishes,' are the names of certain groups
of animals in the popular classification ; and,
though the user of them may not be able to put

his thoughts into words, they imply that he has
perceived that the things he calls by these
several names have certain common and dis

tinctive characters. And that perception, when it

is put into words, is a generalisation, which, in so
far as it is accurate, also expresses an empirical
' law of Nature.'

     The classifications of the scientific taxonomist
are of two kinds. Those of the one sort are

merely handy reference catalogues. Such are the
' artificial ' systems, useful in their day and for
their particular purpose, but of no other value.

The others, known as ' natural ' classifications,
are arrangements of objects according to the sum
of their likenesses and unlikenesses, in respect

284 OWEN'S POSITION IN

of certain characters ; in morphology, therefore,
such classifications must have regard only to
matters of form, external and internal. And
natural classification is of perennial importance,
because the construction of it is the same thing
as the accurate generalisation of the facts of form,
or the establishment of the empirical laws of the
correlation of structure.

    To say that deer, oxen, sheep, goats, ante

lopes, and so on, form a natural group, definable
by the co-existence in them of certain forms of
bones, teeth, stomach, and the like, which are

not co-existent in any other group, is one way of

stating certain facts. It is merely another, if we

say that it is an empirical law of existing Nature
that such and such structures are always found
together ; and that when we meet with one, there
is a prima facie ground for suspecting that the
others are associated with it. The finder of a

recent skull, provided with a pair of horn-cores, in
which the front part of the upper jaw is toothless,
may thus safely predict that the animal to which
it belonged possessed paired hoofs and" a complex
stomach, though no amount of merely physiolo
gical lore would enable him so much as to guess
why the one set of characters is thus constantly
associated with the other. The key of the
enigma, in fact, does not lie in the hand of the
physiologist, bu in that of the historian of animal
life throughout the ages of its existence.

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 285

     In the middle of the eighteenth century, the
value of the artificial systems invented by Lin
naeus, as a part of his method of introducing order
into the chaos of ' Natural History,' was so much
 felt, that his clear recognition of their essentially
 provisional character was ignored by the host of
 disciples ; who, as usual, appreciated most highly,

 and were most sedulous to imitate, the weakest

 parts of their master's teachings. The genius of

 Buffon strove against this tendency to substitute
 empty schematisms for science almost in vain.
 Botany became a cataloguing of ' hay ; ' and zoo

 logy, of skins and shells ; indeed, of straw, if I
 may revive a jest of my old friend Edward Forbes
 -- not without serious application even in his time
 -- to the effect that the pure systematic zoologist

 was unaware that the stuffed skins he named and

 arranged ever had contained anything but straw.
      Before long, however, better days began to

 dawn ; and the light came partly from the purely
. scientific anatomists, partly from men of more or
 less anatomical knowledge, in whom the artistic
 habit of visualising ideas was superadded to that
 capacity for exact observation which is the foun
 dation of both art and science.

      Scientific observation tells us that living birds
 form a group or class of animals, through which a
 certain form of skeleton runs ; and that this kind

 of skeleton differs in certain well-defined cha
 racters from that of mammals. On the other

286 OWEN'S POSITION IN

hand, if any one utterly ignorant of osteology,
but endowed with the artistic sense of form, were

set before a bird skeleton and a mammalian

skeleton, he would at once see that the two were

similar and yet different. Very likely he would be
unable to give clear expression to his just sense
of the differences and resemblances ; perhaps he
would make great mistakes in detail if he tried.
Nevertheless, he would be able to draw from
memory a couple of sketches, in which all the
salient points of likeness and unlikeness would be
reproduced with sufficient accuracy. The mere
osteologist, however accurately he might put the
resemblances and differences into words, if he

lacked the artistic visualising faculty, might be
hopelessly incompetent to perform any such feat ;
lost in details, it might not even occur to him that
it was possible ; or, still more probably, the habit
of looking for differences might impair the per
ception of resemblances.

     Under these circumstances, the artist might be
led to higher and broader views, and thus be more
useful to the progress of science than the osteo-
logical expert. Not that the former attains the
higher truth by a different method ; for the way of
reaching truth is one and indivisible. Whether he
knows it or not, the artist has made a generalisa
tion from two sets of facts, which is perfectly
scientific in form ; and, trustworthy, so far as it
rests upon the direct perception of similarities and

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 287

dissimilarities. The only peculiarity of the artistic
application of scientific method lies in the artist's
power of visualising the result of his mental pro
cesses, of embodying the facts of resemblance
in a visible ' type,' and of showing the manner

in which the differences may be represented as
modifications of that type ; he does, in fact, in

stinctively, what an architect, who desires to de
monstrate the community of general plan in
certain ancient temples, does by the methodical
construction of plans, sections and elevations, the
comparison of which will furnish him with the
' type ' of such temples.

      Thus, what I may term the artistic fashion of

dealing with anatomy is not only perfectly legiti

mate, but has been of great utility. The harm
of it does not begin until the attempt is made to
get more out of this visual projection of thought
than it contains ; until the origin of the notion of

 ' type ' is forgotten and the speculative philosopher
deludes himself with the supposition that the

generalisation suggested by fact is an 'Idea' of

 the Pure Reason, with which fact must, somehow

 or other, be made to agree.

      The old French naturalist Belon, who must

 have been a good deal of an artist, and illustrated
 his book, ' L'Histoire de la Nature des Oyseaux,'
 with many ' naifs portraicts,' initiated this way of
 dealing with anatomy. The skeleton of a bird is set
 beside that of a man, and the reader is left to draw

 283 OWEN'S POSITION IN

 the obvious conclusion as to their ' unity of orga

 nisation.' A child may see that skull ' answers' to

 skull ; spinal column to spinal column ; ribs to

 ribs ; breast bone to breast bone ; wings to arms ;
 and legs to legs, in the two. Later on, Peter
 Camper, a capital artist as well as an accom
 plished anatomist, was in the habit of amusing,
 while he instructed, his class by showing what
 slight strokes of his chalk sufficed to turn the
 outline skeleton of a man into that of a dog or of
an ox ; and how these could be metamorphosed
into reptilian or fish forms, without disturbance of
their fundamental features.

     The cultivator of botany, who went beyond
the classification of ' hay,' became familiar with
facts of the same order. Indeed, flowering plants
fairly thrust morphological ideas upon the ob
server. Flowers are the primers of the morpho-
logist ; those who run may read in them uniformity
of type amidst endless diversity, singleness of
plan with complex multiplicity of detail. As a
musician might say, every natural group of
flowering plants is a sort of visible fugue, wan

dering about a central theme which is never
forsaken, however it may, momentarily, cease to

be apparent.
     Vicq d'Azyr, following the line of strict ana

tomical observation and critical comparison, set
forth the correspondences of plan observable in
the limbs of the higher vertebrates, and may be

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 289

considered the founder of the purely scientific

higher anatomy.

    A few years later, art again took the lead in

the person of Goethe. Like all the really great

men of literature, Goethe added some of the

qualities of the man of science to those of the

artist, especially the habit of careful and patient
observation of Nature. The great poet was no

mere book-learned speculator. His acquaintance

with mineralogy, geology, botany, and osteology,
the fruit of long and wide studies, would have

sufficed to satisfy the requirements of a profes
soriate in those days, if only he could have

pleaded ignorance of everything else. Unfor

tunately for Goethe's credit with his scientific

contemporaries ; and, consequently, for the atten

tion attracted by his work, he did not come

forward as a man of science until the public had
ranged him among the men of literature. And

when the little men have thus classified a big man,

they consider that the last word has been said

about him ; it appears to be thought hardly decent

on his part, if he venture to stray beyond the
speciality they have assigned to him. It does

not seem to occur to them that a clear intellect is

an engine capable of supplying power to all sorts

of mental factories ; nor to admit that, as Goethe

somewhere pathetically remarks, a man may have

a right to live for himself as well as for the
public ; to follow the line of work that happens.

VOL.II.  u

290 OWEN'S POSITION IN

to interest him, rather than that which interests

them.

     On the face of the matter, it is not obvious

that the brilliant poet had less chance of doing
good service in natural science than the dullest
of dissectors and nomenclators. Indeed, as I

have endeavoured to indicate, there was con

siderable reason, a hundred years ago, for think
ing that an infusion of the artistic way of looking
at things might tend to revivify the somewhat
mummified body of technical zoology and botany.
Great ideas were floating about ; the artistic appre

hension was needed to give these airy nothings

a local habitation and a name ; to convert vague

suppositions into definite hypotheses. And I ap

prehend that it was just this service which Goethe

rendered by writing his essays on the inter

maxillary bone, on osteology generally, and on
the metamorphoses of plants.3

   3 It is an interesting fact that  able 'because the already long
                                     accepted comparative anatomy
Goethe took up the metamor-          involves the assumption that it
phosis of plants after he had        exists.' The doctrine current
been led to a conception of the      among anatomists at that time,
higher vertebrate type ; and,        that men are distinguished from
                                     apes by the absence of the
also, that he was led to discover    intermaxillary bone, stood in
                                     the way of Goethe's hypothesis ;
the intermaxillary bone in man       and the importance which he
                                     attached to his discovery of
by deduction from his type-          evidences of its existence is
theory. He tells us that, early
in the eighties of last century,     therefore very intelligible. (See
before the idea of plant-meta-       Osteologie, 1819, in Goethe's
                                     Werke, ed. 1867, Bd. 32, p.
morphosis occurred to him, he
                                     191.)
worked hard at osteology, for
the purpose of finding the
general type of skeleton, which

he conceived must be discover-

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 291

     I do not think that any one who studies these
works, in many ways so remarkable, can doubt
that, in the last two decades of the eighteenth cen
tury, Goethe arrived, by a generally just, though
by no means critical, process of induction, at the
leading theses of what were subsequently known
as Naturphilosophie in Germany, and as Philo
sophie anatomique in France ; in other words, that

he was the first person to enunciate and conceive
as parts of a systematic whole, whatever principles

of value are to be met with in the works of Oken,
Geoffroy, and Lamarck.

     Of the idea of ' unity of organisation ' which
is fundamental for all three, Geoffroy St. Hilaire

himself, writing in 1831, says :
     ' Elle est presentement acquise au domaine de

l'esprit humain ; et l'honneur d'un succes aussi
memorable appartient a Goethe.'

      Furthermore, the notions of a necessary cor
relation between excess of development in one
direction and diminution in another ; of the natural

evolution of the animal and vegetable worlds from
 a common foundation ; of the direct influence of

 varying conditions on the process of evolution,
 are all to be found, indeed are plainly enunciated,
 in Goethe's writings. In addition, he sometimes
 uses language which may be fairly interpreted as
 an anticipation of the fundamental teachings of
 modern histology and embryology ; a fact which
 is by no means wonderful, when we consider that

                                                                                        u2

292 OWEN'S POSITION IN

Goethe was well acquainted with Caspar F. Wolff

and his writings.

    All this is mere justice to Goethe ; but, as it

is the unpleasant duty of the historian to do
justice upon, as well as to, great men, it be
hoves me to add that the germs, and more than
the germs, of the worst faults of later speculative
morphologists are no less visible in his writings
than their great merits.4 In the artist-philosopher
there was, at best, a good deal more artist than
philosopher; and when Goethe ventured into the
regions which belong to pure science, this excess
of a virtue had all the consequences of a vice.
' Trennen und zahlen lag nicht in meiner Natur,'5
says he ; but the mental operations of which
' analysis and numeration ' are partial expressions
are indispensable for every step of progress
beyond happy glimpses, even in morphology ;
while, in physiology and in physics, failure in the
most exact performance of these operations in
 volves sheer disaster, as indeed Goethe was
afforded abundant opportunity of learning. Yet
he never understood the sharp lessons he re
ceived, and put down to malice, or prejudice, the
ill-reception of his unfortunate attempts to deal
 with purely physical problems.

      Goethe's contributions to the science of

   4 See, for example, the essay     5 Morphologie : Geschichte
' Ueber die Spiraltendenz der     meines botanischen Studiums.
Vegetation ' in the Morphologie.

        THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 293

morphology (the very term ' morphology,' in its
technical sense, is his) were by no means so widely
known to anatomists, or valued by them, as they
ought to have been ; and it was long before their
unquestionable merits were properly appreciated.

The most brilliant and, at the same time, the

soberest representative of the higher or 'philo
sophical' anatomy, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, seems, at
first, to have known nothing of them. Like
Goethe, he had studied mineralogy and botany
before taking up anatomy and zoology ; an ex
cellent and most industrious observer, he was, at the

same time, a man of high intellect and compre
hensive views. Intimately associated with young
Geoffroy, and only a couple of years older, was
Cuvier, one of the most remarkable intelligences
of his own or any time. And when these energetic
allies turned their attention to vertebrate anatomy,
in 1794-5, itwas impossible that the facts which had
impressed Goethe should fail to lead minds such
as theirs towards ideas of the same order. But,

the minds of the two having a widely different
commixture of qualities, the way in which they
dealt with the same objective material presented
corresponding differences; and these differences
went on widening until, thirty-five years later,
these two bosom friends became the antagonists
in the most famous of all scientific duels.

     However, during the earlier part of his career,
I doubt if Cuvier would have categorically denied

294 OWEN'S POSITION IN

any of Geoffroy's fundamental theses. And even in
his later years, Sir Charles Lyell, many years ago,
gave me reasons for the opinion that Cuvier was
by no means confident about the fixity of species.
There was never any lack of the scientific imagi

nation about the great anatomist ; and the charge
of indifference to general ideas, sometimes brought
against him, is stupidly unjust. But Cuvier was
one of those happily endowed persons in whom
genius never parts company with common-sense ;
and whose perception of the importance of sound
method is so great that they look at even a truth,
hit upon by those who pursue an essentially
 vicious method, with the sort of feeling with
 which an honest trader regards the winnings of a
 gambler. They hold it better to remain poor
 than obtain riches by the road that, as a rule,

 leads to ruin.

      So far as Cuvier was actuated by such feelings,
 one can but applaud the course he took. For it
 is plain to anyone, who studies these old contro
 versies by modern lights, that Geoffroy, how
 ever good his general ideas may have been, was
 singularly unfortunate in his attempts to illus
 trate and enforce them. Even where he was
 strongest, as upon the topic of the unity of
 organisation of the Vertebrates, I do not think
  there is one of his exemplifications of that
  unity which has withstood criticism ; and, in
  respect of the primary cause of contention in 1830,

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 295

the comparison of the vertebrate and the cepha-
lopod types, he was quite hopelessly in the wrong.

    To anyone possessed of Cuvier's vast know

ledge and dialectic skill, therefore, it was rarely
difficult to cut the ground from under his oppo
nents' feet ; to say, in short, whether you are right
or wrong, the evidence you adduce in support of
your case, where it is not demonstrably contrary
to fact, is inadequate. And, in the main, Cuvier

has been justified by the larger knowledge of our
day. There is no ' unity of organisation ' in the
sense maintained by Geoffroy, though there is in
another sense. Neither Geoffroy, nor Lamarck,
adduced any evidence of the modifiability of
species sufficient to overcome the strictly scien
tific arguments adduced on the other side ; and
it was not till many years later, that the progress
of palaeontology justified the hypothesis of pro
gressive modification, which Geoffroy himself,
fully admitting the lack of evidence, put forward

merely as a suggestion.

   In later life, however, Cuvier seems to have

become so much disgusted by the vagaries of the
Naturphilosophie school, and to have been so

strongly impressed by the evil which was accruing
to science from their example (let those who
are disposed to blame him read Oken's ' Physio-
philosophy that he was provoked into forsaking
his former wise and judicious critical attitude and,
in his turn, he advocated hypotheses, which were
'),

                                                                                                           ;

296 OWEN'S POSITION IN

none the better than those of his opponents

because they happened to be in favour with the

multitude, instructed and uninstructed. The doc
trines of emboitement in embryology ; of periodical
geological catastrophes ; of the fixity of species ;
of physiological deduction as the basis of palaeon
tology ; and the restriction of the scope of bio

logical science to mere observation and classifica

tion --which is fairly deducible from some of

Cuvier's dicta, though I do not believe he ever

intended that it should be--are not one whit

more scientifically respectable than the least
sober speculations of Geoffroy.

     The irony of history is nowhere more ap
parent than in science. Here we see the men,
over whose minds the coming events of the world
of biology cast their shadows, doing their best to

spoil their case in stating it ; while the man who
represented sound scientific method is doing his
best to stay the inevitable progress of thought

and bolster up antiquated traditions. The pro
gress of knowledge, during the last seventy years,
enables us to see that neither Geoffroy, nor

Cuvier, was altogether right, nor altogether
wrong ; and that they were meant to hunt in
couples instead of pulling against one another.
Science has need of servants of very various
qualifications ; of artistic constructors no less
than of men of business ; of people to design her
palaces and of others to see that the materials are

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 297

sound and well fitted together ; of some to spur
investigators and of others to keep their heads
cool. The only would-be servants, who are en
tirely unprofitable, are those who do not take the
trouble to interrogate Nature, but imagine vain
things about her ; and spin, from their inner con

sciousness, webs, as exquisitely symmetrical as
those of the most geometrical of spiders, but,
alas ! as easily torn to pieces by some uncon
sidered bluebottle of a fact.

     Naturally, it is Cuvier, in his capacity of the
man of business, who has been held in almost

exclusive veneration by those (and they are
always the majority) who engage in merely add

ing to the capital stock of science. For them,
he has done everything and is the highest of
exemplars. And justly, for Cuvier's monographs,

and the osteological treatises interpolated in the
' Ossemens Fossiles,' are of unsurpassed excel
lence ; while, for the sagacious application of the
data of osteology to the interpretation of fossil
remains, he has never had a superior. Again,

Cuvier's clear logical head and marvellously wide
acquaintance with animal forms enabled him to
reform classification ; and to set forth, in the
' Regne Animal,' ageneralized statement of the facts
of animal structure which was, in itself, a sufficient
refutation of the doctrine of unity of organisation
as it was conceived by Goethe and Geofifroy.

The mere quantity of the palseontological work

298 OWEN'S POSITION IN

alone which Cuvier turned our is amazing, and it

hardly ever falls below the level of the highest

excellence. Moreover, Cuvier incidentally did as

great service to the cause of sound morphology
                                         He
as any of the philosophical anatomists.

worked out the principles of the latter as far as

they could be safely carried, and showed that

their method must needs, in the end, stop short

for want of a criterion. The study of the con

nections of parts, by no means always enables

us to determine whether they ' answer to one

another ' or not ; and the philosophical anatomists

too largely ignored other means of testing their

hypotheses.

The constructive efforts of Goethe, with

the Philosophie anatomique of France and the

Natitrphilosophie of Germany on the one hand,

the critical negations of the Cuvierian school on

the other, do not represent all the lines of bio

logical work in the period under consideration.

There is another, which it is the great defect of

Cuvier and his school to have underrated and

neglected ; while it is the great misfortune of

Geoffroy that it made its importance fully felt too

late for him. This is Embryology, or Develop

ment ; that  is,  the study of the manner in which

individual living things acquire the structure

which they possess.

     The science of development, in the modern

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 299

acceptation of the term, came into existence when
Wolff demonstrated the fallacy of the emboite-

ment theory ; and also proved that the leaves, the
petals, the stamens, and so forth, of flowering
plants do, as a matter of fact, start from one and

the same primary form in the bud and become

differentiated as they grow. It was thus that,

thirty years before Goethe saw how the relations of
living forms could be ideally represented, Wolff
proved what they in fact are. In quite another
sense from that of Goethe's reply to Schiller, the

embryologist showed cause for the belief that
' unity of organisation ' is not an idea, but a fact.

The study of the actual process of individual

evolution, thus put on a firm foundation, steadily
advanced, until Von Baer6 arrived at the great

generalisation that all such evolution is a progress
from relative, simplicity to relative complexity ;
in other words, that it is the gradual differentiation
of a relatively homogeneous living substance repre
sented by the egg ; that, in so far as all indivi
dual living beings start from ova of essentially
similar simplicity of structure, and as the earliest
steps of their development or evolution are

similar, the fundamental unity of their organisa

tion is a fact ; on the other hand, that, in so

    6 My translation of ' Frag-  moirs ' for February and May
ments relating to Philosophical  1853. Up to that time, I be-
Zoology, selected from the       lieve, Von Baer's ideas were
Works of K. E. Von Baer,' was
published in ' Scientific Me-    hardly known outside Germany,

300 OWEN'S POSITION IN

far as the typical forms of the several groups
to which they belong are soon assumed, and,
thereafter, each pursues the special line of
modification characteristic of its group, ' unity of
organisation ' soon ceases to be strictly predicable.
Thus Geoffroy was right about the fundamental
unity of animal organisation, and Cuvier was right
about the existence of different types irreducible to
one another ; while each erred in thinking his own
views incompatible with those of his opponent.

     In the course of the discussions about the

corresponding, or answering, parts in different
organisms, or in the same organisms, and about
questions of classification, a very useful termin
ology had been invented. When the systematists
attempted to construct a scientific classification,
they found themselves obliged to discriminate
between different kinds of resemblances. Take,

for example, the question whether a whale is a
fish or not, which, I observe, is not yet quite settled

for some people. As a whale is not a little like a

fish outside, and lives permanently in the sea,
after the manner of a fish, why should it not be

classed with the fishes ? The answer, of course,

is that the moment one compares a whale with any
one of the thousands of ordinary fishes, the two

are seen to differ in almost every particular of

structure ; and, moreover, in all these points in
which the whale differs from the fish, it agrees

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 301

with ordinary mammals. Therefore, zoologists
put the whale into the same class as the mam
mals, not into that of the fishes. But this conclu

sion implies the assumption that animals should
be arranged according to the totality of their

resemblances. It means that the likenesses in
structure of whales and mammals are greatly

more numerous and more close than the likenesses

between whales and fishes. The same argu

mentation applies to the likeness between bats
and birds. These are few and superficial, while
the resemblances between bats and ordinary
mammals are innumerable and profound. There
fore bats go into the class Mammalia, not into the
class Aves. In these cases, the estimation of the
relative value of resemblances is easy enough ; but,
in respect of the lesser groups, the problem offered
frequently greater difficulties. Even Cuvier,
misled by certain superficial resemblances, could
refer the acorn-shells and the barnacles to the
class of Mollusks.

     Thus, in course of time, there arose in the
minds of thoughtful systematists a distinction be
tween ' analogies ' and ' affinities ; ' and, in those
of the philosophical anatomists, a corresponding
discrimination between 'analogous' and 'homo
logous ' structures. Outward resemblances of the
character of those which obtain between a whale

and a fish, a bat and a bird, were said to be mere

analogies, and were properly regarded as of no

yn OWEN'S POSITION IN

classificatory importance. The deeper structural
likenesses between a whale and a seal, or between

a bat and a shrew mouse, on the other hand, were

affinities : that is to say, the exhibitors of such
resemblances were 'affined ' or ' allied ' in the sense

of belonging to the same classificatory group.7
So, for the anatomists, the shell of a tortoise and
the shell of a crab were merely analogous struc
tures ; while the bones of the arm of a man and
those of the wing of a bird were homologous.

     Homology ( ofiokoyia ) originally signified
agreement either of, or about, things. The word,
with its derivatives and allies, such as ' homony
mous,' passed into Latin, French, and German ;
and Anglicised forms of them are to be found in
Nathan Bailey's ' Dictionary,' now a century and
a half old. Even in its present sense, as an ana

tomical term, homology was well known as far
back as the early years of this century. Owen,
writing in ] 846, insists upon the fact that, in using

the word, he follows established precedent : --

      ' But, in thus illustrating the term homology,
I have always felt and stated that I was merely
making known the meaning of a term introduced

into comparative anatomy long ago, and habitually
used in the writings of the philosophical anatomists
of Germany aud France. Geoffroy St. Hilaire

    7 It is interesting to observe  relationship, was adopted by
how readily the term ' affinity,'   those who most strongly repu-
                                    diated the doctrine of descent.
which ordinarily implies blood-

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 303

also, in defining the term, acknowledges its source :
" Les organes sont homologues comme s'expri-
merait la philosophic allemande ; c'est-a-dire, qu'ils
sont analogues dans leur mode de developpement,"
&c. (" Annales des Sciences," tome vi., 1825,

     The last words of the citation from Geoffroy St.
Hilaire have a curious significance. Goethe had

pointed out, and neither he, nor Geoffroy, nor

Oken, were blind to the fact, that the study of

development must have a good deal to say about
the problems of philosophical anatomy ; though,
as I have mentioned, that branch of morphology
had not advanced far enough to enable Geoffroy
to appreciate its full importance, before the pub
lication of Von Baer's works, in the course of the

decade 1828 to 1838. But embryology began to
show its capacity for playing the part of a criterion

in morphology pretty early. It has already been
stated that Wolff demonstrated the homology
of leaves, stamens, and carpels, by tracing their

development. Later, it was readily shown that
Vicq d' Azyr's doctrine of the homology of the limbs

had its proof in the observation that they arise from
rudiments of similar character and relations. In

all the higher vertebrate animals, the fore and
hind limbs are, at first, very similar, and they

become differentiated by successive steps. So

     8 ' On the Structural Rela-  {Philosophical Magazine, xxvii.
tions of Organised Beings '       p. 526).

304 OWEN'S POSITION IN

the earliest rudiments of the spinal column, and

the manner in which it becomes segmented, are

alike throughout.

     On the other hand, a favourite speculation of

the philosophical anatomists, that the lower jaw

is formed by the coalescence of a pair of limbs,

for which comparative anatomy seemed to offer

some support ; and Geoffroy's tempting sugges
tion that the opercular bones of fishes answer to

the ear-bones of mammals, were at once negatived
by the study of the development of the parts.
Again, the hypothesis that the skull consists of

modified vertebra, advocated by Goethe and
Oken, and the subject of many elaborate works,

was so little reconcilable with the mode of its de

velopment that, as early as 1842, Vogt threw well-
                     All efforts to interpret
founded doubts upon
'
the skull in this way,' said he, 'are vain.'
                       in

                                               '

                                    it.
                                                                         '
                                                                            '
The preceding sketch of the history of ana

tomical science, though drawn only in broad out

line, may suffice to indicate the courses which

naturally suggested themselves to anyone taking

up the subject  the beginning of the fourth

decade of the present century.

There was the brilliant example of Cuvier in

the Anatomie Comparee,' the Memoires sur les

Mollusques,' and the Ossemens Fossiles,' for any

one disposed to devote himself to the increase of

the capital stock of knowledge by museum work, or

      THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 305

by anatomical and palseontological monography;
there was the path of philosophical anatomy,
opened up by Vicq d'Azyr, Goethe, Geoffroy St.
Hilaire, Oken, and followed out in the elaborate
works of Spix and Carus on the skeleton, with
results acutely checked and criticised by Cuvier ;
there was the study of individual development in
its dawn, but with its great future already clearly
indicated by Von Baer ; there was the question of
the development of animals and plants in general,
or what is now commonly understood by the term
evolution, waiting to be rescued from the region of
speculation, to which it had been relegated for
want of positive evidence one way or the other,
and a good deal more damaged by its supporters
than by its opponents.

It was at this time, namely in 1830, that Owen

turned from practical medicine to natural science ;

and threw himself into the first-mentioned of these

paths of exploration, with an energy which re

minds one of Geoffroy and Cuvier, when, a little

younger, they set out on their remarkable careers.

Owen's first recorded publication is an account of
an aneurism. The second work in which he en

gaged was a catalogue of specimens in the museum

of the Royal College of Surgeons. But, in the

next year (1831), no fewer than eight papers on

the anatomy of various mammals, birds, and

reptiles which had died in the Zoological Gardens

VOL. II.  x

is306 OWEN'S POSITION IN
                  if,
bear his name. This was a pretty good start for
a young man of twenty-six to make ; but the har
vest of the year 1832 bettered that of its prede
cessor. For, without any other work, Owen's

time might, one would think, have been fully
occupied by the famous ' Memoir on the Pearly
Nautilus,' which was published in 1832 and placed
its author, at a bound, in the front rank of ana

tomical monographers. There is nothing better
in the ' Memoires sur les Mollusques,' I would
even venture to say nothing so good, were it not
that Owen had Cuvier's great work for a model ;
certainly, in the sixty years that have elapsed
since the publication of this remarkable mono

graph, it has not been excelled ; and that is a
good deal to say with Miiller's ' Myxinoid Fishes '
for a competitor.

     During more than half a century, Owen's in
dustry remained unabated ; and whether we con
sider the quantity, or the quality, of the work done,
or the wide range of his labours, I doubt in the
long annals of anatomy, more to be placed to
the credit of any single worker.

     The preparation of the five volumes of the de
scriptive catalogue of the Hunterian Museum
and of the annual courses of lectures demanded
from the Hunterian Professor, took Owen over
the length and breadth of the animal kingdom
and involved the making of special investigations
in almost all its provinces. The wide knowledge

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 307

thus accumulated was eventually summed up and

published, first in the lectures on the Inverte

brates (1843) and, secondly, in those on the'
Vertebrates (1 860-1 868).

     As methodically arranged and comprehensive

repertories of the anatomy of animals, it may be

a question whether these works are equal to
the contemporary ' Handbuch ' of Siebold and

Stannius ; but it may quite safely be said of

them, that they are based on the results of a

greater amount of personal investigation than

any work of the kind except, perhaps, Cuvier's

' Leijons     '  and  I  put the  exception  doubtfully,
           ;

inasmuch as Cuvier was aided by highly skilled

assistants.

     Further, I think that Owen's monographic
work occupies a unique position, if one con

siders, not merely its general high standard of

excellence, but the way in which so many of

these memoirs have opened up new regions of
investigation. I mention the following, as some

of the most important from this point of view, in

addition to that on the Pearly Nautilus, to which I

have already referred.

    To begin with the higher animals, Owen's

early memoirs on the anatomy of the anthropoid

Apes contained by far the most complete and

adequate account of their structure, and of the re

semblances and differences between them and man,

then extant ; and they formed the foundation of

 308 OWEN'S POSITION IN         '

 all subsequent researches in that field. The same                                           is,
 may be said of his investigations on the Mono-
'tremes and Marsupials, the substance of which

                            a9for the most part, incorporated in the well-known
 articles of the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and
'Physiology.' These remained, for many years,;                    '
                                     'indeed are still, in most respects, the best source'''
of information about these animals.
                                                               '
      The researches on the minute structure and
the development of the teeth, summed up in the                    '
 'Odontography' (1840-45), and the article
0
  Odontology,' so far as they deal with the out
ward form, the microscopic appearances, and the

order of succession of the teeth, and furnish a

foundation for useful and consistent nomencla
ture of dental arrangements, have been of very
great service both to the ordinary zoologist and
to the student of fossil remains.

     In regard to the class of birds, the memoirs
on the Apteryx, the Great Auk, and the Dodo are
particularly noteworthy and the article Aves
in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology
very long held its own, as the best summary of

avian structure.

     The paper on Lepidosiren left no doubt of
the piscine affinities of that animal.

     Among the Invertebrates we have the article
'Cephalopoda' (1836), the Memoir on Limulus'
(1873), the 'Researches on the Brachiopoda

                           Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1858.

        THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 309

{1833), and the description of the terrible parasite
of man, Trichina spiralis.

      In regard to Taxonomy, Owen made a variety
of proposals, the consideration of most of which
would involve discussions altogether out of place
in this sketch. But there is a notable exception
in the case of the ' attempt to develop Cuvier's
idea of the classification of pachyderms by the
number of their toes ' appended to the ' descrip
tion of teeth and portions of jaws of two extinct

anthracotherioid quadrupeds (Hyopotamus vecti-

anus and H. dovinus)' (1848), as to the high

value of which I think all zoologists are agreed.
     In 1837, Owen, without any pause in the long

and important series of anatomical investigations
which have been mentioned, began those contri
butions to palaeontology which, in after years, per
haps contributed most to his fame with the public.
His first work in this department is a memoir,
published in the second volume of the Proceedings
of the Geological Society, on an extinct mammal
discovered in South America by Darwin in 1833,

which Owen named Toxodon Platensis. It is

worthy of notice that, in the title of this memoir,
there follow, after the name of the species, the
words ' referable by its dentition to the Rodentia,
but with affinities to the Pachydermata and the
herbivorous Cetacea ; ' indicating the importance
in the mind of the writer of the fact that,
like Cuvier's Anoplotherium and Palaotherium,

31o OWENS POSITION IN

Toxodon occupied a position between groups

which, in existing nature, are now widely separated.

The existence of one more extinct ' intercalary '

type was established.

From another point of view, this maiden essay

in palaeontology possesses great interest.

     It is with reference to Owen's report upon

the remains of Toxodon that Darwin remarks

in his journal, six years later : ' How wonder

fully are the different orders, at the present time

so well separated, blended together in different
                                                     '
points  of the  structure of the      Toxodon      !    while,

in his pocket-book for 1837, he records: 'In

July opened first note-book on Transmutation of

Species. Had been greatly struck from about

the month of previous March on character of

South American fossils, and species on Galapagos

Archipelago. These facts (especially latter) origin
of all my views.' J

Unless it be in the ' Ossemens Fossiles,' I do

not know where one is to look for contributions to

palaeontology more varied, more numerous, and,

on the whole, more accurate, than those which

Owen poured forth in rapid succession between

1837 and 1888. Yet there was no lack of strong
contemporaries at work in the same field. De

Blainville's    ' Osteographie     '  Louis        Agassiz's
                                ;

monumental work on fossil fishes, achieved under

the pressure of great obstacles and full of brilliant

              1 Life and Letters, vol. i. p. 276.

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 311

suggestions ; Von Meyer's long series of wonder
fully accurate memoirs, with their admirable illus
trations executed by his own hands, all belong
to Owen's generation. But, perhaps, the fairest
comparison is with Cuvier ; and I do not think
that those who have had to concern themselves

with these subjects will rank any of Cuvier's
memoirs higher than those of Owen on Mylodon,
Megatherium, Glyptodon, Macrauchenia, and
other extinct South American animals, which

followed up the account of Toxodon.
     In 1838 appeared the memoir on the Stone-

field Slate mammals, then the oldest known,

pointing out their marsupial affinities, and with
this the later investigations on the Purbeck mam

mals may be grouped. In 1839-40, we have
the first indication of the wingless birds of New

Zealand, widening out, in after years, into the

long series of memoirs on Dinornis and the like.
In 1 84 1, the description of the triassic Laby-
rinthodonts of Central England, which, with
Von Meyer's earlier and later work, was the
commencement of the elucidation of the triassic

fauna in all quarters of the world, made its ap
pearance. In 1844, Owen published the memoir
on Belemnites, which had a distinct value,

though not perhaps quite that assigned to it at

the time. In 1845, followed the first view of
the wonderful extinct faunae of South Africa and

Australia, so largely extended by Owen himself

312 OWEN'S POSITION IN

in later years. In 1849, the first of the long-
series of memoirs on British fossil reptiles ap
peared ; in 1863, the description of the famous
reptilian bird Archaeopteryx.

     It is a splendid record; enough, and more

than enough, to justify the high place in the
scientific world which Owen so long occupied.

If I mistake not, the historian of comparative

anatomy and of palaeontology will always assign to
Owen a place next to, and hardly lower than that
ofCuvier, who was practically the creator of those
sciences in their modern shape ; and whose works
must always remain models of excellence in their
kind. It was not uncommon to hear our country
man called ' the British Cuvier,' and so far, in my
judgment, the collocation was justified, high as
the praise it implies.

But when we consider Owen's contributions to

' philosophical anatomy,' I think the epithet ceases
to be appropriate. For there can be no question

that he was deeply influenced by, and inclined

towards, those speculations of Oken and Geoffroy
St. Hilaire, of which Cuvier was the declared

antagonist and often the bitter critic.
     That Owen was strongly attracted by the

Naturphilosophie of Germany is evidenced, not

merely by his attitude towards the problems

of philosophical anatomy, but by his article on

Oken  in  the  ' Encyclopaedia  Britannica     '  and by
                                            ;

               THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 313

the fact that the translation of Oken's ' Lehrbuch
der Naturphilosophie ' 2 was undertaken at his
instance. Thus, when Owen passes from matters
of anatomical fact and their immediate interpreta

tion to morphological speculation, it is not surpris
ing that he also passes from the camp of Cuvier
into that of his adversaries.

     In the advertisement of the work ' On the

Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate

Skeleton,' published in 1848, Owen says :--
     ' The subject of the following essay has occu

pied a portion of my attention from the period

when, after having made a certain progress in
comparative anatomy, the evidence of a greater
conformity to type, especially in the bones of
the head of the vertebrate animals, than the

immortal Cuvier had been willing to admit
began to enforce a reconsideration of his conclu
sions, to which I had previously yielded implicit

assent.'

In fact, what I may call 'Okenism' colours

Owen's whole cast of thought on these matters,

and his admiration for Oken finds frequent vent

in his writings. Thus, in a note at p. 8 of the

' Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate
Skeleton' (1848), we find :--
               Odkeern'Sschfaadmeolkunsoc"hPernogr"amwams
            '                                              ueberdie Bedeu-
                                                           published in the
tung

same year (1807) as Geoffroy's memoir on the

2 Physiophilosophy, translated by Tulk. Ray Society, 1847.

3H OWEN'S POSITION IN

Bird's Skull ; but it is devoted less to the deter

mination of "special" than of "general homo

logies ; " it has, in fact, a much higher aim than

the contemporary publication of the French anato

mist, in which we seek in vain for any glimpse of

those higher relations of the bones of the skull,

the discovery of which has conferred immortality

on the name of Oken.3 '

And the ' Conclusion ' of the same work (pp.

1 7 1- 1 72) abounds in the sense of the Okenian
philosophy. The explanation of the facts of mor

phology is sought in the ' principle of vegetative

repetition     '  in  the  interaction  of a  ' general  and
            ;

all-pervading polarising force,' with an ' adaptive

or special organising force,' identified with the

Platonic iSea. Whether they be sound or un

sound, nothing can be more opposed to the

Cuvierian tradition than speculations of this

order.

The ' Programm ' to which these sympathetic

references are made, opens with some sentences

which are worth attention, since they furnish a
typical example of the speculative procedure of

the Naturphilosophie school.

    ' A vesicle ossifies, and it is a vertebra. A

vesicle elongates into a tube, becomes jointed,
ossifies, and it is a vertebral column. The tube

     3 There are even stronger  treatise, Principes d'OsUoIogze
                                comparte, published in 1855.
expressions to the same effect
in the French version of the

k

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 315

gives off (according to laws) blind lateral canals ;
they ossify, and it is a trunk skeleton. This
skeleton repeats itself at the two poles, each pole
repeats itself in the other, and they are head and
pelvis. The skeleton is only a developed, rami
fied, repeated vertebra ; and a vertebra is the
pre-formed germ of the skeleton. The entire man
is only a vertebra.'

     All this may be in accordance with the ' Idee,'
and demonstrable a priori ; but the plain, prosaic
inquirer into objective truth may be excused if he

finds nothing in it but a series of metaphorical
mystifications ; for which, so far as they are to
be taken seriously, no empirical justification ever
existed. There is not, and there never was, any
ground for believing that a vertebra is an ossified
vesicle ; or that a vertebral column, or a trunk

skeleton, is produced in the way asserted ; or that
a head is a repeated pelvis, or vice versa ; while
the intelligibility of the final assertion that ' the
entire man is only a vertebra,' is not apparent.
The spirit which animates these oracular utter
ances pervades all the writings of Oken and
his school ; it provided Cuvier with the subject-
matter of his severest, as well as of his most justi
fiable sarcasms ; and every one who has the inte
rests of sound science at heart must feel Cuvier's

debtor for the pertinacity with which he combated,
and finally drove out of the field of science, this

pseudo-philosophical word-play.

'316 OWEN'S POSITION IN

           it,I do not for a moment suggest, indeed I can
                                      isnot imagine, that Owen approved of such extra
vagances as those which I have cited ; but that he
                                                                                :was deeply influenced by the philosophy of Oken,
bringing apparently, in his own mind into har
'mony with that of the English Platonists, and
especially of Cudworth, a conclusion which can
hardly be avoided. The following passages aloneit

appear to me to be decisive --4

4      Now, besides the tSea, organizing principle,
  'vital property, or force, which produces the diver
sity of form belonging to living bodies of the same
materials, which diversity cannot be explained by
any known properties of matter, there appears also
to be in counter-operation, during the building-up of
such bodies, the polarizing force pervading all space,
and to the operation of which force, or mode of
force, the similarity of forms, the repetition of
parts, the signs of the unity of organisation may
be mainly ascribed.

       The Platonic iSe'a, or specific organising prin

ciple or force, would seem to be in antagonism
with the general polarizing force, and to subdue

and mould in subserviency to the exigencies of

the resulting specific form.'

        Now, however, the recognition of an ideal
Exemplar for the Vertebrated animals proves that

        On the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton

 (1848), p. 172.

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 317

the knowledge of such a being as Man must have
existed before Man appeared. For the Divine

mind which planned the Archetype also foreknew

all its modifications.

     ' The Archetypal idea was manifested in the

flesh, under divers such modifications, upon this

planet, long prior to the existence of those animal

species that actually exemplifyif,
                                  it.
    'To what natural laws or secondary causes

the orderly succession and progression of such

organic phenomena may have been committed we
                       without derogation of
are yet ignorant. But

the Divine power, we may conceive the existence

of such ministers, and personify them by the term
" Nature," we learn from the past history of our

globe that she has advanced with slow and

stately steps, guided by the archetypal light,
amidst the wreck of worlds, from the first embodi

ment of the Vertebrate idea under its old Ichthyic

vestment, until became arrayed in the glorious
garb of the Human form.'

     Those who know Owen's mind only on the
          it

                                              5

ifside reflected in the exact observations, the      ;
clear-headed and sagacious interpretations, of the
      "-anatomical and palsontological memoirs, should
ponder over these and other passages of like
tenor, they wish to form a just judgment about
the position which he took up in morphology and,
later, in regard to the Darwinian revivification

          On the Nature of Limbs, pp. 85, 86. 1849.

318 OWEN'S POSITION IN

of the doctrine of evolution. On the speculative

side, the very same mind has a distinct leaning

towards realistic mysticism, while remaining

liberally, perhaps prodigally, eclectic. A subli

mated Theism, after the manner of Cudworth,

lies at the foundation of Owen's speculations ;
while the 'Archetype' takes the position of a

Platonic iSea, indeed, almost that of an Alexan

drian Xdyos. The essentially naturalistic abstrac
tions --,' secondary causes,' ' forces,' and ' polarity '
--are personified and regarded as agents.

         in the Nature of Limbs' (pp. 84, 85), the
'             '
argument from Design;                                       momentarily shattered
       If,             ''
by the admission that some parts of animals are
                      it
made in vain               ' ' isimmediately redintegrated

                                  ' is

                                                           '
by the suggestion that they are illustrations of the
design manifested in the Archetype.' The look

ing to natural laws and secondary causes for
'                                                             '
           '
the progression of organic phenomena                            is                     the
                                                                        '

substantial acceptance of evolution, as set forth

by Goethe, Oken, Lamarck, and Geoffroy but
                                                              '
                                                                                    ;
the picture of Nature,' advancing amidst the'

wreck of worlds,' fits in, no less admirably, with

the catastrophism of Cuvier.

Owen's morphological labours appear to me to

be completely pervaded by the spirit, and restricted

to the methods, of the philosophical anatomists
Iif
                                                                                                                                                                  ;
      may, for the nonce, use that name in a limited
sense, for the scholars of Oken, rather than for

those of Geoffroy. But, from this point of view,

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 319

the theory of the vertebrate skeleton had been so

elaborately worked out by Spix (1815), Carus

(1828), and others, that the vein might well seem

to be exhausted. Carus, especially, had visualized

his hypotheses in diagrams, to which he gave the

names  of ' Grundform  '  and  '  Schema     '  and  which
                                          ;

are the equivalents of the ' Archetype ' and its

derivatives. Thus, when Owen took up the

subject, many years after Carus, there really was

nothing new in principle to be done, so long as

the method of his predecessors was followed. All

that could be hoped from renewed investigation,

along the same lines, was the rectification of erro

neous, and the suggestion of unsuspected, homo
logies. And this is what we find ; new homologies

for the cranial bones ; original speculations re

specting the nature of the bony walls of the inferior

cavities of the skull ; as to the proper connections

and homology of the pectoral arch ; and so on.

I believe I am right in saying that hardly any

of these speculations and determinations have

stood the test of investigation, or, indeed, that any

of them were ever widely accepted. I am not sure

that any one but the historian of anatomical science

is ever likely to recur to them ; and considering

Owen's great capacity, extensive learning, and

tireless industry, that seems a singular result of

years of strenuous labour.

But it will cease to be so remarkable to those

who reflect that the ablest of us is a child of his

320 OWEN'S POSITION IN

time, profiting by one set of its influences, limited
by another. It was Owen's limitation that he
occupied himself with speculations about the
' Archetype ' some time before the work of the

embryologists began to be appreciated in this

country. It had not yet come to be understood
that, after the publication of the investigations of

Rathke, Reichert, Remak, Vogt, and others, the
venue of the great cause of the morphology of the
skeleton was removed from the court of com

parative anatomy to that of embryology.6 When

developmental investigation had proved that
even the segmentation of the vertebrate body is

not its primary condition ; that such segmentation
without founding it largely on embryology cannot
be traced throughout the cranial region ; that a
process of chondrification, or formation of carti

laginous hard-parts, precedes ossification, and is
not the same in the skull as in the spinal column ;
that bones are not all similar in respect of their

mode of origin ; it was obvious that no satisfactory
theory of the skeleton could be attained without
taking these facts into serious consideration, and,
indeed, without founding it largely on embryology.

     It would be a great mistake, however, to con-

   6 And even this appeal is not   on the history of life on our
                                   planet, as evidenced by the facts
final. We have still to look to    of palaeontology, however these

palaeontology for confirmation or  facts may be supplemented and
contradiction of our deductions
from the facts of embryology.      speculatively interpreted.

Biological evolution is based

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 321

elude that Owen's labours in the field of mor

phology were lost, because they have yielded little

fruit of the kind he looked for. On the contrary,

they not only did a great deal of good by awaken
ing attention to the higher problems of morphology

in this country ; but they were of much service in

clarifying and improving anatomical nomencla

ture, especially in respect of the vertebral region.
     Apart from questions of classification, the only

special work of Owen, which deals directly with

the greater problems of biology, is the discourse on

' Parthenogenesis, or the Successive Production

of Procreating Individuals from a single Ovum,'

originally delivered in the form of the opening

two lectures of the Hunterian Course for 1849.
     In these discourses, an attempt is made to cor

relate, and furnish an explanation of, thephenomena

of sexless proliferation ; that is to say, of the pro
duction of offspring by a plant or an animal, with

out the intervention of sex. In the vegetable

world, such phenomena, as exemplified by the

growth and detachment of buds or bulbs, or
of young plants, like those formed on strawberry

' runners,' have been known from time imme

morial ; among animals, they were first carefully

elucidated by Trembley and Bonnet in the

middle of the eighteenth century.

     One of the commonest and most striking cases
is that of the plant lice, or Aphides, which are the

commonest of pests in our gardens.  The young,
     vol. 11.                                y

322 OWEN'S POSITION IN

which these animals produce with such wonderful
fertility in summer, are all fatherless. So are the
drones in a hive of bees.

     Among the aphides, this state of things, as a
rule, persists throughout the summer ; and it is
not until the autumn arrives, that the broods
produced take on the characters of males and
females, which die after their functions are per
formed and the eggs are laid. The eggs remain
dormant during the winter ; and when they hatch,
in spring, the aphides produced are sexless,
though in some respects they resemble the true
females. These sexless forms produce living
broods, having the same characters as their pro
ducer ; and these give rise to others, in like manner,
through the summer. It has been proved that this
state of things may be maintained for three years,
by keeping the insects warm and supplied with
food ; indeed, there is no positive evidence that it

need ever come to an end.

     The males and females are, in many respects,
different from the sexless proliferators. Thus,
to superficial observation, it appears as if the
sexed ' generation,' which may be called the form

A, was succeeded by a certain number of sexless
,' generations ' of the form B ; these by A, these

by B again, and so on. In other words, the ' gene

rations ' A and B alternate.

    · In the course of the early decades of the nine
teenth century, the wide extension of exact investi-

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 323

gation among the lower groups of the animal
kingdom, especially the polypes, worms, star

fishes, ascidians, crustacea, and insects, brought to
light a great number of new facts of the same
order; and, in 1842, the Danish zoologist, Steen-
strup, collected all of them known at that time,
and applied to the phenomena the general formula

of the ' Alternation of Generations.' He was met,
at the outset, by a difficulty of nomenclature. In
the majority of cases, the one term, or the one set
of terms, of the alternation is sexless. The germs

from which its offspring are produced are not true
eggs and are uninfluenced by males. Therefore,
it is obviously inexact to call these proliferating
forms ' females.' Steenstrup got over the difficulty
by terming them ' nurses ; ' though, thereby, he un
doubtedly somewhat strained the usually admitted
attributes of a nurse. I do not imagine that
Steenstrup supposed that he had contributed
anything towards the explanation of these re
markable phenomena by the nomenclature he
proposed. However this may be, his work was of
much use by drawing the attention of biologists to
their general nature, no less than by bringing into
one view all the various forms of proliferation

which are exhibited by living matter, and all the
physical and metaphysical difficulties, with which
the problem of animal and vegetable individuality

bristles. Objections might be raised to the term
' Parthenogenesis,' used by Owen, not merely for

                                                                                                Y2

324 OWEN'S POSITION IN

 the autonomous proliferation of true females, but
 for the production of progeny by organisms which
 are not really female, and the vestalship of which
 is therefore physically indefeasible. In fact, it is

 strictly applicable only to a comparatively few

cases among insects and crustacea. And even

 here, the queen-bee, under ordinary circum

stances, would have to be excluded. The father

less drones are, usually, not merely produced by a
true female ; but she is already mother, in the
ordinary sense, of thousands of daughters.

      But questions of names are of no particular
importance. We know what the processes de
noted by the term ' Parthenogenesis ' are ; and
the point is to ascertain how far Owen's work
contributed to a better knowledge of them ;
or to that construction of an explanation of
the phenomena which is the end of investigation.

     With respect to the first point, the work on
' Parthenogenesis ' contains no addition, that I am
aware of, to the common stock of observed facts.
In truth, the great majority of the subjects of

these processes are either the smaller insects and
Crustacea, which lay out of Owen's range of study ;
or the marine invertebrates, which were, in those

days, hardly accessible to any but persons who
lived on, or by, the sea. Moreover, the investiga
tion lay eminently in the province of the histo
logical microscopist, in which Owen was less at

home than elsewhere.

       THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 325

      In trying to form a judgment of the value
of the explanation offered, it is a necessary

preliminary to consider what there was to ex

plain.
     Among the animals with which we are familiar,

proliferation, or the production of offspring, inva
riably implies the concurrence of two parents, a
father and a mother. We are, therefore, naturally
led to regard this method of proliferation as the
rule, and any other as an exception. But, as we
have seen, if our daily experience had been
derived from many of the lower animals and
plants, we might just as well have been led to
think sexless proliferation the rule, and the
other the exception. Whatever the outward
form of the process of proliferation, in sub

stance it always comes to the same thing. It
is the detachment of a parcel, A, of the living

substance of the parent, which either before, or
after, detachment evolves into a complete, physio
logically independent, organism. There are in
numerable cases in which this process takes place,
in virtue of the autonomous activities of the living
substance of an organism. The progeny in this
case is a detached fragment of A, and nothing
else. Why is it that, in equally numerous other
cases, a parcel of the same kind may be similarly
detached from A, but does not evolve, unless an

other parcel, B, of living substance, derived from
the same, or another, organism, not merely comes

326 OWEN'S POSITION IN

Into contact with A, but fuses with it ; so that the

substance of the progeny is A + B, and not merely
A ? What we want to explain
                                                                       it is,

                                                                              It

                                                                                        is
                                                                                              is
                                                                       not only why

sexless proliferation takes place in the animals or

plants which occurs, but why does not take
it                    it
    isplace in other closely allied forms.is                                  not
       'B
            is is inlegitimate to assume that sexless proliferation

secondary and exceptional, and sexual proliferation

primary and normal. On the face of the matter,

just as likely to be the other way.

     In the essay under consideration, however,
Owen starts with this assumption. He conceives

that                 the agent by which a certain spermatic            '
force
                    transmitted to A and that, when appa
                                                                   ';
rently sexless proliferation takes place, the evolu

tion of the germs really due to the presence in

them of this hypothetical spermatic force,' trans

mitted from the first sexual proliferation. Starting

from the established truth that, where sex con
                                                                          is

cerned, the essential step of the production of

progeny the coalescence of substances containedis

in two cells, one derived from the one parent, and

one from the other, and the subsequent division

and subdivision (with concomitant growth) of the
combined mass into the primary cells of which

:-the embryo          constructed, Owen goes on to say

(P-
' 5)
                 is

                                                                ;
       Not all the progeny of the primary impreg

nated germ-cell are required for the formation of

the body in all animals certain of the derivative

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 327

germ-cells may remain unchanged, and become

included in that body, which has been composed

of their metamorphosed and diversely combined

or confluent brethren ; so included, any derivative
germ-cell, or the nucleus of such, may commence

and repeat the same processes of growth by imbi

bition, and of propagation by spontaneous fission,

as those to which itself owed its origin ; followed
by metamorphoses and combinations of the germ

masses so produced which concur to the develop

ment of another individual ; and this may be, or

may not be, like that individual in which the

secondary germ-cell or germ-mass was included.'

Again (p. 72) :--
' It would be needless to multiply the illustra

tions of the essential condition of these pheno
mena. That condition the retention of certain
'

                      I

                                    a
                                         is,

                                                                                                                                                      ;
of the progeny of the primary impregnated germ-

cell, or, in other words, of the germ-mass, un

changed in the body of the first individual

developed from that germ-mass, with so much of

the spermatic force inherited by the retained

germ-cells from the parent cell or germ-vesicle as

suffices to set on foot and maintain the same

series of formative actions as those which consti

tuted the individual containing them.

How the retained spermatic force operates

in the formation of new germ-mass from a

secondary, tertiary, or quaternary derivative germ-

cell or nucleus,  do not profess to explain

;328 OWEN'S POSITION IN

            is,neither is it known how it operates in developing
                                                 is,the primary germ-mass from the impregnated
                                                     is
germ-vesicle of the ovum. In both we witness
centres of repulsion and attraction antagonising

to produce a definite result.'
     But the primary assumption that this ' sper

matic force ' is necessary to the evolution of germs,
that, therefore, sexless proliferation is only, as it
were, sexual proliferation, one or more degrees re
moved, begs the whole question, which is exactly
whether spermatic influence or not, necessary

to proliferation.

     The other part of Owen's hypothesis, that

proliferation depends upon the presence, in the

proliferating region, of unchanged descendants of
the primitive spermatized cells of the embryo,

could not and cannot be supported by observa
tion and indeed, contradicted by plain facts.

In mosses, for example, there are very few parts
of the whole organism which will not, under

favourable circumstances, give rise to bud-like
germs, whence new mosses proceed. And, in
closely allied animals, in which the cells of the
respective ovaries are equally near in descent to
those of the embryo, the one will regularly
proliferate, without male influence, and the other
will never do so.

     Owen, in fact, got no further towards the solu
tion of this wonderful and difficult problem than
Morren and others had done before him. But
                                                         it

          THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 329

    is an interesting circumstance that the leading

    idea  of  ' Parthenogenesis          '  namely, that   sexless
                                      ;

    proliferation  is,in some way, dependent upon the

                         B)

                                  is
    presence, in the prolifying region, of relatively un

    altered descendants of the primary impregnated

    embryo cell. (A + -- at the bottom of most of
    the attempts which have recently been made to

    deal with the question. The theory of the con

    tinuity of germ-plasm of Weismann, for example,

' is    practically the same as Owen's, we omit from
                   is
                          '
                          is
                                                        1
                                              if
    the latter the notion that the endowment with

    spermatic force  the indispensable condition

of proliferation. The great progress of knowledge,

    about these matters, since 849, lies in the demon

    stration of the importance of a certain formed
    material which met with in the nuclei of cells of
                                                           ;
    the fact that this substance, growing and dividing,             ;

    is  distributed from the nucleus of the primary cell

    to the nuclei of all the cells of the organism that,

    in sexual proliferation, the nuclear substances of
    A and
              pass, bodily, into the nucleus of the
              B

                                               ;

                                               it
    resulting embryo cell, without losing their inde
    pendence, and are similarly transmitted to all the
    cells of the adult whence follows, that every

    histological element of the adult living body thus

    produced contains associated, but yet materially
    distinct, descendants of the nuclear elements de

rived from each parent.

     This discovery ranks, in my judgment, as the

greatest achievement of morphological science

330 OWEN'S POSITION IN

since the establishment of the cell theory.7 Its

importance as a factor in every theory of heredity
is obvious ; and it must have an equally im
portant influence upon all theories of prolifera
tion. But, for the present, I must express the

opinion that it affords very little more help
towards a scientific explanation of the phenomena
of ' Parthenogenesis ' than Owen's theory afforded
in the infancy of histological inquiry. Except by
the help of assumptions, of which there is no
proof, I do not see that modern speculation, at

present, gives us any better explanation why
the leaves of some plants prolify readily and
regularly, while those of others never do so ; or
why female cockroaches never exhibit sexless pro

liferation while queen-bees always do so. The

ingenuity which fits hypotheses to facts by the

help of other hypotheses is always worthy of
admiration ; but, if it is to be useful, its purely

speculative character should never be lost sight

of. If science is to retain its strength, it must

keep in touch with the solid ground of observation.

In reading some of the biological literature of

the present day, I sometimes rub my eyes and
wonder whether I am not dreaming of the good
old days of the Naturphitosophie.

In the preceding pages I have endeavoured to

     7 I refer to the morpho-  by this name ; not to any hypo-
logical generalisations known  theses based upon them.

THE HISTORY OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE 331

give the general reader an outline sketch of the scope

and the course of modern biological science ; of the
condition of its several great divisions when Sir

R. Owen commenced his career sixty-four years

ago ; of the influence of his work upon the extra
ordinarily rapid advance of biology in the course

of that time ; and it may be well that, arrived at
the end of my task, I recall my allusion, at the

outset, to the special difficulties in the way of the

satisfactory performance of
I

    I It
           I Iif

                          I
                                   if

                                                    is it.

                                               I

                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                            ;
         does not appear to me that anything need be

said here about the many scientific controversies

in which Owen was engaged. should be of this

opinion  had not been concerned in any of them

for do not see what good     to result from the

revival of the memory of such conflicts. And

whether  am right or wrong in this opinion,

am well assured that, anything to be said

upon this topic, am not the proper person to

say it.

But notwithstanding my determination to

ignore controversies, and a strong desire to

appreciate rather than to criticise, am sensible
'
                                                           '

                                                                                 '

                                                          I

                                                                                                                                      '
that the discussion of the Archetype and ot

  Parthenogenesis not merely allows the wide

differences of opinion, which unhappily obtained
between Sir R. Owen and myself, to appear, but

occupies an amount of space which may be

thought excessive, in relation to that filled by my

endeavour to do justice to the great and solid

332 OWEN'S POSITION IN ANATOMICAL SCIENCE

achievements in Comparative Anatomy and
Palaeontology which I have recounted.

     But this really lay in the nature of things.
Obvious as are the merits of Owen's anatomical
and palaeontological work to every expert, it is
necessary to be an expert to discern them ; and
endless pages of analysis of his memoirs would
not have made the general reader any wiser than
he was at first. On the other hand, the nature of
the broad problems of the ' Archetype ' and of
' Parthenogenesis ' may easily be stated in such a
way as to be generally intelligible ; while from
Goethe to Zola, poets and novelists have made
them interesting to the public. I have, therefore,
permitted myself to dwell upon these topics at
some length ; but the reader must bear in mind
that, whatever view is taken of Sir Richard

Owen's speculations on these subjects, his claims
to a high place among those who have made
great and permanently valuable contributions to
knowledge remain unassailable.

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF RICHARD OWEN l

                i 830-1 889

                                   1830

An Account of the Dissection of the Parts concerned in the

Aneurism for the cure of which Dr. Stevens tied the internal

iliac artery at Santa Cruz in the year 1812. Trans. Med.

Chir. Soc. xvi. 219-235, pi.

Catalogue of the Hunterian Collection in the Museum of the

Royal College of Surgeons in London. Pt. I. comprehending

the Pathological Preparations in Spirit. 4to, London, 1830,

       98  pp.   [Anonymous.]      the Pathological  Preparations  in a
           Pt.
Ibid.           II. comprehending

     dried state. 4to, London, 1830, 56 pp. [Anonymous.]
Ibid. Pt. IV. (1) comprehending the first division of the Prepara

     tions of Natural History in Spirit. 4to, London, 1830, 144 pp.

[Anonymous.]

                                                  1831

Catalogue of the Hunterian Collection in the Museum of the

    Royal College of Surgeons in London. Pt. III. comprehend

     ing the Human and Comparative Osteology. 4to, London,
     183 1, 266 pp. [Anonymous.]
Ibid. Pt. V. comprehending the Preparations of Monsters and

   1 By the courtesy of Dr. P.     of Scientific Papers. These
L. Sclater, Messrs. Waterhouse
& Doubleday made a copy of         entries have now been verified
the entries under Owen in          emended, and included in

the Royal Society's Catalogue      this Bibliography. -- C. Davies

                                   SHERBORN.

 334 PROFESSOR OWEN

      Malformed Parts in Spirit, and in a dried state. 4to, London,
       183 1, 92 pp. [Anonymous.]

Ibid. Pt. VI. comprehending the Vascular and Miscellaneous

      Preparations in a dried state. 4to, London, 1831, 56 pp.
      [Anonymous.]
[N.B. These Catalogues formed apparently a preliminary list of
      the Hunterian specimens, and the preparation of these was
      presumably Owen's first duty after his appointment as Assistant
      Curator. There is absolutely no doubt that Owen was entirely

     responsible for Pt. IV. (1), and there is every reason for sup

      posing that he largely assisted Clift in the compilation of the

      others.]
On the Anatomy of the Orang Outang (Simla Satyrus, L.) Proc.

      Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 4-5, 9-10, 28-29, 67-72.
 On the Anatomy of the Beaver [Castor fiber). Proc. Comm. Set.

      Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 19-20.
On the Anatomy of a Female Suricate (Ryzmna tetradactyla, 1ii.).

      Proc. Comm. Set. Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 39-41.
On the Anatomy of a Male Suricate. Proc. Comm. Set. Zool.

       Soc. i. 1831, pp. 51-52.

On the Anatomy of the Acouchy {Dasyprocta acuschy, 1ii.). Proc.
      Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 75-76.

On the Anatomy of the Thibet Bear ( Ursus thibetanus, Cuv.). Proc.
      Comm. Set. Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 76-77.

On the Anatomy of the Gannet (Sula bassand). Proc. Comm. Sci.
      Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 90-92.

On the Anatomy of the Nine-banded Armadillo (Dasypus peba,
      Desm.). Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1831, pp. 141-144.

                                                 1832
Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus {Nautilus Pompilius, Linn.), with

      illustrations of its external form and internal structure. 4to,
     London, 1832. Pp. 68, pis. i-viii. (Royal College of Surgeons.)
Catalogue of Preparations illustrative of Human and Comparative
     Anatomy, presented by Sir William Blizard to the Royal College
     of Surgeons. 4to, London, 1832, p. 36. [Anonymous.]
On the Anatomy of the Seal (Phoca vitulina, Linn.). Proc. Comm.
      Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1832, pp. 1 51-154.
-On the Anatomy of the Weasel-headed Armadillo (Dasypus sex-
     cinctus, Linn.). Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1832, pp. 154-157.
On the Organs of Generation of the Female Kangaroo (Macropus
     major, Shaw). Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1832, pp. 159-161.

                             BIBLIOGRAPHY                                               335

On the Anatomy of the American Tapir (71 americanus, Gmel.).
Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1832, pp. 161-164.

On the Anatomy of the Sharp-nosed Crocodile (Crocodilus acutus,

     Cuv.). Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. i. 1832, pp. 139-141, 169-170.
Characters of some New Species of Stomapodous Crustacea, col

lected by Mr. Cuming. Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.
                                                       ii.                              1832,
                                                                           ii.
     pp. 5-6.
On the Habits of the Birgus latro, Leach. Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool.

Soc.  ii.1832,          17.
                       p.
                         ii.
                                   ii. ii. p.
                                                  ii.
On the Morbid Appearances observed on the post-mortem ex

amination of the Mandrill, Cynocephalus Maimon. Proc. Comm.

     Sci. Zool. Soc. 1832, J7.                                                          Proc.
On the Anatomy of the Cercopithecus albogularis, Sykes.

Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. 1832, pp. 18-20.

On a Malformation of the Beak of Psittacus erithacus, L. Proc.

Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.             1832, pp. 23-24.

On the Anatomy of the Ariel Toucan {Ramphastos Ariel, Vig.).

Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.                            1832, pp. 42-46.

On the Anatomy of the Animal of Stylifer astericola. Proc. Comm.

Sci. Zool. Soc. ii. 1832, pp. 60-61.

On the Anatomy of Capromys Fournieri, Desm. Proc. Comm. Sci.

     Zool. Soc. 1832, pp. 68-76.
On the Peculiarities of the Skeleton of Capromys Fournieri, Desm.,
ii.
                   ii.
and Dasyprocta acouchy, Fr. Cuv. Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.

           1832, pp. 100-104.                                                           Proc.

On the Anatomy of Two Species of Armadillo (Dasypus, L.)
     Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. ii. 1832, pp. 130-132.

On the Osteology of the Weasel-headed Armadillo {Dasypus sex-

cinctus, L.) Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.               1832, pp. 134-138.
On the Anatomy of the Flamingo [Phoenicopterus ruber, L.) Proc.
Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.             1832, pp. 141-143. [Includes Tcenia
                             ii.

     lamelligera.]
On the Mammary Glands of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus.
Phil. Trans. 1832, pp. 517-538, pis. xv-xviii.

                                  1833

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series
    of the Hunterian Collection in the Museum of the Royal

College of Surgeons. 4to, London, 1833, vol.                                            Including
                             ii.
                                                         p.
                                                                                    i.
     the Organs of Motion and Digestion, 272. [Anonymous.]
On the Mammary Gland of the Echidna hystrix, Cuv. Proc.

Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. 1833, pp. 179-181.

336 PROFESSOR OWEN

On the Teeth of the Capybara (Hydrochcerus capybara, Erxl.). Proc.
Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc.
                P- ;                       1833, pp. 187-188.
On the Anatomy of the Cape Hyrax (Hyrax capensis, Schreb.).;
Proc. Comm. Sci. Zool. Soc. ii. 1833, pp. 202-207.; ii.

On the Mammary Glands of the Ornithorhynchus. Proc. Zool. Soc.

i.  1833, pp. 30-31,95-96.

On the Sacculated Form of the Stomach in the Genus Semno-

    pithecus, F. Cuv. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1833, pp. 74-76.
On the Sacculated Form of the Stomach as exists in the Genus
                                                 i.
                                                           it
                                                                  i.
Semnopithecus, F. Cuv. Trans. Zool. Soc. 1833, pp. -70,.
                                                                      65
pis. viii, ix.
                                                                         .
On the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda of Cuvier, and more especially

the Genera Terebratula and Orbicula. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1833,

pp. 125-128     Trans. Zool. Soc.                1834, pp. 145-164, pis. xxii,
xxiii.                                     i.
                                                  i.
On the Anatomy of the Cheetah (Fells jubata, Schr.). Proc. Zool.
                10& Trans. Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 129-136.pl. xx.
Soc. 1833,

Memoire sur l'Animal du Nautilus Pompilius. Ann. Sci. Nat.

     xxviii. 1833, pp. 87-158.
The Zoological Magazine or, Journal of Natural History. 8vo,

    London, 1833. [This was a venture of Owen's, but only six
numbers appeared.]

                                           1834

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series
                                                                                                    In
of the Hunterian Collection. 4to, London, 1834, vol.
            i.
                       ii.

                                       ii.
                                                9.

                                                       ii. i.
                                                                                       ii.

                                                                                               ii.
cluding the Absorbent, Circulatory, Respiratory, and Urinary

     Systems, pp. 164. [Anonymous.]
On the Period of Uterine Gestation, and the Condition of the New

    born Fcetus in the Kangaroo (Macropus major, Shaw). Proc.
     Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 128-132.
Account of the Anatomy of the young Concave Hornbill (Buceros
     cavatus, Lath.). Proc. Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 102-104.
On the Distinguishing Peculiarities of the Crania of the Lion and

Tiger. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 1-2.

On the Anatomy of the Purple-crested Touraco (Corythaix porphy-

reolopha, Vig.). Proc. Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 3-5.
On the Anatomy of the Capybara (Hydrochcerus capybara, Erxl.).
Proc. Zool. Soc. 1834, p.

On the Structure of the Heart of the Perennibranchiate Amphibia,

or Reptiles douteux of Cuvier. Proc. Zool. Soc.                       1834, pp.

31-33-

                    BIBLIOGRAPHY                                           337

On the Anatomy of the Calyptrceidce. Proc. Zool. Soc.           i.         1834
                                                                      ii.
     p. 14 Trans. Zool. Soc. 1835, pp. 207-212, pi. xxx.                   Proc.
On the Young of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus, Blum.
;                                              i.
                                                             ;
     Zool. Soc. ii. 1834, pp. 43, 44 Trans. Zool. Soc. 1835, pp.
     221-228, pis. xxxii, xxxiii.
On the Anatomy of the Concave Hornbill (Buceros cavatus, Lath.).
     Trans. Zool. Soc. 1834, pp. 17-122, pi. xviii.
On the Generation of the Marsupial Animals, with a description of
                 i.
                                             1

    the impregnated uterus of the Kangaroo. Phil. Trans. 1834,
    PP- 333-364, Pis- vi,vii.
On the Ova of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus. Phil. Trans. 1834,

    PP 555-566, pi. xxv.                                        Ann. Sci. Nat.

Observations sur les Jeunes de l'Ornithorhynque.2
    sen (Zool.), 1834, ii. pp. 303-308.

                                               1835

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series

     of the Hunterian Collection. 4to, London, 1B35, vol. iii., Pt.
    Nervous System and Organs of Sense. Pp. 1-208. [Anony
                                                                ii.
     mous.]
Marine Invertebrate Animals. An Appendix to the Narrative of                 B I.

a Second Voyage in search of a North-West Passage, &c. By

Sir John Ross. 4to, London, 1835. [Owen contributed to this
chapter a description of the genus Rossia (pp. xcii-xcix, pis.
and dated 1834). This paper has been quoted as 'An
Account of Marine Invertebrate Animals inhabiting parts of
       p. C,
                  a

                                            2
the Arctic Ocean.'                             pis., 1834.]

Description of recent Clavagella. Proc. Zool. Soc.              1835, pp.

i11, 112.

On the Anatomy of Macropus Parryi, Benn. Proc. Zool. Soc. ii.

1835,      152.

Notes of a Dissection of a Long-tailed Dasyurus {Dasyurus macro-

    urus, Geoffr.). Proc. Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, PP- 7-9-
Notes on the Anatomy of the Red-backed Pelican (Pelecanus rufes-

    cens, Gmel.). Proc. Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, pp. 9-12.
Description of a Microscopic Entozoon infesting the Muscles of the

     Human Body. Proc. Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, pp. 23-27 Trans.[  ;
    Zool. Soc. 1835, pp. 315-324, pi. xli, with an appendix, p.i.
    323 * . Trichina spiralis.']                                  Z
On the Anatomy of Linguatula tcenioides, Cuv. Proc. Zool. Soc.

VOL. II.

338 PROFESSOR OWEN

   iii. 1835, pp. 27-28 ; Trans. Zool. Soc. i. 1835, pp. 325-330,

   pl. xli.

On the Comparative Osteology of the Orang and Chimpanzee. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, pp. 30-40.                 Trans.
On the Osteology of the Chimpanzee and Orang Outang.

    Zool. Soc. i. 1835, pp. 343-380, pl. xlviii-lviii.
On the Anatomy of Distoma clavatum, Rud. Proc. Zool. Soc. iii.

   1835, pp. 72-73 ; Trans. Zool. Soc. i. 1835, pp. 381-384, pl. xli.

Remarks on the Entozoa, and on the Structural Differences existing

   among them ; including suggestions for their distribution into

     other classes. Proc. Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, pp. 73 76 ; Trans.
     Zool. Soc. i. 1835, pp. 387-394.
Notes on the Anatomy of the Kinkajou (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus,

     111.). Proc Zool. Soc. iii. 1835, pp. 1 19-124.
On the Anatomy of Clavagella, Lam. Trans. Zool Soc. i. 1835,

      pp. 269-274, pl. xxx.

On the Structure of the Heart in the Perennibranchiate Batrachia.

     Trans. Zool. Soc. i. 1835, pp. 213-220, pl. xxxi.
Description of a New Species of Tape-worm Tania lamelligera,

   Owen. Trans. Zool. Soc. i. 1835, PP- 385-386 (previously
   described in Notes on the Anatomy of Phccnicopterus ruber,

   1832).

                                              1836

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series of
      the Hunterian Collection. 4to, London, 1836, vol. iii. pt. 2.

      Connective and Tegumentary System and Peculiarities, pp.

      209-314. [Anonymous.]
Articles in Todd's ' Cyclopedia of Anatomy.' [Acrita, 1836 ; Arti-

      culata, 1836 ; Aves, 1836 ; Cephalopoda, 1836 ; Entozoa, 1839 ;
     Mammalia, 1847; Marsupialia, 1847; Mollusca, 1847; Mono-

      tremata, 1847 ; Teeth, 1852.]
Descriptions of some New or Rare Cephalopoda, collected by Mr.

      George Bennett. Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1836, pp. 19-22.
On the Shell and Animal of Argonauta hians, Lam. Proc. Zool.

      Soc. iv. 1836, pp. 22-24.

Remarks on the Secretion in the Lachrymal Sinus of the Indian
     Antelope {Antilope cervicapra, Pall.), with a tabular view of the
     relations between the habits and habitats of the several species
     of Antelopes and their suborbital, maxillary, post-auditory, and
     inguinal glands. Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1836, pp. 36-38.

On the Morbid Appearances observed in the Dissection of a Chim-

.

                     BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                                339

    panzee (Simia troglodytes, Linn.). Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1836,

      pp. 41-43.
Notes on the Anatomy of the Wombat (Phascolomys Wombat, Per.).

     Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1836, pp. 49-53.

                            1837

M. J. F. Palmer, ' The Works of John Hunter, F.R.S.' with notes.

     4 vols. 8vo, London. [Owen contributed notes to vol. iv. (1837)
    of this work on 'Observations on Certain Parts of the Animal
    (Economy, inclusive of several papers from the Philosophical

     Transactions, &c.']
On a New Orang {Simia morio). Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1837, pp.

      91-96.

Anatomical Descriptions of Two Species of Entozoa, from the

     Stomach of a Tiger {Felts tigris, Linn.), one of which forms a
     new genus, Gnathostoma. Proc. Zool. Soc. iv. 1837, pp. 123-

       126.

Dissection of the Head of the Turkey Buzzard and that of the

     Common Turkey. Proc. Zool. Soc. v. 1837, pp. 34-35.
On the Structure of the Shell of the Water Clam {Spondylus varius),

     Proc. Zool. Soc. v. 1837, pp. 63-66.
Description of the Cranium of the Toxodoti platensis, a gigantic

extinct mammiferous species, referable by its dentition to the

Rodentia, but with affinities to the Pachydermata and the

     herbivorous Cetacea. Proc. Geol. Soc. 1837, pp. 541-542.

On the Structure of the Brain in Marsupial Animals. Phil. Trans.
                            i.
                                                      ii.
     1837, pp. 87-96, pis. v-vii.                          of the                                                Kan

Description of the Membranes of the Uterine Foetus
    garoo. Mag. Nat. Hist. 1837, pp. 481-484.

                            1838

On the Cranium of Simia Wurmbii, Fischer. Proc. Zool. Soc.

     v. 1838, p. 82.

On the Existence of an Allantois in Fcetal Kangaroo {Macropus
                     p.
                                             a

                                                                                   z

                                                                                                              2
     major). Proc. Zool. Soc. v. 1838, pp. 82-83.                                                                Proc.
Remarks on the Separation of the Shell of Argonauta.

Zool. Soc. v. 1838,  84.

Notes on the Anatomy of the Nubian Giraffe. Proc. Zool. Soc.

vi. 1838, pp. 6-15, 20-22.

340 PROFESSOR OWEN

On the Genus Menopoma. Proc. Zool. Soc. vi. 1838, p. 25.
On the Anatomy of the Dugong {Halicore). Proc. Zool. Soc.

      vi. 1838, pp. 28-45.                                                                  Proc.

Description of the Organs of Deglutition in the Giraffe.

     Zool. Soc. vi. 1838, pp. 47, 48.                                                       Trans. Zool.
Descriptions of some New and Rare Cephalopoda.

Soc.  1838, pp. 103-130, pi. xxi.
A

                ii.
                                                                   a
                                                                                 ii.
On the Dislocation of the Tail, at certain Point, observable in

the Skeletons of many Ichthyosauri. Proc. Geol. Soc. ii. 1838,

 pp. 660-662.

Description of Viscount Cole's specimen of Plesiosaurus macro-

     cephalns (Conybeare). Proc. Geol. Soc. 1838, pp. 663-666.
On some Fossil Remains of Palaeotherium, Anoplotherium, and

    Charopotamus, from the Freshwater Beds of the Isle of Wight.

Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1838, pp. 1-3.
On the Jaws of the Thylacotherium Prevostii (Valenciennes), from
Stonesfield. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1838, pp. 5-9.

On the Phascolothcrium [and Thylacotherium']. Proc. Geol. Soc.
iii. 1838, pp. 17-21.
On Marsupiata. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1838, pt.
                                                           2,                         105.
On the Structure of Teeth and the Resemblance of Ivory to Bone, asi. p.
                                                                     2
illustrated by microscopical examination of the teeth of Man

and of various existing and extinct animals. Rep. Brit. Assoc.

      1838, pt.  2,thpep.Ph1y3s5i7o1lo50g-y
[Remarks on
                                             of the  Marsupialia,                     being] a reply to

the communication addressed by M. Coste to the French

     Academy of Sciences, entitled Memoire en reponse a la lettre
    de M. R. Owen.' Mag. Nat. Hist. 1838, pp. 94-96, 183-198.
Observations upon the Camerated Structure in the Valves of the

    Water-Clam (Spondylus varius, Sow.). Mag. Nat. Hist. ii.
                       2
                                                    '

                                                      ii.
      1838, pp. 407-412, figs.
                                             Genus Lepidosiren of Fitzinger and
On a New Species of the                      Proc. Linn. Soc. 1838, pp. 27-32.
                                             Inferieure et de Dents de Toxodon
     Natterer (L. annectens).
Description d'une Machoire

trouvees a Bahia-Blanca, 390 de latitude sur la cote Est dea
l'Amerique meridionale. Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. (Zool.) ix. 1838,

     PP- 45-54-
Remarques sur une Communication de M. Coste relative a l'OZuf

du Kangourou. Comptes Rendus, vi. 1838, 147-149.ii.                                         [See also
Mag. Nat. Hist. N. S. 1838, pp. 94-96, 183-198.]

                           BIBLIOGRAPHY                                            341

                           1839

The Zoology of Captain Beechey's Voyage ; compiled from the

     collections and notes*made by Captain Beechey, the Officers

     and Naturalist of the Expedition, during a voyage to the Pacific
     and Behring's Straits performed in his Majesty's ship ' Blossom '
     under the command of Captain F. W. Beechey, R.N., in the

years 1825-28. 4to, London, 1839. [Crustacea. By R. Owen,

     pp. 77-92-]
[On the Anatomy of the Apteryx.] Proc. Zool. Soc. vi. 1839, pp.

     48-51,71,72, 105-110.                      Proc. Zool. Soc. vi. 1839,
On the Osteology of the Marsupialia.

      pp. 120-148.

On the Dentition of the Koala {Lipurus cinereus, Goldf.). Proc.
     Zool. Soc. vi. 1839, pp. 154-156.

Outlines of a Classification of the Marsupialia. Proc. Zool. Soc.

vii. 1839, pp. 5-19 ; Trans. Zool. Soc.         1840, pp. 315-334.ii.
                                                                       ii.
On the Paper Nautilus (Argonauta argo). Proc. Zool. Soc. vii.

      1839, PP- 35-48.
Notes on the Birth of the Giraffe at the Society's Menagerie.

Proc. Zool. Soc. vii. 1839, pp. 108-109.

Notes on the Anatomy of the Nubian Giraffe. Trans. Zool. Soc.

ii. 839, pp. 7-248, pis. xl-xlv.
a
Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Orang
       1
Utangs [Simia, Erxleben). Trans. Zool. Soc.                                 1839, pp.
                     a 12
165-172, pis. xxx-xxxiv.

Observations on the Teeth of the Zeuglodon (Basilosaurus of Dr.

     Harlan). Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1839, pp. 24-28.
Description of Tooth and Part of the Skeleton of the Glyptodon,

large quadruped of the Edentate order, to which belongs the
tessellated bony armour figured by Mr. Clift in his memoir on
the Megatherium brought to England by Sir Woodbine Parish.

     Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1839, pp. 108- 113.  Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1839,
Report on British Fossil Reptiles. Part       I.
                                                                               le
      pp. 43-126-
On the Relation existing between the Argonaut-shell and its

     Cephalopodous Inhabitant. Mag. Nat. Hist. iii. 1839, pp. 421-
     431. [Reprint of Proc. Zool. Soc. vii. 1839, 35-48.]
Description of the Jaw of the Fossil Macacus from Woodbridge.
    Mag. Nat. Hist. iii. 1839, pp. 446-448.
Note sur les differences entre le Simia morio, d'Owen, et Simia

342 PROFESSOR OWEN

     Wurmbii dans la periode d'adolescence, decrit par M.
     Dumortier. Comptes Rendus, viii. 1839, 231-236 ; Ann. Sct.
     Nat. ser. 2 (Zool.) xi. 1839, pp. 122-125.
Sur la Structure Microscopique et le Developpement des Dents des
     Poissons Gymnodontes. Ann. Sct. Nat. ser. 2 (Zool.)xii. 1839,

      PP- 347-353.
Recherches sur la Structure et la Formation des Dents des

     Squaloides, et application des faits observes a une nouvelle
     theorie du developpement des dents. Comptes Rendus, ix.
     1839, pp. 784-788 ; Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. 2 (Zool.) xii. 1839, pp.

     209-229.

    1840

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series of

     the Hunterian Collection, . . . 4to, London, vol. iv. Organs
     of Generation, p. 208. [Anonymous.] 1840.
Ibid., 4to, London, vol. v. Products of Generation, p. 284. [Anony

     mous.] 1840.
Odontography ; or, a Treatise on the Comparative Anatomy of the

Teeth ; their physiological relations, mode of development, and

microscopic structure, in the Vertebrate Animals. Text and

III.Atlas. 4to, London, 1840-45. Pt. I. : 1840; pp. 1-112, pis. i-1.
II. : 1841 ; pp. i-xl, 113-288, pis. li-lxxxix A (excl. Ixii a).    :

1845 ; Title-page, pp. xli-lxxiv, 289-655, pis. i, lxii A, xc-cl
    1
                '

                                ii,
(some of these plates are dated 844).
The Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle,' under the com

mand of Captain Fitzroy, R.N., during the years 1832 to 1836.
Part Fossil Mammalia, 1840. By R. Owen. Pp. iv, 112,
I.

      32 pis.

Exhibition of a Bone of an Unknown Struthious Bird from New

     Zealand. Proc. Zool. Soc. vii. 1840, pp. 169-171.
On the Anatomy of the Biscacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus,

     Brookes). Proc. Zool. Soc. vii. 1840, pp. 175-177.
On the Anatomy of the Southern Apteryx (Apteryx australis,

     Shaw). Trans. Zool. Soc. 1840, pp. 257-302, pis. xlvii-lv.

A Description of the Soft Parts and of the Shape of the Hind Fin

     of the Ichthyosaurus, as when recent. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1840,
    ii.
                     a
                                            a
      pp. 157, 158.                  of Mammal, Bird, and a
                                     Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1840, pp.
Description of the Fossil Remains
     Serpent, from the London Clay.

      162-165.

Description of the Remains of a Bird, Tortoise, and Lacertian

BIBLIOGRAPHY                                 343

       Saurian, from the Chalk. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1840, pp. 298-

        300.

 Note on the Dislocation of the Tail at a certain point observable in
       the Skeleton of many Ichthyosauri. Trans. Geol. Soc. v. 1840,

       pp. 51 1-5 14, pi. xlii.

 A Description of a Specimen of the Plesiosaurus macrocephalus,
      Conybeare, in the Collection of Viscount Cole. Trans. Geol.
      Soc. v. 1840, pp. 515-536, pis. xliii-xlv.

 Description of the Mammalian Remains found at Kyson, in Suffolk.
      Ann. Nat. Hist. iv. 1840, pp. 191-194.

' On the Application of Microscopic Examinations of the Structure

      of Teeth to the Determination of Fossil Remains. (First paper
      to Microscopical Society : Athenceum, 7 Mar. 1840, p. 194.)

1 841

John Hunter's Observations on Animal Development, edited, and
    his illustrations of that process in the Bird described, by Richard

     Owen. Fol. London, 1841, 64 pp., 12 pis.
On the Skeleton of the Talegalla Lathami. Proc. Zool. Soc.

     viii. 1841, pp. 112, 113.
[Read a description of a New Genus and Species of Sponge, which

     he proposes to call Euplectella asperg ilium.'] Proc. Zool. Soc.

      ix. 1841, pp. 3-5-                     Trans. Zool. Soc. ii.

On the Osteology of the Marsupialia.

     1 84 1, pp. 379-408, pis. lxviii-lxxi.  Trans. Linn. Soc. xviii.
Description of the Lepidosiren annectens.

      1841, pp. 327-362, pis. 23-27.
On the Teeth of Species of the Genus Labyrinthodon {Mastodon-

     saurus salamandroides and Phytosaurus (?) of Jager), from the
     German Keuper, and the Sandstone of Warwick and Leaming

     ton. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1841, pp. 357-360.
Description of Parts of the Skeleton and Teeth of Five Species of the

     Genus Labyrinthodon, from the New Red Sandstone of Coton
     End and Cubbington Quarries ; with remarks on the probable
     identity of the Cheirotherium with that genus of extinct
     Batrachians. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1841, pp. 389-397.
Description of some Remains of a gigantic Crocodilian Saurian,
    probably marine, from the Lower Greensand at Hythe ; and of

     teeth from the same formation at Maidstone, referable to the

     genus Polyptychodon. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1841, pp. 449-452.
Description of a Portion of the Skeleton of the Cetiosaurus, a

ii.344 PROFESSOR OWEN
           i.
     gigantic extinct saurian reptile occurring in the Oolitic For
                            1,mations of different portions of England. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii.

                          is1 841, pp. 457-402-

Description of the Remains of Six Species of Marine Turtles
     (Chelones) from the London Clay of Sheppey and Harwich.
     Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1841, pp. 570-578.

Description of some Fossil Remains of Chceropotamus, Palaothe-
     rium, Anoplotherium, and Dichobunes, from the Eocene For
     mation, Isle of Wight. Trans. Geol. Soc. vi. 1841, pp. 41-46,

      pl. iv.

Observations on the Fossils representing the Thylacotherium
     Prevostii, Valenciennes, with reference to the doubts of its
     mammalian and marsupial nature recently promulgated ; and
     on the Phascolotherium Bucklandi. Trans. Geol. Soc. vi. 1841,

     pp. 47-67, pis. v, vi.
Observations on the Basilosaarus of Dr. Harlan {Zeuglodonceioides,

    Owen). Trans. Geol. Soc. [2] vi. 1841, pp. 69-80, pis. viii, ix.

A Description of some of the Soft Parts, with the Integument, of the
     Hind Fin of the Ichthyosaurus, indicating the shape of the fin

     when recent. Trans. Geol. Soc. vi. 1841. pp. 199-202, pl. xx.
Description of a Tooth and Part of the Skeleton of the Glyptodon

     clavipes, a large quadruped of the Edentate order, to which
     belongs the tessellated bony armour described and figured by
     Mr. Clift in the former volume of the ' Transactions of the
     Geological Society ; ' with a consideration of the question

      whether the Megatherium possessed an analogous dermal
     armour. Trans. Geol. Soc. [2] vi. 1841, pp. 81-106, pis. x-xiii.
Description of the Fossil Remains of a Mammal (Hyracotherium
     leporinuni) and of a Bird {Lithornis vulturinus) from the London
      Clay. Trans. Geol. Soc. [2] vi. 1841, pp. 203-208, pl. xxi.
Description of some Ophidiolites {Palaophis toliapicus) from the
     London Clay at Sheppey, indicative of an extinct species of
      serpent. Trans. Geol. Soc. vi. 1841, pp. 209-210, pl. xxii.
Account of a Thylacinus, the great Dog-headed Opossum, one of
     the rarest and largest of the Marsupiate family of animals.
     Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1841, pt. pp. 70, 71.

Report on British Fossil Reptiles. Part II. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1841,

      pp. 60-204.
On the Structure of Fossil Teeth from the Central or Cornstone

     Division of the Old Red Sandstone, indicative of a new genus of

      Fishes, or fish-like Batrachia, for which proposed the name

     ofDendrodus. Microsc. Journ. 184 pp. 4-8, 17-20.

        BIBLIOGRAPHY                                               345

On the Anatomy of the Pholadomya Candida, Sowerby, and Lithe-
     daphus longirostris. 4to, pp. 16 (1841-42).
        Two sets of proof-sheets, which, according to a MS. note by
     Lovell Reeve, were intended to form an appendix to his ' Con-
     chologia Systematica.' Abstracts of these two papers were
     published in Proc. Zool. Soc. x. 1842, pp. 147-150; copies of
     the proof-sheets can be seen in the Brit. Mus. (Nat. Hist.)

        1842

Description of the Skeleton of an Extinct Gigantic Sloth (Mylodon

robustus, Owen), with observations on the osteology, natural
affinities, and probable habits of the Megatherioid Quadrupeds

in general. 4to, London, 1842 [Royal Coll. Surgeons). Pp. 176,

     24 pis.

Description of the Stomach of the Colobus ursinus, Ogilby. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. ix. 1842, pp. 84-85.
[Read the second part of his Monograph on the Apteryx australis.]

     Proc. Zool. Soc. x. 1842, pp. 22-41.
Notes on the Birth of the Giraffe at the Zoological Society's

     Gardens, and description of the foetal membranes and of some

of the natural and morbid appearances observed in the dissec

tion of the young animal. Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1842, pp. 21-

        a
             ii.

                                                                a
      28, pis. i,                                                  Gigantic Bird of New

Notice of Fragment of the Femur of

Zealand. Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1842, pp. 29-32, pi. iii.

Report on the Missourium now exhibiting at the Egyptian Hall,

with inquiry into the claims of the Tetracauludon to generic

    distinction. Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. 1842, pp. 689-695.
Description of the Remains of a Bird, Tortoise, and Lizard from the

Chalk of Kent. Trans. Geol. Soc. [2] vi. 1842, pp. 411-414, pi.

xxxix.

On the Teeth of Species of the Genus Labyrinthodon (Masto-

donsaurus of Jaeger), common to the German Keuper forma
tion and the Lower Sandstone of Warwick and Leamington.

     Trans. Geol. Soc. [2] vi. 1842, pp. 503-514, figs.
Description of Parts of the Skeleton and Teeth of Five Species of

the Genus Labyrinthodon {Lab. leptognathus, Lab. pachygna-
thus, and Lab. ventricosus, from the Coton-end and Cubbington
Quarries of the Lower Warwick Sandstone Lab. Jaegeti, from
Guy's Cliff, Warwick and Lab. scutulatus, from Leamington)
        ;
                                                            ;

                                                                                                           ;

with remarks on the probable identity of the Cheirotherium

346 PROFESSOR OWEN

    with this genus of extinct Batrachians. Trans. Geol. Soc. [2]
    vi. 1842, pp. 515-544, pis. xliii-xlvii.
Report on the British Fossil Mammalia. Part I. Rep. Brit. Assoc.

      1842, pp. 54-74.

Description of an Extinct Lacertian Reptile (Rhynchosaurus
    articeps, Owen), of which the bones and footprints characterise
    the Upper New Red Sandstone at Grinsill, near Shrewsbury.
     Trans. Cambr. Phil. Soc. vii. 1842, pp. 354-369, pis. v, vi.

On the Blood-discs of Siren lacertina. Microscopic Journ. for
     1842, pp. 73-/5. Pi- i-

Description of some Molar Teeth from the Eocene Sand at Kyson,
    in Suffolk, indicative of a new species of Hyracotherium (H.
    cuniculus). Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. viii. 1842, pp. I, 2.

Note to Bellamy's Account of two Peruvian Mummies in the
     Museum of Devon and Cornwall Nat. Hist. Soc. Ann. Mag.
    Nat. Hist. x. 1842, p. 100.

                                         i843

Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the In
    vertebrate Animals, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons
     in 1843. (From notes taken by W. W. Cooper.) 8vo, London,

     1843, 392 PP- (ed. 2> 1855). [Hunterian Lectures, vol.
On a Specimen of Nautilus pompilius. Proc. Zool. Soc. x. 1843,
          p.
                a

                                                                                      i.]
      P- 143.

On the Anatomy of the Lithedaphus longirostris, Owen. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. x. 1843, PP- I47-15°-      Proc. Zool. Soc.
On the Anatomy of the Pholadomya Candida.

x. 1843,       150.

On Dinornis Nova-zealandia.  Proc. Zool. Soc. xi. 1843, pp.

     8-10, 144-146 (1844).
Description of New Genus and Species of Sponge (Euplectella

aspergillum, O.) Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1843, pp. 203-206, pl. xiii.
Appendix to Profesor Henslow's paper, consisting of a description

of the fossil tympanic bones referable to four distinct species of

    Balana.    PBrorcit.isGheoFlo. sSsoilc.Miavm. m18a43li,a.PP-Pa2r8t3-I2I.86R. ep.  Brit.  Assoc.
Report on the

      1843, pp. 208-241.

On the Generation of the Polygastric Infusoria. Edinb. New Phil.

   Journ. xxxv. 1843, pp. 185-190.
Zoological Summary of the Extinct and Living Animals of the Order

Edentata. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. xxxv. 1843, PP- 353-361

BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                347

Letter on R. Harlan's Notice of New Fossil Mammalia. Amer.

   Journ. Sci. xliv. 1843, pp. 341-345.

On the Discovery of the Remains of a Mastodontoid Pachyderm in
     Australia. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xi. 1843, PP- 7-12.

Additional Evidence proving the Australian Pachyderm, described
     in a former number of the ' Annals,' to be a Dinotherium, with
     remarks on the nature and affinities of that genus. Ann.
     Mag. Nat. Hist. xi. 1843, pp. 329-332.

On the Structure and Homology of the Cephalic Tentacles in the
     Pearly Nautilus. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xii. 1843, PP- 305--31 1.

Notice of a New Species of Seal {Stenorhynchus serridens). Ann.
    Mag. Nat. Hist. xii. 1843, pp. 331-332.

Description d'une Squelette d'un Paresseux Gigantesque Fossile (le
     Mylodon robustus), suivie d'observations sur les quadrupedes
     me"gatherioi'des en general. Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. 2 (Zool.) xix.
     1843, pp. 221-263. [Long abstract of Monograph, 1842.]

1844

Notes on the' Dissection of a Female Orang-Utang (Simla

satyrus, Linn.). Proc. Zool. Soc. xi. 1844, pp. 123-124.
On the Rudimentary Marsupial Bones in the Thylacinus. Proc.

Zool. Soc. xi. 1844, pp. 148-149.

On Dinornis, an Extinct Genus of tridactyle Struthious Birds, with

descriptions of portions of the skeleton of five species which

formerly existed in New Zealand. (Part    Trans. Zool. Soc.
                                          I.)
iii. 1844, pp. 235-276, pis. xviii-xxx.                  a

Description of certain fossil crania, discovered by A. G. Bain, Esq.,

in sandstone rocks at the south-eastern extremity of Africa,

referable to different species of an extinct Genus of Reptilia

(Dicynodon), and indicative of a new tribe or sub-order of

     Sauria. Proc. Geol. Soc. iv. 1844, pp. 500-504.        great pro

A Description of certain Belemnites, preserved with

portion of their soft parts in the Oxford Clay, at Christian Mal-
ford, Wilts. Phil. Trans. 1844, pp. 65-85, pis. i-viii.

Report on the Extinct Mammals of Australia, with descriptions of

certain fossils indicative of the former existence in that country

of large marsupial representatives of the order Pachydermata.
    Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1844, pp. 223-240.
Characters of a New Species of Axolotl.   Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.

     xiv. 1844, p. 23.
Description of a Fossil Molar Tooth of a Mastodon, discovered by

348 PROFESSOR OWEN

Count Strzlecki [sic] in Australia. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xiv.

      1844, pp. 268-271.
Considerations sur le Plan Organique et la Mode de Developpement

des Animaux. Ann. Sci. Nat. se'r. 3, vol. 1844, pp. 162-168.
            '
                       '
                                        ii.
                                                                       ii.
                                                                                                               '
Recollections and Reflections of Gideon Shaddoe, Esq. No. V.

Hood's Magazine, vol.  1844, pp. 442-450. [Under the

pseudonym of Silas Seer,' Owen contributed to these Re

collections his ghost story of Lancaster Gaol.]

                       1845

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Fossil Organic Remains

of Mammalia and Aves contained in the Museum of the Royal

College of Surgeons of England.  4to, London, 1845, PP- 392-
[Anonymous.]

Report on the State of Lancaster. 8vo. London (Health of
     Towns Commission), 1845, 28 pp.

Observations on the Living Echidna exhibited at the Menagerie of

    the Society in May 1845. Proc. Zool. Soc. xiii. 1845, PP- 80-82.
On the Existence of Two Species of Wombat (Phascolomys). Proc.

     Zool. Soc. xiii. 1845, PP- 82-83.
Appendix to Professor Henslow's Paper, consisting of description of

     the fossil tympanic bones referable to four distinct species of
            i.
                                                              i.
                                                                               a
    Balcena. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. 1845, PP- 37~4°, fig-

Account of Various Portions of the Glyptodon, an Extinct Quadruped,

allied to the Armadillo, and recently obtained from the tertiary

deposits in the neighbourhood of Buenos Ayres. Quart. Journ.
            1845, PP- 257-262. [Extracted from Descriptive
Geol. Soc.

Catalogue of Museum of Royal College of Surgeons.]

Description of certain Fossil Crania, discovered by A. G. Bain in

Sandstone rocks at the south-eastern extremity of Africa, refer

able to different species of an extinct genus of Reptilia (Dicy-
nodon), and indicative of a new tribe or sub-order of Sauria.

Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. 1845, pp. 318-322                               Trans. Geol. Soc.
vii. 1845, PP- 59~84, pis. iii-vi.
                       i.
                                                                      .

Reply to some Observations of Professor Wagner on the Genus

Mylodon. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xvi. 1845, pp. 100-102.

Observations sur l'Appareil de la Circulation chezles Mollusquesde

la classe des Brachiopodes. Comptes Rendus, xx. 1845, PP- 9°5-

     967.
Notice sur la De"couverte, faite en Angleterre, des Restes Fossiles

d'un Quadrumane du genre Macaque, dans une formation d'eau

BIBLIOGRAPHY                             349

douce appartenant au nouveau pliocene. Comptes Rendus, xxi.

Sur 1l8a4C5,lapsps.ific5a7t3i7o5n75e- t les Analogies des Dents Molaires des Carni

    vores. Ann. Sci. Nat. se"r. 3 (Zool.) iii. 1845, PP- 1 16-128.
Lettre sur l'Appareil de la Circulation chez les Mollusques de la

     classe des Brachiopodes. Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. 3 (Zool.) iii. 1845,

     pp. 315-320.                        Atti Saenz. Hal.
Memoria sull' Anatomia de' Brachiopodi.

     (Naples) 1845 (1846), pp. 740-746.

[Osservazioni Anatomiche sugli Organi Salivari de' Bruti.] Atti

     Saenz. Ital. (Naples) 1845 (1846), pp. 767, 768.
Recollections and Reflections of Gideon Shaddoe, Esq. Hood's

Magazine, vol. iii. 1845, pp. 294-303. [Under the pseudonym
of ' Silas Seer,' Owen contributed to these ' Recollections ' his
ghost story of 'The Negro's Head.']

                                                   1846

A History of British Fossil Mammals and Birds. 8vo, London,

      1846. [Issued in 12 parts between 1844 and 1846.]
Lectures on Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Verte

     brate Animals, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of
     England in 1844 and 1846. Part I. Fishes. 8vo, London,
      1846. [Hunterian Lectures, vol. ii.]
Notes on the Dissection of a Female Chimpanzee (Troglodytes

     niger). Proc. Zool. Soc. xiv. 1846, pp. 2-3.
On the Dinornis. Proc. Zool. Soc. xiv. 1846, pp. 46-49.
Observations on the Skull and on the Osteology of the Foot of the

     Dodo (Didus ineptus). Proc. Zool. Soc. xiv. 1846, pp. 51-53.

On the Anatomy of the Apteryxaustralis, Shaw. Part II. (Myology).

      Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1846, pp. 277-302, pis. xxxi-xxxvi.

On the Osteology of the Marsupialia (Part II.). Comparison of the
     Skulls of the Wombats of continental Australia, and of Van

     Diemen's Land, whereby their specific distinction is established.

      Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1846, pp. 303-306, pl. xxxvii.

On Dinornis (Part II.) : containing descriptions of portions of the
     skull, the sternum, and other parts of the skeleton of the species
     previously determined, with osteological evidences of threeaddi-
     tional species, and of a new genus (Palapteryx). Trans. Zool.
     Soc. iii. 1846, pp. 307-330, pis. xxxviii-xlviii.

lObservations on the Dodo (Didus ineptus, Linn.). Trans. Zool. Soc.
     iii. 1846, pp. 331-338> Pls- xlix.

350 PROFESSOR OWEN

On the supposed Fossil Bones of Birds from the Wealden. Quart.
    Journ. Geol. Soc. 1846, pp. 96-102, figs.

Description of an Upper Molar Tooth of Dichobune cervinuin from
N
               ii.
                                      ii.
the Eocene Marl at Binstead, Isle of Wight. Quart. Journ. Geol.

Soc.  1846, pp. 420-421, fig.

otices of some Fossil Mammalia of South America. Rep. Brit.

     Assoc. 1846 (pt. 2), pp. 65-67.

Report on the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton.

    Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1846, pp. 169-340.
Notice of Dr. Meiggs's Paper on the Generation of the Opossum

     (Didelphis). Proc. Amer. Acad. 1846, pp. 178, 179.
Observations on Certain Fossils from the Collection of the Academy.
                                           '
                                                              i.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. iii. 1846, pp. 93-96.

On Mr. Strickland's article, On the Structural Relations of Organ

ised Beings.' Phil. Mag. xxviii. 1846, pp. 525-527.

                                           1847

Notes on the Characters of the Skeleton of a Dugong (Halicore     ii.
    australis) from the North Coast of Australia, indicative of its
    specific distinctness from the Halicore indicus and Halicore
    tabernaculi. In B. Jukes, Narrative Voyage Fly, vol. 1847,
      ',

            J.
     PP- 323-33 figs.
Metropolitan Sanitary Commission.                                 First Report of the Com

missioners appointed to enquire whether any and what special

means may be required for the improvement of the Health of

the Metropolis. Pari. Paper, fo. London, 1847, 52 pp., and
minutes of Evidence, 190 pp. [With Chadwick, Southwood
Smith, and others.]
   Second Report. Ibid. 1848, 36 pp., and minutes of evidence,

     44 PP-
        Third Report. Ibid. 1848, 30 pp., with plan. [Brit. Mus.

     1847-8, xxxii.]
On the Extinct Fossil Viverrine Fox of Oeningen, showing its specific

    characters and affinities to the family Viverridce. Quart. Journ.

     Geol. Soc. iii. 1847, pp. 55-60, figs.

On the Batracholites, indicative of a small species of Frog (Rana
   pusilla, Owen). Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. iii. 1847, pp. 224, 225,

      figs.2,

On the Fossils obtained by the Marchioness of Hastings from the
     Freshwater Eocene Beds of the Hordle Cliffs. Rep. Brit. Assoc.

      1847, pt. pp. 65, 66.

BIBLIOGRAPHY                                              351

Observations on Certain Fossil Bones from the Collection of the

American Academy of Sciences. Journ.Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad.

ser. 2, i. 1847, pp. 18-20, pl. vi.

Notice of an Ichthyolite from Sheppey, in the collection of Mr.

    Tennant. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xix. 1847, pp. 25-27.
Description of the Atlas, Axis, and Subvertebral Wedge Bones in

the Plesiosaurus, with remarks on the homologies of those

    bones. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. 1847, pp. 217-225.
Note on Dr. Meiggs's Memoir on the Reproduction of the Opossum.

    Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. 1847, pp. 324-328.
General Geological Distribution and Probable Food and Climate of

the Mammoth. Ainer. Journ. Sci. ser. 2, iv. 1847, pp. 13-19.
     [Extract from Brit. Foss. Mamm., 1844-6.]
                                                          New
Review of W. J. Broderip's Zoological Recreations, 1847.
     Monthly Mag. clxiii. 1847.
Teleology of the Skeleton of Fishes. Edinb. New Phil. Journ.
xlii. 1847, pp. 216-227. [From Lectures on Comp. Anat. vol. ii.]

                                                   1848

On the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton.

     8vo, London, 1848, viii., pp. 172, pis.
On the Remains of the Gigantic and Presumed Extinct Wingless

    or Terrestrial Birds of New Zealand (Dinornis and Palapteryx),
     with indications of two other genera (Notornis and Nestor).
     Proc. Zool. Soc. xvi. 1848, pp. 1-11.
On a New Species of Chimpanzee (Troglodytes Savaget). Proc.

     Zool. Soc. xvi. 1848, pp. 27-35, 53-56.
On Dinornis (pt. iii.), containing a description of the skull and

     beak of that genus, and some of the same characteristic parts
     of Palapteryx, and of two other genera of birds, Notornis
     and Nestor; forming part of an extensive series of ornithic
     remains discovered by Mr. Walter Mantell at Waingongoro,
     North Island of New Zealand. Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1848,
     PP- 345-378, pis. lii-lvi.
On the Fossil Remains of Mammalia referable to the Genus Palao-

     therium, and to two Genera, Paloplotherium and Dichodon,

     hitherto undefined, from the Eocene Sand at Hordle, Hamp

    shire. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. iv. 1848, pp. 17-42, pis. iii, iv
     Containing :-- Pt. 1. Description of the teeth of a Palaeothere,
     &c. Pt. 2. Description of lower molar teeth from Hordle
    (Paloplotherium). Pt. 3. Description of a lower jaw, &c. (Palo

352 PROFESSOR OWEN

plotherium). Pt. 4. Description of a portion of a skull and

upper teeth of the same species of Paloplotherium (P. annectens).
Pt. 5. Description of the teeth and the lower jaw of an extinct
species of mammal, &c. {Dichodon). [Owen had a few copies
of these printed on quarto paper, bound up with four quarto

    plates, and issued by R. and J. E. Taylor as Contributions to the
    History of British Fossil Mammals (First Series), 1848.]

Notice of the Occurrence of Fossil Remains of the Megaceros hiber-

    nicus and of Castor europceus in the Pleistocene deposits form
    ing the brick-fields at Ilford and Grays-Thurrock, Essex. Quart.
   Journ. Geol. Soc. iv. 1848, pp. 42-46, figs.
Description of Teeth and Portions of Jaws of Two Extinct Anthraco-
     therioid Quadrupeds (Hyopotamus vectianus and Hyop. bovinus),

discovered by the Marchioness of Hastings in the Eocene

deposits of the N.W. coast of the Isle of Wight ; with an attempt

to develop Cuvier's idea of the classification of pachyderms by

    the number of their toes. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. iv. 1848,

     pp. 103-141, pis. vii, viii, and figs.

On the Os Humero-capsulare of the Ornithorhynchus. Rep. Brit.

Assoc. 1848, pt. 2, p. 79.                 4

On the Communications between the Tympanum and Palate in

    the Crocodiles. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1848, pt. 2, pp. 79-80.
On the Homologies and Notation of the Dental System in Mam

    malia. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1848, pt. 2, pp. 91-93.
On the Value of the Origin of Nerves as a Homological Character.

Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1848, pt. 2, pp. 93-94.
Remarks on the ' Observations sur POrnithorhynque par M. Jules
Verreaux.' Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 2, 1848, pp. 317-322.
                                           ii.
                                                          2,
                                                            ii.
The Great Sea-serpent. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser.                 1848, pp.

458-463. [Letter to The Times.]

                            1849

A History of British Fossil Reptiles.  vols. 4to, London, 1849-84.
   a
                                   4
     [See 1884.]
On Parthenogenesis, or the successive production of procreating

     individuals from single ovum. 8vo, London, 1849, 76 pp.     9

On the Nature of Limbs. A discourse delivered February at an
    evening Meeting of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. 8vo,

     London, 1849, 120 pp., pis.

Zoology, in A Manual of Scientific Enquiry prepared for the

     use of Her Majesty's Navy and adapted for travellers in
'  2
                   :
                                           ;

          BIBLIOGRAPHY                                 353

general.' 16mo. London, 1849, pp. 343-399. [Several edi

     tions.]
Notes on the Anatomy of the Male Aurochs {Bison europaus).

     Proc. Zool. Soc. xvi. 1849, pp. 126-133.
Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Chimpan

     zees ( Troglodytes, Geoffroy), including the description of the skull
     of a larger species (Troglodytes gorilla, Savage), discovered by

     Thomas S. Savage in the Gaboon Country, West Africa.

     Trans. Zool. Soc. iii. 1849, PP-- 381-422, pis. lviii-lxiii.
Notes on Remains of Fossil Reptiles discovered by Professor

     Henry Rogers of Pennsylvania, U.S., in Greensand Formations

    of New Jersey. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. v. 1849, pp. 380-383,

     pis. x, xi.

On the Development and Homologies of the Carapace and Plas
    tron of the Chelonian Reptiles. Phil. Trans. 1849, PP- 15I_
     171, pl. xiii, figures in text.

On Lucernaria inauriculata. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1849, pt. 2, pp.

      78-79.

Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the London Clay. Part I.
    Chelonia, pp. 1-76, pis. i-xxviii, viii. A, x. A, xiii. a, xviii. a,
    xix*., xix. B, xix. C, xix. D. Pal. Soc. ii. 1849. [With Thomas

     Bell.]
On the Structure of the Teeth of some Fossil Fish of the Carboni

ferous Period. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 2, iii. 1849, PP- 41-42.

Instructions for Collecting and Preserving Invertebrate Animals.

Edinb. New Phil. Journ. xlvii. 1849, PP- 280-292.  [Reprint of
'Zoology' in Manual of Scientific Enquiry.]

          1850

Description of Two Mutilated Specimens of Spirula Peronii, with
     some observations on S. australis and reticulata. In Zool.

     Voyage Samarang, 4to, London, 1850, pp. 6-17, pl. iv.
Report of the Commissioners appointed to make enquiries relating

     to Smithfield Market, and the Markets in the City of London

     for the Sale of Meat. Parl. Paper, fo. London, 1850, 148 pp.,

     plans. [Brit. Mus. 1850, xxxi.]

On Dinornis (Part IV.) : containing the restoration of the feet
     of that genus and of Palapteryx, with a description of the

     sternum in Palapteryx and Aptornis. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv.
     1850, pp. 1-20, pis. i-iv.
On the Development and Homologies of the Molar Teeth of the

VOL. II.                                           AA

354 PROFESSOR OWEN

Wart Hogs (Phacochcerus), with Illustrations of a System of
Notation for the Teeth in the Class Mammalia. Phil. Trans.

1850, pp. 481-498, pis. xxxiii, xxxiv.

On the Communications between the Cavity of the Tympanum

and the Palate in the Crocodilia (Gavials, Alligators, and

    Crocodiles). Phil. Trans. 1850, pp. 521-528, pis. xl-xlii.
A Memoir of William Clift. Proc. Roy. Soc. v. 1850, pp. 876-880.

     [Anonymous.]

Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the London Clay. Part II.

Crocodilia, Ophidia, pp. 1-68, pis. i-xvi, xxix, A. Pal. Soc.
      ii.
iii. 1850.     2, ['
                                       p. '
                                                                                  in ii.
            Ophidia has a separate title-page.]

Observations on Three Skulls of Naloo africanus. Journ. Ethnol.

Soc.  1850, pp. 235-237.

The Hippopotamus at the Zoological Gardens. Ann. Mag. Nat.
Hist, sen v. 1850,
                    515-518.
On British Eocene Serpents and the Serpent of the Bible. Edinb.

New Phil. Journ. xlix. 1850, pp. 239-242. [Extract from Brit.
     Foss. Rept.]
                                                                                          South Africa,'
Review of R. G. Cumming's 'A Hunter's Life

1850. Quarterly Review, lxxxviii. 1850.

                          1851

Report on Animal and Vegetable Substances, chiefly used in

Manufactures, as Implements, or for Ornaments. (In Reports

by the Juries. Exhibition of the Works of Industry of All
Nations.) London, 185 1. Vol.
several editions of this Report.]              pp. 163-358. [There were
                    ;
                                        i.
On a New Species of Pterodactyle {Pterodactylus compressirostris,

Owen) from the Chalk with some remarks on the nomencla
ture of the previously described species. Proc. Zool. Soc.
                                                                                          1
                                                                                              85
                                                                                                  ,1

      pp. 21-34.    :

On the Anatomy of the Indian Rhinoceros {Rh. unicornis, L.).a
      Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1851, pp. 31-58, pis. ix-xxii.
            1,
On Dinornis (Part V.) containing description of the skull and
    beak of a large species of Dinornis, of the cranium of an im
    mature specimen of Dinornis giganteus (?), and of crania of
     species of Palapteryx. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1851, pp. 59-68,

     pis. xxiii, xxiv.

Description of the Impressions on the Potsdam Sandstone, dis
    covered by Mr. Logan in Lower Canada. Quart. Journ. Gcol.
     Soc. vii. 185 po. 250-252.

BIBLIOGRAPHY        355

Letter ' On the Track of a Quadruped imprinted on Lower

     Silurian Sandstone, from Beauharnois, 20 miles above Montreal

    (Chelonian).' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vii. 185 1, p. lxxv.
On Metamorphosis and Metagenesis. Proc. Roy. Inst. i. 185 1,

     pp. 9-16.
On New Fossil Mammalia from the Eocene Freshwater Formation

    at Hordwell, Hants. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1851, pt. 2, p. 67.

On the Megatherium {Megatherium americanum, Blumenbach).
     Part I. Preliminary Observations on the Exogenous Processes

    of Vertebrae. Phil. Trans. 1851, pp. 719-764, pis. xliv-liii.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.

     Pt. I, Chelonia (Lacertilia, &c.), pp. 1-118, pis. i-xxxvii, vii. A,
     and ix. A. Pal. Soc. v. 1851.
Synopsis of the Hunterian Lectures on Comparative Osteology.
    Edinb. New Phil. Journ. 1. 1851, pp. 329-334.
Comparison of the Modification of the Osseous Structure in the

     Megatherium with that in the other known existing and ex

    tinct Species of the class Mammalia. Edinb. New Phil. Journ.
    li. 185 1, pp. 350-356. [Extract from Phil. Trans.]
Review of Lyell's ' Principles of Geology,' 8th ed. ; ' Manual of Ele

     mentary Geology,' 3rd ed. ; and ' Anniversary Address to the
     Geological Society, 1851.' Quarterly Review, lxxxix. 1851.

                                                   1852

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series of
     Comparative Anatomy contained in the Museum of the Royal
     College of Surgeons. Vol. i. Including the Organs of Motion

     and Digestion. 2nd ed. 4to, London, 1852, 276 pp., 13 pis.
On the Raw Materials from the Animal Kingdom. Lecture on the

     Results of the Great Exhibition of 1851, delivered before the
     Society of Arts. No. 3, vol. i. pp. 75-132, 8vo, London, 1852.
On the Anatomy of the Wart Hog {Phacocharus Pallasii, Van der
     Hoeven). Proc. Zool. Soc. xix. 1852, pp. 63-69.
Description of the Impressions and Footprints of the Protichnites
    from the Potsdam Sandstone of Canada. Quart. Journ. GeoL
     Soc. viii. 1852, pp. 214-225, pis. ix-xiv. A.
Note on the Crocodilian Remains accompanying Dr. T. L. Bell's
    paper on Kotah. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. viii. 1852, p. 233.

              AA 2

356 PROFESSOR OWEN

                                1853

Descriptive Catalogue of the Osteological Series contained in the
     Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 2 vols.

    4to, London, 1853. Vol. i. Pisces, Reptilia, Aves, Marsupialia.
    Pp. 352. Vol. ii. Mammalia Placentalia. Pp. 353-914.
Notes on the Eggs and Young of the Apteryx, and on the Casts of
    the Eggs and Certain Bones of sEpyornis (Isid. Geoffroy) re
    cently transmitted to the Zoological Society of London. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. xx. 1853, pp. 9-13.
Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Chimpan

    zees (Troglodytes) and Ornngs (Pitnecus). No. IV. Description
    of the Cranium of an adult male Gorilla, from the river Danger,
    West Coast of Africa, indicative of a variety of the Great Chim

panzee ( Troglodytes gorilla), with remarks on the capacity of
the cranium and other characters shown by sections of the skull

in the Orangs (Pithecus), Chimpanzees (Troglodytes), and in

different varieties of the human race. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv.

     1853, pp. 75-88, pis. xxvi-xxx.

Notes on the above-described fossil remains. Quart. Journ. Geol.

'Soc. ix. 1853, pp. 66, 67, pi.       [Dendrerpeton acadianum.]
               i'
Notice of a Batrachoid Fossil in British Coalshale. Quart.
                      is
                              3Journ. Geol. Soc. ix. 1853, pp. 67-70, pi.[Parabatrachus

                                     ii.
                                             is

                                                                      ii.
                                                                                                 2,

                                                                                           i.
     Colei.]
Description of some species of the extinct genus Nesodon, with

remarks on the primary group (Toxodontia) of Hoofed Quad
rupeds, to which that genus           referable. Phil. Trans. 1853,

pp. 291-310, pis. xv-xviii.

On the Anatomy of Terebratula (pp. 3-22, pis. i-iii). In T. David
son's British Fossil Brachiopoda,' Introduction to vol.                                              Pal.

     Soc. vii. December 1853.

A Monograph of the Fossil Chelonian Reptiles of the Wealden

Clays and Purbeck Limestones, pp. 1-12, pis. i-ix. Pal. Soc.

    vii. 1853. [This the first part, and contains Chelonia.]
Note on the Transverse Processes of the Two-toothed Dolphin

    (Hyperoodon bidens). Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. xii. 1853,

      pp. 435, 436.

Recherches sur Archetype et les Homologies du Squelette Verte-

     bre. Comptes Rendus, xxxvii. 1853, pp. 389-394.

Nouvelles Observations sur i'Osteologie du Troglodytes gorilla.
    Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. (Zool.) xx. 1853, p. 120.

BIBLIOGRAPHY                    357

                          1854

Descriptive Catalogue of the Fossil Organic Remains of Reptilia
     and Pisces contained in the Museum of the Royal College of
     Surgeons of England. &,\.o>L, ondon, 1854, pp. 184. [Anonymous.]

The Physiology of Animal and Vegetable Life. 121110, Phila
    delphia, 1854, 56 pp. (Circle of the Sciences, No. 2). [With Orr.]

Geology and Inhabitants of the Ancient World. 12mo, London,
     1854, 39 pp., figures. [A guide-book to the Extinct Animals in
     the grounds of the Crystal Palace.]

On the Anatomy of the Tree Kangaroo {Dendrolagus inustus,

     Gould). Proc. Zool. Soc. xx. 1854, pp. 103-107.
On the Anatomy of the Walrus. Proc. Zool. Soc. xxi. 1854, pp.

      103-106.

On the Anatomy f the Great Anteater (Myrmecophaga jubata).

     Proc. Zool. Soc. xxii. 1854, pp. 154-157.
On a Fossil embedded in a Mass of Pictou Coal, from Nova Scotia.

    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. x. 1854, pp. 207, 208, pl. ix ; ix, 1855,

     pp. 9, 10. [Bapheles planiceps.]
On some Fossil Reptilian and Mammalian Remains from the

    Purbecks. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. x. 1854, pp. 420-433,

      figs.

Description of the Cranium of a Labyrinthodont Reptile (Brachyops

    laticeps) from Mangali, Central India. Quart. Journ. Geol.
     Soc. x. 1854, pp. 473, 474 ; xi. 1855, PP- 37-39, pi- ".
On the Structure and Homologies of Teeth. Proc. Roy. Inst. i.

      1854, pp. 365-374-  Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1854, pt. 2, pp.

On the Anthropoid Apes.
    m-113.

                                                   1855

Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the
     Invertebrate Animals, delivered at the Royal College of
     Surgeons. 8vo, London, 1855,690 pp. [This is not a reprint
    of the 1843 ed.]

Principes d'Osteologie Compare'e, ou Recherches sur PArche'type
    et les Homologies du Squelette Verte'bre. 8vo, Paris, 1855.

Instances of the Power of God as manifested in His Animal Crea
     tion. London, j 855 (ed. 2, 1864).

On the Bones of the Leg of Dinornis {Palapteryx) struthioides

358 PROFESSOR OWEN

and the Palapteryx gracilis. Proc. Zool. Soc. xarii. 1855, pp.

     244-248.
Description of the Skull of a Large Species of Dicynodon (Z>.

    tigriceps, Owen), transmitted from South Africa by A. G. Bain,

     Esq. Trans. Geol. Soc. vii. 1853, pp. 233-248, pis. xxix-xxxii.
Notice of some New Reptilian Fossils from the Purbeck Beds near

Swanage. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xi. 1855, pp. 123, 124, fig.

     [Saurillus.']
Notice of a New Species of an Extinct Genus of Dibranchiate

Cephalopod (Cocco teu this latipinnis) from the Upper Oolitic

Shales at Kimmeridge.    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xi. 1855, pp.
124, 125, pi. viii.

On the Fossil Cranium of Dicynodon tigriceps, Owen, from South
    Africa, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xi. 1855, p. 532 'abstract).
On the Remains of Dicynodon tigriceps, Owen, from South Africa.

    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xi. 1855, p. 541 (abstract).
On the Fossil Skull of a Mammal (Prorastomus sirenoides, Owen),

    from the Island of Jamaica. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xi. 1855,

     pp. 541-543. PL xv.
On the Megatherium {Megatherium americanum, Cuvier and

    Blumenbach). Part II. Vertebrae of the Trunk. Phil. Trans.

     1835, pp. 359-388, pis. xvii-xxvii.

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formations. Pt.

    II. Dinosauria, pp. 1-54, pis. i-xix, and xvi. a. Pal. Soc. viii.

       1855.

On the Anthropoid Apes, and their Relations to Man. Proc. Roy.

Inst.  1855, pp. 26-41.
       a ii.
                                     '

                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                  :
On some Remains of an Ichthyosaurus discovered by Captain Sir

Edward Belcher, C.B., R.N., at Exmouth Island, in lat. yy° 16'

N., long. 960 W. In The Last of the Arctic Voyages
being Narrative of the Expedition in H.M.S. "Assistance,"

under the Command of Sir Edward Belcher, in search of Sir

John Franklin, during the Years 1852-54.'  vols. 8vo, Lon

don, 1855.

                                            1856:

Descriptive Catalogue of the Fossil Organic Remains of Inverte-
    brata contained in the Museum of the Royal College of
     Surgeons of England. 4to, London, 1856, p. 260. [Cephalopoda,
    and Notes to the Gasteropoda by Owen the bulk of the volume
    by John Morris.]

              BIBLIOGRAPHY                                        359

Rapports du Jury mixte Internationale. . . . Exposition Univer-

   selle de 1855, 8vo, Paris, 1856. [As Robert Owen in xie
   classe, ' Preparation et Conservation des Substances alimen-

    taires,' pp. 613-664 : President of the Jury.]

On Dinornis (Part VII.) : containing a description of the bones of

    the leg and foot of the Dinornis elephantopus, Owen. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. xxiv. 1856, pp. 54-61.
Description of a Fossil Cranium of the Musk-Buffalo [Bubalus

     moschatus, Owen ; Bos moschatus (Zimm. and Gmel.), Pallas ;
    Bos Pallasii, De Kay ; Ovibos Pallasii, H. Smith and Bl.]
     from the ' Lower Level Drift,' at Maidenhead, Berkshire.

    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xii. 1856, pp. 124-131, figs.
On the Affinities of the Large Extinct Bird (Gastornis parisiensis,

     Hebert), indicated by a fossil femur and tibia discovered

   in the lowest Eocene formation near Paris.    Quart. Journ.
   Geol. Soc. xii. 1856, pp. 204-217, pi. iii.

Description of some Mammalian Fossils from the Red Crag of Suf

    folk. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xii. 1856, pp. 217-236, 24 figures.
On Parts of the Skeleton of the Trunk of the Dicynodon tigriceps.

   Trans. Geol. Soc. vii. 1856, pp. 241-248, pis. xxxiii, xxxiv.

On the Megatherium {Megatherium americanum, Cuvier and

   Blumenbach). Part III. The Skull. Phil Trans. 1856, pp.

     571-590, pis. xxi-xxvi.

On the Ruminant Quadrupeds and the Aboriginal Cattle of

     Britain. Proc. Roy. Inst. ii. 1856, pp. 256-261.
On the Dichodon cuspidatus, from the Upper Eocene of the Isle of

    Wight and Hordwell, Hants. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1856, pt. 2, p. 72.
On a New Species of Anoplotherioid Mammal {Dichobune ovina,

    Owen), from the Upper Eocene of Hordwell, Hants, with re

   marks on the genera Dichobune, Xiphodon, and Microtherium.

    Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1856, pt. 2, pp. 72, 73.
On a Fossil Mammal (Stereognathus ooliticus) from the Stones-

    field Slate. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1856, pt. 2, p. 73.

On the Scelidotherium leptocephalum, a Megatherioid Quadruped

     from La Plata. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1856, pt. 2, pp. 73, 74.

A Brief Notice of the Aztec Race, followed by a Description of the

   so-called Aztec Children exhibited in 1853. Journ. Ethnolog.
              1856, pp. 120-137. [With Richard Cull.]
A   Soc. iv.  Selborne. Blackwood s Edinburgh Mag.     Aug.       1856,

   Visit to

   pp. 175-183. [Under the pseudonym of "ENNQ.]

360 PROFESSOR OWEN

                                                  1857

On the Anatomy of the Great Anteater (Myrmecophaga jubata,

    Linn.) Part II. Proc. Zool. Soc. xxv. 1857, pp. 22-24.

Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Chim
     panzees {Troglodytes) and Orangs {Pithecus). No. V. Com
     parison of the lower jaw and vertebral column of the Troglodytes
    gorilla, Troglodytes niger, Pithecus satyrus, and different
     varieties of the human race. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1857, pp.
     89-116, pis. xxxi-xxxvi.

On the Anatomy of the Great Anteater {Myrmecophaga jubata,
     Linn.). Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1857, pp. 1 17-140, pis. xxxvii-xl.

On Dinornis (Pt. VI.) : containing a description of the bones of
     the leg of Dinornis {Palapteryx) struthioides, and of Dinornis
    gracilis, Owen. Trans. Zonl. Soc. iv. 1857, pp. 141-147, pis. xli,

     xlii.
On the Affinities of the Stereognathus ooliticus, Charlesworth, a

    mammal from the Oolitic Slate of Stonesfield. Quart. Journ.

     Geol. Soc. xiii. 1857, pp. 1-11, pl. i.

On the Dichodon cuspidatus, Owen. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.

     xiii. 1857, pp. 190-196, pl. iii.
On the Fossil Vertebra of a Serpent {Laophis crotaloides, Owen),

     discovered by Captain Spratt, R.N., in a Tertiary formation at
    Salonica. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xiii. 1857, pp. 196-199, pl. iv.
Description of the Lower Jaw and Teeth of an Anoplotherioid Quad
     ruped (Dichobune ovina, Owen), of the size of the Xiphodon
    gracilis, Cuv., from the Upper Eocene Marl, Isle of Wight.
    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xiii. 1857, pp. 254-260, pl. viii.
On the Scelidothere {Scelidotherium leptocephaluvt, Owen). Phil.
     Trans. 1857, pp. 101-110, pis. viii, ix.
Description of the Foetal Membranes and Placenta of the Elephant
     {E. indicus, Cuv.), with remarks on the value of placentary
    characters in the classification of the Mammalia. Phil. Trans.
      1857, PP- 347-354, pi- xvi.
Description of a New Species of Euplectella {E. cucumer, Owen).
     Trans. Linn. Soc. xxii. 1857, pp. 1 17-124.
On the Placenta of the Elephant. Proc. Roy. Soc. viii. 1857, pp.

      471-473-

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formations.

   Part III. Megalosaurus Bucklandi, pp. 1-26, pis. i-xii. PaL

      Soc. ix. 1857.

            BIBLIOGRAPHY                           361

                                1858

Additional matter in Buckland, ' Geology and Mineralogy.' Third

     edition. 2 vols. 8vo, London, 1858.
Mollusca. From the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica.' 8th edition. 4to,

    Edinburgh, 1858. [Mainly written by Samuel Pickworth

     Woodward.]                                    8th edition.
Odontology. From the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica.'

    4to, Edinburgh, 1858.
Palaeontology. From the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica.' 8th edition.

    4to, Edinburgh, 1858.
Oken. ' Encyclopaedia Britannica.' 8th edition. 4to, Edinburgh,

      1858.

On Dinornis (Pt. VII.) : containing a description of the bones of the

    leg and foot of Dinornis elephantopus, Owen. Trans. Zoal.
    Soc. iv. 1858, pp. 149-157, pis. xliii-xlv.

On Dinornis (Pt. VIII.) : containing a description of the skeleton of

    the Dinornis elefihantopus, Owen. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1858,

pp. 159-164, pis. xlvi, xlvii.

Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Chimpan
    zees and Orangs. No. VI. Characters of the skull of the male

Pithecus morio, with remarks on the varieties of the male

Pithecus satyrus. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1858, pp. 165-178, pis.

xlviii-1.

On the Anatomy of the Great Anteater (Myrmecophaga jubata,

    Linn.) Pt. II. Trans. Zool. Soc. iv. 1858, pp. 179-181, pis.
    li-liii.

Description of a Small Lophiodont Mammal {Pliolophus vulpiceps),

from the London Clay, near Harwich.   Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.
xiv. 1858, pp. 54-71, pis. iii, iv.
            ii,
                                             ii.

                                                                                                      ;
Note on the Bones of the Hind Foot of the Iguanodon, discovered

by S. H. Beckles. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xiv. 1858, pp. 174-

       175-

On some Outline Drawings and Photographs of the Skull of Zygo-

maturus trilobus, Macleay, from Australia. Quart. Journ.
Geol. Soc. xiv. 1858, pp. 541-542; xv. 1859, pp. 168-176, pis.

vii, viii.

On the Characters, Principles of Division, and Primary Groups of

the Class Mammalia. Journ. Linn. Soc.  (Zool.) 1858, pp.

      1-37-

Description of the Skull and Teeth of the Placodus laticeps, Owen

362 PROFESSOR OWEN

     with indications of other new species of Placodus, and evidence

    of the Saurian nature of that genus. Phil. Trans. 1858, pp.

      169-184, pis. x, xi.

On the Megatherium (Megatherium americanum, Cuvier and
     Blumenbach). Part IV. Bones of the Anterior Extremities.
    Phil. Trans. 1858, pp. 261-278, pis. xviii-xxii.

On a New Genus (Dimorphodon) of Pterodactyle, with Remarks on

    the Geological Distribution of Flying Reptiles. Rep. Brit.

     Assoc. 1858, pt. 2, pp. 97-98.
On Remains of New and Gigantic Species of Pterodactyle {P.

    Fittoni and P. Sedgwickii) from the Upper Greensand near
     Cambridge. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1858, pt. 2, pp. 98-103.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation.
     Part IV. Hylccosaurus, pp. 8-26, pis. iv-xi. Pal. Soc. x.

        1858.

Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the London Clay. Part I.
    (Suppl. I.), Chelonia (Emys), pp. 77-79, pis. xxviii. A, B. Pal.

      Soc. x. 1858.

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck
     Formations. Suppl. I. Dinosauria (Iguanodon), pp. 1-7, pis.
     i-iii. Pal. Soc. x. 1858.

[On the Ichthyosaurus.'] Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 3, i. 1858,
     pp. 388-397. [Report of a lecture at Museum of Practical
      Geology.]

                                                  1859

[Observations and Reflections on Geology by John Hunter, F.R^S.
     4to, London (Coll. of Surgeons), 1859. Pp. i-lviii.] [Anony

       mous.]

Report, with Plan, on a Museum of Natural History, ordered by
     the House of Commons to be printed. This is to be found in
     -- British Museum, a ' Copy of all Communications made by
     the officers and architect of the British Museum to the Trustees,
     respecting the want of space for exhibiting the Collections in that
      Institution, as well as respecting the enlargement of its Build
     ings,' 'and, of all minutes of the Trustees. . . .' Pari. Paper,
     fo. London, 1859, 26 pp., with a plan. [Brit. Mus. 1859, xiv.]

 On the Classification and Geographical Distribution of the Mam
     malia, being the Lecture on Sir Robert Rede's Foundation,
      delivered before the University of Cambridge, in the Senate

     House, May 10, 1859. To which is added an Appendix 'On

           BIBLIOGRAPHY                                 363

the Gorilla,' and ' On the Extinction and Transmutation of

Species.'  8vo, London, 1859, 104 pp. [The Appendix is
divided into 'A, On the Extinction of Species. Being the

Conclusion of the Fullerian Course of Lectures on Physiology

for 1859.' ' B, On the Orang, Chimpanzee, and Gorilla. With

reference to the Transmutation of Species.'

Manual of Zoology. i2mo, London, 1859. [From Admiralty
     Manual of Scientific Enquiry. Third edition. See 1849.]

On the Gorilla {Troglodytes gorilla, Sav.). Proc. Zool. Soc. 1859,

      pp. 1-23.

On a Collection of Australian Fossils in the Museum of the Natural

History Society at Worcester ; with descriptions of the lower
jaw and teeth of the Nototherium inerme and N. Mitchelli,

Owen ; demonstrating the identity of the latter species with the

    Zygomaturus, Macleay. Quart. Journ. Ceol. Soc. xv. 1859, pp.

      176-186, pi. ix.

Description of some Remains of a gigantic Land Lizard {Mega-
    lania prisca, Owen) from Australia. Phil. Trans. 1859, pp.
     43-48, pis. vii, viii.

On the Vertebral Characters of the Order Pterosauria, as exempli -

   - fied in the Genera Pterodactylus (Cuvier) and Dimorphodon
     (Owen). Phil. Trans. 1859, pp. 161-169, pi. x.

On the Fossil Mammals of Australia. Part I. Description of a

mutilated skull of a large Marsupial Carnivore {Thylacoleo

     carni/ex, Owen), from a calcareous conglomerate stratum,
     eighty miles S.W. of Melbourne, Victoria. Phil. Trans. 1859,

     pp. 309-322, pis. xi-xv.
On the Megatherium {Megatherium americanum, Cuvier and

     Blumenbach). Part V. Bones of the posterior extremities.

    Phil. Trans. 1859, pp. 809-830, pis. xxxvii-xli.
Report on a series of skulls of various tribes of mankind inhabiting

     Nepal, collected and presented to the British Museum by Bryan
     H. Hodgson, Esq. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1859, pp. 95-103.
On the Orders of Fossil and Recent Reptilia, and their Distribution

    in Time. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1859, pp. 153-166.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck

    Formations. Suppl. II. Crocodilia (Streptosftondylus), pp. 20-
    44, pis. v-xii. Pal. Soc. xi. 1859.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.

    Suppl. I. Pterosauria {Pterodactylus), pp. 1-19, pis. i-iv. Pal.

      Soc. xi. 1859.

On the Gorilla. Proc. Roy. Inst. iii. 1859, pp. 10-30.

364 PROFESSOR OWEN

Summary of the Succession in Time and Geographical Distribu
     tion of Recent and Fossil Mammalia. Proc. Roy. Inst. iii.

      1859, pp. 109-116.

Address [to the British Association.] Rep. Brit. Assoc. (Leeds,
     1858), 1859, pp. lix-cx.

Note on the Affinities of Rhynchosaurus. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.

      ser. 3, iv. 1859, pp. 237, 238.   No. xiv. 1859.
' Megatherium.' Stereoscopic Magazine,
' Megaceros.' Ibid. No. xvii. 1859.

                                             1860

The principal forms of the skeleton and the teeth as the basis for
    a system of Natural History and Comparative Anatomy. 8vo,
     London 1860 (Orr's Circle of the Sciences).

Memoir on the Megatherium, or Giant Ground-Sloth of America
    {Megatherium americanum, Cuvier). 4to, London, 1860. [A
    collection of papers which appeared in the Phil. Trans.]

Palaeontology, or a Systematic Summary of Extinct Animals and
     their Geological Relations. 8vo, Edinburgh, 1860. 2nd edition,
     8vo, Edinburgh, 1861.

On some Reptilian Fossils from South Africa. Quart. Journ. Geol.

     Soc. xvi. 1860, pp. 49-63, pis. i, iii.
Notes on some Remains of Polyptychodon from Dorking. Quart.

    Journ. Geol. Soc. xvi. 1860, pp. 262-263. [Abstract.]
On some Small Fossil Vertebrae from near Frome, Somersetshire.

    Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xvi. 1860, pp. 492-497, figs.
On the Cerebral System of Classification of the Mammalia.

     Proc. Roy. Inst. iii. 1860, pp. 174-189.
Life of Lorenz Oken. 4to, 1860. [This was founded on an article

      in the Encyclopaedia Britannica.']
1
   '        1861

                                            ii,

                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                2,
                                                                                                                                               ,
Essays and Observations on Natural History, Anatomy, Physi
ology, Psychology, and Geology. By John Hunter, F.R.S.
Being his Posthumous Papers on those Subjects, arranged and

revised, with Notes, &c., by Richard Owen.  vols. 8vo, Lon

don, 86 1.

On a Dinosaurian Reptile (Scelidosaurus Harrison!), from the
     Lower Lias of Charmouth. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1861, pt. pp.

121, 122.

BIBLIOGRAPHY  365

On the Remains of a Plesiosaurian Reptile {Plesiosaurus australis),
     from an Oolitic Formation in the Middle Island of New Zea
     land.. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1861, pt. 2, pp. 122-123.

On the Cervical and Lumbar Vertebras of the Mole (Talpa europcea,
     L.). Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1861, pt. 2, pp. 152-154.

On some Objects of Natural History from the Collection of M. Du
     Chaillu. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1861, pt. 2, pp. 155, 156.

On the Psychical and Physical Characters of the Mincopies, or

      Natives of the Andaman Islands, and on the relations thereby
     indicated to other races of Mankind. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1861,

      pp. 241-249.

On the Scope and Appliances of a National Museum of Natural

     History. Proc. Roy. Inst. iii. 1861, p. 360. [Title only.]
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Purbeck and Wealden

      Formations. Part V. Lacertilia {Nuthetes, &c.), pp. 31-39, pi.
     viii. Pal. Soc. xii. 186 1.
Monograph on the British Fossil Reptilia from the Oolitic For
     mations. Part I. (Scelidosaurus Harrisonii), pp. 1-14, pis. i-vi.
     Pal. Soc. xiii. 1861.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.

    Suppl. II. Dinosauria (Lguanodon), pp. 27-30, pi. vii. Pal.

      Soc. xii. 1 86 1.

 Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.

    Suppl. III. Pterosauria (Pterodactylus) and Sauropterygia

      (Polyptychodon),pp. 1-25, pis. i-vi. Pal. Soc. xii. 1861.
 Monograph on the British Fossil Reptilia from the Kimmeridge

      Clay. No. I, containing Pliosaurus grandis, pp. 15, 16, pi.
      vii. Pal. Soc. xii, 1861.
On the Cerebral Characters of Man and the Ape. Ann. Mag.
     Nat. Hist. ser. 3, vii. 1861, pp. 456-458, pi. xix-xxi.

                                                 1862

On the Extent and Aims of a National Museum of Natural History.
     8vo, London, 1862, 126 pp., plans.

Replies to ' Essays and Reviews.' Ed. 2, 8vo, London, 1862. [Owen
    contributed a letter to Dr. Gilbert Rorison's ' Creative

     Week.']
Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Anthropoid

    Apes. No. VII. Comparison of the bones of the limbs of the

     Troglodytes gorilla, T. niger, and of different varieties of the
     Human Race ; and on the general characters of the skeleton of

   366 PROFESSOR OWEN

       the Gorilla. Trans. Zool. Soc. v. 1862, pp. 1-3 1, pis. i-xiii. [A
       continuation of his 1857 paper.]
   Description of Specimens of Fossil Reptilia discovered in the Coal
       Measures of the South Joggins, Nova Scotia, by J. W. Dawson.
       Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc. xviii. 1862, pp. 238-244, pis. ix, x.
   On the Dicynodont Reptilia, with a Description of some Fossil Re
       mains brought by H.R.H. Prince Alfred from South Africa, in
       November 1860. Proc. Roy. Soc. xi. 1862, pp. 583-585 ; Phil.
       Trans. 1862, pp. 455-467, pis. xix-xxv. [Contains also : (II.)
       On the Pelvis of the Dicynodon. (III.) Notice of a Skull and
       part of the Skeleton of Rhynchosaurus articeps.]
   On the Character of the Aye-aye, as a test of the Lamarckian and
        Darwinian hypothesis of the transmutation and origin of species.
       Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1862, pt. 2, pp. 114-116.
   On the Zoological Significance of the Cerebral and Pedal Charac
        ters of Man. Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1862, pt. 2, pp. 116-118.

   ...Inaugural Address            1863
                         on the opening of the New Philosophical

   Hall, at Leeds, on Tuesday, the l6th of December, 1862. 8vo,

        Leeds [1863]. Another edition, 12mo, London, 1863.
   On the Aye-aye (Chiromys, Cuvier ; Chiromys madagascariensis,

        Desm. ; Sciurus madagascariensis, Gmel., Sonnerat ; Lemur

        psilodactylus, Schreber, Shaw). Trans. Zool. Soc. v. 1863,
        pp. 33-101, pis. xiv-xxvi. [Also separately issued, 1863.]

   On the Archeopteryx oi Von Meyer, with a description of the fossil

        remains of a long-tailed species, from the Lithographic Stone of
       Solenhofen. Phil. Trans. 1863, pp. 33-47, pis. i-iv.

   A Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Liassic Formations.
       Part II. {Scelidosaurus Harrisonii), pp. 1-26, pis. i-xi. Pal.

        Soc. xiii. 1863.
   Monograph on the British Fossil Reptilia from the Kimmeridge

       Clay. No. II. containing Pliosaurus grandis. Pp. 27, 28, pl.

        xii. Pal. Soc. xiii. 1863.
   On the Osteology and Dentition of the Aborigines of the Andaman

   Islands, and the relations thereby indicated. Trans. Ethnolog.

   Soc.  ii.
                                                           2,

                                                                                                        1,
         1863, pp. 34-49-

                                                 1864

   Instances of the Power of God as manifested in His Animal
        Creation. 8vo, London, ed. 1864. [Ed. 1855.]

y

                                  BIBLIOGRAPHY                           367

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.

    Suppl. IV. Sauropterygia {Plesiosaurus), pp. 1-18, pis. i-ix.
     Pal. Soc. xvi. 1864.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck

    Formations. Suppl. III. pp. 19-21, pi. x. Pal. Soc. xvi.

      1864.

A Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formations.
     [Title-page, preface, and index, pp. i-vi.] Pal. Soc. xviiL

       1864.

                                  1865

An Address delivered at the Distribution of Prizes at St. Mary's
     Hospital Medical School, on Monday, May 29, 1865. 8vo,
     London. (Reprinted from the Brit. Med. Journ.) 1865, 16 pp.
     [Re-issued by the Hospital in 1868.]

Memoir on the Gorilla {Troglodytes gorilla, Savage). 4to, London,
     1865. [A collection of papers from the Trans. Zool. Soc]

On the Morbid Appearances observed in the Dissection of the
     Penguin {Aptenodytes Forsteri). Proc. Zool. Soc. 1865, pp.

     438-439.

Contributions to the Natural History of the Anthropoid Apes. No.

   VIII. On the External Characters of the Gorilla {Troglodytes

gorilla, Sav.) Trans. Zool. Soc. v. 1865, pp. 243-284, pis.
xliii-xlix.

Description of the Skeleton of the Great Auk or Garfowl {Alca
     impennis, L.). Trans. Zool. Soc. v. 1865, pp. 317-335, pis. lii.

On Zoological Names of Characteristic Parts and Homological In
                                                i,
terpretations of their Modifications and Beginnings, especiallyii.

in reference to connecting fibres of the Brain. Proc. Roy. Soc.       li,

xiv. 1865, pp. 129-134.

On the Marsupial Pouches, Mammary Glands, and Mammary

Foetus of the Echidna hystrix. Phil. Trans. 1865, pp. 671-686,

    pis. xxxix-xli Proc. Roy. Soc. xiv. 1865, pp. 106-m.
Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Liassic Formations.
I.                                                                       Part

                               ;                Pal. Soc.
    (Sauropterygia), pp. 1-40, pis. i-xvi.      form Part  xvii.           1865.
[This and the parts under 1870 and 1881
                                                           III.          of the

Liassic monograph, and a new title-page was issued in 1881.]
Description of some Remains of an Air-breathing Vertebrate {An-
thrakerpeton crassosteum, Ow.) from the Coal-shale of Glamor
ganshire. Geol. Mag. 1865, pp. 6-8, pis.
                                  ii.
                                         a
Descriptions of Portions of Jaws of a Large Extinct Fish {Stereodus
     melitensis, Ow.), probably Cycloid with Sauroid dentition,

368 PROFESSOR OWEN

     from the middle beds 6f the Maltese Miocene. Geol. Mag. ii.
     1865, pp. I45-M7, fig-

On a New Genus (Miolophus) of Mammal from the London Clay.

Geol. Mag. 1865, pp. 339-341, pl. x.
           ii.

                '
Observations on Recherches sur les Squalodons,' by Mr. P.
                               ii.
                                                       ii.
                                                                                 i.

                                                                                              1

                                                                       J.
Van Beneden. Geol. Mag. 1865, pp. 405-411.
                               Geol. Mag.
On Macrauchenia patachonica.                                                1865, pp. 520-523.
On the Homology of the Tooth.  Archives of Dentistry,
                                                                                           865, pp.

309-3 11.

                               1866

On the Anatomy of Vertebrates,       vols. 8vo, London. Vol.
                                3

                                            ii,
                                                                                      i,
Fishes and Reptiles, 1866, 650 pp. Vol. Birds and Mammals,
1866, 592 pp. Vol. iii, Mammals, 1868, 850 pp.
Memoir on the Dodo {Didus ineptus, Linn.), with an Historical
Introduction by William John Broderip. 4to, London, 1866,

          pp., 12 pis.56

On some Indian Cetacea collected by Walter Elliot, Esq. Trans.
    Zool. Soc. vi. pp. 17-47, pis. iii-xiv (1866) pp. 171-174 (1867).

On Dinornis (Part IX.) containing description of the skull, atlas,
    and scapulo-coracoid bone of the Dinornis robustus, Owen.
                   ::

                                          a

                                                                         ;
Trans. Zool. Soc. v. 1866, pp. 337-358, pis. liii-lvi.

On Dinornis (Part X.) containing a description of part of the
    skeleton of a flightless bird indicative of a new genus and

     species {Cnemiornis calcitrans, Ow.). Trans. Zool. Soc. v.
     1866, pp. 395-404, pis. lxiii-lxvii.

On the Fossil Mammals of Australia. Part II. Description of an

    almost entire skull of the Thylacoieo carnifex, Owen, from a
    freshwater deposit, Darling Downs, Queensland. Phil. Trans.
     1866, pp. 73-82, pis. ii-iv. [Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xiv.

    1865, pp. 343-344-]
Remarks on the Parturition of the Marsupials. Ann. Mag. Nat.

    Hist. ser. xvii. 1866, pp. 382-384.
On an Upper Incisor of Nototherium Mitchellii. Ann. Mag. Nat.
a
                       3,

                                                                                        a
     Hist. ser. 3, xviii. 1866, pp. 475-476.
On Genus and Species of Sauroid Fish (Thlattodus suchoides, Ow.)

     from the Kimmeridge Clay of Norfolk. Geol. Mag. iii. 1866, pp.

      55-57, Pi- i».

On the Genus and Species of Sauroid Fish (Ditaxiodus impar, Ow.),
    from the Kimmeridge Clay of Culham, Oxfordshire. Geol. Mag.

     iii. 1866, pp. 107-109, pis. iv, v.
Description of Part of the Lower Jaw and Teeth of Small Oolitic

           BIBLIOGRAPHY                                   369

    Mammal, Stylodon pusillus, Ow. Geol. Mag. iii. 1866, pp. 199-

      201, pi. x.

Evidence of a Species, perhaps extinct, of a Large Parrot [Psittacus
     mauritianus, Ow.), contemporary with the Dodo, in the island

    of Mauritius. Ibis, 1866, pp. 168-171. French translation in
    Ann. Sci. Nat. ser. 5, vi. 1866, pp. 88-90.

           1867

Descriptions of three Skulls of Western Equatorial Africans --Fan,
     Ashira, and Fernand Vaz --with some admeasurements of the

rest of the collection of skulls, transmitted to the British

Museum from the Fernand Vaz, by P. B. Du Chaillu. From

Du Chaillu, a Journey to Ashango-land, &c. 8vo. London,

      1867 ; being pp. 439-460, 9 figures.            Trans. Zool.
On the Osteology of the Dodo (Didus ineptus, Linn.).

     Soc. vi. 1867, pp. 49-85, pis. xv-xxiv.

On the Mandible and Mandibular Teeth of Cochliodonts. Geol.

Mag. iv. 1867, pp. 59-63, pis. iii, iv.

On the Dental Characters of Genera and Species, chiefly of Fishes ,
    from the Low Main seam and shales of coal, Northumberland.

      Trans. Odont. Soc. v. 1867, pp. 323-392, pis. i-xv.

Sur PAnatomie des Edente"s. Journ. Anat. Physiol, iv. 1867, pp.

      35-37-

On the Argument of ' Infirmity' in Mr. Lewes' Review of the
     ' Reign of Law.' Eraser's Magazine, Oct. 1867, pp. 531-533.

Wayside Gatherings. Gentleman's Magazine, July 1867.

                                                 1868  [Before

Addresses on Medical Education. 8vo, London, 1868.
     St. Mary's Hospital Medical School.] [See 1865.]

           1869

On Dinornis (Part XI.) : containing a description of the integu
    ment of the sole, and tendons of a toe, of the foot of Dinornis

robustus, Ow. Trans. Zool. Soc. vi. 1869, pp. 495, 496, pi.

lxxxviii.

On Dinornis (Part XII.) : containing a description of the femur,

     tibia, and metatarsus of Dinornis maximus, Owen. Trans.

Zool. Soc. vi. 1869, pp. 497-500, pis. lxxxix, xc.

VOL. II.                                              BB

370 PROFESSOR OWEN

Description of the Cavern of Bruniquel, and its Organic Contents.

    Part I. Human remains ; Part II. Equine remains. Proc. Roy.
    Soc. xvii. 1869, pp. 201-202; Phil. Trans. 1869, pp. 517-533,

     535-558, pis. lvii-lx, 15 figures in text.
On Fossil Remains of Equines from Central and South America,

    referable to Equus conversidens, Ow. ; E. tau, Ow. ; and E.
    arcidens, Ow. Proc. Roy. Soc. xvii. 1869, pp. 267-268 ; Phil.

      Trans. 1869, pp. 559574, pis. lxi., lxii.
Monographs on the British Fossil Reptilia from the Kimmeridge

    Clay. No. III., containing Pliosaurus grandis, PI. trochanteric,
    and PI. portlandicus. Pp. 1-12, pis. i.-iv. Pal. Soc. xxii. 1869.

On the Distinction between Castor and Trogontherium. Geol.
     Mag. vi. 1869, pp. 49-56, pl. iii, figs.

Description of a great part of a Jaw with the Teeth of Strophodus
     medius, Ow., from the Oolite of Caen in Normandy. Geol.
     Mag. vi. 1869, PP- 193-196, 235, pl. vii.

Note on the Occurrence of Remains of the Elk (Alces palmatus) in
     British Post-tertiary Deposits. Geol. Mag. vi. 1869, p. 389.

Notes on two I chthyodorulites hitherto undescribed : Lepracanthus
     Colei, Hybodus complanatus. Geol. Mag. vi. 1869, pp. 48 1-483, fig.

 On Magnetic and Amcebal Phenomena.] Monthly Microsc.
    Journ. i. 1869, pp. 294-295.

Apergu de la Gfologie du Desert d'Egypte. Comptes Rendus,
     lxviii. 1869, pp. 625-628.

Milton and Galileo. Eraser's Mag. May 1869, pp. 678-684.
     [Letters bearing on the History of Science which passed be

    tween the above named, Louis XI 1 1, and XIV., Cassini, Voiture,

     and Moliere.]

                                             1870

On Dinornis (Part XIII.) : containing a description of the sternum

     in Dinornis elephantopus and D. rheides, with notes on that
     bone in D. crassus and D. casuarinus. Trans. Zool. Soc. vii.
     1870, pp. 1 1 5-1 22, pis. vii-ix.
On Dinornis (Part XIV.) : containing contributions to the crani-
     ology of the genus, with a description of the fossil cranium of
     Dasornis londinensis, Ow., from the London Clay of Sheppey.
      Trans. Zool. Soc. vii. 1870, pp. 123-150, pis. x-xvi.
On Fossil Remains of Mammals found in China. Quart. Journ.
      Geol. Soc. xxvi. 1870, pp. 417-434, pis. xxvii-xxix.
On the Molar Teeth, Lower Jaw, of Macraucheniapatachonica, Ow.

                 BIBLIOGRAPHY           371

Phil. Trans. 1870, pp. 79-82, pi. viii. Abstract in Proc. Roy.

     Soc. xvii. 1869, pp. 454-455.
On Remains of a Large Extinct Lama {Palauchenia magna, Ow.),
from Quaternary deposits in the Valley of Mexico. Phil. Trans.

     1870, pp. 65-77, pis. iv-vii.      Part III. Diprotodon aus-
On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.

tralis, Owen. Phil. Trans. 1870, pp. 519-578, pis. xxxv-i.

     Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xviii. 1870, p. 196.
Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Liassic Formations. Part

    II. (Pterosauria), pp. 41-81, pis. xvii-xx. Pal. Soc. xxiii. 1870.

Monograph on the British Fossil Cetacea from the Red Crag. No.

I. Pal. Soc. 1870, pp. 1-40, pis. i-v.

Notice of some Saurian Fossils discovered by T. H. Hood at Wai-

para, Middle Island, New Zealand. Geol. Mag. vii. 1870, pp.

49-53, pi. iii.

Paloplotherium annectens, Owen. Geol. Mag. 1870, p. ,143.

     [Letter.]
Observations sur les Caracteres Cerebraux des Archencephales.

    Bull. Soc. Anthropol. Paris, v. 1870, pp. 587-592.

                                                 1871

On Dinornis (Part XV.) : containing a' description of the skull,
     femur, tibia, fibula, and metatarsus of Aptornis defossor, Owen,
    from near Oamaru, Middle Island, New Zealand ; with addi
     tional observations on Aptornis otidiformis, on Notornis Man-
    telli, and on Dinornis curtus. Trans. Zool. Soc. vii. 1871, pp.
    353-38o, pis. xl-xliv.

On Dinornis (Part XVI.) : containing notices of the internal organs
     of some species, with description of the brain and some nerves
    and muscles of the head of the Apteryx australis. Trans. Zool.

     Soc. vii. 1871, pp. 381-396, pis. xlv-xlv1i.

On the Dodo (Part II.) : Notes on the articulated skeleton of the
     Dodo (Didus ineptus, Linn.) in the British Museum. Trans.
     Zool. Soc. vii. 1871, pp. 513-525, pis. lxiv-lxvi.

On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part IV.) : Dentition and
    mandible of Thylacoleo carnifex, with remarks on the argu
     ments for its herbivority. Phil. Trans. 1871, pp. 213-266, pis.
     xi-xiv, figures in text. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xix. 1871,

     pp. 95-96.
Monograph of the Fossil Mammalia of the Mesozoic Formations,

     pp. vi, 115, pis. i-iv. Pal. Soc. xxiv. 1871.

                                                                                                                    BB2

3?: PROFESSOR OWEN

                                                 1872

OnDinornjs (Part XVII.) : containing a description of the sternum

     and pelvis, with an attempted restoration, of Aptornis de/ossor,
     Owen. Trans. Zool. Soc. viii. 1872, pp. 1 19-126, pis. xiv-xvi.
On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part V.): Genus Nototherium,
      Owen. Phil. Trans, clxii. 1872, pp. 41-82, pis. ii-xi.
On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part VI.) : Genus Phasco-
     lomys, Geoffr. Phil. Trans. 1872, pp. 173-196, pis. xvii-xxiii,
      8 figures in text.
 Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation.

    Suppl. IV. Dinosauria (Iguanodon), pp. 1-15, pis. i-iii. Pal.

      Soc. xxv. 1872.

 On Longevity. Eraser's Mag. Feb. 1872, pp. 218-233.
The Fate of the ' Jardin d'Acclimatation ' during the late Siege

      of Paris. Fraser's Mag. Jan. 1872, pp. 17-22. [Under the
     pseudonym of ' Zoologus.']
 Serpent-charming in Cairo. Blackwood's Edinburgh Mag. Feb.

       1872, pp. 169-175-

                                                  1873

[Address to the Fellows of the Royal Society on the questions of
     Income, Elections, Presidents, and payment of Secretaries.]
     8vo [London, 1873], 8 pp. [Privately printed : a copy is pre
     served in the Zoological Library of the Natural History Museum.]

 On the Anatomy of the American King Crab (Limulus fiolyphemus,
      Latr.) Trans. Linn. Soc. vol. xxviii, 1873, pp. 459-506, pis.
      xxxvi, xxxix.

On the Osteology of the Marsupialia (Part III.) : Modifications of

     the skeleton in the species of Phascolomys. Trans. Zool. Soc.
      viii. 1873, pp. 345-36o, pis. i-lvii.

 On Dinornis (Part XVIII.) : containing a description of the pelvis

      and bones of the leg of Dinornis gravis. Trans. Zool. Soc.
     viii. 1873, pp. 361-380, pis. lviii-lxi.
 On Dinornis (Part XIX.) : containing a description of a femur
     indicative of a new genus of large wingless bird {Dromornis
     australis, Owen) from a Post-tertiary deposit in Queensland,
     Australia. Trans. Zool. Soc. viii. 1873, PP- 381-384, pis. lxii,
      Ixiii.
Description of the Skull of a Dentigerous Bird {Odontopteryx- toli-

         BIBLIOGRAPHY                                           373

    apicus, Ow.) from the London Clay of Sheppey. Quart. Journ.

     Geol. Soc. xxix. 1873, pp. 511-522, pis. xvi, xvii.

On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part VII.) : Genus Phasco-

    lomys : species exceeding the existing ones in size. Phil. Trans.
     1872 (1873), pp. 241-258, pis. xxxii-xl. Abstract in Proc. Roy.

      Soc. xx. 1872, p. 306.

The earliest discovered Evidence of Extinct Struthious Birds in
     New Zealand. Geol. Mag. 1873, P- 478-

                               1874

In Tom Taylor. Leicester Square. Sketch of Hunter's Scientific

Character and Works. 8vo, London, 1874, pp. 420-433.

On the Osteology of the Marsupialia (Part IV.) : Bones of the
     trunk and limbs, Phascolomys. Trans. Zool. Soc. viii. 1874,

pp. 483-500, pis. lxix-lxxiv.

Note on the alleged Existence of Remains of a Lemming in Cave-

     deposits of England. Proc. Roy. Soc. xxii. 1874, pp. 364, 365.

On the Foss1l Mammals of Australia (Part VIII.) : Family Macro-
podidce : Genera, Macropus, Osphranter, Phascolagus, Sthen-

urus, and Protemnodon. Phil. Trans. 1874, pp. 245-287, pis.

xx-xxvii. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxi. 1873, p. 128.

On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part IX.) : Family Macro-
   podidce : Genera Macropus, Pachysiagon, Leptosiagon, Pro-
    coptodon, and Palorchestes. Phil. Trans. 1874, pp. 783-803, pis.

     lxxvi-lxxxiii. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxi. 1873, pp. 386-387.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck

Formations. Suppl. V. Dinosauria (Iguanodon), pp. 1-18, pis.

i, Pal. Soc. xxvii. 1874.
ii.
     I.Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck
.Formations. Suppl. VI. Crocodilia (Hylceochampsa), pp. 1-7.
Pal. Soc. xxvii, 1874.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Mesozoic Formations.
                                                                Pal.
Part     Pterosauria (Pterodactylus), pp. 1-14, pis.  i,
                                                           ii.

     Soc. xxvii. 1874.

Contributions to the Ethnology of Egypt. Journ. Anthrop. Inst.
iv. 1874, pp. 223-254, pis. xviii-xxi.

                                                1875a

Preface to C. C. Blake, Zoology for Students. 8vo, London, 1875.
Note on New Locality of Dinornithidce. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1875

     p. 88.

374 PROFESSOR OWEN

On Dinornis(Part XX.) : containing a restoration of the skeleton of
    Cnemiornis calcitrans, Owen, with remarks on its affinities in
    the Lamellirostral group. Trans. Zool. Soc. ix. 1875, pp. 253-

     272, pis. xxxv-xxxix.
On Fossil Evidences of a Sirenian Mammal (Eotherium cegyptiacum,

    Owen) from the Nummulitic Eocene of the Mokattam Cliffs, near
    Cairo. Quart. Journ. Gcol. Soc. xxxi. 1875, PP- 100-105, pi- SL

On Prorastomus sirenoides (Ow.), Part II. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.

     xxxi. 1875, pp. 559-567, pis. xxviii, xxix.

Monographs on the' British Fossil Reptilia of the Mesozoic For
    mations. Part II. (Genera Bothriospondylus, Cetiosaurus,

     Omosaurus), pp. 15-93, pis. iii-xxii. Pal. Soc. xxix. 1875.
On Petroleum and Oil-wells. Eraser's Mag. Oct. 1875, pp. 437-

     449-

Review of H. Waller's 'The Last Journals of David Livingstone in
    Central Africa, from 1865 to his Death.' 1874. Quarterly
     Review, cxxxviii. 1875.

                1876

Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia of
South Africa in the Collection of the British Museum. 4to,

     London, 1876, xii., 86 pp., 70 pis.
On the Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part X.) : Family Macropo-

    didce : Mandibular dentition and parts of the skeleton of Pal-

orchestes ; additional evidences of Macropus titan, Sthenurus,

and Procoptodon. Phil. Trans. 1876, pp. 197-226, pis. xix-xxxi.

     Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxiii. 1875, P- 45 '-
On the Osteology of the Marsupialia (Part V.) : Fam. Paphaga ;

    Genus Macropus. Trans. Zool. Soc. ix. 1870, pp. 417-446, pis.

lxxiv-lxxxiii.

Evidence of a Carnivorous Reptile {Cynodraco major, Ow.) about
    the size of a Lion, with remarks thereon. Quart. Journ. Geol.

Soc. xxxii. 1876, pp. 95-102, pi. xi.

Evidences of Theriodonts in Permian Deposits elsewhere than in

South Africa. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxii. 1876, pp. 352--

363, figures.

On a New Modification of Dinosaurian Vertebrae.      Quart. Journ.
     Geol. Soc. xxxii. 1876, pp. 43-46, pis. iv, v.

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck

   Formations. Suppl. VII. Crocodilia {Poikilopleuron) and Dino-

    sauria {Chondrosteosaurus), pp. 1-7, pis. i-vi. Pal. Soc. xxx.

1876.

BIBLIOGRAPHY                                  375

1877

Researches on the Fossil Remains of the Extinct Mammals of
     Australia ; with a notice of the Extinct Marsupials of England.
     2 vols. 4to, London, 1877, 1878. [A collection of papers issued
     in serial publications, with some additional matter.]

On a New Species of Sthenurus, with remarks on the relation of
    the genus to Dorcopsis, Miiller. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1877, 352-361,

     pis. xxxvii, xxxviii.

On Dinornis (Part XXI.) : containing a restoration of the skeleton

     of Dinornis maximus, Owen. With an Appendix on additional
     evidence of the genus Dromornis in Australia. Trans. Zool.

Soc. x. 1877, pp. 147-188, pis. xxxi-xxxiii.

On the Rank and Affinities in the Reptilian Class of the Mosasaurida,

    Gervais. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxiii. 1877, pp. 682-715, figs.
Monographs on the British Fossil Reptilia of the Mesozoic For

   mations. Part III. (Omosaurus),pp. 95-97, pis. xxiii, xxiv. Pal.

     Soc. xxxi. 1877.               Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 4,
On a New Marsupial from Australia.

xx. 1877, p. 542 ; ser. 5, i. 1878, p. 103.

                                                  1878

On the Relative Positions to their Constructors of the Chambered
     Shells of Cephalopods. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, pp. 955-975,

     pl. lx.

On Argillornis longipennis, Ow., a Large Bird of Flight, from the
    Eocene Clay of Sheppey. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxiv. 1878,

      pp. 124-130, pl. vi.

On the Influence of the Advent of a Higher Form of Life in modi
    fying the Structure of an Older and Lower Form. Quart. Journ.
     Geol. Soc. xxxiv. 1878, pp. 421-430, figs.

On the Affinities of the Mosasaurida, Gervais, as exemplified in
    the Bony Structure of the Fore Fin. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.
     xxxiv. 1878, pp. 748-753, figs.

On the Fossils called ' Granicones ; ' being a contribution to the
     histology of the exo-skeleton in Reptilia. Trans. R. Micros.

     Soc. i. 1878, pp. 233-236, pis. xi, xii.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck

   Formations. Suppl. VIII. Crocodilia (Goniopholis, Petro-

    suchus, and Suchosaurus), pp. 1-15, pis. i-vi. Pal. Soc. xxxii.

       1878.

 376 PROFESSOR OWEN

 On the Solitaire (Didus solitarius, Gm. ; Pezophaps solitaria
      Strkl.) Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 5, i. 1878, pp. 87-98, 2 pis.

 On the Occurrence in North America of Rare Extinct Vertebrates
      found fragmentarily in England. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser.
       5, ii. 1878, pp. 201-223, 2 pis.

 [Speech on ' New Guinea ' at Royal Colonial Institute, December,
       17, 1878.] Reported in The Colonies, December 21, 1878.

                                              1879

 Memoirs on the Extinct Wingless Birds of New Zealand, with an
      Appendix on those of England, Australia, Newfoundland, Mau
     ritius, and Rodriguez. 2 vols. 4to, London, 1879. [Mainly a
     reprint of papers which appeared between 1839 and 1879 m
     the publications of the Zoological Soc1ety ; with the addition of
     a paper on the ' Anatomy of Apteryx australis,' a plate of Not-
     ornis (life size), and a geological map of New Zealand showing
      the localities from whence fossils were obtained.]

On the Association of Dwarf Crocodiles {Nannosuchus and Therio-
     suchus pusillus, e.g.) with the diminutive Mammals of the Pur-
     beck Shales. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxv. 1879, pp. 148-155,
     pl. ix.

Description of Fragmentary Indications of a Huge Kind of Therio-
     dont Reptile {Titanosuchus ferox, Ow.) from Beaufort West,
     Gough Tract, Cape of Good Hope. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.
     xxxv. 1879, pp. 189-199, pl. xi.

On the Endothiodont Reptilia, with Evidence of the Species Endo-
    thiodon uniseries, Ow. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxv. 1879,
     PP- 557-564, pl- xxvii.

On Hypsiprymnodon, Ramsay, a Genus indicative of a Distinct
     Family {Pleopodida) in the Diprotodont Section of the Mar-
     supialia. Trans. Linn. Soc. ser. 2 (Zool.) i. 1879, pp. 573-
     582, pis. lxxi, lxxii.

Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck
    Formations. Suppl. IX. Crocodilia (Goniopholis, Brachyocetes,
    Nannosuchus, Theriosuchus, and Nuthetes), pp. 1-19, pis. i-iv.
     Pal. Soc. xxxiii. 1879.

Observations on the collection of skulls sent by Captain Burton to
    the British Museum, September, 1878. Journ. Anthrop. Inst.y
     vol. viii, 1879, pp. 323, 324.

Supplementary Observations on the Anatomy of Spirula australisf
     Lamarck. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 5, iii. 1879, PP- I-16.

       BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                     377

On the Occurrence in North America of Rare Extinct Vertebrates
     found fragmentarily in England, No. 2. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.
     ser. 5, iv. 1879, pp. 53-61, pl. viii.

Alleged Evidence of the Moa from Feathered Ornaments of Maori
     Weapons. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 5, iv. 1879, P- 169.

On the Natural Term of Life and of its Chief Periods in the Hippo
    potamus {Hippopotamus amphibius, Linn.). Ann. Mag. Nat.
     Hist. ser. 5, iv. 1879, pp. 188-190.

On the Extinct Animals of the Colonies of Great Britain. 8vo,

     London (R. Colon. Inst.), 1879, 23 pp.

                                              18805, i.              ii.
                                                                                 3. i,
On the External and Structural Characters of the Male Spirula
      australis, Lam. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1880, pp. 352-354, pl. xxxii.                                               a
                                                                                                                           i1. ii.
Description of a Portion of Mandible and Teeth of a Large Extinct
     Kangaroo (Palorchestes crassus, Ow.) from ancient Fluviattle
     Drift, Queensland. Trans. Zool. Soc. xi. 1880, pp. 7-10, pl.

On the Skull of Argillornis longipennis, Ow. Quart. Journ. Geol.

     Soc. xxxvi. 1880, pp. 23-26, pl.
Description of Parts of the Skeleton of an Anomodont Reptile

     (Platypodosaurus robustus, Ow.) from the Trias of Graaff
    Reinet, S. Africa. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxvi. 1880, pp.
     414-425, pl. xvi, xvii.
Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the London Clay. Vol.
    pt. (Chelone gigas), pp. 1-4, pis. ii. Pal. Soc. xxxiv.

      1880.

Demonstration on the Elephantine Mammals. Report of visit
     to the British Museum. Proc. Geol. Assoc, vi. 1880, pp. 321-328,
     pl. ii.

On the Occurrence in North America of Rare Extinct Vertebrates
    found fragmentarily in England. No. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.
     ser. v. 1880, pp. 177-181, pl. viii.

                                   I88l                              a

Descriptions of some new and rare Cephalopoda (Part II.) Trans.

     Zool. Soc. xi. 1881, pp. 131-170, pis. xxiii-xxxv.
On the Order Theriodontia, with a description of new genus and

    species (AClurosaurus felinus, Ow.) Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.

     xxxvii. 1881, pp. 261-265, pl. ix.
Description of Parts of the Skeleton of an Anomodont Rept1le

378 PROFESSOR OWEN

    (Platypodosaurus rooustus, Owen). Part II. The Pelvis. Quart.
   Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxvii. 1881, pp. 266-271, pi. x.
Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land Lizard (Mega-
    lania prisca, Owen) from Australia. Part I L Phil. Trans. 1880

     (1881), pp. 1037-1050, pis. xxxiv-xxxviii. Abstract in Proc. Roy.

      Soc. xxx. 1880, p. 304.

On the Ova of the Echidna hystrix. Phil. Trans. 1880 (1881),

pp. 1051-1054, pi. xxxix. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. 1880,

     p. 407.

Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land Lizard {Mega-

   laniaprisca, Owen) from Australia. Part III. Phil. Trans. 1 88 1 ,

    pp. 547-556, pis. lxiv-lxvi. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxi.

       1 88 1, p. 380.

A Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Liassic Formations.

   Part III. (Ichfhyopterygia), pp. 83-134, pis. xxi-xxxiii. Pal.

     Soc. xxxv. 1881, iii., pp. 440-445.  Trans. Intern. Medical
On the Scientific Status of Medicine.

Congress, London, 1881, iii., pp. 440-445.

                              1882

Experimental Physiology, its Benefits to Mankind. 8vo, London,

1882, viii. 216 pp. [This contains the Address on unveiling
    the Statue of Harvey at Folkestone.]

In [G. R. Jesse], Correspondence with Sir R. Owen on John Hunter

     and Aneurism, &c.,  ed.  3. 8vo,    London,  1882, 14 pp.    Proc.
                         his  series of  Memoirs   on Dinornis.]
[Read Part XXIII. of
Zool. Soc. 1882, pp. 1, 2.

On Trichina spiralis. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1882, pp. 571-575.
On the Sternum of Notornis and on Sternal Characters. Proc.

     Zool. Soc. 1882, pp. 689-697, figs.
On an Extinct Chelonian Reptile {Notochelys costata, Owen), from

Australia. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxviii. 1882, pp. 178-183,

figs.

Description of Part of the Femur of Nototherium Mitchelli. Quart.
   Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxviii. 1882, pp. 394-396, pi. xvi.

On the Homology of the Conario-hypophysial Tract, or the so-
    called Pineal and Pituitary Glands. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.)
    xvi. 1882, pp. 131-149. [A.]

Notice of Portions of the Skeleton of the Trunk and Limbs of the

Great Horned Saurian of Australia [Megalania prisca, Owen).
Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxiv. 1882, pp. 267-268.

      BIBLIOGRAPHY                                              379

Description of Portions of a Tusk of a Proboscidian Mammal
    {Notelephas australis, Owen). Phil. Trans. 1882, pp. 777-781,
     pi. li. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxiii. 1882, p. 448.

Address to the Biological Section" of the British Association. Rep.
    Brit. Assoc. (York, 1881) 1882, pp. 651-661.

                                  1883

Aspects of the Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates. 8vo,
    London, 1883. [This publication consists of A, 1882, and B,
     1883, with fresh title.]

Embryological Testimony to General Homology. Proc. Zool. Soc.

      1883, pp. 349-352.                       a description of the
                                               Trans. Zool. Soc. xi.
On Dinomis (Part XXIII.) : containing

    skeleton of Dinomis parvus, Owen.

     1883, pp. 233-256, pis. li-lviii.
On Dinomis (Part XXIV.) : containing a description of the head

    and feet, with their dried integuments, of an individual of the

species Dinomis didinus, Owen. Trans. Zool. Soc. xi. 1883,

pp. 257-261, pis. lix-lxi.

On Generic Characters in the Order Sauropterygia. Quart.

    Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxix. 1883, pp. 133-138, figs.
On the Skull of Megalosaurus. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxix.

      l883, PP- 334-347, pi. xi, figs.

On Cerebral Homologies in Vertebrates and Invertebrates. Journ.
     Linn. Soc. (Zool.) xvii. 1883, pp. 1-13. [b.]

Evidence of a Large Extinct Monotreme (Echidna Ramsayi, Ow.)
     from the Wellington Breccia Cave, New South Wales. Proc.
    Roy. Soc. xxxvi. 1883, p. 4 ; Phil. Trans, clxxv. (1884) pp.

      273-275-

Description of Parts of a Human Skeleton from a Pleistocene

(Palaeolithic) Bed, Tilbury, Essex. Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxvi.

      1883, p. 136.               Phil. Trans. 1883, pp. 575-582,

On the Affinities of Thylacoleo.

pis. xxxix-xli. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxv. 1883,

      p. 19.                                     Phil. Trans.   1883,
                                               Roy. Soc. xxxv.  1 883,
Pelvic Characters of Thylacoleo camifex.
     PP- 639-643, pi. xlvi. Abstract in Proc.

      p. 163.

On the Answerable Divisions of the Brain in Vertebrates and In
     vertebrates. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, ser, 5, xii. 1883, pp. 303-

307.

380 PROFESSOR OWEN

On an Outline of the Skull (basal view) of Thylacoho.  Geol. Mag.
     1883, p. 289, pl. vii.

Notes on Birds in the Garden, Sheen Lodge, Richmond Park.

The Garden, xxiii. 1883, pp. 303, 333, 349, 384, 402.

                           1884

History of British Fossil Reptiles. 4to, London, 1849-1884.
     [This book consists of a reprint of the papers which appeared
     between 1849 and 1884 in the publications of the Pateon to-
     graphical and other societies ; it was issued from time to time,

     as a separate work to subscribers, and was finally bound and

     published as complete. Beyond a few notes, here and there,
     the ' British Fossil Reptiles ' is identical with the papers in the
     Monographs of the Palaeontographical Society, and these papers

     should always be referred to.]
Antiquity of Man as deduced from the Discovery of a Human

     Skeleton during the excavations of the East and West India
     Dock Extensions at Tilbury, north bank of the Thames. 8vo,

     London, 1884, 32 pp. 4 pis.
On the Skull and Dentition of a Triassic Mammal (Tritylodon

    longavus, Owen) from South Africa. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.

     xl. 1884, pp. 146-152, pl. vi.
On the Cranial and Vertebral Characters of the Crocodilian Genus

Plesiosuchus, Owen. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xl. 1884, pp.

153-159, ngs.

On a Labyrinthodont Amphibian (Rhytidosteus capensis) from the

Trias of Orange Free State, Cape of Good Hope. Quart.
   Journ. Geol. Soc. xl. 1884, pp. 333-339, pis. xvi, xvii.
Description of Teeth of a Large Extinct (Marsupial ?) Genus, Sce-

   parnodon, Ramsay. Phil. Trans. 1884, pp. 245-248, pl. xi.

     Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxvi. 1884, pp. 3-4.       Owen)
Evidence of a Large Extinct Lizard (Notiosaurus dentatus,
                                                              Phil.
     from Pleistocene Deposits, New South Wales, Australia.

Trans, clxxv. 1884, pp. 249-251, pl. xii. Abstract in Proc. Roy.

Soc. xxxvi. 1884, p. 221.

Evidence of a Large Extinct Monotreme (Echidna Ramsayi, Ow.)
    from the Wellington Breccia Cave, New South Wales. Phil.

     Trans. 1884, pp. 273-275, pl. xiv.
Description of an Impregnated Uterus and of the Uterine Ova of

    Echidna hystrix. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 5, xiv. 1884, pp.

     373-376, pl. xiii.

               BIBLIOGRAPHY                        381

Triglyphus, Fraas ; and Tritylodon, Owen. Geol. Mag. 1884,

      p. 286.

               1885

On the Structure of the Heart in Ornithorhynchus and Apteryx.
     Proc. Zool. Soc. 1885, pp. 328-329.

Note on the Resemblance of the Upper Molar Teeth of an Eocene

     Mammal (Neoplagiaulax, Lemoine) to those of Tritylodon.
     Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xli. 1885, pp. 28-29, figs-
Notes on Remains of Elephas primigenius from one of the Cres-

     well Bone-caves. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xli. 1885, pp. 31-34,

      figs.

               1886

On Dinornis (Part XXV.) : containing a description of the sternum
     of Dinornis elephantopus. Trans. Zool. Soc. xii. 1886, pp. 1-3,

pi. i.

On the Premaxillaries and Scalpriform Teeth of a Large Extinct

Wombat (Phascolomys curvirostris, Ow.) Quart. Journ. Geol.
Soc. xlii. 1886, pp. 1-2, pi. i.

Description of Fossil Remains, including Foot-bones, of Megalania

prisca (pt. iv.) Phil. Trans. 1886, pp. 327-330, pi. xiii-xv.
     Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xl. 1886, p. 93.
On a New Perissodactyle Ungulate from Wyoming.     Geol. Mag,

1886, p. 140.

                                                 1887

On the Skull and Dentition of a Triassic Saurian (Galesaurus
    planiceps, Owen). Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xliii. 1887, pp. 1-6,
    pl.i.

On Fossil Remains of Echidna Ramsayi (Ow.), Pt. II. Proc. Roy.

     Soc. xlii. 1887, p. 390.
Description of a Newly-excluded Young of the Ornithorhynchus

     paradoxus. Proc. Roy. Soc. xlii. 1887, p. 39L
Description of Fossil Remains of Two Species of a Megalanian

     Genus (Meiolania) from ' Lord Howe's Island.' Phil. Trans.
      1886 (1887), pp. 471-480, pis. xxix-xxxii. Abstract in Proc,

     Roy. Soc. xl. 1886, pp. 315-316.

Additional Evidence of the Affinities of the Extinct Marsupial
     Quadruped Thylacoleo carnifex (Owen). Phil. Trans. 1887

382 PROFESSOR OWEN

     (1888), pp. 1-3, pl. i. Abstract in Proc. Roy. Soc. xli. 1886,

      P- 317.

Description of the Skull of an Extinct Carnivorous Marsupial of
     the Size of a Leopard {Thylacopardus australis, Owen), from a
     recently opened cave near the ' Wellington Cave ' locality, New
     South Wales. Proc. Roy. Soc. xlv. 1888, p. 99. [Title only.]

On Parts of the Skeleton of Meiolania platyceps (Owen). Phil.
     Trans. 1888 (1889), pp. 181-191, pis. xxxi-xxxvii. Abstract in

     Proc. Roy. Soc. xlii. 1887, p. 297.

                                             1889

A Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden and Purbeck
    Formations. Suppl. IV.-IX. [Consisting of title-page, preface,
     and table of contents, pp. i-viii.] Pal. Soc. xlii. 1889.

A Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Mesozoic Formations.
    [Title-page, preface, and table of contents, pp. i-viii.] Pal.

     Soc. xlii. 1889.
Monograph on the British Fossil Cetacea from the Red Crag.

     [Title-page, preface, and contents.] Pal. Soc. xlii. 1889.

[N.B. -- Professor Owen's Hunterian   Lectures  were generally
     reported in the Medical Times.]

LIST OF RICHARD OWEN'S HONORARY

                   DISTINCTIONS

Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, August 18, 1826.
Apothecaries' Hall, January 7, 1830.
Correspondent, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,

     January 28, 1834.
Correspondent, Academie Royale de Medecine, Paris, February

       24, 1836.

Correspondent, Societe' Philomathique de Paris, February 20, 1836.
Correspondent, Regia Scientiarum Academia Borussica, March

        1836.

Correspondent, Die Gesellschaft fur Beforderung der Naturwis-
      senschaften zu Freiburg, August 29, 1837.

Honorary Member, Societas Casarea Naturae Curiosorum Mos-
     quensis, April 27, 1837.

Honorary Member, Societas Physico-Medica Erlangensis, August

        1836.

Wollaston Medal (Geological Society), 1838.
Honorary Member, Boston Society of Natural History, October

       24, 1839.

Correspondent, Institute of France, February 7, 1839.
 Corresponding Member, Acade"mie Imp. Sci. St.-Petersbourg, 1839.
 Honorary Member, Hunterian Society, March 5, 1840.
 Honorary Member, Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, 1841.
 Honorary Member, Royal Geological Society of Cornwall, Sep

      tember 25, 1 84 1.
Foreign Member, Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissen-

      schaften, August 25, 1842.
 Foreign Member, Hollandsche Maatschappij de Wetenschappen te

      Haarlem, 1842.

384 PROFESSOR OWEN

Foreign Member, Regia Scientiarum Academia Svecica, December

        13, 1843.

Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England,

      1843.

Honorary Member, Academia Frederico-Alexandrina Erlangensis

     August 25, 1843.
Honorary Member, Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society,

     April 30, 1844.
Honorary Member, American Philosophical Society, January 17,

       1845.

Honorary Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh, March 18, 1845.
Royal Medal (Royal Society), 1846.
Honorary Member, Societe des Sciences Naturelles du Canton de

     Vaud, April 22, 1846.
Honorary Member, Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein in Hamburg,

      December 30, 1846.
Honorary Member, Naturhistorischer Verein fur das Grossherzog-

     thum Hessen, August 25, 1846.
Honorary Member, Societas Regia Medico-Chirugica Londiniensis,

     February 9, 1847.
LL.D. Edinburgh, May 17, 1847.
Fellow, Academia Scientiarum Instituti Bononiensis, June 20, 1847.
Correspondent, Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien,

     August 1, 1848.
Associate, Society de Biologie, Paris, November 18, 1848.
Associate, Academie Royale des Sciences de Belgique, December

      17, 1847.

Correspondent, Socie'te' du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Stras

     bourg, February 10, 1848.
Foreign Correspondent, Real Academia de Ciencias (Madrid),

      1848.

Honorary Member, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, May 19,

       1849.

Honorary Member, Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, March 8,

       1850.                                        Upsaliensis,

Chevalier of the Order ' Pour le Merite,' 185 1. .
Bronze Medal as Juror, Great Exhibition, 185 1.
Honorary Member, Regia Scientiarum Societas

     June 25, 1851.
Foreign Member, Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen,

October 26, 1851.

LIST OF HONORARY DISTINCTIONS                                385

                          I

Copley Medal (Royal Society), 1851.
D.C.L., Oxford University, June 23, 1852.
Correspondent, Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie,

     February 18, 1853.
Gold and Silver Medals as Juror, Paris Exhibition, 1855.

Legion d'Honneur, 1855.
Correspondent, Asociacion de Amigos de la Historia Natural del

     Plata, August 22, 1855.                        Academiae
Prix Cuvier, Institut de France, February 2, 1856.
Honorary Member, Caesareas Leopoldino-Carolinae

     Naturae Curiosorum, October 1, 1857.
Honorary Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences,

     November 14, 1857.                                      zu
Honorary Member, Royal Society of Edinburgh, July 21, 1858.
Foreign Associate, Institut de France, April 25, 1859.

LL.D., Cambridge, May 1859.
Honorary Fellow, Royal Society of Literature, 1859.

Foreign Member, Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften

     Gottingen, December 17, 1859.
Foreign Member, Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab,

    April 15, 1859.
Honorary Member, Musea krdlovstof Ceske, 1861.

Honorary Member, Odontological Society of London, December 2,

       1861.

Chevalier of the Order of St. Maurice and Lazarus, December 19,

       1862.

Honorary Member, Zoologische Gesellschaft zu Hamburg,

     October 17, 1863.
Honorary Member, Anthropological Society of London, March 24,

       1863.

Correspondent, Societe" des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg,

     December 12, 1864.
Silver Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1865.
Foreign Associate, National Academy of Sciences of the United

     States, January 5, 1865.
Honorary Member, Die Pollichia, ein naturwissenschaftlicher

    Verein der Bayrischen Rheinpfalz zu Diirkheim a. d. H.

     June 13, 1866.
Correspondent, Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, January 30,

       1867.                                        CC

Knight of the Order of the Rose, October 21, 1867.

     VOL. II.

386 PROFESSOR OWEN

Correspondent, Reale Instituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere in
    Milano, July 2, 1868.

Baly Medal, Royal College of Physicians, 1869.
Foreign Member, Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Napoli,

    Aprii 9, 1870.
Honorary Member, Societas Medica Londinensis, November 7,

       1873.                         Neo-Eboracensis,

Commander of the Bath, 1873.
The Order of Leopold, July 9, 1873.
Honorary Member, Academia Medicina?

     May 21, 1874.
Foreign Member, Società Italiana delle Scienze, December 8,

        1877.

W. B. Clarke Medal (Royal Society of New South Wales), 1878.
Honorary Member, Geologists' Association, 1878.
Honorary Member, Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein von Hamburg-

     Altona, 1878.
Silver Medal, Sydney Exhibition, 1879.
Corresponding Member, Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Torino,

       1880.

Silver Medal, Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880-81.
Foreign Member, Reale Accademia dei Lincei (Roma), December

       2, 1883.

Honorary Member, Essex Field Club, January 27, 1883.
Honorary Medal of the Royal College of Surgeons of England,

     August 9, 1883.
Correspondent, Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio, January 10,

       1884.

Knight Commander of the Bath, 1884.

Honovary Liveryman of the Leathersellers' Company, February 6,

        1884.

Honorary Member, Hertfordshire Natural History Society, Feb

      ruary 17, 1885.
Bronze Medal, Adelaide Exhibition, 1887.
Linnean Medal (Linnean Society), 1888.
Honorary Member, Reale Accademia della Scienza di Palermo,

     January 6, 1888.
Doctor Universitatis Bononiensis, June 1888.

    Owen was also a Fellow of the following learned Societies :--

The Royal Society, the Linnean Society, the Geological Society,
the Zoological Society, the Microscopical Society, the Entomo

logical Society, the Palaeontographical Society.

                                           INDEX

             ABERNETHIAN                                           CEPHALOPODA

  Abernethian Society, i. 32                                Bibliography of Owen,                              ; i. ii.333
  Abernethy, Dr., i. 29-31, 32                                                                                     ii.
                                                            seqq.
                                                            'Birds in my Garden, Notes on,'
  Aepyornis, the, 165    ii.

  Agassiz, 108, 177, 285                        ii.  94,    ii.
           ii.                             ;                        249-253
             ii. i.                                         Bonaparte, Prince C. L.,
      237                                                                                                              118,
  Albert, Prince Consort,i. i.
                                                181,        154, 182, 234, 297,342                                       11
                                           ; i.
                                                            Bonnet, 280
                                              ii.
    219, 287, 333, 355, 381                          6,            ii. ii.
    76, 84, 98, 100, 117; death,
                                                            Bowerbank, Dr. E., 143
                                                                                      J.        i. ii. ii. i.

                                                            Brazil, Emperor of, 233
    126                                                                                   i. ii.

  Alfred, Prince,        ii.  100,         134              British Association,                             124, 139,
  Anarrichas lupus,            ii.       294
                                                            159, 169, 219, 242, 286, 297,
                                        ;
  Anatomy, ii. 275 seqq. in 1830,                           345, 370, 389 »- 20, 75, 84,
    ii. 304                                                                     i.
  Anatomy of fishes, 293, 397                               124
                                                                                   5
                              i.                            Broderip, Mr., 221, 233                            ;         81

                                                                                                                  ii.

''  Animal Economy,' Hunter's,                       i.     Brodie, Sir Benjamin, 115

       106                                                  Brooke, Rajah, 302        i.

  Aptornis owenii, 217                                      Brown's Collection, 89
  Archaeopteryx macrura,                                                                  ii.
                         ii.                                                                 ii.
                                       ii.      140,        Bruniquel, Cavern of, 152

       141                                                  Buckland, Frank, 78-81, 133
                                                            Buckland, Rev. Dr.,                                64-66,
    Archetype,' Owen's, 208, 292,
                                  i.

    309-313.319, 322; ii. 1,313                             i11, 140, 177, 205, 210, 211,

Argonauts,               152, 153                              270, 281, 298, 304, 346, 352                              i. ;
                                                               ii. 89
Aye-aye,               137-140                              Buffon, 280
Azyr, Vicq d', 288, 303
                         i. ii.
  Babbage, Professor, 291       i. i.                       Camper, Peter, 288
                                      ii. i.                Carlisle, Sir Anthony, 66, 85-
    161                                                                                   ii.
                                                         ;                                         i.

Baer, Von, ii. 299                                   ii.        88
  Baillie, Joanna, 180, 300                                                                       197, 283,
                                                            Carlyle, Thomas,              i.

Barclay, Dr. John,                27-29                     361, 362  ;       i. ii.  55, 209
Barry, Dr. Martin,                200
                                                            Carus, Dr., 232 1i. 305, 319
                                                                            i.        ;

Belemnites, 212, 238, 291                                   Catalogue, R. C. S. Museum,
Belgians, King of the, 150
Belon, 287                                                     256                    59
                                                            Cephalopoda,

                                                                                              C
                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                      2

388 PROFESSOR OWEN

                CHADWICK                                                    GERMANY

Chadwick, Edwin, i. 29r, 302,                              Echidna hystrix, 167
                                                                                         ii.
   330, 364 ;    ii.        266, 269                       Edgeworth, Maria,                 i.    180, 225,

Chambers, Robert, 248
                                 i.                               33

                                                           Egerton,
Chartist riots, 320                                        2           Lord         F.,ii. i.  275-281
                 i.
                   i.                                               ii.     190-205, 207, 217, 226
Chimpanzee,              359                               Egypt,
                                                           Ellesmere, Lord, 23
Chiromys Madagascariensis,                           ii.

    137-140                                                Embryology,          ii.  298, 303
Cirripedia, 407
                i. i.                                      Emerson, R. W., 326        i.           ;      ii. 220,
Clift, William, 33, 35, 37-39, 341
Gift, William Home, 67 i.                                  222
Cologne, St. Ursula's, 269
Comte de Paris,                       58 i. i.             Enniskillen, Lord,                  i.  170, 194,
Cooper, W. White, 263
                            ii.  ii. 1                        285 73, 206, 262;
 Cosmos,' Humboldt's, 262                                  Eozobn, 171i.
                                                           Ernst, 353
                                                           Exhibition, the Great,i. ii.

'                                          i.                                                      1 i.        353,
                                                                                                        i.
Crocodiles,            331                                     362, 365

Croly, Rev. Dr., 304                                       Extinct birds of N. Z.,                        144
                            i. i. i.                       Extraneous Fossils, ii.
                                          ; i.
                                             ii.
Cromwell, Oliver, 261, 268, 283
Crystal Palace, 397
Cuming's shells, Hugh, 313
Cuvier,                                                    Fact and theory, ii. 282
            i.  48-50, 103                           248,
                                                           Falconer, Dr. H., 227, 236
   281, 293                                                                                                         ii.
                                                               21
Cyamodus lattceps,               ii.    69, 70                                      i. ;           i1.
                                                                                       i. i. i.                  ;
                                                           Faraday,             96, 112, 153, 233,
                                                                   ;                        ii. ;
Darwin, Charles, 102, 108,                                 235, 236, 258, 337i.                       16

                            ii. ; i.                       Forbes, Edward, Pres. G. S.,i.                           i.
                                  i. ii. i.
    119, 121, 208, 292,                    299, 407  ;     Fo3ss9i4l ,--40C8helonia,
                                           218, 363,
Dii. 38, 89-966,                                                                                 404 mam
   aubenton, ii. 280                                                                               1
                                                           malia, British, 227, 238, 239,            ;;
Derby, Lord, 400
Dickens, Charles,                                          260, 269, 270 monkey,                        i.     166,
                ;                                          291 remains,                                        rep
                                                           tiles, British, 158, 169, 176,
   389-392          ii. i.  57, 65, 129, 166,

   174                                                     207, 385, 404
Dicynodonts, 256                                           Fossils,
                i.                              134                             107, 119, 165, 167,
                     i.
Dinornis, 144- 151, 208, 209-                              172, 175, 209, 236, 238, 243,
                                                           285, 297, 319, 341,404; ii- 21,
   212, 228, 404         ;       21, 217

Diprotodon Australis, 239                                  ioo, 125, 131, 148, 169
Dissection,                                                France,          49, 51-58, 264, 367,
                i.     43, 107, 121, 169,                       ;
                                                                      i.

                                                                                i. i.

                                                                                          1
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                        ii. i.
    181, 290-296, 322, 403                                 403 11. 7-10, 148, 149
Distinctions, list of honorary,                            Franklin, Sir John, 237, 409
                                                           Fry, Elizabeth, 191
   ii.  381-386

Dodo, the, 128                                             Fulmer Place,
Du Chaillu,     i.                   164-166                                                       108, 144,
                   ii.
                                                           172, 229
                             ;

                              ii.
                       115, 121, 123, 145,

     146         1.

Dumas fils, 349                                            Galecynus oeningensis,                           286,

Eastlake, Sir C, 289, 290   ii. i.                             288, 290  i.          168
                                                           Garrick Club,        ii.
Echclle des etrcs, 279                                                                              i.
                                                           Germany, 125, 129, 130, 269

                                                              INDEX                                                             339

           GLADSTONE                                                            MURCHISON

Gladstone, W. E., ii. 41, 133,                                    Kingsley, Rev. C, 101
                                                                  Kirk, Dr., 144
158, 223                                                                         ii.
                                                                                                ii.

Goethe, 289-293, 298, 303
;Goldsmith, Oliver, 260
   i.                                      i.

     ii.Gorilla, the, 376; ii.1 15,1 16,121                       Lacerta agilis,i.
                     i.                                           Landseer, Sir           ii.          205

Gould, Mr. John,                           i.      181, 188,                                   ii.E.,
                                                                                                   6
    360 ii. 140, 250                                              Lectures,                103, 105, 109-112,
Grey, Sir George, 117, 319
                                           i.                        144, 169, 181, 186, 192, 213-
                                                                     216, 228, 269, 293, 335, 356,
Guizot, 173, 327
Gunther, Albert, 218
                                           ii.                       37o, 384, 397, 4°5                       ;                 16,

                                               1                                                                  ii.

                                                                                                                            1,

Gurney, Anne, 20                                                     17,20,26, 59,69,97,98, 114,
                                       i.

                                                                     118, 124, 125, 129, 132, 148,

Haag, Carl, 226                                                      149, 152, 154, 166, 176-181,

i. i.                                                                183, 186, 238

         ii.
Hallam, 226, 231, 334, 397                                        Lesseps, Dr., 195        ii.
Harvey, 175, 176
Hastings's fossils, Lady, 295,                                    Leverrier, 291
                                                                                 i.

                                                       i.         Lewes, G. H.,            i.       231
                                                                  Lind, Jenny,                   339
296,297,341                                                                                  ii.       ;           97, 128,

                                                                                                           ii.

Herschel, Sir F. W., 229, 287
         i.                                       i.                 136

            ii. J.
Holland, 125, 129                                                 Linnaeus,      ii.       285
                                                                                                     ii.

                                                                                                              i.
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, 236                                       Literary Society, the,
                                                       ii.                                                             225,
                                                         ii.
Homology,                    302                                     302,327,361,396;                              73, 155,
Honorary distinctions,
                                                            381-      169, 186, 189, 264
                                                                  Livingstone, Dr., 25, 61, 71,        ii.
    386
                             ii. ii. i.    258, 283, 348,             83, 113, 160, 260
Home, R. H.,
                                                                  London Clay fish, 285, 331
361, 386                                                          Louis Philippe, King, 244
                                                                  Lyell, Sir Charles, 102, 11
Humboldt, 376                                                                                    ;
--HunretmeraiMnsS,S.,ii. i.                                                                                                     2,
                                            109-112                                                  ii. i.
                                       78-81                         198, 37°, 372                        i.
                                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                         294
Hunterian Collection, 32, 42,
                                                   i.

44-46, 107           ;                     73

Huxley on Owen, 273-332                    ii.                    Macacus pliocenus, 291               ii.
                                                                  Macaulay, Lord, 13                      i.
                                                                  Macready,
                                                                              i. i. i. i.  i. 1  ; 58
Ichthyosaurus,                                                    Mantell, Dr., 177, 193, 270, 351
i.                                                                Mastodon longirostris,               i.
                i.                                                                                          ii.

                      ii. 85
                                         i.
'1Sf'o, the Platonic,                             314                                                              21

Iguanodon, dinner in an,                                    399   Megatherium, the,                           156, 191,

Italy, 267                                                            351

                                                                  Mivart, Dr. St. George, 312                      1.           ;

                                                                     ii.
                                                                          94
Jenny, the ourang-outang,                                     i.                           144-151, 208, 209-
                                                                  Moa, the,
     190, 206, 221, 229
                                                                      212, 319

                                                                  Mollusca, 404
                                                                  Morphology, ii. 277, 292, 303
Kean, Charles, 72                                                 Mulready, 365
           i.                                                     Murchison, Sir R.
                    i.

                        i. ii.
Keate of Eton, 75, 76, 78                                         .260, 286-288                        ii. I.,    253, 254
--KemFabnlen,y,Cha3r8le5s,
                                                                                                              i.
                                               94                                                           61, 81, 146

                                                                     182

39° PROFESSOR OWEN

                  MURRAY                                                           OWEN

Murray, Mr., 26, 218                                               ber, L.S., 43 at Lancaster
Museum Catalogue, R.C.S.,
                           ii.                                     (1830), 46, (1838), 114-117;;
                                       i.
                                                                   Cuvier, 48; Paris, 51-58;
     167                                                i.         anxious to wed, 59-63 Cam       ;
                  robustus,             189, 211,                                                    ;
Mylodon
    212                                                            bridge, 63 salary raised, 68;          ;
                                                                   Eton, 69-78 chair at Bart.'s,             ;
                                                                                ;
                                                                                  ;                                  ;
                                                                   79, 85, 88 F.R.S., 79-8i                                   ;; ;
Nautilus,         Paper,                                           Geoff. St. Hilaire, 81, 82 in
-- Pearly,            59, 64,       152,
             ii.              ii.   65,    153                     the Lake District, 82 Derby,
                    i. i.        i. i.    66                       83 married, 90 Trichina

                                       i.                              ;
                                              i.
O'Connell, Daniel, 305                                             spiralis,    R9.C106.S7 .,Hu9nP5treorfieasHns.oArP.rCoo.,f;
                                                           i. 85   fessor,
   Odontography,1                   172, 187, 240;
'                                                                  96, 115,
     ii.
          308                                                      Anatomy and Physiology,
                                                                   R.C.S., 105 first                  lectures,
Odontopteryx, 226                                                  109, 11o; F.G.S.,     ;
                                                                                                    113; Ful-
Oken,          295, 303, 312                                       lerian Professor, R.I., 113,

'  Ornithorhynchus,' 80-82,

Osteology, broad sheet of,                                         114; honour from Moscow,

    292                                                            117; son born to, 118; fos
Owen, Catherine, Professor's
                                                                   sils, 19- 121; gold medal,
   mother, 1-5, 9, 28, 33, 35,                                         ;
   47, 48, 58,89-95, 115; death                                            1
                                                                   121 Marsupialia, 125 to
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                   Germany, 125 the dodo.
                                                                                            ;

    of, 140                                                        i.128,       164 story of travel,
Owen, Mrs. R., nie Clift,                                                  ;    '
                                                                                     ;
                                                                           ii.
                                 ;                      34,            125-139; Pres. R.M.S.,
                                                    i.             143 the Magnum Bonum,'
   39, 59, 82, 84 diary of, 84,
   92-95, 96-104, 107-114, 118,                                    144-151,232; Corr. Member
                                                                   I.F., 154                        160;             Bir
   121-134, 139, 140, 152-154,                                     mingham,      Bristol,                            Ire
   156-160, 166, 167-169, 180-                                                                      165
   184, l88, 191, 212, 2l8, 221,                                                159, 160,
                                                                                ;
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                   land, 161-165                    discovery,
                                                                   166; York, 170-172; Hythe,
   229, 232, 238, 243, 256, 259,

   282, 29O, 294-299, 328, 332-                                    174 relaxation, 177, 337
                                                                       ;;                           Plymouth,        ;; ;
                                                                              ;

                                                                                    ii.
   336, 357, 365, 385, 392, 395,                                   chess, 181, 10,          1
                                                                                              ;1

   402, 403       ;                     129, 160                   i.  184 Brit. Ass. grants,

   death       oRf,ic2h2a3rdii. ii.                                185 Bodmin, 186 Oulton
Owen,                     i.                                                                        ;

                                 5,                                Park, 194-196                    Lancaster,
                                                         ;

                                                                ;
                                    (Professor's                                                ;

   grandson), 266                                                  196-198 Carlyle (q.v.), 197;
Owen, William, 259, 352 ii.                                        pension, 203 lecture scheme,;
   174, 160                                                        1843, 213 health of towns,
                                                                                         ;

Owen, Professor               ; i.  (Sir -Richard)a,t              216, 234, 406 slaughter      ;;
   parentage,                       ;1    5                        houses, 217, 315 an Indian
   school,                                     ;;                  chief, 222 Lit. Soc., 225
             !             heraldry, 10 ap                         dinner at Sir R. Peel's, 230-;
                  5
                     ;
   prentice, 11 ghost-stories,                                     232 portrait, 233, 247
   12-25 at Edinburgh Univer                                           ;;
   sity, 26-29 m London, 29                                                '
   M.R.C.S., 32 assistant cura
   tor, 33 lecturer at Bart.'s,                                                  ;
   35 at Birmingham, 39-42                                                           ;
   practice, 42, 107 life-mem -
                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                           ;;
                           !                            ;;         -curious application to, 234

                              ;                                    Drayton Manor, 244 247,
                                                                   289 Vestiges of Creation,'
               .                                                   249-256 gift by, 257 TJie
                                                                   Club, 260 Lit. Soc. dinner,
   ;

                                                      INDEX                                                                                     391

                  OWEN                                                                                      OWEN

261 ; offer of knighthood,                                                                    Cuvier, 63 George Eliot,
                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                                          63

                                                                                                                                                        ;
262 ; on the Continent, 264-                                                                  fossil tree, 66 discovery,
             Copley Medal,                                                                    69 Fullerian Professor, 69,
269    ;     letter to Sir               274, 375,                                            ;;97 charities, 74 Presidential
377    ;                                                                                                                  ;;
                                         R. Peel,                                             Address, Brit.                 Assoc,
272 ; British Museum, 1846,                                                                   Rede lecture, 82                LL.D.,
276-281 ; strange folk, 282,                                                                                                                    75                  ;;
                                                                                                                                                82

     133 Cromwell's portrait,                                                                 Aberdeen, 84 Shakespeare,
268, 283 Mansion House,
277, 285 musical accom
plishments, 285 Southamp
ton, 287 Royal Medal R.S.,
ii.                                                                                                                   ;

               ;                                                                              84 Reviews, 87                             ;      The
                      ;;                                                                      ;;
                                                                                                      ;                                      '

                                                                                              Times,' 89, 113 Darwinism,  ;
                                                                                              89-96 at Buckingham Pa
                          ;;                                                                  lace, 98-100 silver wedding,
     ;                          ;;                                                                             ;
               ;
                                                                                                                     ; i.

                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                                                  ii.

                                                                                                                                                      ;
291 Oxford, 297-300                            ;      a                                       102 Switzerland, 103-108
                                                 ;
relic of Hunter, 300 son to                                                                   Fulmer Place,                                     108,
                                         ;;
Westminster, 300                      ;      sewers,                                          144, 172, 229                              Hunter's

305 shells, 313-318 novels,                                                                   MSS., 109-112, 114; Nor
;; ;                                                                                          wich, 1861, 18-123; Brigh
318, 348 sea-serpent, 323,                                                                               ;
              ;;                                                                                                   1
333 toads, 325 crocodiles,                                                                    ton, 126 in the North, 128                                            ;;
331 College oration, 333
R.A. dinner, 337-340 Worth                                                                    popularity, 132 honour from
                                                      ;;;                                                                 ;

                                         ;;                                                   Italy, 133 Hawarden, 133;
                                                                                              Leeds, 1862, 135, 152 Levee,
ing, 340 rhinoceros, 347                                                                      136; Ascot, 137; Papers of                 ;
Smithfield, 348, 355 Great
Exhibition, 1851, 353, 365                                                                    1863, 140; Alnwick and
concert, 353 first Levee,
355 chimpanzee, 357 in                                                                        Chillingham, 141 a whale,
fanticide, 363 window-tax,                                                                    142 collections sent to,
342, 364; in France, 185;                                                                     ;                ;
367; Brit. Ass., 1851, 374;                                                                              ;        ;
                                                                                              144-147 sciatica,                          147 Sa-
                                                                                                                        ;                Windsor
                                                      1,                                      lette, 148, 149              ;;
                                                                                                                                               Tom
                                                                                              Castle,       149-152                     ;of order,

Quarterly Review,' 371-374                                                                    Thumb, 155 out
'honour from Prussia, 376                             ;;;;;                                   163 Sunday lectures, 166
          ;the Queen's gift, 377-381                                                          ;;Inst. C.E., 171 son married,                                        ;;
Sheen Lodge, 382, 388, 396                                                                    174 Siamese Twins,
sale of works, 386, ii. 234                                                                   'Wayside Gatherings,'                            175

                                      Household                                                                                                176-
seal,                                                                                         181 holiday, 1867, 181
             387          ;;                                 |  12                                                                                                  ; ; a;
                                   '                                    1' ; ;
Words,' 389 fishing, 384                              5                         5             Bradford, 183 letter to ;
Crystal Palace, 397,                           ii.       ;;                         ;         working man, 184 honour       ;
                                                                                              from Brazil, 185 papers of
D.C.L., 401 L.S. tickets,                                                              ;; ;   1868, 186 Queen of Holland,        ;
             i.                                                                              ;m--18e8fdiraslts, wvo2ir0sdi6t-,fish1E,9g0y1-2p808t5--EsegcByoapnltyd,
                            ;

401 French Institute, 403                             ;

dogVso,l.404II.--The Phoenix, 4;                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                            ;

Paris Exhibition, 7-10 Le
gion of Honour, 10 letter to
;                                                               visit, 207 Purbeck Rocks,
         1                                                      209, Rob Roy,' 210 G. S.
            1
                ;

                         ;
                                        ;
                                                   ;
sister,           appointed to Brit.                                                                                                     ;

Mus., 13, 18 Palmer's trial,                                    Chair, 211 serpent charming,

17 sisters' deaths, 17, 125,                                       1-2                            --          Braemore,                        217
260; 'Blackwood,' 18, 21;                                       Egypt                                    third visit,                          220
scheme for Nat. Hist. Mu
                                                                Malta, 222 wife's death,
seum, 28-58, 223 Jermyn                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                       ;
                                      ;                         223                               C.EBg.,y2p2t3--frfoogusrthin                 stone,
                                            ;         Prix      225;                                                                            visit,
Street lectures, 59

392 PROFESSOR OWEN

                       OWEN                                              TENNYSON

226 ; gift from N. S. Wales,                    Petherick, Consul, 117
228 ; ' Associe" rttranger,'                    Phascolomys, ii. 210             i.
228 ; to Dr. Milroy, 233 ;                      Physeter macrocephalus, ii. 143         i. ii.
Cleopatra's Needle, 236 ;                       Power, Madame,
from O. W. Holmes, 236 ; at                                                                         153, 156,

the Colonial Institute, 238 ;                       241
bullets, 240; Nat. Hist.
Museum, S.K., 240, 244, 246,                    Purbeck beds, 404
258 ; specimens of my cor                       Pusey, Rev. Dr., 299
                                                Physiology, ii. 277

respondence, 242 ; moles, 243 ;                 Queen, the, 377-381                                    ii- 134,
portrait, 245 ; bust, 246 ;                        149-152,268
                                                                             i.                     ;

William Harvey,                '  246 ;  Cu-
vier's seal, 248 ;                Notes   on

Birds,' 249-256 ;                 Hypnos,       Rae, Dr., 409
256 ; quotations, 258             ; K.C.B.,                              i.

260 ; son's death, 260 ; in                     Reeves, Sims, 353, 357
crease of pension, 260 ; latter                                              i.
                                                                                 i.
                                                Rhinoceros, 347
days, 262 ; to Langshaw, 264 ;                  Rhyncosaurus, the, 125                      5, ii.
Lit. Soo, 264 ; to his grand                    Rogers, Samuel, 289
son, 265-267 ; ' Congres Zoo-                   Rosse, Lord, 220                     i. i.
logique,' 268 ; the Queen,                      Rowley, Rev. J.,             i.
268 ; last days, 268 ; death,                                                  ii.                220
272 ; Huxley on, 273-332 ; on
homology, 302 ; bibliography                    Ruskin, John, 244
of, 333 seqq. ; honorary dis                    Russell, Lord John, ii. 70,                              112,
tinctions, list of, 381-386.
See also Owen, Mrs. R.                                        167, 172, 259

                                                St. Hilaire, Geoffroy, 81
                                                                             i.
Pal^eontological Society,                          ii. 94, 291, 293, 303        i.
                                                Saunans, British, 159
Pain- iz3z0i7, .  33i  Anthony,i.       14, 18  Scharf, Mr., 212, 213                i. i. i.                              ii.
                  Sir              ii.          Sea serpent, the, 323, 335                  i.
                                                Sedgwick, Adam, 201, 255
Papers and works, 32, 43-45,                                                                      i.
                                                    19, 91. 95
            59,60,69, 85, 106, 119, 121,                                                                    ;
                                                Sewalik Hills, 236                                                        ;
ii.         144, 156, 159, 167, 172, 176,       Shells, 313   i. ii. i.                             232
                                                Smith, Rev. Sydney,
           1179, 89- 191, 207, 227, 238,
            240, 256, 260, 266, 269, 270,                   Spix, 305, 319                               68
                                                            Spohr, 219
            290, 3". 33i, 332, 35i, 372,
                                                             Stereognathus Ooliticus,'
            373, 376, 385, 389, 404     ;                                    ii.
            13, 21, 26, 46, 68, 75, 81, 82,                                                        ii.
            87, 109-112, 140, 142, 152,     ii-
                                                  1,
            167, 174, 186, 209, 210, 211,
            217, 225, 228, 230, 233, 237,                  '

                                                            Switzerland,             103-106

                                                Taxonomy, 276, 283, 309
                                                                             J. ii.

                                                                                       i. ii.
                                                                                                 i.

                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                  ;
    333 seqq.                                               'Teeth, Structure of,'                       119
'Parthenogenesis,'
                       i.         331, 338;                   drawings of, 167
                          ii. i.                            Tennent, Sir E., 87
          26, 321                                           Tennyson, Alfred,                       388 ii.
                                  16
Paxton, Sir Joseph,
Peel, Sir Robert, 203, 205, 246
                                                              162, 168, 245

                                        INDEX                                          393

        THACKERAY                                             ZOOLOGICAL

Thackeray, W. M., 82, 147                    Watches, antique, 358
                     i.                      Wellington, Duke of,
Thalberg, 353           ii. ii.                                       i.               338,
Terminology, ii. 300                                                              i.
        J.                      i.
Thylacoleo carnifex, 210, 211                    366, 392                  i.  7-9, 106,,
           i. i.
                                             Whewell, Rev. W.,

Toxodon, 119                                     122, 168, 198, 204, 248, 249          ;
Trichina spiralis, 91
Turner, M. W., R.A.,                262-             74, 170ii.                    i.  210,
                                                         ii.
                                             Williams, Rev. W. W.,

   264                                           211

'  Vestiges of Creation,'               248  Wolff, 299, 303               i.  90
                     i.                      Wormald, Thomas,
                                    i.
Victoria, Princess,   93
Vogt, ii. 304
                                             'Zoological Magazine,' the,
Wales, Prince of, 16, 74,
                      ii.                          89
    76, 136, 171, 197 seqq-                      Society,
                                             --i.                  43, 92
                                                               i.

                  SPOTTISWOODE            PRINTED BY          SQUARE
                                        AND CO., NEW'-STREET

                                               LONDON


