The life and correspondence of William Buckland, D.D., F.R.S., sometime
dean of Westminster, twice president of the Geological society,
and first president of the British association. By his daughter, Mrs.
Gordon ...

Gordon, E. O. (Elizabeth Oke)
London, J. Murray, 1894.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015031082384

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
mm
It%.

    ^J"N

   (
                                                                            a a.

                                           THE                      F.R.S.

           LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

                                                                ay

WILLIAM BUCKLAND, D.D.,
.
                                                THE

        LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

                         6^4?

WILLIAM BUCKLAND, D.D., F.R.S.,

    SOMETIME DEAN OF WESTMINSTER, TWICE PRESIDENT OF
          THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY, AND FIRST PRESIDENT
                          OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

                      MRS. GORDON.

                                   "Out of the old fieldes, as men saith,
                                            Cometh all this new corn fro' year to year;

                                         And out of old bookes, in good faith,
                                            Cometh all this new science that men lere,"
                                                                                                                                  Chaucer.

                   WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                LONDON :

       JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
Printed by Hazell, Watson, & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.
                PREFACE.

  THE century now drawing to a close is remarkable
             beyond all others for the spirit of inquiry into the
     physical constitution of the earth, into the forces playing
t - upon its surface, and into the phenomena of life, both plant
^ and animal. The rise of the natural sciences in the modern
^ sense may be said to date from its beginning. In this
   v great renascence geology has borne an important part.
     It has opened out new and almost endless avenues of
  . thought, giving us, on the one hand, the history of the
 p. ever-changing earth, from the remote time when it was
 I sufficiently cool to allow of water resting upon its surface,
IV) and, on the other, the long and orderly procession of animal
     life beginning with the lowest invertebrate forms and
     ending in Man. In this latter connection it enabled Darwin
     to grasp the principle of evolution that now influences our
     view of life as a whole in the same way as the law of
     gravitation has affected our view of matter, not only in the
    earth, but also in the universe. To us, living at the end
     of the century, it is difficult to realise the conditions under
     which the pioneers lived and worked, because through their
     labours the conditions have wholly changed. In this short
vi PREFACE.

Life of Dr. Buckland, written under considerable difficulty
and nearly four decades after his death, we are brought
face to face with the old order of things, and we can realise
how great is the evolution that has taken place since his
time. It is a sketch of no mere personal interest, but
valuable as throwing light upon social and scientific con
ditions which have long passed away. It illustrates the
position of science at Oxford during the first fifty years
of the century.

   It also fills a blank in the history of the founders of
geology--William Smith, Sedgwick, De la Beche, Mur-
chison, Phillips, and Lyell. Among these Buckland stands
in the foremost rank. He began his work earlier than any
of them, excepting William Smith, and the main difference

between him and Sedgwick lies in the fact that he was
a geologist from his youth up, while Sedgwick, strangely
enough, was allured into geological studies by being
appointed Woodwardian Professor at Cambridge.1

   In this preface, made at the request of the authoress, I
shall draw attention to those points in Buckland's geolog
ical career which appear to me, an Oxford man long after
his time, and profoundly influenced by his work, to be most
noteworthy. Of the other aspects of his many-sided genius
I shall say nothing. Nor shall I say anything about his
advancement in the Church or of his social position at

   1 This statement sounds almost incredible. We have it, however,
on Sedgwick's own authority. On his appointment, he said cha

racteristically: "Hitherto I have never turned a stone, now I will

leave no stone unturned." His friend Dr. Ainger, congratulating him
on the appointment, writes that it " will sometimes lead you to pile
up stones, as well as to range them in your lecture-room."
PREFACE.  vii

 Westminster in his later years. Most men cease to be
interesting after they have gained their success in life.
 Buckland was full of interest to the end.

    Buckland graduated with distinction at Corpus Christi
 College, Oxford, in 1804, in the golden days long before
honours and class-lists were dreamt of. Five years later
he was ordained and elected Fellow. As a boy he had
taken a keen interest in the rocks and fossils of his

Devonshire home, and at Winchester, where he was at

school, and, early on his arrival at Oxford, had fallen
under the influence of William Smith, "the Father
of English Geology." He took his first lesson in field
geology from one of William Smith's friends. The fruits
of this walk to Shotover formed the nucleus of the collection

which ultimately expanded into the present Geological
Museum. There was in those days nothing of the nature
of a Museum in Oxford, excepting the miscellaneous
collection of curiosities and antiquities founded by Elias
Ashmole. Buckland turned his rooms into a museum,
and Murchison has graphically described him sitting in
the only empty chair, in his black gown, cleaning out
a fossil bone from its matrix, and surrounded by rocks,
shells, and bones in dire confusion. Academical dress,

it must be noted, was then worn in walks into the country
even as far as Shotover.

   In 1813 he was appointed Reader in Mineralogy, and
his influence as a lecturer was so strongly felt that five
years later the Readership of Geology was created for
him in the University, in the very year when Sedgwick was
appointed to the old-established Woodwardian Professor
is,viii PREFACE.

ship at Cambridge. His wit, humour, and eloquence
attracted both young and old, and the memory of his
geological expeditions had not perished when I was an
undergraduate in 1859. His rooms at Christ Church, to
which he had migrated on his appointment as Canon,
became a centre of attraction for all who cared for the new

learning that by this time was grievously vexing the minds
of mediaeval Oxford. How strong was the feeling of anta
gonism, even after many years, may be estimated by the
pious ejaculation of Dean Gaisford in 1852: "Buckland
has gone to Italy, and we shall hear no more, thank God,
of this geology ! " They were, however, to hear more, both
of this and of other things too, until the spirit of narrow
intolerance received its crushing defeat in the memorable
Darwinian controversy in i860. In this widening of
thought, and in sweeping away the old worn-out ideas
of Nature, Buckland did most important service to the
University. Single-handed, he brought about a revival
in the direction of natural science, analogous to the
movement in religious thought brought about by Newman
and the Oriel School.

   The phrase " gnoscitur e sociis " applies to all men, but
with peculiar force to a professor. Buckland was in close
touch with the most brilliant men of the day and of most
varied pursuits. Whately, Whewell, Sir Robert Peel,
Cuvier, Humboldt, Liebig, and Sir Joseph Banks were

among his friends. It however, by his influence on his

students that he can best be measured. Among these, two
young Christ Church men may be mentioned--Viscount
Cole, afterwards the Earl of Enniskillen, and Philip Egerton,
PREFACE.  ix

 afterwards the baronet. Both these men moulded their

 lives on his teaching, and enriched geological science by
 their papers and collections. Among his students now
 living, Sir Henry Acland, Storey Maskelyne, and Ruskin
have borne witness in these pages to his power. He was
the founder of the new learning in Oxford, and he started
the movement which has borne fruit in the present place
of the natural sciences in the studies of the University.

    Buckland's influence, however, was felt as a teacher and
master far beyond Oxford. To him Murchison owed his
first lesson in the field, and his first " true launch " in 1824
into the line of work in which he was in after years to do

so much. To him, in 1831, Murchison turned for advice

and assistance when he had decided to attack the difficult
problem of Welsh geology, and from him he obtained the
clue to the true sequence of the rocks below the Old Red
Sandstone on the banks of the Wye that led ultimately
to the Silurian System. To him, too, is due the discovery
of the value of the phosphates in the coprolite beds that
has contributed so much to the development of modern
agriculture. In this connection Lord Playfair bears ample
witness, and tells us in this. Life how much he owes to
Buckland's friendship and guidance.

   When the history of the progress of geological knowledge
comes to be written, the work of the Geological Society
of London in organising and directing individual effort
will be fully recognised. Founded in 1807 by Grenough,
it attracted some of the acutest intellects of the day --
Wollaston, Warburton, Fitton, and others. Buckland

joined it in 181 7, and Sedgwick in the following year.
                                   PREFACE.

In 1824, when it was formally incorporated by charter,
Buckland became its President. It was composed " of

robust, joyous, and independent spirits, who toiled well in
the field, and did battle and cuffed opinions with much
spirit and great good will." Murchison and Lyell were
among the younger members. Buckland took a leading
share in the debates of the Society and in contributing
papers down to the middle of the century. He was one
of the first to recognise the existence of glaciers in this
country, and wrote a paper in 1840 on their evidences in
Scotland and in the north of England. In the debate

he was vigorously opposed by Murchison and Whewell,
and equally vigorously supported by Lyell and Agassiz.
Buckland in reply summed up the arguments, and con
demned all who dared to doubt the orthodoxy of the
grooves and scratches of the ice-worn mountains to " suffer
the pains of eternal itch without the privilege of scratching."
This characteristic debate, following papers by Agassiz and
Buckland, marks the beginning of the glacial controversy,
which has divided geological opinion ever since.

   Buckland also was one of the founders of the British
Association, and was the first President after its formal
organisation at Oxford in 1832.1 It was this meeting

which made the Association an assured success. It is no

small testimony to the high place of geology among the
sciences at this time, that Sedgwick should have succeeded
to the presidential chair in the following year at Cambridge.

    In the first thirty years of the century the Diluvial

   1 The first meeting was at York in the previous year, which Buckland
was unable to attend.
                                   PREFACE.

theory, or, in other words, the Noachian deluge, was held
to be a sufficient explanation of the sand, gravel, and clay
containing marine and freshwater shells, and the bones of

mammalia, which lie scattered over wide areas on the land
and occur also in the ossiferous caverns. With this idea
in his mind Buckland explored in 1821 the bone cave at
Kirkdale, and recorded the general results of his examina
tion of caves and of the diluvium in Britain and on the
Continent in the "Reliquiae Diluvianae." While he accepted
the general evidence as to the Noachian deluge, he fully
recognised that the Kirkdale cave was a den of hyenas,
and that they had dragged in the other animals found in
it for food. This book led to the more minute study of
bone caverns, and ultimately to the wonderful discoveries in
the caves of this country and of the Continent, which have
revealed to us the existence of man hunting the reindeer,
musk-sheep, and mammoth in France, Germany, and
Britain, and living at a time when all the animals found
in Kirkdale could wander freely northwards and westwards
from the Alps and Pyrenees to the coast now marked

by the hundred-fathom line in the Atlantic. It was this

work that led me in 1859 into the path of comparative
osteology, and to the exploration of Wookey Hole and
other ossiferous caverns.

   The " Reliquiae Diluvianae " still remains the best book
on caves. Buckland, it must be remarked, gave up the
diluvial theory, as he came to recognise the power of ice,
and the truth of the uniformitarian doctrine of the opera

tion of existing causes in past times. It is not a little

strange that it should have been revived by Prestwich, his
                                    PREFACE.

successor at Oxford, and by Howorth, some fifty years
afterwards.

   In concluding these remarks I would remind the reader
that Buckland belongs to the heroic age, when Natural
Science was young, and that he belongs to a type of man
now extinct. Whatever estimate may be formed of his
life and works, it cannot be denied that he was one of
the makers of modern Oxford, and one of the founders
of the science of Geology.

                                               W. Boyd Dawkins.

      Owens College, Manchester,

                   September 22nd, 1894.
                      CONTENTS.

                                     CHAPTER I.

                                                      1784-- 1808.
                                                                                                                                            PAGE

Early Life --The Valley of the Axe -- W. D. Conybeare --
      Winchester -- Oxford -- Fellow of Corpus College -- Ordination
      Poem by Philip Duncan -- Buckland's Collections . . . 1

                      CHAPTER II.

                      1808--1822.

Geological Tours in   "E--ngGleaonldo,giWcaal lesM, aapnsd--thFeorCeoignntineTnot,ur1--80I8t-a17ly---
       " Paramoudras
Hungary -- Roadside Quarries -- Reader  inGeMoilnoegrya--log"yV,in1d8ic13ia--e
Professor of Geology-- Importance of
Geologicae "-- Work in Oxford -- Expedition to Shotover --
Buckland's Lectures -- The Smell of Uxbridge -- Sir H. Acland's
Reminiscences -- Conversational Powers --Tour in France,
1820 -- Whately's "Epitaph" -- Buckland's Collections -- Cap
tains Ross and Beechey -- Geological Collection at Oxford--
                                                                                                       n
The Oxford Museum

                                 CHAPTER III.                                                          55

                                            1822 -- 1824.
" Reliquiae Diluvianae "-- Kirkdale Cave --Hyenas -- Conybeare's

      Caricature -- Paviland or Goat Hole--Duncan's Verses -- Dream
      Lead Mine -- Gailenreuth -- The Siberian Mammoth -- Success
      of "Reliquiae Diluvianae" -- Dudley Caverns -- Buckland's Blue
      Bag-- First President of the Royal Geological Society, 1824 .
                                 CONTENTS.

                                 CHAPTER IV.

                                 1825 -- 1830.                                                    PAGE

Living of     Stoke Charity -- Canon   of  StCohnreisst--CMhaurrrciahg, e,JulDyec1e8m25be--r
       Lee's   Benefaction -- Toads   in
                     -- Wedding  Tour, 1826 -- With Cuvier in Paris -- Santa
3R1ossta, li1a82--5  Caverns in  France -- Life at Christ Church -- Family
Life -- Home Life in Oxford -- Poor Jews -- Oxford Castle --
Sundays in Oxford -- Visit to Lyme --Miss Anning, the Geologist
--"Duria Antiquior "
                                                                                                  87

                                 CHAPTER V.

                                 1831 -- 1841.

The British     Association at   OAxsfsoorcdi,ati1o8n32----MSeimr oPrihailliptoEgCeurvtioenr  --
       Ladies  and the British                                                                --

Awful Changes --The Megatherium -- Teeth of Megatherium --
Dr. Buckland's Address --British Association
-- Professor Agassiz --Agassiz and Buckland     --aGt lBacriisetrosl,--1G8l3a6
cial Theories --The Costume of the Glacier --Archbishop Vernon
Harcourt --The Queen at Nuneham -- Royal Visit to Oxford,
                                                . . . .120
1 84 1-- Prince Albert at St. John's College

                                 CHAPTER VI.

                                 1839-- 1845.

Agrarian Riots --Agricultural Distress --Land Drainage -- Reclama
tion of Bogs --Drainage of Bogs -- Fuel in Ireland -- Royal
Agricultural Society at Oxford, 1839, and Cambridge, 1840--
Experiments at Marsh Gibbon in Land Drainage --Agricultural
Experiments -- Letter from Sir R. Peel --The Potato Famine --
Allotments at Islip --Agriculture and Geology -- Sir R. Peel at
Drayton Manor -- Buckland and Stephenson -- "The Gift of the
Gab "-- Railway Engines and the Sun's Light -- Lord Playfair's
Reminiscences -- Use of Coprolites --Characteristics of Buck-
land -- Offered Deanery of Westminster -- Love of Humour
                                                                                              . 1 50
                       CONTENTS.

                       CHAPTER VII.

Landslip at Axmouth, 1839 -- The Pentland Hills -- Specimens from                PAGE

Burmah, America, and India--The Moa --The Dinornis --The
School of Mines -- British Association Meeting at Newcastle,
1838 -- Promotion      Geological Study -- Roman Villas -- Prac
tical Knowledge    of  Different Stones -- Qualities of Stone --
                   of
Water Supply of Towns--Natural and Artificial Water Supply
-- Pisciculture -- Mr. Heathcote's Story of the Turbot's Head --

Mr. Heathcote's Anecdotes                                                        173

                       CHAPTER VIII.

The Bridgewater Treatise on " Geology and Mineralogy con
sidered with reference to Natural Theology " -- The Bible and
Science -- Opinions of the Bridgewater Treatise -- Buckland
and Cuvier -- Fossil Organic Remains -- Harmony of Organisa
tions -- Lessons of Nature --  SMheelglsal--osQauuraursrie--s
-- Stonesfield Quarry --The                                     of Monte Bolca
                                                               Extinct Monsters
-- Extinct Animals and their Relation to Living Types --The
Mosasaurus -- Description of Mosasaurus -- Fossil Footsteps --
" Cheirotherium was a Scotchman "-- -Nature and Revelation . 192

                       CHAPTER IX.

Life at Westminster --The Deanery -- Subsoil of Westminster --
      Reform of Westminster School -- Westminster School Dor
      mitory -- Drainage of Westminster School --Work at West
      minster School -- Consecration of Bishop Short -- Fights at
      Westminster School -- Repairs of Westminster Abbey --
      Reverence in the Abbey -- Restoration of the Choir -- Fishing
      in Organ Pipes -- Restoration of the Abbey -- Auckland's
      Sermon -- The " 10th of April "-- Frank's Eagle -- " West
      minster Fever" -- Redrainage of Westminster -- "Wash and be
      Clean"-- Frank Buckland's Reminiscences --The Industrial

School                                                                           219
                         CONTENTS.

                         CHAPTER X.                                             PACE

The Garden at Islip-- Experiments  at  Islip -- Drainage  of Otmoor

--Work at Islip-- The Cholera-- The Wollaston Medal-- The
Dean's Illness -- Death of Dean Buckland -- Conclusion .
                                                                -255

                         APPENDIX.

A LIST OF DR. BUCKLAND'S APPOINTMENTS AND LITERARY

TITLES                                                          275

PUBLISHED WRITINGS OF PROFESSOR WILLIAM BUCKLAND . 278

            LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

dr. buckland. (From a picture by T. C. Thomson, R.H.A.) Frontis.
.17ANDREASBERG TO ELBINGRODE, SEPT. 1 7, 1822
                                           .              .  .

HALLE, l822                                                     17
PROF. BUCKLAND AND THE OCTOPUS
                                                                l8

PROF. BUCKLAND VISITING MONTE BOLCA                             20

EXPEDITION TO SHOTOVER                                                    29
LECTURE IN ASHMOLEAN, 1822
                                                             facing 32

TAKING LEAVE OF SIR JOSEPH BANKS                                39
KIRKDALE CAVE                                                   57

buckland entering the kirkdale cavern.     (From a caricature

by the Rev. W. Conybeare.}                                      61

SECTION OF GOAT HOLE, OR PAVILAND CAVE                          67

SECTION OF CAVE IN DREAM LEAD MINE, NEAR WIRKSWORTH,
....dr. buckland,
DERBYSHIRE                                                      71
                                                                73
fullVERTICAL SECTION OF THE CAVERN AT GAILENREUTH IN FRANCONIA  85
                  length. (From a picture by R. Ansdell, R.A.)
PROFESSOR AND MRS. BUCKLAND AND FRANK
                                                                I03
ancient Dorsetshire. (Sir H. de la Beche.) . . facing 116
AWFUL CHANGES!
                                                                            127
costume of the glaciers
                                                             facing 145

AXMOUTH LANDSLIP                                             . . 174

RESTORATION OF SAURIANS AND OTHER EXTINCT ANIMALS.           (From
                                                             facing 198
      a drawing by Waterhouse Hawkins)  .  .                 facing 257
THE RECTORY, ISLIP
 LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.

                         CHAPTER I.

                      EARLY LIFE.

                                     1784-- 1808.

WILLIAM BUCKLAND was the eldest son of the
            Rev. Charles Buckland, Rector of Templeton and
Trusham in the county of Devon. He was born at
Axminster, on the 12th of March, 1784. His mother,
whose maiden name was Elizabeth Oke, was the daughter
of Mr. John Oke, a landed proprietor, living at Combpyne,
near Axminster, whose family had since the Stuart period
occupied extensive property in that neighbourhood.

   The birthplace of William Buckland was singularly
adapted to develope his peculiar genius. Near his
home, in the picturesque valley of the Axe, are large
quarries of lias, abounding in fossil organic remains ; in
this same valley are also found abundant traces of a
buried forest ; here, too, lay embedded among the roots
of the trees the bones of fossil elephants. His father
(who for the last twenty-two years of his life was blind
from an accident) early made his son the companion of
his walks and tastes. Together they ransacked the

                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                      T

2  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLASD.  [ch. i.

lias quarries, collecting ammonites and other shells, which
thus became familiar to the lad from his infancy. From

his childhood his innate faculties for observation were

encouraged. Writing of this early period of his life to
the late Sir H. de la Beche, Dr. Buckland himself
says : " The love of observing natural objects which

is common to most children was early exhibited by

my aptitude in finding birds' nests and collecting their

eggs. I also made observations on the habits of fishes in
the Axe -- particularly flounders, minnows, roaches, eels,

and miller's thumbs."

   One of William Buckland's earliest and most intimate
companions, the late William Daniel Conybeare (after
wards Dean of Llandaff), has noticed the peculiar con

currence of circumstances which fostered the natural
genius of the boy. In the following extract from a
letter written to Frank Buckland, Mr. Conybeare speaks

of his friend's youthful days :--

  " All the circumstances of Buckland's early life were

calculated to impress that character of mind which so
peculiarly qualified him to become the pioneer of the rising
science of Geology, which began to unfold itself during the
very period when his powers first acquired mature de
velopment. Those powers were, from a child, marked by
an eager curiosity of investigation, and by resolute and
unwearied activity of observation and research ; anything
at all novel and striking at once attracted his eye, and
he was discontented until he had succeeded in tracing out
all the dependencies connected with the objects which
attracted him, and had thus fully made out and illustrated
the"irThheistvoerryy. place of his birth itself did much to call his
1784-1808.]              EARLY LIFE.

early attention to the marvels of the fossil remains of the
organised beings which had occupied our planet in its
earlier stages of progress, and the various strata of its
coast in which these singular relics lie embedded. The
town of Axminster, on the confines of Devon and Dorset,
is situated in a valley based on that peculiar rock forma
tion, the lias, which is most rich in organic remains, and
exhibits so many of their most striking and interesting
forms. Axminster is within a few miles of the most
illustrative of those coast sections exposing the structure
and contents of that rock, and its connexion with various
other overlying secondary deposits of oolitic and cre
taceous rocks and underlying masses of the new red

sandstone. All these features are brought so prominently
forward and exhibited in so close a compass, that a child
of sagacity, growing up among them, could hardly fail
to have its mind impressed with the elements of practical
                      as yet ignorant of the
ge"olTohgey,  though  Buckland could not      science.  stroll                    in  the
              young                           take a

neighbouring fields without stumbling, at almost every

step, on lias quarries, and finding, on ascending every
hill, that its summit consisted of an entirely dissimilar
formation -- chertsand.  If he extended his rambles to
the shore at Lyme Regis or Charmouth, crowds of little
urchins ran after him to tempt him with pretty little
golden serpents (pyritous ammonites) or wonderful
thunderbolts (belemnites), and he must soon have learnt
to find for himself the situations in which these treasures
abounded. He must have found himself able to walk

for miles over the slabs which the lias protruded into the
sea, without placing a foot beyond the numerous circles of
the larger varieties of his serpent-stones, and found the
              obef letmhneitecsliffa. ggreIgfatethdereifnoreth, oustuanrndisngin
supposed                                                                          particular
portions                                                                          home, he

sauntered over Lyme Cobb, his eye must have been caught
by the rich and variously coloured panorama of the coast
section before him. We seldom find a child brought up
near the sea as ignorant as an inland child ; his little box
of treasures generally is filled with various shells and
4      LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                        [ch. i.

marine curiosities, and he readily learns to discriminate

the peculiarity of their forms ; and if he has any curiosity
he will naturally be led to speculate on the uses of their
several parts. This was particularly the case with

Buckland, for both in early and in later life he was always
distinguished by his tact in illustrating extraordinary by
common and familiar objects."

   When, in 1814, Mr. Conybeare was about to leave

Oxford for a country living, William Buckland, faithful

to his scientific interests, hoped that the Suffolk parsonage
" might prove to be founded on a bed of elephants."

   Nor was it only at Axminster that Buckland, in his

youthful days, found incentives to his pursuit of geological

science. Speaking as President of the Geological Section

of the British Association during its meeting at Bristol in

1836, he says that in the neighbourhood of Bristol he had
learnt a part of his geological alphabet. " The rocks of

this city were my geological school. They stared me in

the face ; they wooed me, and caressed me, saying at
                                                  "
every  turn ' Pray,  pray  be  a  geologist    '
                                             !

   At the age of thirteen the boy was sent to an ancient

grammar school at Tiverton, founded in the seventeenth

century by Blundell, a cloth manufacturer. A year later

Mr. Pole Carew, Speaker of the House of Commons,

obtained for him from Dr. Huntingford, the Warden, a

nomination at Winchester. His uncle, the Rev. J. Buckland,
Rector of Warborough in Oxfordshire, and Fellow of

Corpus Christi College, Oxford, attracted by the ability

of his nephew, advised his father to spare no expense in
his education. " As William," he writes, " appears to excel

your other boys by many degrees in talent and industry,
1784-1808.]  EARLY LIFE.

he will probably make a better return for any extraordinary
expense you may incur on this occasion." To his uncle's
judicious care and assistance Dr. Buckland doubtless

owed much in his progress through life. A sagacious,

energetic, stern-minded man, he was ever at his nephew's
elbow, urging him to renewed efforts with encouragement,

rebuke, and assistance.

   As a boy at Winchester he became familiar, as he
himself states, " with the chalk formation, from the fact of
the pathway to the playground on St. Catherine's Hill pass
ing close to large chalk pits, which abounded with sponges
and other fossils, and from the practice of digging field
mice from their holes in the surface of the chalk." Even

in his schoolboy days he had already begun to collect

objects of natural history, and was eager in the pursuit,
or observation of the habits, of the mole-crickets, which

abounded in the valley of the Itchen.
   As a boy he was slow to learn, but what he once under

stood he never forgot. On one occasion, when he had

regained several places which he had lost in class, the Head
Master, Dr. Goddard, said to him, " Well, Buckland, it is
as difficult to keep a good boy at the bottom of his class

as it is to keep a cork under water." In later life he kept

up his old Winchester associations by attending the yearly
Wykehamist dinner in London, and he sent his sons -- Frank,

the well-known naturalist, and Edward, who was for many
years in the Treasury -- to that school. William Buckland's
name may still be seen inscribed on a marble tablet upon
the walls of the Seventh Chamber.

    In 1 801 he was elected Scholar of Corpus Christi
6  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. i.

College, Oxford. He thus makes known his election in
a letter written to his father on May 1 3th : " I am happy
to inform you that I have just been elected the Senior
Scholar for Devonshire, after a course of many days'
rigorous examination against eight competitors." His
interests were already turning in the direction of geology.

"In my early residence at Oxford," he says himself, " I took

my first lesson in field geology in a walk to Shotover Hill

with Mr. Broderip, who knew much of fossil shells and
sponges from Mr. Townsend, the friend and fellow-labourer
of William Smith, ' the Father of English Geology.' The
fruits of my first walk with Mr. Broderip formed the
nucleus of my collection for my own cabinet, which in forty

years expanded into the large amount which I have placed
in the Oxford Geological Museum."

   But although his special bent was, even in his under

graduate days, thus strongly developed, he did not neglect
the necessary studies of the University. In 1804 he took
his degree of B.A. He did not take honours, as there were
no class examinations in those days ; but he nevertheless

distinguished himself, for in a letter to his uncle he says :

" Before I came out of the schools they told me I had

passed extremely well, and after the Liceats were given
out they came up to me in the quadrangle, and said they
were extremely sorry they had not publicly thanked me

in the schools, but that I had passed a most creditable

examination."
   His scholarship at Corpus, eked out by the income

derived from pupils, supported him for the next few years.

Meanwhile he was free to follow the course of studies in
1784-1808.]  EARLY LIFE.

  which he was especially interested. " The interval," he
  writes, " between my Bachelor's and Master's degree
 afforded me leisure to attend the lectures of Dr. Kidd on
  Mineralogy and Chemistry, and of Sir Christopher Pegge
 on Anatomy ; and my position as a Scholar of Corpus
 Christi College gave me the advantage of rooms and a
 small income from the College, which I augmented by
 taking pupils. Without the liberal aid of the endowments
 of the University, I could not have had the means which

  I enjoyed, during a residence of nearly forty-five years in

 Oxford, from April 1801 to December 1845, of acquiring

 knowledge during term time, and of enlarging it by

 extensive travelling during vacations."

    In 1809 he was elected Fellow of his College, and in the
 same year was admitted into Holy Orders at the Chapel

 Royal, St. James's. Whether as a preacher or a tutor,
 Dr. Buckland, it may be mentioned, always wrote his
 sermons and lectures upon small slips of paper ; and
 many years after, when preaching in the Chapel Royal, in
the presence of the Queen Dowager, by some unfortunate
accident the contents of his sermon case came fluttering

down in all directions from the high, old-fashioned
pulpit. The Doctor's old servant speedily came to the

rescue, and, picking up the dispersed slips, handed them
up to the preacher, who proceeded with his discourse,

nothing disconcerted.
    The vacations of his earlier Oxford time were often

spent near Lyme Regis. For years afterwards local
gossip preserved traditions of his adventures with that
geological celebrity, Mary Ann Anning, in whose company
8  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. i.

he was to be seen wading up to his knees in search of
fossils in the blue lias ; " of his breakfast -table at his

lodgings there, loaded with beefsteaks and belemnites,
tea and terebratula, muffins and madrepores, toast and
trilobites, every table and chair as well as the floor
occupied with fossils whole and fragmentary, large and

small, with rocks, earths, clays, and heaps of books and

papers, his breakfast hour being the only time that the
collectors could be sure of finding him at home, to bring
their contributions and receive their pay ; of his dropping
his hat and handkerchief from the mail to stop the coach
and secure a fossil ; of the old woman who, finding him
asleep on the top of the coach, relieved his pockets of a
quantity of stones ; of his travelling carriage, built extra

strong for the heavy loads it had to carry, and fitted up

on the forepart with a furnace and implements for assays

and analysis."

   Buckland's election to a fellowship enabled him to
pursue those studies which made him, in the words of the
historian and President of his College, " one of the most
famous of English geologists, and indeed one of the
creators of the science." His sitting-room, continues Dr.
Fowler, was " a large room in the front quadrangle, now
appropriated to the uses of an Undergraduates' Library,
which was fitted up by him, irrespectively of personal

comfort, as a Geological Museum --probably the earliest
collection of the kind in Oxford, or perhaps in England,

arranged on anything like scientific principles."
   This is the room which, in its state of chaos, Mr. Philip

Duncan so well describes in a poem dated May 1821 :--
1784-1808.]  EARLY LIFE.

" Pictures of the Comforts of a Professor's Rooms in
                            C. C. C, Oxford.

                          " Procul, este Profani,

                             Procul lucu."

           " Away, ye ignorant and vain !
              Away, ye faithless and profane !
              Jesters and dainty dandies, fly hence !
            But enter thou, dear son of science !
            And here in mild disorder hurled
            Behold an emblem of the world
            In that chaotic state of old

              When flints in Paramoudras rolled !

              Here see the wrecks of beasts and fishes,
            With broken saucers, cups, and dishes ;
            The prae-Adamic system jumbled,
            With sub-lapsarian breccia tumbled,
            And post-Noachian bears and flounders
            With heads of crocodiles and founders ;

              Skins wanting bones, bones wanting skins,
            And various blocks to break your shins :
            No place is this for cutting capers
              'Midst jumbled stones and books and papers,
              Stuffed birds, portfolios, packing-cases,
              And founders fallen upon their faces.
            He'll see upon the only chair
            The great Professor's frugal fare,
            And over all behold illatum
            Of dust and superficial stratum.
            The sage amidst the chaos stands,

           Contemplative, with laden hands, --
            This grasping tight his bread-and-butter,
            And that a flint, whilst he doth utter

             Strange sentences that seem to say,

           ' I see it all as clear as day.' " '

   1 " Fugitive Poems connected with Natural History and Physical
Science," collected by the late C. G. Daubeny, M.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.

(Oxford: Parker & Son. 1861.)
io  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. i.

   Another description of the same rooms -- this time in
prose --is given by Sir Roderick Murchison.

   "On repairing," he says, " from the Star Inn to Buck-
land's domicile, I never can forget the scene that awaited
me. Having, by direction of the janitor, climbed up a
narrow staircase, I entered a long, corridor-like room, which

was filled with rocks, shells, and bones in dire confusion,
and in a sort of sanctum at the end was my friend in
his black gown, looking like a necromancer, sitting on one
rickety chair covered with some fossils, and clearing out
a fossil bone from the matrix."

   It is not, perhaps, surprising, especially if the social and

intellectual conditions of the University at the beginning
of the century be taken into consideration, that Buckland's
conduct alarmed the older generation of College Fellows.
Some dreaded lest his example should drive the amcetiitates
academics out of fashion ; others suspected that the new
studies might prove to be dangerous innovations. His
goings and comings were therefore watched with an
interest which was not wholly devoid of fear. When, in
the early stages of his career, he started on a tour to the
Alps and Italy --the results of which enabled him to
produce one of the boldest and most effective of his
writings -- an authoritative elder is said to have exclaimed :
" Well, Buckland is gone to Italy ; so, thank God, we
shall hear no more of this geology."

   The prophecy happily proved false, and Oxford dons
were doomed to hear a good deal more of the obnoxious

science.
                         CHAPTER II.

GEOLOGICAL TOURS IN ENGLAND, WALES, AND THE CON
       TINENT, 1808-17; READER IN MINERALOGY, 1813 ;
       PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY, 1819 ; CHARACTERISTICS
       AS A LECTURER ; TOUR IN FRANCE, 1820 ; HIS GEO
       LOGICAL COLLECTIONS AND THEIR FATE.

                                      1808-- 1822.

   '- La vie des savans nous enseigne a chaque page que les grandes
Veritas n'ont et6 decouvertes et Stablies que par des etudes prolongees,
solitaires, dirigfies constamment vers un objet special, guid^es sans cesse
par une logique mefiante et reservee." -- Cuvier.

IN the summer of 1808 Buckland made his first geolo
      gical tour. Alone and on horseback he travelled from
Oxford across the chalk hills of Berks and Wilts and
Dorset to Corfe Castle in the Isle of Purbeck. In the
vertical strata of hard white limestone on which that
castle stands he recognised the chalk, but the relations
of the strata above and below that formation were then
unknown. In the following year he explored in the same
way a large part of South Devon, visiting the granite of
Dartmoor, examining minutely the formations, and collect
ing specimens of the geology of the district. In 18 10 he
made a tour through the centre and north of England,
LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                      [ch. II.

examining the then unknown extent of the various strata,

and colouring the results on Carey's large map of England.
   Other journeys followed in annual succession. Thus

in 1813 Buckland, adopting the true Wykehamical fashion

of going two and two, made a tour with his friend Mr. W.
Conybeare in Ireland. In collaboration with his travelling
companion, he published his first important paper -- " On
the Coasts of the North of Ireland." Among the organic
remains in many of the chalk pits from Moira to Belfast

and Larne he discovered some curious siliceous bodies
known by the name of " Paramoudra." This word, which

he could trace to no authentic source, Dr. Shuttleworth,

late Warden of New College and Bishop of Chichester,

contrived to hitch into verse if not into rhyme :--

" When granite rose from out the trackless sea,      be --
  And slate, for boys to scrawl -- when boys should
  But earth, as yet, lay desolate and bare ;
  Man was not then, -- but Paramoudras were."

   No two of these curiously shaped pot-stones are exactly
alike, their length commonly varying from one to two feet
and their thickness from six to twelve inches. The sub
stance of these bodies is in all cases flint ; in all cases, also,

they have a central aperture, or pipe passing through their
long diameter. They are found in different positions :
sometimes they lie horizontally ; at other times they are
inclined or erect. Buckland conjectured that the para
moudra may have possessed a character intermediate
between a gigantic sponge 1 and an ascidian, and he

1 Mr. W. Gray, M.A.F.A., of Mount Charles, Belfast, an authority
1808-1822.]  » PARAMUDRAS."                      13

connected its mineral history with that of many other

spongiform bodies which are found in the chalk flints.
" Through the kindness," he writes, " of my learned friend

Dr. Bruce, of Belfast, a very perfect specimen from Moira

has been deposited in the Ashmolean Museum."

The origin of the word  is,as has been said, uncertain.
                                  is
But the following story, told by the late Mr. Mant of

Teddington, an Oxford pupil of Buckland's, gives an

explanation of the term which             at least creditable to

the quick-witted peasantry of Ireland.
   On a hot, dusty day in Ireland, these " paramudras," as

they should be correctly spelt, were first discovered as

stepping-stones in a river. The Doctor apologised to his

party that they must walk the rest of the journey, and that

the stones must take up the carriage room. At the same

time, taking a shilling out of his pocket, he asked a
countryman what he called those stones. At first there

was no response but when                  second shilling appeared,
             ;
                     '

                                       a
Pat said, " Paramudras." When asked by his priest after
wards why he invented this word, " Faith," he replied, " the

gentleman would have some name, and hadn't one for
                                          a
;him so para means against,' and paramudra (the stepping
      'stone), against mud.' "                I

   It was on this Irish tour that, after very long and wet

day among the cliffs, the two geologists, Conybeare and

Buckland, entered at dark lone hut, occupied by an aged
                        a

female. Tired, hungry, and covered with mud and dirt,

upon flints, writes to the biographer (November 1893): " Dr. Budkland
was the first to call them sponges, and the voyage of the Challenger
has confirmed the correctness of the opinion."
H              LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

they deposited their fossil bags and demanded refresh

ments. The old woman, much puzzled to make out their

real character, set about her hospitable preparations. By

the time they were complete, she had made up her mind.

Placing the eggs and bacon on the table, she exclaimed :

" Well, I never ! fancy two real gentlemen picking up
stones ! What won't men do for money ? "

   Among his tours must also be mentioned the extensive

journeys which he made with Mr. Greenough in the

years 1812-15, for the purpose of collecting materials

for the Geological Map of England. His letters fre

quently allude to this elaborate work, on which he was

long engaged.  Writing in April 18 14 to Conybeare, he

says :--

   " I was not a little surprised to find from Greenough
that he was in great hopes you would go with him to Paris
to see Kings and Emperors, and Cuviers and Crocodiles.
Should this actually take place, I need not, I trust, remind
you to return loaded with a grand suite of specimens for

the museum, and to establish a correspondence between

Oxford and Paris, founded on an exchange of specimens.
Illuminate Cuvier on the gypsum of Shotover, and press
him to come and see us if he visits England. My lecture
on the basin of Paris will be among the last of the set, so
that you will be back in time to enrich it with your
importation piping hot. I have made considerable pro
gress with Serle in the last three days in arranging the
specimens in the lower cabinets, from granite to mountain

limestone. If you go to Paris, pray send me the notes

you had begun touching Moses and Huttonianism, and
which you took with you to finish, should there be

opportunity. Send me also your map of Germany, if you
do not take it with you, that I may transfer its contents to
my map of Europe for the lectures."
1808-1822.]            GEOLOGICAL MAPS.              15

   In another letter, dated Corpus Christi College, April
29th, 1 8 14, he writes to Conybeare :--

   " The publication of Smith's map, which I sent for
yesterday, will preclude the necessity of my giving you
any trouble in finishing that which you had begun to
colour for me. I have prepared and coloured sections
of the country round Oxford, and of the whole system
of the detail of the stratification of your grand section ;
for the last week I have been unpacking a barrel per
day, and have made considerable progress in the arrange
ment of the lower strata, assisted by Serle, who before
his                    week disposed of the metals.
    "  departure last
       I send you by   the  coach  owan.parcIefl   containing two maps
of mine and three       of  your                  you can possibly find

time, before Saturday in next week, to lay in the great
outlines of the mountain chains of Europe as you had

made them out in the map you took to town, I shall be
thankful if you forward it me by Saturday the jth ; as
this is a matter of the first importance to me, you will, I
trust, have the goodness to take it in hand first. With this
you will send me back the map of North America, having
written in the corner of it the explanation of the colours.
At your leisure you will much oblige me by inserting in
your map of France an outline of the chalk with its
superior formation, of the groups of granite and other
rocks which you know in that country. I send with it your
map, which, from the lines inscribed on              appears to
                        if

                                                                  it,

                                                                I

                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                     ?
contain much of the requisite information, and add your
coloured map of the Netherlands, which will assist you in
the process. Have you taken to town your sketches of
the coast at the Giants' Causeway, as they would be of

much service to illustrate the doctrine of subsidences

Pray send them   me,        they are   not  MinoseOsxfoorrdC. reatiosunppo"se
you have had no  leisure     to think   of

   His enthusiasm was infectious. Not only was he assisted
in these map surveys by his friends Conybeare, De la
16  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. II.

Beche, and Greenough ; he had also enlisted the zealous
interest of some ladies of high culture living at Penrice

Castle, in the district of Glamorganshire known as Gower.
In June 1815 he writes that "the information on the
geology of Glamorganshire which he hoped to receive from
the Lady Mary Cole and the Misses Talbot will be wanted

for insertion in the Geological Society's Map of England,
now far advanced in the hands of the engraver." He re
quests " that that part of the map of Glamorganshire which

includes the hundred of Gower may be forwarded as soon
as convenient," and hopes " to secure also the remaining

parts of Glamorganshire, enriched by the geological obser
vations of the approaching summer which he trusts the
ladies will have the kindness to record upon it." He en
closes " a drawing and description of some extraordinary
coal-plants on the authority of an eye-witness, Mr.

Walter Calverly Trevelyan, on whose father's property

near Newbiggin they are found, and who promises to
bring to Oxford in October drawings of every variety

that he can find of fossil vegetables in that district."
" These drawings will," he adds, " form a valuable subject

of comparison with those of the South Wales coal-fields,
should there be any collection of the latter in existence ;
if there be not, Mr. Buckland would venture to suggest
to Miss Jane Talbot that she would afford an invaluable

acquisition to the science of Botany and Geology, and

acquire immortal reputation in both departments, by select
ing a series of the most perfect fossil vegetables of the Welsh
coal strata as her first essay in the noble art of lithography,

for which also he hopes to bring her back some worthy
1808-1822.]  FOREIGN TOUR.                               17

             ANDREASBERG TO ELBINGRODE, SEPT. 17, l822.

                                                         ,5/

             HALLE, l822.

specimens from the mosses of the Carpathian Alps and
Apennines."

   In 1 81 5 Buckland published the first comparative table

                                                                                                                2
LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  Tch. II.

of the strata of England and those of the Continent, as
arranged by Werner. This he enlarged in 1816, and dis

tributed in Germany and France during a tour he made

that year with John Conybeare and Greenough to Germany.
This expedition was the first of a series of similar journeys,

                                   PROF. BUCKLAND AND THE OCTOPUS.

in more than one of which Buckland was accompanied by
Count Breiiner. The Count was a skilful draughtsman,
with a keen sense of humour, and it is to his pen that
we owe the illustrations of episodes which occurred on a
subsequent tour. In 18 16 the travellers proceeded through
Silesia to Poland, Austria, and Italy. From Weimar
1808-1822.]        ITALY--HUNGARY.                   19

Buckland writes : " We saw Goethe, and at Freyberg visited

Werner, who gave us a grand supper, and talked learnedly
of his books and music, and anything but Geology."

   In another letter, written after his return to England,
he says : " The journey occupied five months of intense

labour, employed in seeing every collection and professor

that could be heard of, and purchasing every map, book,

and print that has been published relative to our favourite
science, or to the political economy of the countries we

passed through."

   His friends at Penrice Castle were also kept informed
of his movements. In a long descriptive letter, written

in April 18 17, Buckland tells Lady Mary Cole that he has
made " a rich collection of the shells of the Sub-Apennine
Hills, many of which resemble those of Hampshire and

Sheppey Island, and it would have been more perfect had

he not been arrested in the act of making it and sent back
                                        "
fifteen miles  to  prison   at  Parma      In spite  of this
                                       !

misfortune, he returned --

" highly satisfied with his tour, having accomplished every
point that was in contemplation before he set off.
Entering Hungary, he descended by the gold-mines of
Kremnitz and Schemnitz over a most picturesque country,
full of extinct volcanoes, to the great plain at the head of
which stands Presburg ; thence to Vienna, where are noble
collections in Natural History, by Styria and Carinthia
(countries equal to Switzerland in sublime Alpine scenery)
to Venice ; hence by the Euganean Hills (extinct vol
canoes breaking up through chalk), Vicenza, Verona,
Mantua, and Parma, visiting by the way the fossil fish
quarries of Monte Bolca, which are in a formation above
and lying on chalk, and allied to the English Sheppey clay
LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [CH. II.

and French calcaire grossier. Monte Bolca has also the
same fossil plants as Sheppey."

   Another letter to Lady Mary Cole is too characteristic
to be omitted.

   " You have no doubt been wondering what is become of
me and my projected tour into Glamorganshire, and I am
sorry to inform you that all my movements have been
deranged, and my plans thwarted, by an accident that
befell me a month ago near Sidmouth, from the falling
of an ignited spark of iron from my hammer into the

                               PROF. BUCKLAND VISITING MONTE BOLCA.

cornea of my eye, which I did not discover to be fixed
there till some days after, when it began to oxydate. The
result has been a series of five or six operations to cut out
the minute rusty fragments, and a degree of inflammation

which has prevented me from reading or writing during
the last three weeks. I am happy to say the cause of

injury is now totally removed, and in a few days I shall
again take wing for Oxford. As I like always to extract
all possible good out of the evil that befalls me, I have

learnt two curious facts in physiology from my oculist at
Exeter. First, that he once drew a tooth out of a patient's
eye (literally an eye-tooth), growing between the bony
1808-1S22.]         ROADSIDE QUARRIES.

/orbit and ball of the eye, and have seen the specimen.
Second, that the belladonna leaf has the singular and

useful property, if laid on the eyelid, of causing a great
expansion of the pupil and iris, which is of the highest
service, in cutting for cataracts, to render visible the inner
chambers of the eye, and, in cases of diseased pupil, by
drawing the iris backwards in every direction, preserves it
from contact with the central injury.

   "But, what is most important, I have been taught to
appreciate still more highly than I did before the value of
the organs of vision as the fairest inlets of knowledge and

ple"asPuarsesintog  the soul.   over Kilmington Common  on  my
                     yesterday
way to Exeter, I was at a loss to find a reason why a small
portion of that common is the only spot in England on
which the Lobelia urens has ever been found native.
Pray propose this as a hard question to Miss Jane, who
I know loves difficulties, and oblige me with her theory
on this subject. This is one of those curious questions
relating to the geography of plants for which I despair of
obtaining a satisfactory solution, unless from Humboldt or
herself. I fear I have imposed on her kindness a severer
task than I was aware of in asking for a nomenclature to
my marine plants, the value of which will be mightily
increased by her assistance in the arrangement of them."

   Wherever he travelled, his eye was eagerly on the watch
for points at which he could observe geological strata, or
hunt for specimens. Quarries were irresistible attractions
to him, and, fortunately enough, he possessed a friend and
servant who tolerated his tastes. On the journey between
Oxford and Axminster, which he made once or twice

every year from 1812 to 1824, he rode a favourite old
black mare, frequently caparisoned with heavy bags of
fossils and ponderous hammers. She soon learnt her

duty, and seemed to take an interest in her master's
22  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

pursuits ; for she would remain quiet, without any one

to hold her, while he was examining sections and strata,

and then patiently submit to be loaded with the specimens
collected. Ultimately she became so accustomed to the

work that she invariably came to a full stop at a stone

quarry, and nothing would persuade her to proceed until

the rider had got off, and examined, or, if a stranger to

her, pretended to examine, the quarry. On one occasion

Dr. Buckland was in some danger from the falling stones
as he was climbing up the side of one of these quarries ;
when told of his danger by the bystanders -- " Never
mind," said he, " the stones know me."

   Buckland's enthusiastic labours were not without reward.

Not only the University of Oxford, but Lord Liverpool's
Government recognised the services of the man to whom,
in the words of Professor Brockhaus, " undoubtedly
belonged the honour of reducing the study of Geology to

a science."

   In 1813 Buckland succeeded to the Readership of
Mineralogy which Dr. Kidd had resigned. The lectures

which the new Reader delivered in that capacity were

not confined to Mineralogy, but embraced the latest
discoveries and doctrines of Geology. His courses
attracted in a high degree the attention and admiration

of the University, and very largely contributed to the
public recognition of Geology as a science by the en
dowment in 1 8 19 of a Professorship. The stipend of the
Professor was allotted from the Treasury, at the instance
of His Royal Highness the Prince Regent, for the delivery

of an annual course of lectures on Geology. To this new
1808-1822.]    PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY.                      23

office Buckland was appointed --a position which Sir
Joseph Banks said " No one in England is so competent

to fill." Writing in anticipation of this appointment to

his friend Lady Mary Cole, in December 1818, he
says :--

" Dear Lady Mary, -- I have just received a large
importation from North America, and expect daily my
stalactitic head and bones of Niobe from Venice. 1 hope
soon to have a proper room prepared for their reception
in Oxford, which is the least thing the University can do
to meet the grant which you will be glad to hear I have
obtained from the Crown for the establishment of a
Professorship of Geology which I am to hold with my
former office of Reader in Mineralogy. Nothing can
exceed the strong exertions and flattering civilities I have
received from Lord Grenville and Mr. Peel during the
progress of this business, or the powerful representations
which have been made to Lord Liverpool on my behalf.
Sir Joseph Banks, too, on hearing of my Memorial to the
Crown voluntarily requested Sir Everard Home to express
to H.R.H. the Prince Regent that he felt great pleasure
in the prospect of an establishment for Geology in Oxford,
and considered no man in the country so proper to fill
the situation as Mr. Buckland. Sir W. Scott and Lord
Eldon have                     their
   " I assure   also   given  quite   assistance.   high  considera
               you
                      I feel          proud of the

tion which is given to the noble subterranean science
by such exalted personages, more especially by Lord
Grenville, whom I am going to visit next week at
Dropmore on my return to Oxford. During the last

week I have been down to see Lord Tankerville's splendid
collection at Walton, containing the finest shells and
corals in the country, and extremely rich in fossil organic
remains. He has a drawer full of Tortoises and Encrinites

from the Sussex chalk, also of Pentacrinites from chalk,
and lovely starfish. The plants in his hot-houses exceed
in health and luxuriance any I have ever seen."
24             LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.       [ch. II.

    A letter written by Lord Grenville to Buckland in

November 1820 speaks warmly of the latter's zeal in the
cause of geology. " I am delighted," he writes, and the

words are the more important as the writer was then

Chancellor of the University of Oxford, "to learn that

the interesting science which you are pursuing is making

such rapid progress here and elsewhere, in consequence

(I must say) in a very great degree of your indefatigable

exertions."

   To Buckland his " noble subterranean science," as he

called     appeared the most fascinating of pursuits, and
        it,
                         it
his admiration for was warmly expressed in the naugural

Address which he delivered upon his appointment. In the
                                       I
course of his Address he acknowledges the "gracious
encouragement " which His Royal Highness the Princeis a

Regent had given to this infant establishment, and "the

ardent zeal with which my application to the Crown

on this occasion was furthered by Lord Grenville, the

Chancellor of the University, whose care for good learning

in this place  it      impossible for me too highly to appreciate."
                   is

    Modestly enough he pleads for Science forming sub

ordinate part in the University curriculum, while at the
same time he would not surrender " a single particle of our

system of classical study," which he regards as better than
that prevailing on the Continent. " For some years past,"
he continued, " these newly created sciences have formed

a leading subject of education in most universities on the

Continent, and competent knowledge of them         now
               a

possessed by the majority of intelligent persons in our

country."
1808-1822.]       IMPORTANCE OF GEOLOGY.   25

   In reply to the arguments of utilitarians, who ask how
far the science of geology can be made profitable, he
observes :--

" The claims of geology may be made to rest on a much
higher basis. The utility of Science is founded upon other
and nobler views than those of mere pecuniary profit and
tangible advantage. The human mind has an appetite
for truth of every kind, physical as well as moral, and the
real utility of science is to afford gratification to this
appetite. The real question, then, more especially in this
place, ought surely to be, how far the objects of Geology
are of sufficient interest and importance to be worthy of
this large and rational species of curiosity, and how far its
investigations are calculated to call into action the higher
powers of the mind. Now when it is recollected that the
field of the geologist's inquiry is the Globe itself; that it is its
study to decipher the movements of the mighty revolutions
and convulsions it has suffered, convulsions of which the

most terrible catastrophes presented by the actual state
foafintthinimgsag(ee,a--rththqeuaklaesst,  tempests, volcanoes), afford only a
                                           expiring efforts of those mighty
disturbing forces which once operated, -- these surely will
be admitted to be objects of sufficient magnitude and
grandeur to create an adequate interest to engage in their

investigations."

   With arguments forcibly and clearly stated, the Professor

goes on to show how Geology, which he regarded as the
handmaid of Religion, holds the keys of one of the
kingdoms of Nature ; how closely it is allied to Mineralogy

and Chemistry ; how it can claim the application of pure
Mathematics ; and how it is connected with Hydrostatics
and with Astronomical speculations. And then, passing
into a higher region, he points out its connection with
Natural Theology, and shows that the working of the Great
26  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

First Cause is not less demonstrable from the structure of
the earth than are His wisdom, power, and goodness.

   This lecture was afterwards published under the title of
" Vindiciae Geological ; or, The Connection of Geology with
Religion explained." The object of his lecture was to show
that the study of Geology, so far from being irreligious or
atheistic in its consequences, had a tendency to confirm
the evidences of Natural Religion ; that there could be no
opposition between the works and the word of God ; and
that the facts developed by it were consistent with the
accounts of the Creation and the Deluge as recorded in the
Book of Genesis. The inaugural lecture may still be read
with pleasure for the ability and elevated feeling with
which the Professor defended Geology, and every other
science, from the narrowness of utilitarians. But while
arousing interest he also excited opposition, and every
onward step that he made towards giving the science of
Geology a position in the University created opponents to
its claims. Sometimes the opposition was serious enough,
his opponents being men who feared that the study of
God's earth would shake the foundations of Christianity ;
sometimes the objections raised only elicited a hearty
laugh from the Professor. His friends had their jokes at
the expense of the enthusiastic geologist. Here, for example,
is a couplet suggested by Pope's on Sir Isaac Newton,
from the pen of Shuttleworth :--

             " Some doubts were once expressed about the Flood ;
              Buckland arose, and all was clear as -- mud."

     Deeply engrossed though Professor Buckland was in
 geological pursuits, they were far from exclusively
1808-1822.]  WORK IN OXFORD.  27

 absorbing his interests. Every project for improving or
 advancing the condition of the University and the City
 of Oxford as a place of residence received his careful
 attention. In 1818, in the face of strong opposition, he
 succeeded, with the aid of several influential men, in

 lighting Oxford with gas, and was for many years chair
 man of the Company. He also did good service to the
 city by promoting plans for the improvement of the
 sewerage and of the water supply. His labours as a

 sanitary reformer were indeed unremitting, and the experi
 ence thus gained by the Professor at Oxford was, as will

 be seen later on, turned to excellent account by him as
 Dean of Westminster.

    It is always the busiest men who know how to find

 leisure, and Buckland's advice and active assistance were

 asked for a variety of good deeds, and never asked in vain.
 His power of work and his willingness to help were indeed

well-nigh inexhaustible. If his ardour sometimes made

him a little impatient, his genuine kindness of heart, com
bined with a keen sense of humour, speedily corrected

the momentary impulse. However strong his convictions,

he was never so wedded to his own judgment as to shrink
from opposition.

    As Professor his classes at Oxford were always well

attended, and his genial good-humour and apt description

of things around him made every one happy, and therefore
in a humour to listen, learn, and recollect.

    Outside the University his gifts as a lecturer were also
warmly appreciated. Miss C. Fox records in her journals

rthat Buckland says " he feels very nervous in addressing
28  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

large assemblies till he has once made them laugh, and
then he is entirely at his ease." He always liked to have

a picture to show his audience, where specimens were
not available, and in a letter to Sir Henry de la Beche,
he says : " With respect to a block (engraving), it was

ready to go to the printer to-morrow if you approved ;
though bad, it is better than nothing, and I like always
to tell my story by a picture if possible."

   Buckland, whilst staying with Miss Fox, one wet day
gave a lecture in the drawing-room. " We listened," Miss
Fox says, " with great and gaping interest to a description
of his geological map, the frontispiece to his forthcoming
Bridgewater Treatise. He gave very clear details of the
gradual formation of our earth, which he is thoroughly
convinced took its rise ages before the Mosaic record. He
says that Luther must have taken a similar view, as in the
translation of the Bible he puts ' ist' at the third verse of

the first chapter of Genesis, which showed his belief that
the two first verses relate to something anterior. He ex

plains the hills with valleys between them by eruptions
underground. He compared the world to an apple-dumpling,
the fiery froth of which fills the interior, and we have just

a crust to stand upon ; the hot stuff in the centre often

generates gas, and its necessary explosions are called on
earth volcanoes. He gave descriptions of antediluvian

animals, plants, and skulls. They have even discovered a

large fossil-fish with its food only partially digested."

   A characteristic story is related of Buckland, to the effect

that he and a friend, riding towards London on a very dark

night, lost their way. Buckland therefore dismounted,
^..o _

  EXPEDITION TO SHOTOVER.
30            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                                         [ch. ii.

and taking up a handful of earth, smelt it. " Uxbridge,"

he exclaimed, his geological nose telling him the precise
locality. He was very fond of " field lectures " as an adjunct

to his ordinary course, and they were always well attended,

both by students and others interested in the practical study

of geology. On one occasion, when lecturing on Shotover
Hill, a member of his class, Mr. Howley, afterwards Arch

bishop of Canterbury, discovered a lark's nest with eggs in

it,
                         it

                                                     if

                                                                                            a

                                                                                           it
    and bringing to the lecturer, asked he considered
to be of the " oolite formation." Buckland also delighted

in giving a new class of equestrian listeners                                                                practical

lesson in geology, by sticking them all in the mud to make

them remember the Kimmeridge clay. He would often
give out as a notice at the end of a lecture, " To-morrow
the class will meet at the top of Shotover Hill at ten

o'clock"; or, "The next lecture will take place in the fields
above the quarry at Stonesfield or, " The class will meet
       if
                                           I

                                                        ";

                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                                                    ;
at the G. W. R. Station at nine o'clock when, in the train

between Oxford and Bristol, shall be able to point out

and explain the several different formations we shall cross
and, you please, we will examine the rocks and some of
the most interesting geological features of Clifton and its
neighbourhood." The true meaning of the terms " strati

fication, denudation, faults, elevations, etc., could never be

learnt in a lecture-room," he would say.
   Sir Henry Acland, one of the few of Buckland's pupils

still living, tells characteristic story of his manner of

lecturing. It shall be given in his own words --
                        Ia
    "                                                                                                     :
"  to  You    have asked  me,"  writes Sir Henry to the biographer,
        tell  you how      was  attacked by Professor Buckland,
1808-1822.]           BUCKLANUS LECTURES.                                                                31

and why, in the middle of one of his exciting and graphic

lectures.          this        wise --and,                                the whole
             in                             'as you  desire
  " It was
                                                     is
story must be told.
" When                                                                       ''
                                                                                '

                                                               I it,

                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                      '

                                                                        is I
             I     was         a  boy my father took me to Sir

Benjamin Brodie and said, Sir Benjamin,                                   want to
make this boy a physician. What to be done
                                                                                                         was
frightened out pf my wits as the eagle-eyed man looked
at me from head to foot. He replied, What
                                                                                                       your
                      Oxford,' said my father. Send the boy to
University   ?     '
                '

Oxford,' said the great surgeon quickly. While there he
not to attend to anything connected with his future
profession, but be as though he was to be like you in Parliais

   I
ment. When he has taken his degree, let him come to me,
and will tell him what to do then.' In another minute we
             of
were out      in  the room. Some fifty          were waiting              elsewhere.
   " When          1835 went to Christ          Church, your              father got
                      I

hold of me, being very friendly with mine assured me
                                            I
                                                                                    ;
                                                                              it
geology had nothing to do with medicine, and bade me

Iattend his lectures.

   " can never forget my dtfbut as his pupil -- though was
not our first acquaintance, for had made diagrams for
his great evening address at the British Association in
Ed"inHbeurlgechtuirned18o3n4,  and knew his
                               the Cavern of    ways.     the             now  famous
                                                Torquay,
Kent's Cavern. He paced like a Franciscan Preacher up
and down behind a long show-case, up two steps, in a
room in  the old      Clarendon. He had              in his       hand
hyena's  skull.       He suddenly dashed              down         the         satehpusg--e

rushed, skull      in hand, at    the first undergraduate                      on the
                   and shouted,     What rules the world
front bench --                                                                     The
'

                           I
                                                                                  '
                                                                            ''

                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                  ?'

                                                                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                                                                                             '
youth, terrified, threw himself against the next back seat,
and answered not a word.          faHcee--rusWhehdattherunleos n
the hyena full in my                                              me,     pointing
                                                                  the     world

Haven't an idea,'                 said. The stomach, sir,' he cried
                                                                          The great
(again mounting       his rostrum),           rules the  swtilol.r' ld".
ones eat the less,    and the less          the lesser

The Professor's forte as a lecturer in these early days
32  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [CH. II.

excited the rhyming propensities of his College friend
Shuttleworth, afterwards Warden of New College, and
subsequently Bishop of Chichester. The lecture which

suggested the following lines was probably delivered

early in 1822.

          " In Ashmole's ample dome, with look sedate,
              'Midst heads of mammoths, heads of houses sate ;
              And tutors, close with undergraduates jammed,
              Released from cramming, waiting to be crammed.
              Above, around, in order due displayed,
             The garniture of former worlds was laid :
              Sponges and shells in lias moulds immersed,
              From Deluge fiftieth, back to Deluge first ;
            And wedged by boys in artificial stones,
              Huge bones of horses, now called mammoths' bones ;
              Lichens and ferns which schistose beds enwrap,
            And-- understood by most professors -- trap.
              Before the rest, in contemplative mood,
            With sidelong glance, the inventive Master stood,
            And numbering o'er his class with still delight,
              Longed to possess them cased in stalactite.
            Then thus with smile suppressed : ' In days of yore
              One dreary face Earth's infant planet bore;
             Nor land was there, nor ocean's lucid flood,
             But, mixed of both, one dark abyss of mud ;
           Till each repelled, repelling by degrees,
            This shrunk to rock, that filtered into seas ;
            Then slow upheaved by subterranean fires,
             Earth's ponderous crystals shot their prismy spires ;
             Then granite rose from out the trackless sea,
            And slate, for boys to scrawl -- when boys should be --
             But earth, as yet, lay desolate and bare ;
           Man was not then, --but Paramoudras 1 were.
             'Twas silence all, and solitude ; the sun,

          If sun there were, yet rose and set to none,

                               1 Paramoudras : see page 13.
I
1808-1822.]  BUCKLAND'S LECTURES.  33

            Till fiercer grown the elemental strife,

               Astonished tadpoles wriggled into life ;
               Young encrini their quivering tendrils spread,
             And tails of lizards felt the sprouting head.
             (The specimen I hand about is rare,
             And very brittle ; bless me, sir, take care ! )
             And high upraised from ocean's inmost caves,
               Protruded corals broke the indignant waves.
               These tribes extinct, a nobler race succeeds :
               Now sea-fowl scream amid the plashing reeds ;
               Now mammoths range, where yet in silence deep
               Unborn Ohio's hoarded waters sleep.
               Now ponderous whales . . .

                                                              (Here, by the way, a tale
             I'll tell of something, very like a whale.
             An odd experiment of late I tried,
               Placing a snake and hedgehog side by side ;
             Awhile the snake his neighbour tried t' assail,
             When the sly hedgehog caught him by the tail,
             And gravely munched him upwards joint by joint, --
             The story's somewhat shocking, but in point.)
             Now to proceed :--
             The earth, what is it ? Mark its scanty bound, --
             'Tis but a larger football's narrow round ;
             Its mightiest tracts of ocean --what are these ?
             At best but breakfast tea-cups, full of seas.
              O'er these a thousand deluges have burst,
             And quasi-deluges have done their worst.' "

   The lecture ends with a couplet which the facetious
writer observes of its own accord " slides into verse, and
hitches in a rhyme " :--

                    " Of this enough. On Secondary Rock,
                         To-morrow, gentlemen, at two o'clock."

   Another witness to Buckland's impressiveness as a

lecturer was Colonel Portlock, President of the Geological

Society in 1875.

                                                                                                                                3
34  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. n.

   " His invariable cheerfulness," he writes, " and humour
threw light over the description of any subject he took
in hand ; and whether describing with his pen or with
his tongue, the ancient inhabitants of the earth, such was
the vivid reality of the picture that he drew, that they
appeared to act and speak before us, so that we may
fairly designate him the ^Esop of extinct animals -- alas !
himself now extinct ! how can we hope to see again in all
its fulness a second Buckland ? To form a correct notion
of the powerful manner in which Dr. Buckland influenced
the progress of Geological Science, it would be necessary,
not only to pass in review the long series of his geological
contributions, but also to realise the effect he produced on
his hearers, and on the University generally, by his lectures.

It is impossible to convey to the mind of any one who

had never heard Dr. Buckland speak, the inimitable effect
of that union of the most playful fancy with the most
profound reflections which so eminently characterised his

scientific oratory. To him more than to any geologist

are we indebted for unexpected suggestions, curious
inquiries, and novel kinds of evidences."

   Frank Buckland writes, in his account of the sale
in January 1857 of his father's minerals, fossils, etc. :
" There was great competition for the hammers ; these
relics are much prized by the possessors, for by means of
them my father hammered out much information from the
breast of mother earth." Mr. Etheridge tells the story of
Buckland when travelling in Scotland, in order not to
shock the feelings of the Scotchmen on Sunday, carrying
his hammer up his sleeve.

   The charm that marked Buckland's lectures was felt
also in his character and conversation. When Mr. Ruskin
was an undergraduate of Christ Church, the Professor of
Geology was a Canon of the Cathedral.
1808-1822.]  CONVERSATIONAL POWERS.           35

   " There was," says Mr. Ruskin in his " Praeterita," ' " a
more humane and living spirit, however, inhabitant of the
N.W. angle of the Cardinal's square ; and a great many of
the mischances which were only harmful to me through
my own folly may be justly held, and to the full, counter
balanced by that one piece of good fortune, of which
I had the wit to take advantage. Dr. Buckland was a
Canon of the Cathedral, and he, with his wife and

family, were all sensible and good-natured, with originality
enough in the sense of them to give sap and savour to

the whole College. . . . All were frank, kind, and clever,

vital in the highest degree ; to me, medicinal and saving.
Dr. Buckland was extremely like Sydney Smith in his staple

of character ; no rival with him in wit, but like him in
humour, common sense, and benevolently cheerful doctrine of
Divinity. . . . Geology was only the pleasant occupation

of his own merry life."

   Another distinguished Oxonian speaks enthusiastically

of Buckland's vivacity, mirthfulness, and power as a

talker. Writing in 1892, Professor Storey Maskelyne
says : --

   " Dr. Buckland's wonderful conversational powers were
as incommunicable as the bouquet of a bottle of champagne,

but no one who remembers them as I do, can ever forget

them.

  " It was indeed at the feast of reason and the flow of
social and intellectual intercourse that Buckland shone.

' A merrier man within the limit of becoming mirth I
never spent an hour's talk withal.' Nothing came amiss
to him, from the creation of the world to the latest news
in Town ; from the flora and fauna of ages long past to
the last horticultural meeting at Chiswick or Exhibition
    the Zoological Gardens                    intermediate time
at  was equally at home.    ;   through all   quod non ornavit,
he
                               Nihil tetigit

             1 Ch. xi., pp. 375, 376-7, 381.
36  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

there were few subjects which he could not more or less
illustrate. In build, look, and manner he was a thorough
English gentleman, and was appreciated in every circle."

    Sowerby has recorded an anecdote of Buckland galloping
off with a huge ammonite over his shoulders, his head passed
through the opening occasioned by the loss of the central
volution, when his companions dubbed him on the spot

" Ammon Knight." " A man of devout spirit, strong of

mind and strong in body, working hard and setting others

to work, gathering and giving knowledge, a patient student,
a powerful teacher, a friendly associate, a valiant soldier
for geology in days when she was weak, an honoured
leader in her hour of triumph."

   One of the most notable and lasting of scientific friend
ships was formed between two of his pupils, Sir Philip de

Malpas Grey Egerton, Bart., and Viscount Cole (afterwards
Lord Enniskillen), both of whom were at Christ Church
at that time. In the Long Vacation of 1820 these two

young men set out on their geological travels through

Europe. Dr. Buckland sent them first --after William of
Wykeham's fashion of " two and two " -- to collect bones and

work out for him the latest discovered cave in Bavaria.
Mr. Etheridge, of the Natural History Museum, says that,
before starting on their journey, these two friends made
their wills. In case of the death of either, the joint collec
tion was to belong to the survivor for his life ; on his death

the collection was to be sold, and offered first to the
British Museum, then to their Alma Mater of Oxford,

after that to Cambridge and Paris. If not purchased by

any of these bodies, the world in general was to have the
1808-1822.]  TOUR IN FRANCE.                         37

option of buying. The Americans would have given
twice the sum for these valuable and unique specimens ;
but they were purchased by the British Museum for a
sum of several thousand pounds.

   Sir Philip Egerton's brother, the Rev. W. H. Egerton,
Rector of Whitchurch, Salop, writes that " the bulk of both

collections consisted of fossil fishes. When a slab con

taining a specimen was split in halves the two friends

tossed up for first choice, the one half containing the
bones of the fish -- the other the impression. This was

the case with a vast number of specimens chiefly from
Solenhofen -- the two collections being brought together

at Kensington form a complete whole."

The ample vacations which Buckland enjoyed as an

Oxford Professor enabled him to continue his geological

tours at home and abroad. Thus in 1820 he made an

expedition to France with his friend Conybeare.  Writing

from Lyons to Sir John Nicholl, he says :--

" Three days brought me from London to Paris, where my
first business was to call on Cuvier, who after receiving me
with the greatest cordiality, and saluting my cheeks with
more than English familiarity, immediately made a dinner
for me, inviting Humboldt, Biot, Cordier, Bowditch the
African traveller, Frederick Cuvier, and several others of

the savants of Paris, and giving me admission to the entire
establishment of the Jardin du Roy.      I attended
lectures on geology by Cordier, two on                three
                                        entomology
                                                     by La
Traille, and three on ornithology by Geoffrey St. Hilaire.
I admired exceedingly the French style of lecturing ; the
manner and matter were extremely good, but the classes
as ill-looking and ungentlemanly a set of dirty vagabonds
as ever I set eyes on, and not more numerous than my
own at Oxford. I attended also a meeting of the Institute
38          LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                 [ch. 11.

at which was announced the death of poor Sir Joseph
Banks, who is not less regretted in France than in our own
country. I saw there Guy Lusac, Menard, Vaguelin,
Henry Raymond, Brockard, Bindon, and most of the first
scientific men of France, whose love of Science, how

ever, does not induce them to attend without receiving
                                 for their hour's
about   eight shillings a head     in France to    work.        the
       find the best geologists                    be Cordier,
   "I

successor of Fangas St. Ford as lecturer in geology, and
Bindon, who is curator of the King's collection under
Count Bourdon, and is on the point of publishing an
excellent work on the geology of Hungary, with a map
and lectures, that will be extremely good, for he thoroughly
understands his work. He was sent to Hungary by the
King two years ago. I find them all most deplorably
deficient in knowledge of their country, as well as in
general geology. Our Society would number at least
thirty members that would beat the best of them, and
never did I feel myself more highly gratified in the article
of pride than I was by the manner in which they flocked
round me to propose their difficulties, and the passive
            with which                   my oracular decisions.
obedience   a great deal  they received  whom I liked exceed
                          of Humboldt,
   " I saw
ingly, and with whom I am likely from henceforth to be
in continual correspondence. He talks more rapidly and
more sensibly than any man I ever saw, and with a
brilliancy that is indicative of the highest degree of genius.
He is on the point of publishing a most interesting work,
a comparative view of the geological structure of Europe
and South America, and, according to the documents he
showed me, the identity of the phenomena of the two
continents is more absolute than the most sanguine wishes
could have anticipated. He has given me a section of
the valley of Santa Fe de Bogota, which is the exact
counterpart of the valley of Glamorganshire, which I shall
publish with my account of the Severn district in our
Transactions. He will make use of my list of the order
of succession of English strata, and in almost all points
but the history of the Old and New Red Sandstone, which
40            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                      [ch. n.

is the great stumbling-block of continental geologists, we
are fully agreed. On this, however, I have made a convert
of  Bindon,                               Humboldt.
    " I left  and hope soon to convince  invitations
              Paris with most pressing                to  visit  it

again on my return, having allowed myself time to attend
to nothing there but my undergroundology, and dashed

directly into Auvergne. At Clermont I made a con
siderable collection of petrified fruit baskets, and took the
tour of the volcanic chain and summit of Puy-de-D6me.

It is the finest thing by far in Europe ; according to
Humboldt it exactly resembles a similar chain in Mexico,
and presents more than fifty craters nearly in a line from
north to south, many of which are larger and finer than
that of Vesuvius. The streams of lava also are not less

decided ; one of them is three miles broad and six miles
long. They are all post-diluvian, though there are no
records of the time when they were in action ; they stand
on, and have burst up through, an enormous mass and
elevated plain of granite, which is covered first by trap
and this again by lava. The portion of Clermont is,
perhaps, the finest thing in France, and the mountains I
have crossed between Clermont and Lyons, being entirely
granitic, are yet beautiful, presenting that second-rate style
of mountain scenery which we have in the best part of
Monmouthshire. 1 am disappointed in Lyons, because

I had heard too much of it. It is certainly a bad thing

to have too good a character."

   In this letter he alludes to the death of Sir Joseph
Banks. Before starting on his journey he had called to
take leave of this famous patron and encourager of travel
lers and science. He never saw him again alive, and it
is this farewell interview which Count Breuner has cleverly
sketched. Sir Joseph was then much invalided with the

gout, but, though a martyr to the complaint, he is said
to have had such self-control that he never showed any
irritability. Both at Christ Church and at Islip Buckland
1808-1822.]  WHATELY'S "EPITAPH."                          41

planted yellow banksia roses in memory of his friend,
who had been for forty-one years President of the Royal

Society.
   Buckland was greatly pleased, on his return from this

long sojourn on the Continent, to be greeted with the
following epitaph written by his friend Whately, afterwards
the famous Archbishop of Dublin. He had the verses
lithographed, and gave copies to his friends, so that they
are more known than many of the clever verses written by
Dr. Shuttleworth and Mr. Duncan.

             ELEGY

    Intended for Professor Buckland. December ist, 1820.
                      By Richard Whately.

" Mourn, Ammonites, mourn o'er his funeral urn,
          Whose neck ye must grace no more ;

   Gneiss, granite, and slate, he settled your date,
         And his ye must now deplore.

   Weep, caverns, weep with unfiltering drip,
         Your recesses he'll cease to explore ;

   For mineral veins and organic remains
         No stratum again will he bore.

"Oh, his wit shone like crystal; his knowledge profound
          From gravel to granite descended,

  No trap could deceive him, no slip could confound,

          Nor specimen, true or pretended ;
  He knew the birth-rock of each pebble so round,

         And how far its tour had extended.

" His eloquence rolled like the Deluge retiring,

             Where mastodon carcases floated ;

To a subject obscure he gave charms so inspiring,

       Young and old on geology doated.         admiring.
He stood out like an Outlier ; his hearers,

      In pencil each anecdote noted.
42  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. n.

        " Where shall we our great Professor inter,
                  That in peace may rest his bones ?

        If we hew him a rocky sepulchre,

                He'll rise and break the stones,
          And examine each stratum that lies around,
         For he's quite in his element underground.

      " If with mattock and spade his body we lay

                In the common alluvial soil,
         He'll start up and snatch those tools away

                Of his own geological toil ;
         In a stratum so young the Professor disdains
           That embedded should lie his organic remains.

       "Then exposed to the drip of some case-hardening spring
                His carcase let stalactite cover,

         And to Oxford the petrified sage let us bring
                When he is encrusted all over;

           There, 'mid mammoths and crocodiles, high on a shelf,
           Let him stand as a monument raised to himself."

   Almost at the same time when Dr. Buckland was

making these extensive tours in Great Britain to collect

materials for a geological map of England, and in foreign

countries to procure valuable and unique specimens for

his museum, a kindred spirit was inaugurating a similar

movement in America. A young Scotch merchant,

William Maclure, born in Ayr, author of the " Pioneers of

Discovery," went forth, with his hammer in his hand and

his wallet on his shoulder, to make a geological survey

of the United States. Pursuing his researches in every

direction, often amid pathless tracts and dreary solitudes,

he crossed and recrossed the Alleghany Mountains no less

than fifty times. He encountered all the privations of

hunger, thirst, fatigue, and exposure, month after month,

year after year, until his indomitable spirit had conquered

every difficulty and crowned his enterprise with success.
1808-1822.]  BUCKLAND'S COLLECTIONS.  43

   It was during his journeys, at home and abroad, that

Buckland laid the foundation of a collection which became

famous as the first of its kind in Europe. In its forma
tion he expended a large portion of his private fortune,
and if there was a good specimen to be anywhere
obtained, he would secure it at any price. The collection
of cave bones from England and the Continent is unique.1
The other specimens were selected with a view to their
fitness for illustration of certain definite points. Some
are of the most delicate texture ; others again are of

such gigantic size and ponderous weight that they show,
as Professor Phillips remarked, " the courage of the man."

   Not only did he spend his own money, time, and strength
in the formation of his collection ; friends were also
working for him in all parts of the globe. Writing in
1 8 19 to Lady Mary Cole, he says :--

   " My treasures in Geology continue more than ever to
accumulate. I have just heard from town that three large
Russian boxes from Mr. Strangways are sent off to Oxford,

and in his last package 1 received a diploma from Moscow,
for which I am indebted to his kindness. You will be
pleased to hear I am likely to get extensive importations
from all the British colonies over the world, through the
kindness of Lord Bathurst, who lately sent me a message

requesting I would draw up a list of instructions for

collecting specimens in Geology, of which he would
transmit copies to all the colonies connected with his
office, and adding that it is his intention to deposit the
specimens that may be sent home for the purpose of
illustrating jmy lectures."

   1 F. Buckland's memoir of his father, prefixed to the " Bridgewater
Treatise," 3rd edition.
44  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

   And the collection, adds Buckland, " is becoming one
of the most valuable in Europe."

    Among the specimens with which his friends enriched his
collection were treasures gathered from the Arctic regions
by adventurous explorers. In the progress and results of
the various Polar expeditions he was keenly interested.
With most of the officers who were engaged he was

personally acquainted ; to more than one he had given
valuable assistance in the preparation of geological
reports ; and in the classification and arrangement of

their collections his aid was often invoked. It was there

fore an appropriate tribute to his geological services when
his name was bestowed, by Captain Beechey, on a new

found island and a newly discovered river.

   Of Captain Ross's expedition he writes, on December
 14th, 18 1 8, a long account to Lady Mary Cole at Penrice
Castle :--

   " The philosophical world here," he says, " is much oc
cupied with the question of the Polar expedition ; Captain
Ross and his under officers give different accounts, and
three books are in preparation. I saw Captain Ross a
few days ago at Sir Joseph Banks', and was at the British
Museum on the arrival of the animals and boxes of
specimens. Captain Ross had a chart of Baffin's Bay
corrected by daily soundings and observations. At the
extreme point which they reached, after sounding in

calm water 1,000 fathoms, the sea shallowed gradually
to 300, and a lofty ridge of mountains on the right, as
they sailed forward, seemed to close round and shut up

the end of the bay. Of this he had little doubt ; but

his officers thought otherwise, and they sailed in at
evening, hoping to establish the fact. But at night a gale
came on, and they were obliged to turn back, and were
1808-1822.] CAPTAIN ROSS'S EXPEDITION.  4S

never again able to enter this bay, I believe, from ice or

fogs which followed the storm. So there remains still a
point at which land has not been seen, and a possibility of
a passage, but no probability.

   "On turning the ship to come out of this bay, the needle,
which had been steady as they sailed inwards before the
wind, became exceedingly irregular as soon as they began
to beat against it. Something of this they attribute to
the form of the ships, and two ships, differently constructed
from each other, are to repeat next year the experiments
that have been made. The question is still undecided
whether Greenland be an island, and it highly becomes
this country to ascertain the point, if possible, and correct
the charts of the Polar seas.

   " Near the north end of Baffin's Bay, on the east side,
at Lake Sir Dudley Digges, along six miles of coast they
found extensive irregular patches of red snow on the
country of the new tribe of Esquimaux, whose language
was much more intelligible to the interpreter who ac

companied the expedition than he was to the ship's crew.
There seems little doubt of the colouring matter being
caused by birds, which swarm on this coast in one small
pool of water amid an ocean of icebergs. Captain Ross
told me his boat's crew shot, in four hours, 1,600 birds,
which were drawn to this as the only spot where they
could find their food, consisting of shrimps and medusa,
which also constitute the food of the whales. Fish
are rare in these cold latitudes. The birds are beautiful
-- chiefly puffins, gulls, auks, guillemots, of which great
numbers are imported ; many specimens of the ivory gulls,
which are extremely rare ; also marine animals of the
lower orders.

    " Red snow may be seen in rabbit warrens, and De

Saussure mentions it in the Alps at Mt Breven and St.

Bernard. The Bishop of Oxford and Mr. Honey have
also seen it on the Alps. De Saussure wishes to believe
it the pollen of plants, but is at a loss where to find the
plants. He says it only stains the surface to the depth
of a few inches, not exceeding three, and seems to be a fine
46         LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                           [ch. n.

powder washed down into the hollows of the snow. It
has been suggested that the colouring matter may be
derived from the lichen Tartareus (Roccella or Orchill of
commerce), which is imported largely from Corsica and
Sardinia for the use of dyers ; but as this plant must be
steeped in a solution of ammonia to extract its red colour,
and is not likely to meet that substance on the high Alps,
we must refer the colour to the same source as in Baffin's

Bay. I believe the colour obtained from this lichen is
called Cudbear, and enclose a specimen of it for Miss Jane,
which comes from Scotland ; it is most luxuriant on granite

rocks. I must request her indulgence for all the errors
I may have made touching the history of this lichen, and
shall hope to be corrected where I am wrong. My friend
Mr. Duncan has another theory more pretty than any of
           fiof liltowwser:e--but              which                                     committed to
the rest,                          true,  and         he has
verse as

           " ' Of yore 'tis said a heavenly red
           The cheeks of           modest maids
           Some say with            innocence it  floe'de--rspread                       :

           But  where it went no               man could   shkonwow--;
           The  truth our modern               travellers
           It went to dye the Arctic snow.'

   " The natives of this poetically coloured region, says Sir
Dudley Digges, have harpoons and knives made of iron
beat flat between two stones. This iron no doubt fell

from the clouds, like the mass of native iron found by

Pallas in Siberia ; and it is only in such cases that

malleable iron has been found native, being always
accompanied by nickel. That used in the harpoons has
three-hundreds of nickel ; a small knife has been made in
London from twenty-six grains of it. Captain Ross could
not make out the size of the block from which the natives

obtained   nor its position but                                                          beyond doubt
1

               it,

                                                                                      ;

                                                          is it
                                                                      is
meteoric.1
   " Blocks of fir and fragments of ships are drifted occasion-

      Baron Nordenskiold has proved that this              native and not meteoric
iron.
1808-1822.] CAPTAINS ROSS AND BEECHEY.  47

ally on the coast ; but the natives find the bone of whales
and teeth of walrus best calculated, from strength and
lightness, to make their sledges, of which a good specimen
is brought home. They burn whale oil, making a wick
of moss, which serves also for fuel. They have scarcely
any plants but mosses, and no quadrupeds except bears,
hares, dogs, and white foxes. The dogs resemble wolves
with short legs, are very strong, well fitted for sledge
harness, and perfectly gentle. There is a live fox which
I saw this morning at the Museum basking in the hoar
frost ; he prefers staying on the outside of his house in
the coldest nights, and is quite white and by no means
sav"aAges. to the rocks, the west coast of Baffin's Bay, on
the only spot they touched, resembled Derbyshire in its
limestone and trap. The blocks floating on the icebergs
were chiefly granite mica, slate, and trap ; and the coast of
Greenland near Disco, trap with a bed of imperfect coal
in it.

   " The other ships have not done so much as those from
Baffin's Bay. I have seen none of their officers, but have
been on board the Alexander, which was with Captain
Ross, and obtained specimens of the mosses, which I will
soon forward to Penrice. The Spitzbergen ships were
impeded by their accident from proceeding : one of them
was right between two masses of ice, and raised out of the
water ; her side was forced in, and a barrel of meal within
pressed flat as a pancake. The only mode of repairing
her was lashing her to an iceberg, and pulling her mast
downwards, until her side rose out of the water sufficiently
to have planks laid on the outside. She was much too
damaged to proceed. I saw yesterday at Murray's some
drawings which will be engraved of the situation of the
ships in a storm amidst the icebergs, dashing every minute
against enormous floating rocks of ice, from which it
seems miraculous how they ever could have escaped."

    In May 1825 the Blossom, under Captain Beechey, was
sent out to afford such assistance as might be required by
48  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ii.

Captains Franklin and Parry, who had started the previous
year on a second voyage of discovery to the Arctic regions.
During the autumns of 1826 and 1827, Captain Beechey
was to await in Behring Straits the appearance of one
or both of these officers. As his vessel would have to

traverse in her route a portion of the globe hitherto little

explored, it was intended to employ her in surveying and
exploring such parts of the Pacific as were within her

reach, and for this purpose the ship was provided with
both naturalist and surveyor. In the group of the Bonin
Islands, Captain Beechey found one composed of basaltic
pillars ; " far grander," he writes to Buckland, " than the
Giants' Causeway." He named it Buckland Island, and
adds that " on the south side it is possessed of a good

harbour." In July 1826 the Blossom anchored in Kotzebue
Sound, there to await the arrival of Captain Franklin.

Captain Beechey employed the time in surveying and
exploring as much of the coast as possible. He visited
the extraordinary ice formation in Eschscholtz Bay men
tioned by Kotzebue as being " covered with a , soil half

a foot thick, producing the most luxuriant grass," and
" containing an abundance of mammoth bones." Sailing

up the bay, which was extremely shallow, he landed at a

deserted village on a low sandy point, to which he gave
the name of Elephant Point, from the bones of that animal

being found near it.

   " The cliffs in which this singular formation was dis
covered begin near this point, and extend westward in
a nearly straight line to a rocky cliff of primitive formation
at the entrance of the bay. The cliffs are from twenty to
1808-1822.] CAPTAIN BEECHEVS EXPEDITION.  49

eighty feet in height, and rise inland to a rounded range
of hills between four and five hundred feet above the

sea.

    Leaving Mr. Collie, the ship's surgeon, with a party to
examine the cliffs in which the fossils and ice formation

had been seen by Kotzebue, Captain Beechey proceeded
to the head of the bay in a smaller boat.

   " We landed upon a muddy beach, and were obliged to
wade a quarter of a mile before we could reach a cliff
for the purpose of having a view of the surrounding
country. Having gained its summit, we were gratified
by the discovery of a large river coming from the south
ward and passing between our station and a range of
hills. At a few miles' distance the river passed between
rocky cliffs, whence the land on either side became hilly,
and interrupted our further view of its course. The width
of the river was about a mile and a half, but this space was
broken into narrow and intricate channels by banks, some
dry and others partly so ; the stream passed rapidly
between them, and at an earlier period of the season a
considerable body of water must be poured into the sound,
though from the comparative width of the channels the
current of the latter is not much felt. The shore around
us was flat, broken by several lakes, in which there were
a great many wild-fowl. The cliff we had ascended was
composed of a bluish mud and clay, and was full of deep
cha"sMmes.anwhile Mr. Collie had been successful in his search
among the cliffs at Elephant Point, and had discovered
several bones and grinders of elephants and other animals
in a fossil state. Associating these two discoveries, I
bestowed the name of Elephant upon the Point, to mark
its vicinity and the place where the fossils were found ; and
upon the river that of Buckland, in compliment to Dr.
Buckland, the Professor of Geology at Oxford, to whom
50  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                   [ch. ii.

I am much indebted for the arrangement of the geological
memoranda attached to this work. In consequence of the

shallow water, there was much difficulty in embarking the
fossils, the tusks in particular, the largest of which weighed
1 60 lbs., and it took the greater part of the night to
accomplish it."1

    On his return, Captain Beechey writes to Buckland from

Harley Street in October 1828, "The bones arrived

yesterday in good order at the Admiralty," and begs him
to come with all speed and unpack them, " as the ' cases '

are very large and occupy the Hall." The most perfect

series was selected  for the  British  Museum    2  another  series,
                                               ;

including some of the largest tusks of elephants, was sent

to the Museum at Edinburgh ; others to the Geological

Society of London.

    Another Arctic explorer, who was Buckland's old and

valued friend, was Sir John Franklin. After his return
from his second voyage to the Arctic regions, he came to

Oxford as the hero of the day to receive the honorary

degree of D.C.L. On this occasion he and his daughter

were the guests of Buckland at Christ Church. Always

taking the keenest interest in Arctic discoveries, Buckland

was one of Lady Franklin's chief advisers in the several

expeditions organised to search for the lost explorers. Sub

sequently both Sir Leopold M'Clintock and Admiral Ingle-

field were frequent guests at the Deanery of Westminster.

    ' Beechey's " Voyage to the Pacific."                    Road,
   2 Now to be seen in the Natural History Museum, Cromwell
South-East Gallery, Ground Floor, Cases 10, 16, and 31.
1808-1822.] GEOLOGICAL COLLECTION AT OXFORD.  51

   During Buckland's lifetime his collection was placed in

the Clarendon Buildings. A room had been prepared

for its reception, and the Professor writes in the highest

glee to Lady Mary Cole, on April 3rd, 1822, to tell her of
the fact. " You will be pleased to hear that my Lecture

Room is to be put to rights and fitted up with £300 worth
of cabinets between this and midsummer, when Mr. Miller

of Bristol is to come here, and arrange and catalogue my

collection, and clear my room of boxes."

   Buckland was particularly careful to put descriptive
labels on all specimens that came into his possession,

and these were usually written, or rather painted, by
his wife. From long practice, she acquired a knack of
finding the best place on which to mark them, and
her clear labelling may be seen on specimens in all
parts of the Oxford Museum as well as in Cromwell

Road.

    Ultimately Buckland bequeathed the collection to the
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford for the use
of the Professors of Geology who might succeed him, with

all the geological charts, sections, and engravings that
might be in the Clarendon Buildings at the time of his
death. Professor Phillips, who acted as deputy Reader

during Dean Buckland's last illness, and succeeded to his
Chair, proposed that the collection should henceforth be

known by the name of the Bucklandean Museum. A new

building was erected about 1858, to which the collection
was removed, and a marble bust (by Weekes) of Buckland,
the founder of the Geological Collection, was erected by

his friends and admirers :--
52  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                              [ch. ii.

                        Marmor hoc egregii Viri

             GULIELMI BUCKLAND, S.T.P.,

        Soc. Reg. Lond. Soc, Gall. Inst. Sod., Adscr.
                   in Ecclesia Westmonastr. Decani

    Geologise apud Oxonienses Professoris insignissimi
                oris atque animi lineamenta referens
                                 effingi curaverunt
                 et in hac JEde studiis naturalibus
                                           dicata

              inter longinquae vetus vetustatis rudera
                             antiquitatis primitias

                      ope sua et industria excavatas
                  in perpetuum conservari voluerunt

                    Amici et Discipuli superstites.
                                       a.d. i860.

   The subsequent history of the collection is a melan
choly record of neglect. Owing to a variety of causes,
a great part of this valuable bequest to the University
remains in the same condition (and with perishing labels)
in which it was removed from the Clarendon thirty-six
years ago. The Hebdomadal Council at Oxford were

urged to apportion a space, when the enlargement of the
Museum buildings was contemplated, for the "collec
tion in the cellars," as it was called, and within

the last two years a large room has been placed at the
disposal of the Professor of Geology. There the matter
rests, and, it is feared, will continue to rest, unless the
University makes a special grant to rescue this bequest
from oblivion. Not only does this collection consist of
Dr. Buckland's gatherings of the first-fruits of the new

science, but, as he was the greatest authority on geology
at the beginning of the century, it includes specimens
1808-1822.]  THE OXFORD MUSEUM.                             53

sent him from all parts of the world. Fortunately for

science, Dr. Buckland sent duplicate specimens to the

British Museum.
   Professor Boyd Dawkins ' writes respecting this once

famous collection :--

  "In 1857 Dr. Buckland's collection was in the old

Clarendon Buildings, partly in upright glass cases and
partly in drawers below. Professor Phillips let me have the

run of them, and I spent a good deal of time in working

at them ; they were all accessible and were mostly un
packed. They were removed to the new Museum, and the
arrangement disturbed, so that at present the collection is
in a state unworthy of Oxford. The Bucklandean tradition
and name, which were maintained in Oxford down to the
death of Phillips, are now almost unknown. The Buck
landean collections are now scarcely known as such."

Among the most interesting, and to his class most familiar,

specimens which his collection contained, was the skull of

a hyena.

" In the Oxford Museum," says Frank Buckland, " is a
very perfect skull of one of our ancient British Cave

Hyenas ; and my father, in his usual clever manner, often
made it appear in his lectures (and with good reason too)
that this skull was that of the old cannibal, Paterfamilias
of his cave, who devoured and survived all his relations.
The
      f'oTllhoewinLgastveErnsegsliswherHeyecnoamp' o:--sed  by one of the class
upon

      " ' High on a rock, which o'er the raging flood

      Reared its bleak crag, The Last Hyena stood.
      Beneath his paws a kindred skull was seen ;
      And he, with commons short, looked grim and lean.

   1 W. Boyd Dawkins, M.A. (Oxon.), F.S.A., F.G.S., Professor of
Geology and Palaeontology in the Victoria University, Owens Coll.,

Manchester.
54  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                             [ch. ii.

    " ' Potent his jaw to crack his bony rapine,
       Potent his stomach as a " pot of Pappin " ;
       O'er this last bone of many a murdered brother
        He growled, for he in vain had sought another.

    " ' Full oft, like Captain Franklin, did he prey
        On bones neglected on a former day ;
        But now th' o'erwhelming surge had buried all,
       In caves below, of beasts both great and small.

    " ' But ere it rose to mix him with the rest,
       Thus did he growl aloud his last bequest :--

       " My skull to William Buckland I bequeath."
       He moaned-- and ocean's wave he sank beneath.

    " ' Southward the flood from Yorkshire chanced to travel
       And rolled the monster deep in Yorkshire gravel.
       Behold the head of that Hyena grim,
       Who through Diluvium deeps essayed to swim.'

    " After vast labour and much accurate observation, Dr.
Buckland at length made the evidence of the former
existence of hyenas in England quite complete ; so com
plete indeed, that on one occasion, when surrounded by
the actual bones and specimens knocked out of the
Kirkdale stalactite by his own hammer, and brought to
Oxford by his own hand, and sitting in his Professor's
chair in his own museum, he appealed to one of the most
learned judges of the land, who happened to be present
at his lecture. After having, with his usual forcible and
telling eloquence, put his case, to prove not only the former
existence of hyenas in England, but even that they were
rapacious, ravenous, and murderous cannibals, he turned
round to the learned lawyer and said, ' And now, what do
you think of that, my lord ? ' ' Such facts,' replied the
judge, ' brought as                                         would
sufficient to convict  evidence  ahgaaningsthima .m' "an1,         be  quite
                       and even

    1 F. Buckland, " Curiosities of Natural History," 2nd series, pp. 52, 53.

                                                                                 *_
                        CHAPTER III.

BONE CAVES AT KIRKDALE, GOAT'S HOLE, DREAM LEAD
       MINE, AND GAILENREUTH ; PUBLICATION OF " RE
       LIQUIAE DILUVIAN.E," 1823 ; FIRST PRESIDENT OF
       THE ROYAL GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY, 1 824.

                                      1822 -- 1824.

IN 1822 Dr. Buckland addressed to the Royal Society,
      of which he had been elected Fellow in 181 8, a paper
describing his researches in the bone cave of Kirkdale,
which had been discovered in the preceding year in the
Vale of Pickering, about twenty-five miles from York, and
was the first fossil cave known in England. This paper
was printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1822,
and made so considerable an impression that its author
was, in the same year, honoured with the Copley Medal
of the Royal Society.

   In 1823 Dr. Buckland published in a quarto volume his
" Reliquiae Diluvianae." This important work made his
name still more widely known. To its value and influence
Professor Boyd Dawkins of Owens College, Manchester,
bears warm testimony :--

   " I give you the impression of one who as an under
graduate fell under the influence of Dr. Buckland's name
handed down by tradition at Oxford, and who afterwards,

                                                                        55
56  LIFE Oh DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. hi.

as a teacher, has had some experience of the value of his
work. When I went up to Oxford in 1857, Dr. Buckland's
name was a great memory in the University, and Professor
Phillips, who had worked with him side by side almost
from the beginning of his geological work, was giving
lectures in the Old Clarendon Buildings facing the Broad.
The parts of these lectures which left a lasting mark on
me were those relating to the liassic reptiles, and the
Reptiles and Mammalia from Stonesfield, both of which
had been either discovered, or specially dealt with, by Dr.
Buckland in the Bridgewater Treatise, and were in his
collection. There were also the large collections from the
bone caves of Germany and England described by him in
the ' Reliquiae Diluvianae,' which profoundly impressed me
and caused me to take up more particularly that section
of the history of the earth about which I have written in
' Cave Hunting.'

   " I therefore in my own person can speak of the great
influence which Dr. Buckland's work has had on me,
either directly from his collection, or through his friend
Professor Phillips. I shall never cease to venerate his
name. His books still, in my opinion, belong to the classics
of Geology, although of course during the last seventy
years the theories as to the Deluge and the doctrine of
Final Causes have changed. The facts, however, have not
changed, and, in my work as Professor in Owens College, I
still use as a class-book the last edition of the Bridgewater
Treatise edited by Phillips for the Reptiles, the Stonesfield
Mammalia, and the Pentacrinoids. My book on ' Cave
Hunting' is a lineal descendant of ' Reliquiae Diluvianae,'
and probably I should never have taken up that question
had Dr. Buckland's book never been written."

   When Dr. Buckland was writing this essay on Kirkdale
Cavern, he took great pains to compare the bones there
found with recent bones, in order to make his story quite

complete.

   " In the Kirkdale cave he found a portion of a skull
1822-1824.]  KIRKDALE CAVE.                                      57

which he believed belonged to a young hyena, and although
nearly certain that it was what he thought it to be, he
ransacked all the collections he knew for a recent skull
of a young animal for comparison ; and not finding one, he
requested Mr. Burchell, the great African traveller, to send
him a young hyena from the Cape. In course of time the
baby-beast arrived in the Docks ; a pretty tame little beast,
a great favourite with the sailors, who had christened him
' Billy,' doomed nevertheless to be slain for the sake of
science. The late Mr. Cross, then of Exeter 'Change, and

                                                   KIRKDALE CAVE.ly-

afterwards of the Surrey Zoological Gardens, acted as agent, --^.   \
and undertook the delivery of poor ' Billy.' The little brute,

however, by his good temper and playful manners, quite
won the heart of Mr. Cross, who begged hard for his life,
and at length obtained a respite on the condition that
the skull of a young hyena should be forthcoming. Mr
Cross, we suppose, turned out all his drawers and cabine*'
in search ; anyhow, he, within the given time, produce1
a skull, which was not the skull of poor Billy. His
was spared, and he was forthwith taken to Exeter 'Chan
and thence removed with the rest of the wild beasts to
Surrey Zoological Gardens.
58                 LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                      [ch. hi.

    " ' The Companion to the Royal Menagerie, Exeter
'Change, containing concise descriptions, scientific and
interesting, of the curious foreign animals now in that emi
nent collection, derived from actual observation, by Edward
Cross, Proprietor, 1820,' describes Billy, then  in
but amiable withal : --' The hyena in a cage     at       his  youth,
                                                          the  end of
the room is possessed of a large share of good humour, and
entertains the visitors at feeding time by the gesticula
tions of delight he manifests at the moment, and by his
curious imitations of the human voice resembling laughter.
This animal suffers himself to be caressed, and is so

familiar with the keepers, that when any repairs are
wanting in his cage they have no hesitation in going
in with him. (N.B. -- This was before the day of Van
Hamborough, and other lion kings.) He is a native of the
Cape of Good Hope, and is frequently called the Tiger
Wolf.' Billy arrived in England in the year 1820, and
he died in his den a peaceable quiet death, January 14th,
1846, having lived just a quarter of a century within this

me"trAoptolihs.is  ...       (the  cause  of death, plus  old  age,

                    decease

being an enormous goitre in the throat), Dr. Buckland
presented his carcass to the Royal College of Surgeons,
reserving, however, the skin for himself. . . . Billy first
made his dtbut as the youngest hyena in England ; he
ended his career grim and grisly as the oldest hyena
in England, and probably in Europe. The stuffed skin
is now at the College of Surgeons in company with his
skeleton, having been bought at the sale (of the Dean's
effects, January 1857) by Professor Quekett. Not only
was Billy subservient to the cause of science when dead,

  but even when alive he unknowingly gave much important
  assistance to his former owner, then busy with the ' Reliquiae

r Mluvianae,' for Billy cracked the marrow-bones of oxen,

  a\d refused those bones which contained no marrow,

four,actly as did his ancestors ages before him in the wilds
comtYorkshire, as yet untrodden by the foot of man. So

   u derfully alike were these bones in their fracture, that,
          ing from this point alone, it was impossible to say
1822-1824.]                             HYENAS.                 59

which bone had been cracked by Billy and which by the
aboriginal hyena of Kirkdale. Again, Billy polished with
his feet and hide the sides and floor of his den of wood,
as his ancestors did the sides and floor of their den of
stalactite in the Yorkshire hills ; and as the ancient beasts
deposited album grcecum in abundance after a dinner of
bones, so did Billy deposit pounds of the same substance,
even in this minute     circumstance
of his ancient British  forefathers." l          illustrating  the history

No one then believed either in the probability or

possibility of wild beasts, which now exist only in warm

climates, having lived and died in our Yorkshire wolds.

Hence Dr. Buckland was bound to give proof of his

assertions, and, as usual, spared no pains or trouble in

verifying the novel and extraordinary results of his

examination of the cave. He took Sir Humphry Davy

to visit and writes to the Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt that
the eminent scientist " satisfied with the accuracy of my
facts." He adds " We have had this week in Oxford
it,

                             :

                          is

a Cape hyena who has performed admirably on shins
of beef, leaving precisely those parts which are left at

Kirkdale and devouring what are there wanting, and
leaving splinters and scanty marks of his teeth on the

residuary fragments which are not distinguished from

those in the den."

Dr. Buckland's interest in hyenas caused some amusement

to his friend Lyell, who writes to Dr. Mantell, in 1826:
" Buckland has got
1                                       letter from India about modern

                                     a
hyenas, whose manners, habitations, diet, etc., are every-

Frank Buckland's "Curiosities of Natural History," 2nd series.
60  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iii.

thing he could wish and as much as could be expected
had they attended regularly this course of his lectures."

   Buckland found in the Kirkdale cave not only remains
of hyenas, but teeth and bones of twenty-three different
animals -- among them tiger, bear, wolf, elephant, rhino

ceros, hippopotamus, horse, ox, three species of deer, hare,

rabbit, water-rat, mouse. Of birds' remains, he also

found raven, pigeon, lark, snipe, and a small species of
duck resembling the anas sponsor or summer duck. This

wonderful cave no longer exists, having been quarried
away. Buckland says : " The workmen on first discover
ing the bones at Kirkdale cave supposed them to have

belonged to cattle that died of a murrain in this district

a few years before, and they were for some time neglected

and thrown on the roads with the common limestone."

It was to the kindness of the Bishop of Oxford (Legge)

that the Professor was indebted for the first information
as to the existence of the cave. He visited it in December

1 82 1, and described the entrance as "a hole in the perpen

dicular face of the quarry about three feet high and five
feet broad, which it is only possible for a man to enter on

his hands and knees, and which expands and contracts

itself irregularly, from two to seven feet in breadth and

two to fourteen feet in height, diminishing however as it
proceeds into the interior of the hill."

   From Dr. Buckland's minute account of the contents of
the cave the following abridged extract may be taken :--

   " The bottom of the cave, on first removing the mud, was
found to be strewed all over like a dog kennel, from one
end to the other, with hundreds of teeth and bones, or
1822-1824.]  KIRKDALE CAVE.  61

rather broken and splintered fragments of bones, of all the
animals above enumerated ; they were found in greatest
quantity near its mouth, simply because its area in this
part was most capacious ; those of the larger animals,
elephant, rhinoceros, etc., were found co-extensively with
all the rest even in the inmost and smallest recesses.
Scarcely a single bone has escaped fracture, and on

         BUCKLAND ENTERING THE KIRKDALE CAVERN. FROM A CARICATURE
                                        BY THE REV. W. CONYBEARE.

some of the bones, marks may be traced, which, on
applying one to the other, appear exactly to fit the form
of the canine teeth of the hyena that occur in the cave.
The hyena's bones have been broken, and apparently
gnawed equally with those of the other animals. Not one
skull is to be found entire ; fragments of jaw-bones are
by no means common ; the ordinary fate of the jaw-bones,
as of all the rest, appears to have been to be broken to
62  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. in.

pieces and swallowed, the teeth being rejected as too hard
for mastication, and without marrow. The greatest
number of teeth are those of hyenas and the ruminantia.
Mr. Gibson alone collected more than three hundred canine
teeth of the hyena, which at the least must have belonged
to seventy-five individuals, and adding to these the canine

teeth I have seen in other collections, I cannot calculate
the total number of hyenas of which there is evidence at
less than two hundred or three hundred. The only remains
that have been found of the tiger species are two large

canine teeth and a few molar teeth. There is one tusk
only of a bear, which exactly resembles those of the extinct
Ursus spelceus of the caves of Germany, the size of which,
M. Cuvier says, must have equalled those of a large horse.

It is probable that the cave at Kirkdale was, during a long
succession of years, inhabited as a den by hyenas, and that

they dragged into its recesses the other animal bodies
whose remains are found mixed indiscriminately with their
own." 1

   Buckland's friend the Rev. William Conybeare made
a caricature of the Professor entering the cave, and wrote
the following amusing verses :--

                   " But of all the miraculous caves,
                    And of all their miraculous stories,
                    Kirby Hole all its brethren outbraves,
                   With Buckland to tell of its glories.

                 "Ages long ere this planet was formed,
                  (I beg pardon --before it was drowned,)
                      Fierce and fell were the monsters that swarmed,
                      Roared, and rolled in these hollows profound.

              " I can show you the fragments half-gnawed,

                    Their own album gracum I've spied,
                    And here are the bones that they pawed.
                    And polished in scratching their hide.

                              1 " Reliquiae Diluvianse," p. 15.
1822-1824.]  GOAT HOLE.                                        63

             "I know how they fared every day,

               Can tell Sunday's from Saturday's dinner ;
               What rats they devoured, can say,
               When the game of the forest grew thinner.

             "Your elk of the bogs was a meat
               That each common hunt might obtain,

               But an elephant's haunch was a treat
               They only could hope now and then.

             " Mystic cavern ! the gloom of thy cell,
               Shedding light on each point that was dark,
               Tells the hour by Shrewsbury clock
               When Noah went into the ark.

             " By the crust on the stalactite floor,
               The post-Adamite ages I've reckoned --
               Summed their years, days, and hours, and more,
               And find it comes right to a second.

             " Mystic cavern ! thy clearness sublime

               All the chasms of history supply;
               What was done ere the birthday of Time,
               Through one other such hole I could spy.1'

    Another famous cave was Paviland or Goat Hole, in

the district of Gower. This discovery is on the coast of
Glamorganshire, fifteen miles west of Swansea, between
Oxwich Bay and the Worm's Head, on the property of

C. M. Talbot, Esq., of Penrice Castle. It consists of two

large caves facing the sea in the front of a lofty cliff of

limestone, which rises more than one hundred feet perpen
dicularly above the mouth of the caves, and below them
slopes at an angle of 400 to the water's edge, presenting
the bluff and ragged shores to the waves, which are very
violent along this north coast of the estuary of the
Severn. These caves are altogether invisible from the
64  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                     [ch. hi.

land side, and are accessible only at low water, except by
dangerous climbing along the face of a nearly precipitous
cliff, composed entirely of compact mountain limestone.

    "One of them only called Goat's Hole," writes Buck-
...land in the ' Reliquiae Diluvianae,' " had been noticed when
I arrived there.            Its existence had been long known

to the farmers of the adjacent lands, as well as the fact
of its containing large bones, but it had been no further
attended to till last summer, when it was explored by the
surgeon and curate of the nearest village, Porteynon, who
discovered in it two molar teeth of elephant and a
portion of a large curved tusk, which latter they buried
again in the earth, where it remained till it was extracted
a second time, on a further examination of the cave by
L. W. Dillwyn, Esq., and Miss Talbot, and removed to
Penrice Castle, together with a large part of the skull to
which it had belonged, and several baskets full of other
teeth and bones. On the news of this further discovery being
communicated to me, I went immediately from Derbyshire
to Wales, and found the position of the cave to be such as

I have above described ; and its floor at the mouth to be

from thirty to forty feet above high-water mark, so that
the waves of the highest storms occasionally dash into
                            a

                                   ;

                                                       it,
and have produced three or four deep rock basins in its
very threshold, by the rolling on their axis of large stones,
which still lie at the bottom of these basins around their
edge, and in the outer part of the cave itself, are strewed
a considerable number of sea pebbles, resting on the native

limestone rock. . . . Where the pebbles cease, the floor is
covered with mass of diluvial loam of reddish yellow
colour, abundantly mixed with angular fragments of limeI
stone and broken calcareous spar, and interspersed with
                         a
recent sea shells, and with teeth and bones of the following
animals, viz. elephant, rhinoceros, bear, hyena, wolf, fox,
horse, ox, deer of two or three species, water-rats, sheep,

birds, and man.                             a  small flint,
   " found also fragments of charcoal, and
1822-1824.]           GOAT HOLE.  65

...the edges of which had been chipped off, as if by striking

a l"igInht.1another part I discovered beneath a shallow cover
ing of six inches of earth nearly the entire left side of
a human female skeleton. The skull and vertebrae, and

extremities of the right side were wanting ; the remaining
parts lay extended in the usual position of burial and in
their natural order of contact. In the middle of the bones
of the ancle was a small quantity of yellow wax-like sub

stance resembling adipocere. All the bones were stained
superficially with a dark brick-red colour, and enveloped
by a coating of a kind of ruddle, which stained the earth,
and in some parts extended itself to the distance of about
half an inch around the surface of the bones. The body
must have been entirely surrounded or covered over at the

time of its interment with this red substance. Close to
that part of the thigh bone where the pocket is usually
worn, I found laid together and surrounded also by
ruddle about two handsful of small shells of the Nerita
littoralis in a state of great decay, and falling to dust on
the slightest pressure. At another part of the skeleton,
...viz. in contact with the ribs, I found forty or fifty fragments
of small ivory rods.  In another place were found
three fragments of the same ivory, which had been

cut into unmeaning forms by a rough-edged instrument,
probably a coarse knife, the marks of which remain on
all their surfaces. One of these fragments is nearly of
the shape and size of a human tongue. No metallic
instruments have been as yet found amongst these remains,
which, though clearly not coeval with the antediluvian
bones of the extinct species, appear to have lain there
many centuries. The charcoal and fragments of recent
bone that are apparently the remains of human food,
render it probable that this exposed and solitary cave has
at some time or other been the scene of human habitation,

   1 Dr. Buckland states that the most remarkable of the remains of
these animals are preserved in the collection at Penrice Castle, and in
the museum at Oxford.

                                                                                                                s
66            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                         [ch. iii.

if to no other persons, at least to the woman whose bones
I h"aTvehebeiveonrydersicnrgibsinga.nd rods and tongue-shaped fragment
are certainly made from part of the antediluvian tusks

that lay in the same cave ; and as they must have been cut
to their present shape at a time when the ivory was hard,

and not crumbling to pieces as it is at present on the

slightest touch, we may assume to them very high
antiquity, which is further confirmed by the decayed state
of the shells that lay in contact with the thigh bone, and,
like the rods and rings, must have been buried with the
woman. The circumstance of the remains of a British
camp existing on the hill immediately above this cave,
seems to throw much light on the character and date of

the woman ; and whatever may have been her occupation,
the vicinity of a camp would afford a motive for residence
as well as the means of subsistence in what is now so

exp" oTsheed  and uninviting a solitude.  recent  bones  of  oxen,
              fragments of charcoal and
sheep, and pigs, are probably the remains of culinary

operations ; the larger shells may have been collected,

also for food, from the adjacent shore, and the small nerite

shells either have been kept in the pocket for the beauty

of their yellow colour, or have been used, as I am
informed by the Rev. Henry Knight, of Newton Nottage,
they now are in that part of Glamorganshire, in some
simple species of game. The ivory rods also may have
been applicable to some game, as we use chess men or
pins of a cribbage board ; or they may be fragments of
pins, such as Sir Richard Hoare has found in the barrows
of Wilts and Dorset, together with large bodkins also of

ivory, and which were probably used to fasten together the

coarse garments of the ancient Britons. It is a curious
coincidence also, that he has found in a barrow near
Warminster, at Cop Head Hill, the shell of a nerite and
some ivory beads, which were laid by the skeletons of an

infant and an adult female,  apparently its  mother.     armlets,
   " That ivory rings were    at that time   used as

is probable from the circumstance of similar rings having
1822-1824.]  PAVILAND CAVE.  67

also been found by Sir Richard Hoare in these same
barrows ; and from a passage in Strabo, lib. 4, which Mr.
Knight has pointed out to me, in which, speaking of the
small taxes which it was possible to levy on the Britons,
he specifies their imports to be very insignificant, consist
ing chiefly of ivory armlets and necklaces, Ligurian stones,
glass vessels, and other suchlike trifles. The custom of

                                                                                                       Plan.

                             SECTION OF GOAT HOLE, OR PAVILAND CAVE.

burying with their possessors the ornaments and chief
utensils of the deceased, is evident from the remains of
this kind discovered everywhere in the ancient barrows ;
and this may explain the circumstance of our finding with
the bones of the woman at Paviland the ivory rods, and
rings, and nerite shells, which she had probably made use

of during life. I am at a loss to conjecture what could
have been the object of collecting the red oxide of iron

that seems to have been thrown over the body when laid
68            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                       [ch. hi.

in the grave : it is a substance, however, which occurs

abundantly in the limestone rocks of the neighbourhood.
From all these circumstances there is reason to conclude
that the date of these human bones is coeval with that of the
military occupation of the adjacent summits, and anterior to,
    "coItevraelmwaiinths ,  the Roman invasion of this country. . . .
or                          only to describe a long, cavernous aperture

that rises like a crooked chimney from its roof to the
nearly vertical face of the rock above : its form and

diameter are throughout irregular, the latter being about
twelve feet where longest, and in its narrowest part about
three feet ; so that it is impossible the large elephant,
whose bones were found in the cave below, could have

been drifted down entire through this aperture. It ex
pands and contracts irregularly from D (see Plate), its
lower extremity in the roof of the cavern, to K, the point
    which it  terminates in  the face of
at  " Along   this tortuous  ascent are   the cliff.
                                          several lateral
                                                           cavities,

L.L.L. the bottoms of which afford a place of lodgment
for a bed of brown earth, about a foot thick, and derived

apparently from dust driven in continually by the wind.
In this earth I found the bones of various birds and
fish, and a few land shells, of moles, water-rats, and mice,

and their presence here can only be explained by
referring them to the agency of hawks, and fish-bones to
that of the seagulls. The land shells are such as live

at present on the rock without, and may easily have
fallen in. Had there been any stalagmite uniting these
bones into a breccia1 they would have afforded a per
fect analogy to the accumulation of modern birds' bones,
by the agency of hawks, at Gibraltar ; where Major Imrie
describes them as forming a breccia of modern origin in
fissures of the same rock which has other cavities filled
with a bony breccia of more ancient date, and which are
of the same antediluvian origin with the older parts of the
bones that occur on the floor of the cave at Paviland." 2

    1 Breccia consists of fragments of different rocks cemented together.
    * Miss Talbot, the present owner of Penrice Castle, writes from
1 822-1 824.]           DREAM LEAD MINE.             69

   The following jeu desprit on the female skeleton found
by Dr. Buckland in the Paviland Cave is from the pen of
Mr. Philip Duncan :--

" Have ye heard of the woman so long underground ?

Have ye heard of the woman that Buckland has found,

With her bones of empyreal hue ?

Oh, fair one of modern days ! hang down your head,
The antediluvians rouged when dead --
                                                "
Only           granted  in  lifetime  to  you
                                               !

  A third cave was that which was discovered in the

Dream Lead Mine, Derbyshire. The lead mine called
the Dream is in the hamlet of Caelow, about one mile

from Wirksworth, and on the property of Philip Gell,

Esq., by whose exertions nearly the entire skeleton of a

rhinoceros was extracted, together with some considerable

remains of the horse, ox, and deer.
   Buckland thus describes the cave and its contents : --

  "In December 1822, some miners engaged in pursuing

a lead vein had sunk a shaft about sixty feet through solid
mountain limestone, when they suddenly penetrated a large
cavern, filled entirely to the roof with a confused mass of clay
and fragments of stone, through which they attempted to
continue their shaft perpendicularly downwards to the vein
below ; in this operation they were interrupted by the earth
and fragments beginning to move and fall in upon them
continually from the sides until the roof of a large cavern

became apparent. It was nearly in the centre of this

subsiding mass, and at the height of many feet above the
floor of the cave, that the workmen discovered the bones of
a rhinoceros. They lay very near to each other, and prob
ably formed an entire skeleton before they were disturbed.

Margam December 13th, 1892: "We have a number of bones at
Penrice Castle which were found in Paviland Cave, but I believe the

bulk of them were taken to the Swansea Museum."
70             LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                     [ch. iii.

The bones are in a state of high preservation, and from a
nearly full grown animal, and, being found so close together,
are without doubt portions of a skeleton which lay entire in
the middle of the cave before the materials that had filled it

began to subside. There were no supernumerary bones, to
indicate the presence of a second rhinoceros ; but in the
same cave were found some teeth and bones of a horse, and
many entire bones from the legs of a very large ox, all
apparently from one individual ; also many bones of deer
from at least four individuals, and fragments of horns, none
so large as those of red deer. From the circumstance that
none of these bones have marks of partial decay on one

surface only, we may infer that they were derived from

animals that perished by the waters that introduced them

to the cave : they are of a yellowish brown colour. . . .
   " For some time after the cave was penetrated there was

no apparent communication between its interior and the
surface ; but as the loose materials that at first filled it
subsided into and were taken out by the shaft, a sinking
appeared in the field above at I, and a further mass of
the same kind, viz. clay and fragments of limestone, mixed
with a few rolled pebbles of quartz, continued to fall down
wards into it (like the contents of a limekiln, sinking to
wards the lower aperture by which the lime is extracted),
until a large open chasm D, more than six feet broad, and
fifty feet deep, was left entirely void, and seemed to form

a direct communication from the side of the cave to the

surface of the field above. Till undermined in this manner,

the fissure D had been entirely filled, and the surface

afforded not the slightest indication of its existence ; at
present it is restored to the same state of an open chasm
in which it probably was before the access of the diluvian

waters, that appear to have swept into it the mud and
rocky fragments which filled both it and the cave below ;
and on examining its sides, I found the projecting parts of
them rubbed and scratched by the descent of these heavy
                     dropped in from above.
bod"ieFsroams  they  situation of the rhinoceros'  bones  in  the
                the
middle of this drifted mass, and in the centre of the cave,
1822-1824.]  DREAM LEAD MINE.  IT-

added to the juxtaposition of so many of the component
parts of one entire skeleton, which are neither rolled, or
gnawed, or broken, except by the movement they have
recently undergone, and the pickaxes of the miners, it
seems probable that they are the remains of a carcase that

was drifted in entire at the same time with the diluvial
detritus, in the midst of which they were found embedded :

 SECTION OF CAVE IN DREAM LEAD MINE, NEAR WIRKSWORTH, DERBYSHIRE.it,

had they been washed in singly, they would have been
slightly rolled and scattered irregularly, and we should
probably have found parts of more than a single individual ;
and had they been derived from an animal that fell into
the fissure, and perished before the introduction of the
diluvium, they would not have been suspended, as they
were, altogether nearly in the middle of but would have
lain either on the actual floor of the cave beneath the
loam and pebbles, or have been scattered and drifted
72             LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.              [ch. iii.

irregularly   to different and   distant parts  l  of its lowest
recesses.                       no stalagmite       and but few
             I could discover
traces of stalactite in any part of this cavern, or of the

fissure immediately connected with it."2

   Although Buckland describes several German caves in
his "Reliquiae Diluvianae," it will suffice to select the cave
of Gailenreuth, near Muggenendorf, in Bavaria, which he

visited in 1816, and again in 1822. It is by far the most

remarkable cave in Germany, both for the quantity and

high preservation of the bones that have been extracted
from and, like other foreign caves, differs from those of
our own country by having its mouth still open, and in
the appearance of having been inhabited also in the post
diluvian period.

   Buckland describes the Gailenreuth cavern as
21
" situated in
        it,
             is

                         a
                                                              is

                                                                                                                                                                       ;:
               perpendicular rock, in the highest part
of the cliffs which form the left side of the valley of the

Weissent River, at an elevation of more than three
hundred feet above its bed. . . . The cave consists princi
pally of two large chambers, varying in breadth from ten
to thirty feet, and in height from three to twenty feet
the roof in most parts abundantly hung with stalactite
and in the first chamber, the floor nearly covered with

      Stalactites are like icicles of stone hanging from the roofs of caverns,

formed by the dropping of water containing particles of lime through
fissures and pores of rocks. Stalagmites are a deposit of stalactitic
matter on the floors of caverns, sometimes rising into columns which

meet and blend with the stalactites above.
      "Reliquiae Diluvianae," pp. 61 to 64. The bones from the caves of

Gailenreuth and Kirkdale, and a bit of the red woman's bone from
Paviland, can be seen beautifully arranged in a case on the right hand
side of the Geological Gallery of the Natural History Museum at
South Kensington.
1 822- 1824.]  GAILENREUTH.                                                                                        73

stalagmite, piled in irregular mamillated heaps, one of
which in the centre is accumulated into a large pillar
uniting the roof to the floor. We descend by ladders
to a second chamber, the floor of which also appears to

have been once overspread with a similar stalagmitic
crust : this, however, has been nearly destroyed by holes
               in search of the prodigious quantities of
dug throughis
        is
             a
                it,
                                                       is

                                                                                                                :

                                                                                              a
VERTICAL SECTION OF THE CAVERN AT GAILENREUTH IN FRANCONIA.

bones that lie beneath. The cave connected by low
and narrow passage, with a smaller cavern, at the bottom
of which       nearly circular hole, descending like a well

about twenty-five feet, and from three to four feet in

diameter, into which you let yourself down, as in climbing

a chimney, by supporting the hands, feet, and back
against the opposite sides. The circumference of this
hole for the most part composed of a breccia of bones,

pebbles, and loam, cemented by stalagmite on one side of
74  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iii.

it is a lateral cavity, which is entirely artificial, and is the
spot from which the most perfect skulls and bones have
been extracted in the greatest abundance ; the lowest cavity
is also entirely surrounded with the breccia above described.
The roof and the sides of the artificial cavities, having
been dug in the breccia, are crowded with teeth and bones ;
but these latter do not occur in the roof or sides of any
of the upper or natural chambers above the level of the
stalagmitic crust that covers their floor ; this applies

equally to all the other caverns I have been describing."

   One more passage may be quoted from " Reliquiae
Diluvianae." The passage describes the Siberian mam
moth {Mammoth Elephas Primigenius) preserved in the
Museum of the Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg. The
specimen has much of the dead skin still covering the

head and feet. Its carcass was originally found entire,

buried in frozen mud near the mouth of the river Lena,

in Siberia, and the skeleton was brought to St. Petersburg

by Adams in 1806. A portion of its skin and hair was

presented to Dr. Buckland, and he esteemed this relic as
one of his greatest treasures. In 1825 he writes to the
Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt, telling him that the Bishop of
Durham, Shute Barrington, to whom he had dedicated the

" Reliquiae Diluvianae,"

" has required me to have the lock of hair, etc., of the
Siberian mammoth preserved in some appropriate manner
at his expense. I mean to place it under crystal in the
cover of a box of fossil ivory, if I can get any sufficiently
hard, which I have not here ; but I remember that a
lapidary and curiosity collector at Burlington, whose name
you probably know, but I forget, has just such a piece of

a tusk from that coast. A great part of it had actually

been made into boxes, and the remainder was in his
1822-1824.]    THE SIBERIAN MAMMOTH.                       75

collection, being four or five inches long, and for which he
Ifasked a very high price, four or five guineas.           I can

get one and a half inches long from the most perfect end
I shall not quarrel with the price."

   Eventually these precious relics of the mammoth were
enshrined in a silver box. In the " Reliquiae Diluvianae "

the monster itself is thus described :--

"The fossil elephant differs from any living species
of that genus, but approaches more nearly to the Asiatic
                    Africa. The
than to that   of   been applied      term    mbyamtmheothnat(ivaensimaolf
of the earth)  has                    to it

Siberia, who imagined the bones to be those of some
huge animal that lived at present like a mole beneath

the surface of the earth. It appears from the wonderful
specimen that was found entire in the ice of Tungusia,
that this species was clothed with coarse tufty wool of
a reddish colour, interspersed with stiff black hair, unlike
that of any known animal ; that it had a long mane on
its neck and back, and had its ears protected by tufts of
hair, and
   " The     was at least sixteen feet high.  in  Britain  had from
             bones of elephants occurring
very ancient times attracted attention, and are mentioned
with wonder by the early historians. The old and vulgar
notion that they were gigantic bones of the human species
is at once refuted by the smallest knowledge of anatomy.
The next idea, which long prevailed, and was considered

satisfactory by the antiquaries of the last century, was,
that they were the remains of elephants imported by the
Roman armies. This idea is also refuted : first by the
anatomical fact of their belonging to an extinct species of
this genus ; secondly, by their being usually accompanied
by the bones of rhinoceros and hippopotamus, animals
which could never have been attached to Roman armies ;

thirdly, by their being found dispersed over Siberia and
North America, in equal or even greater abundance than
in those parts of Europe which were subjected to the
Roman power. The later and still more rational idea,
76    LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                          [ch. iii

that they were drifted northwards by the diluvian waters

from tropical regions, must be abandoned on the authority
of the evidence afforded by the den at Kirkdale ; and it

now remains only to admit that they must have inhabited

the"  countries in which their bones are  found.      are  often
                                           and bones
      In the streets of London the teeth

found, in digging foundations and sewers, embedded in
the gravel ; e.g. elephants' teeth have been found under
twelve feet of gravel in Gray's Inn Lane ; and lately at
thirty feet deep, in digging the grand sewer, near Charles

Street, on the east of Waterloo Place. At Kingsland, near
Hoxton, in 1806, an entire elephant's skull was discovered,

containing two tusks of enormous length, as well as the

grinding-teeth ; they have also been frequently found at
Ilford, on the road from London to Harwich, and, indeed,
in almost all the gravel-pits round London. The teeth
are of all sizes, from the milk-teeth to those of the larger
and most perfect growth ; and some of them show all
the intermediate and peculiar stages of change to which
the teeth of modern elephants are subject. In the gravel-
pits of Oxford and Abingdon, teeth and tusks, and various
bones of the elephant, are found mixed with the bones
of rhinoceros, horse, ox, hog, and several species of deer,
often crowded together in the same pit, and seldom rolled
or rubbed at the edges, although they have not been found
united in entire skeletons.
   " In the Ashmolean Museum there are some vertebrae,

and a thigh bone of an enormous elephant, at least sixteen
feet high, which are in the most delicate state of preserva
tion, and were found in the gravel at Abingdon four or five
years ago. In the same pit with them were collected also
fragments of sixteen horns of deer. . . . About three years
since a large molar tooth of an elephant was dug up in a
...gravel-pit in one of the streets of Oxford, in front of
St. John's College.  At Newnham, in Warwickshire,
near Church Lawford, about two miles west of Rugby, two
magnificent heads and numerous bones and teeth of several

individuals of the Siberian rhinoceros, with many large

tusks and teeth of elephants, and some stags' horns, and
1 822-1 824.]     "RELIQUIAE DILUVIANJE."                         77

bones of the ox and horse, were found, in the year 181 5,
in a bed of diluvium, which is immediately incumbent on
stratified beds of lias. . . . One of these heads, measuring
in length two feet six inches, together with a small tusk,
and molar tooth of an elephant, have, by the kindness of
Henry Hakewell, Esq. (of architectural celebrity), been
deposited in the museum at Oxford." 1

   A curved tusk, from the same place, measuring seven

feet in length, together with a highly valuable collection
of the bones of rhinoceros,2 were deposited in the Oxford
Museum till Dr. Buckland placed his collection in the

Clarendon.

The book achieved a remarkable success. Buckland

writes to the Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt, December 3rd,

1823:--

" I am very proud of the rapid sale my book has had -
not a copy has been left for some time. Mr. Murray is
very busy in bringing out a second edition of one thousand
                  You of course
copies  more.     the Quarterly --  have     seen  the very flattering
review                              it is           Copleston."
        of it in                           by Dr.

Later on in the month he says :---

" The second edition of my first volume comes out this
week, and Mr. Murray tells me he has already sold four
hundred copies of it to the booksellers, and expects the
whole edition (one thousand copies) will be out of print in
six months. I cannot but think myself very successful in
     first attempt at a quarto vol.
my"  I have just been to London      to    sit  on  a  Committee  of

   1 "Reliquiae Diluvianae," pp. 174 to 177.
   2 Many of these latter have been engraved in Cuvier's "Animaux
Fossiles," vol. ii., from drawings by Miss Morland, whom Dr. Buckland

afterwards married.
78             LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                  [ch. iii.

the Royal Society for selecting the best granite for the
new London Bridge."

   In another letter to the same friend he writes, two years
later :--

    " I have just received a gold snuff-box set with mosaic
from the Emperor of Russia, in acknowledgment of a
copy I sent    him of my '   Reliquiae Diluvianae.' I
returned," he  continues, "  from exploring two more   am just
                                                       hyenas'
dens in Devonshire. They were less populous than
Kirkdale, but have abundance of splinter and a fair supply
of toes and teeth. I found the teeth of rhinoceros in

addition to hyenas, bears, and tigers, which have been
noticed there by Trevelyan, and found also a flint knife of
the same kind as the one I have from Paviland, showing
both these caves to have been inhabited by people who
used such knives, i.e. aboriginal Britons. In the other at

Chudleigh I delighted Lord Clifford by finding, under a
thick crust of virgin stalagmite, bears and hyenas of
enormous size, and plenty of splinters and gnawed frag
ments in a bed of mud more than five feet deep and of
which I did not reach the bottom. I passed for a conjurer

by telling them where the bones would lie before the crust

was touched, and the more so as in three subsequent

experiments hardly any bones were found ; it was the
finest proof possible of the verity of my theory, for it was

precisely in the spot where, according to that theory, they

ought to occur in the greatest abundance that they were
so found, according to the entire convictions and con
version of Lord Clifford, who had before been persuaded
by G. Penn to be an unbeliever in my book. Sir T.

Acland was with me in my examinations of both these

caves, and dug as if he had been member for Cornwall
rather than for people who, like my constituents, live above

ground."

   When the " Reliquiae Diluvianae " was published, the lime
caverns at Dudley had never been opened ; but as the
1 822- 1824.]    DUDLEY CAVERNS.                         79

subject of bone caves will not call for attention at a later
period of the narrative, it will not be out of place here
to translate an account written of them by a scientific

foreigner, who made Buckland's acquaintance and was in
his company when these caves were illuminated. The

author, who is a German naturalist,1 thus tells his story :--

" These lime caverns, although only the work of art, are
nearly one English mile in length and about a hundred feet
high ; the breadth may be about seventy-five feet. But for
what purpose were such gigantic caverns made by the
hands of man ? The neighbouring iron works use, as
a flux in smelting, great quantities of lime, and Lord
Ward furnishes this requisite from the Dudley Caverns,
which belong to him. We can form an idea of the
quantity of lime excavated for this purpose, when we
learn that the above-mentioned caverns were begun less
than ten years ago by the excavation of this stone, and

(according to several estimates given to me) the owner
draws from these lime-pits a yearly income of from £15,000
to £20,000. Another, and a still larger, cave, begun in the
same way, is even now becoming profitable. Lord Ward,
on the occasion of the meeting of the British Association
at Birmingham 1839 (under the Presidentship of the Rev.
W. Vernon Harcourt), for the convenience of the company,
had this vast subterranean vault most brilliantly lighted.

It must have cost him many hundreds of pounds, for the
number of lights erected was almost incredible, and in
addition, at short intervals throughout the whole extent
of the cave, artificial lights were burning in galleries hewn
out    for the
    "            purpose.   the entrance,  we descended  from a
       In order   to reach

considerable height through an excavation, and boats were
ready to take us along the canal leading to the interior.

   1 " Mittheilungen aus dem Reisetagebuche eines deutschen Natur-
forschers Eng." (Basel, 1842.)
80  LIFE OF DEAN BUCK LAND.  [ch. iii.

As the illumination of the Dudley Caverns is of very rare
occurrence, thousands of people nocked from the surround
ing country, in spite of the abominable weather, in order
to witness the unusual and beautiful spectacle. Naturally
only a small part of the crowd could be conveyed by the
boats, and the greater part had to proceed by the galleries.
Just as the foremost boat, in which I was, passed through
the doorway, which had been boldly blasted in the rock,
and we had cast the first glance over the immeasurable
sea of light and flame, the long vault resounded with
thunder crashes and rollings in quick succession. We
thought the foundations of the earth were moving, that
they were on the point of giving way, that a great
geological catastrophe was approaching which would bury
unlearned and learned alike in the bowels of the earth, in
order to furnish to posterity some materials of comparative
anatomy for the precise definition of the organisation of
the Adamite creation. But it was only weak man who
made this noise ; at the farthest end of the cavern a huge
mass of limestone had been blown up by gunpowder in
order to show the company how the caverns were begun,
and millions of pieces of stone were torn from the bosom
of the earth.

   " Whilst the more fortunate of the visitors to the cavern
pressed on to the interior of the hill comfortably in
their boats, and were alone in a position to see the whole
of the fairy-like spectacle, the crowd was obliged to twist
and jostle each other through the higher passages and
paths ; but the moving throng indispensably contributed
to the artistic life of the scene. As the floor of the hewn-
out galleries is sometimes broad and somewhat steep, we

were able to survey completely the moving masses, and
watch the most wonderful groups form themselves and
vanish again in the manifold lights. Sometimes the

people's faces shone in a greyish red light ; sometimes there
appeared, alongside and in front of us, a crowd of ghostly
corpses pacing the Lower Regions, so pale and ashy did
the people in their stony heights seem to us in our little
boats. The miners had been obliged to leave at short
1822-1824.]            DUDLEY CAVERNS.             81

distances massive pillars of limestone, to support the
over-lying hill ; this row of columns gave to the long
cavern an artistic effect, and the moving human stream,
alternately hidden by the pillars and re-appearing in
the free spaces, presented a singular appearance. Very
peculiar, also, was the noise produced by the footsteps and
the simultaneous talking of some thousands of people,
and also the oars of many boats, through the re-echoing
arches of the caverns ; indeed so loud was the humming
and buzzing that we could scarcely hear ourselves

spe"aWk. hen we had nearly reached the farther end of the
cavern, the flotilla of boats was ordered to stop and the
foot-passengers stood still. Then Murchison, who had
made these regions an especial subject of his researches,

ascended to a high point, and announced to the assembled
crowd that he would give them a short description of the
geological condition of the surrounding hill. ' Silence,
           '           from a thousand throats
silence  !    sounded                           along the cave,

and in a few moments the buzzing noise had ceased,

and in its place reigned the most complete silence.

Murchison's voice had formerly been accustomed to com
mand a regiment, and had lost nothing of its penetrating
power, which under the prevailing circumstances stood

him and his listeners in good stead. In a clear and

concise speech the distinguished Scottish geologist sought
to make us contemplate the conditions of the surrounding
mountain mass, and to give an idea of the peculiarity of
the formation of coal   in general.
                        of thunder in order to  be understood
   " It needed a voice
by all present in that gigantic subterranean dome. But
that the thirst for knowledge of every one might be satisfied,
Buckland went to the gallery, placed himself on a mighty
block of stone, and lectured for more than an hour, he

and his numerous audience being veiled in the wreathing
sulphur smoke, upon the subject already handled by
Murchison, but in so original and humorous a manner
that he held the attention of his listeners in a way seldom
witnessed. Next he sketched an extremely suggestive

                                                6
82  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iii.

picture of the origin of the surrounding country, and the
primeval plants and animal world which lie buried in it.
As is well known, the English have a peculiar love of
regarding Nature from a theological point of view, and the
celebrated Oxford geologist, as he proved by his last geo
logical work, is no exception to the rule. The immeasurable
beds of iron-ore, coal, and limestone which are found in the
neighbourhood of Birmingham, lying beside or above one
another, and to which man has only to help himself in
order to procure for his use the most useful of all metals in
a liberal measure, may not, he urged, be considered as mere
accident. On the contrary, it in fact expresses the most
clear design of Providence to make the inhabitants of the
British Isles, by means of this gift, the most powerful and
the richest nation on the earth. This theme was treated by
Buckland with every permissible variation, to the no small
edification of the listening country people, and to my own
great pleasure, even though I may not be able to accept his

leading idea.

   " A rich field for oratorical and humorous development

opened itself now, for the first time, as the speaker spoke
of the importance of iron. Indeed, where would man be,
had not kind fate given him in abundance this plain- 
looking metal? The possession of this good gift alone
enables our race to reach the high level of culture
which it holds at the present time. Without it man
could never have gained his power over Nature, or
enjoyed the immeasurable riches, pleasures, and advan
tages which the industrial and commercial worlds possess
to-day. Without it man's mental horizon would be confined
to much narrower limits ; his intellectual development
could not have made its present advances, were not iron
spread with such a lavish hand over the surface of our
own country. When Nature gave this metal to man, she
lent him an extraordinary power, bestowed upon him a
mighty tool, and raised him from weakness to power,
and to the lordship of this earth. If, therefore, there is a
providential metal, it is neither gold nor silver, however
highly man may estimate them. No, it is iron.
1822-1824.]                DUDLEY CAVERNS.                              83

" Let us think, if we were deprived of this metal, what
should we be from a physical view ? Thousands of bene
fits, thousands of conveniences, which we unconsciously
enjoy every hour, would be withdrawn from us ; and how
many indispensable necessaries it would be impossible to
satisfy ! Iron, then, has already become incalculably
precious ; its value to the human race has become, in

the highest sense of the word, inestimable. Yet still it
continues to open out possibilities of immeasurable
importance on quite a new side. By its capability of
receiving magnetism of extraordinary strength in a
moment, and of losing it again in as short a time, iron

becomes an inexhaustible source of power. It ministers

a mechanical strength to the household, which we can raise
according to our inclination and render subject to our rule.

It needs no great boldness of imagination to represent the
mighty influence which the use of iron has exercised on
our social relations. As the magnetic power of iron has
for the last century allowed us to find our way across
distant seas, so it will, perhaps at no distant period, bring
together men by land and sea, bridging over vast spaces
with a speed that outstrips the power of steam and vies
with the swiftness of the wind.
   " I cannot end my comments upon this metal of metals
without telling my readers that the excellent Buckland
related the history of an old shoe with the most delightful

humour. It fell into the hands of an African king, and
brought him riches, renown, and respect, owing to there
bpreeinpagredna--ilsI  in  it !  Out   of this    small piece of  iron
                       do  not   know    how    or of what kind          was
                                                                  --a   tool,

which his African majesty lent far and wide for gold dust

and other precious things, and through its means greatly
rais"eAdftethreanaomthoeurnthaolff-hhoisur'rsoysatlayreuvenndueer.ground we gladly
sought daylight again, and, amid the singing of ' God save
the Queen ' from a thousand voices and the thundering
crashes of blasted rocks renewed once more, boats and
walkers alike left the remarkable vaults of Dudley

Caverns."
84            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.   [ch. iii.

   In 1824 Dr. Buckland secured a Royal Charter for the

Geological Society,1 and was appointed its first President.

In February of that year he writes to the Rev. W. Vernon

Harcourt an account of the first occasion on which he

presided :--

   " We had a great meeting in Bedford Street on
Friday last, the largest I ever remember. The great
attraction was the entire Plesiosaurus which I have pur
chased for the Duke of Buckingham, and of which Mr.
Conybeare on that evening read a description ; the speci
men is nearly entire, and, though a young animal, is ten
feet long ; when full grown it must have been twenty feet
at least. The neck has Jhe very unusual number of forty
vertebrae, head like a lizard, neck like a snake, body of a

crocodile, paddles like a turtle and two feet long, tail very
short, nearly equal to the length of a saddle ; its neck
(double as long in proportion as the swan) is an anomaly
as yet unique. I had also a paper on the Stonesfield
Megalosaurus ; so that with two monsters of such a kind,
and so crowded an audience, my first evening of taking the
chair as President was one of great dclat?

   The meetings held at Somerset House were termed
" Noctes Geologicae," and very brilliant these gatherings

were when De la Beche, Conybeare, Smith, Sedgwick,

Lyell,2 Murchison, Owen, Daubeny, Buckland, and others

    1 The Geological Society, which was founded on November 13th,

1807, first occupied apartments of its own early in 1809, at No. 4,

Garden Court, Temple. In 1816 the Society removed to Bedford Street,

Covent Garden, and on April 23rd, 1825, while still in Bedford Street,

the Society was incorporated by a Charter, obtained by Buckland (and
others), who was at that time President, Charles Lyell being one of the

secretaries.
    "If2 Sir Roderick Murchison says:
                                       Buckland had done nothing
\
R'sh.An,aalli-'

                 3yurnv a, rMotuAe, fuUntfAlL aJwut 181,3
7
1
1 822- 1824]  BUCKLAND'S BLUE BAG.  85

met in animated debate. On these occasions Buckland

would draw from his never absent blue bag specimen
after specimen to enforce his arguments ; while his quaint
descriptions would gradually overcome the reserve of his
learned associates and inspire the circle with the geniality
of his temper. One of this select band, -- which Sir R.

Murchison loved to call the " Old Guard of Geology," --the
late Rev. Gilbert Heathcote, Subwarden of Winchester, told

the writer that he well remembered being present on one
of those evenings and hearing Sir Charles Lyell shatter one
of Dr. Buckland's theories. " The veteran laughed heartily
at the demolition of his own theory" by his illustrious
pupil. This is only one of the many instances of
Buckland's large-mindedness and of the heartiness with
which he always welcomed any opinion which seemed a
nearer approach to the truth than he had himself (as a
pioneer) been able to form. Jealousy of those who were
labouring in the same field with himself was entirely foreign
to his nature ; he placed his stores of learning at the
service of others, and writers like Murchison and Agassiz

were indebted to him for the most constant and generous

aid. It was, it may be mentioned, through Buckland's
influence that Murchison adopted the title of " Siluria "

for his book.
   The blue bag was an inseparable companion of Buck-

land's, and it figures largely in all caricatures of the
Professor. " The greatest honour," he used himself to

more than educate a Lyell, a Daubeny, and an Egerton, he would
justly have been placed among the most successful instructors of our

contemporaries."
86  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. in.

say, " which my bag ever had was when Lord Grenville

insisted on carrying it ; and the greatest disgrace it ever

had was when I called on Sir Humphry Davy three or
four times one day, and always found him out. At last
Sir Humphry Davy asked his servant, ' Has Dr. Buckland

not called to-day ? ' ' No, sir ; there has been nobody

here to-day but a man with a bag, who has been here
three or four times, and I always told him you were
out.' "
                         CHAPTER IV.

CANON OF CHRIST CHURCH, JULY 1825 ; MARRIAGE,

       DECEMBER 31ST, 1825 ; WEDDING TOUR, 1826;

      FAMILY LIFE AT CHRIST CHURCH ; MARY ANNING,
       THE GEOLOGIST OF LYME REGIS.

                                1825 -- 1830.

IN 1825 Professor Buckland was presented by his Col
      lege to the living of Stoke Charity, Hants. In July oi
the same year he was appointed by Lord Liverpool to a

canoniy at Christ Church, Oxford, and received the degree
of D.D. The appointment necessitated a change of resi
dence. He writes to the Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt on
September 10th, 1825 : " Many thanks for your congratula

tions on my appointment to Christ Church, where I find
the hunting of bricklayers and carpenters for the present

entirely supersedes that of crocodiles and hyenas."
   He carried with him to his new home an enthusiasm

for science which was not shared by many of his colleagues.

It was not long before he discovered that among the bene

factions of Christ Church was one which was available for
the promotion of scientific study. Dr. Lee had left a con
siderable property to the College for a variety of purposes,
including the erection and maintenance of an Anatomical

                                                                        87
88          LIFE OF DEAN BUCK LAND.                [ch. iv.

Museum.     The property came into the hands of Christ
Church in   1766, and in the following year the Museum
was built.  In the accounts of the Trust entries from time

to time occur of purchases of subjects for dissection. But

in 1828 Buckland discovered that a considerable sum had

accumulated which might be claimed for the benefit

of the Museum. In July 1828 he writes to Sir R.
Murchison in great delight at his discovery. " I am going

to town in a day or two to attend the opening of Brooke's
sale, for I have found out ;£ 1,200 that we can lay out

for our anatomical school at Christ Church, which will

quite set us up, unless we find powerful rival bidders in

the two new London Colleges." The account books at
Christ Church show that large purchases were made. " Dr.

Kidd" (then Lee's Reader in Anatomy), "on account of
purchases made at Brooke's sale, £500. " l The smallness

of the sum expended compared with that available seems,

however, to show that Buckland's fears were realised, and
that the Oxford school had found rivals wealthier than

themselves.

   In this appropriation of a portion of Lee's benefaction

to sciences Buckland, though neither the Lecturer nor one
of the Trustees of the fund, took a leading part, as his
letter to Murchison clearly proves. Nor was this the

only direction in which he used his new position for the
advance of scientific research. He was prompt to avail
himself of the services of the masons employed at work

on the old Residence attached to the Canonry to make

    1 Communicated by the Ven. Archdeacon Palmer.
1 82 5- 1 830.]          TOADS IN STONES.                    89

receptacles in slabs of stone for experimenting on toads.
The house which he occupied has since been assigned as the

residence of the Archdeacon of Oxford, and Archdeacon
Palmer, who now resides there, has placed the stones in
a rockery in his garden in memory of these experiments.

   " In consequence," Buckland writes, " of many stories of
toads being found alive in stones I began in 1825 a series
of careful experiments. Twelve circular cells were pre
pared in a block of sandstone, to each of which a plate of
glass was fitted. Toads were then placed in these cells
and buried beneath three feet of earth, where they were
left for over a year. Every toad shut up in sandstone
died ; but the greater number of those in the porous
limestone were still alive, though greatly emaciated : these

were again shut up ; the end of the second year every toad

had died. I also enclosed four toads in holes cut in the
trunk of an apple-tree, and closed the holes with a plug of
          all                   were found dead at the end   of a
wood   ;          these  toads  these experiments to follow  that
year.     It     seems   from

toads cannot live a year totally excluded from atmo

spheric air, or two years entirely excluded from food.
Admitting that toads are found in cavities of stone and
wood, we may account for it by supposing that the toad

seeks a cavity while in the tadpole state, and feeds on
insects which, like itself, seek shelter within such cavities.
It then becomes too large to leave the hole ; but there is

always some small crack by which air and food can come
in to support life. This tiny aperture is very likely to be
overlooked by workmen, who are the only people whose
work on stone or wood leads them to disclose cavities in
these substances. No examination is made until the toad

is discovered by breaking the mass in which it was con

tained, and then it is too late to ascertain, without carefully

replacing every fragment (and in no case that I have seen
reported has this been done), whether or not there was

any crevice or hole by which the animal may have entered

the cavity."
go  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iv.

   The following anecdote illustrates Buckland's practical
activity and ingenuity in gaining information. When the
turrets of " Tom Tower " of Christ Church, Oxford, were

undergoing repair during the long vacation, he had reason

to suspect that all was not right. It was impossible for

the Canon to ascend by the slender scaffolding to these
turrets ; so, from the windows of his house at Christ

Church, he bethought him of watching the masons through
an excellent telescope, which he used to examine distant

geological sections, etc. At last the unsuspecting mason,
working, as he thought, far above the ken of man, put in
a faulty bit of stone. Buckland, on the watch below,

detected him through the telescope, and almost frightened

the man out of his wits when, coming into the quadrangle,
he admonished him to bring down directly " that bad bit
of stone he had just built into the turret."

   The year in which he obtained his canonry was also the
year in which he married. His wife was Mary Morland,
the eldest daughter of Mr. Benjamin Morland, of Sheep-
stead House, near Abingdon. The marriage took place on
December 31st, 1825. In a letter to the Rev. W. Vernon
Harcourt, Buckland thus announces the approaching
event : " I'm speedily about to follow your example in
entering into the holy estate, and propose early in the
beginning of the year to set off for Italy and Sicily on a
tour of nine or ten months ; if you have any commissions

in those regions, pray send them me."

   Mary Morland, whose mother died when she was
only an infant, was the eldest of a large family of half-
brothers and sisters. The greater part of her childhood
1825-1830.]  MRS. BUCKLAND.  91

was spent at Oxford, where she resided with the famous
physician Sir Christopher Pegge, whose childless wife took
great delight in the lovable and intelligent child. In the
University City, and, perhaps, through her acquaintance
with the learned Professor of Mineralogy, she acquired that
love of natural science which was such a joy to her
through all her life. Within a few hours of her death
she was working at the microscope, ever looking expec
tantly for a clearer light in the next world to be shed on
the wonders learnt here. Sir R. Murchison, writing of the
happy union between Buckland and his wife, calls Mrs.
Buckland " a truly excellent and intellectual woman,
who, aiding her husband in several of his most difficult
researches, has laboured well in her vocation to render

her children worthy of their father's name."
   Miss Caroline Fox, in her journal for October 8th, 1839,

records the following story, which may have some founda

tion in fact :--

   " Davies Gilbert tells us that Dr. Buckland was once
travelling somewhere in Dorsetshire, and reading a new
and weighty book of Cuvier's which he had just received
from the publisher ; a lady was also in the coach, and
amongst her books was this identical one, which Cuvier
had sent her. They got into conversation, the drift of
which was so peculiar that Dr. Buckland at last exclaimed,

'You must be Miss Morland, to whom I am about to
deliver a letter of introduction.' He was right, and she

soon became Mrs. Buckland. She is an admirable fossil
geologist, and makes models in leather of some of the rare
discoveries."

   The wedding was celebrated at Marcham Church,1 near

   1 Dr. Buckland discovered a curious stone in Marcham Church, which
92  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iv.

Abingdon, the Rev. G. Wells, Rector of Boseford, performinga
the ceremony. The ringing of the wedding bells wasis
the signal for the old man-servant to fire off a gun ata
Sheepstead House, where Mr. Morland lived. The reason
of this salute was not made known to the family till some                  it,
days afterwards. Mrs. Buckland, before her marriage, had
a beautiful white Spanish donkey, which she used to drive
about for miles in a little chaise, in search of freshwater
and land shells, of which she made a very fine collection.
The animal, which was a great pet, had grown very old,
and the servant had been told to make away with
without letting the family know when its end came. He
was much pleased with his ingenuity, therefore, in firing
this feu-de-joie and at the same time despatching the
donkey.

   The wedding tour, which was spent upon the Continent
and lasted nearly year, described with much minuteness
and vivacity by Mrs. Buckland in journal which from her
girlhood she had been in the habit of writing. Naturally
enough her early entries have a geological flavour, and the
scenery and associations of the spots visited are perhaps
less carefully described than the character of the rocks.
The diary, under date of February 25th, 1826, describes
the visit of the newly married couple to Paris. They
called on Humboldt and Arago, and had much scientific

he mentions in one of his Ashmolean papers. This stone said to be
an Anglo-Saxon dedication stone the word aelegy aelegy-holy was
repeated twice on it, and as the church dedicated to All Saints,
suggested that the word might have occurred again in the third line and

have been broken off.
    ;

                   is
                                              is

                                                            it
                                                                       is
1825-1830.]         WITH CUVIER IN PARIS.                 93

talk with the latter, who showed them his instruments
at the Observatory and described his experiments and
discoveries.

   " Arago," writes Mrs. Buckland, " is the most Englishlike
Frenchman I ever saw ; the most unpretending person

possible in his manner, and the most intelligent in his

conversation.
    " From                of
"             the   top        the   Observatory," she    continues,
   we saw    Paris   in  its  full  extent, built within  the basin

called by its name, and which is surrounded by low hills,
of which Montmartre is the highest. Compared with
London, it looks very small, and the absence of smoke
gives a coldness so peculiar that it looks like a city of the

dead."

   Before her marriage Mrs. Buckland had been in corre

spondence with Cuvier, and had made drawings for his
works. She and her husband had now the pleasure of
receiving his hospitality and of spending a morning with
him in the Jardin des Plantes. The famous naturalist
welcomed them with much kindness, and at his house they

met Cordier, at that time the most distinguished geologist
in France. " The Cuvier's parties," writes the young wife,
" are by no means brilliant ; he is very taciturn, and so
cautious that he never utters an opinion in company ; but
though so cold in appearance, he is very friendly in his

conduct."
   From Paris the travellers journeyed southwards.

   " At Vaucluse," says the diary, " when we turned into the

steep ravine through which the Sorques flows, we were agree
ably surprised by the picturesque forms of the rocks, which
are nearly destitute of vegetation, and have nothing but their
form and their dazzling whiteness to recommend them to
94          LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                         [ch. iv.

the traveller in search of the picturesque. But to me they
possessed other attractions, for I found several varieties of

land shells which were new to me, and in the fountain an
abundance of nerites and patellae. The spring or fountain
of Vaucluse, from which the Sorques takes its source, is a

subterranean river (a phenomenon not uncommon in the
Alps), which issues immediately from the bottom of a cliff

whose height must be at least eight hundred feet from the

basin.

   " The quarries near the Pont du Gard and the aqueduct

itself are a very coarse calcaire grossier, as like as possible
to our Norfolk crag, but the mountains which support the
Pont on either side are a compact Jura limestone. The
great aqueduct, part of which is the Pont du Gard, is still

traced to Nismes, and is chiefly underground. It has been
much destroyed by persons using the materials for building.
In the part forming the aqueduct over the Gard, a crust
of stalactite has been formed more than a foot thick. We
came to Massa, which is the capital of the little duchy of
Massa, now in the possession of the Archduchess, mother
to the Duke of Modena, who will inherit it. Buonaparte
united this with Lucca, and gave it to his sister, Madame
Eliza, who was a wise and good princess and did much for

her little kingdom. To her the people owe an excellent
road to the town of Carrara, which is situated in a fertile
valley at the foot of the ridge of marble mountains so
famous in all ages. The marble is associated with

argillaceous and mica slate, but no granite occurs ; you see
the schist passing into marble, by degrees, till the whole is
a mass of limestone, which changes its colour according as

it possesses iron. Thus fine pure white passes into every
shade of bluish grey. We walked to the quarry from

whence the statuary marble is procured, and were surprised
to find so little of fine quality ; indeed it rarely occurs, and

    consequently, very expensive, being a louis d'or per
is,
                                                                       is

                                                                           it
                                                                                       is
square foot. A characteristic of the best that                                             highly

sonorous."

    An incident, that occurred at Palermo on the wedding
1825-1830.]  SANTA ROSALIA.  95

tour, was in 1851 still remembered and told by the Consul
to illustrate Dr. Buckland's acuteness in the observation
of bones.

   The Patron Saint of Palermo is Rosalia, daughter of
a distinguished nobleman, and born about 1 1 30 A.D. At
the age of twelve, Rosalia fled from her father's house to

the neighbouring mountains, and passed her whole time

in devotion and penance. At length she retired to a

cavern on Monte Pelegrino, where she died ; but no one
knew of this retreat. During the plague of 1624, when
all efforts to stay its ravages proved ineffectual, Rosalia
appeared in a dream to a citizen at Palermo, and revealed
to him where her bones lay unburied. The bones were
reverently gathered up and placed in charge of the

Archbishop ; yet still the pestilence raged. At last a

certain man named Vincenza Bonelli, as he wandered on

the mountain, encountered a beautiful damsel, who told

him she was Rosalia and showed him her grotto. Bonelli,

plucking up courage, asked her why she abandoned the

city to such cruel ravages. She answered, " It is the will

of Heaven ; but I am now sent to declare that, as soon

as my bones are carried in procession through the city,
the plague will be stayed." Bonelli told his confessor of
this meeting, and, in obedience to the saint's commands,
the relics were carried in procession through the city,

and the plague ceased.

   The grotto, thus miraculously revealed, was consecrated,

a magnificent shrine erected, and a statue to the saint
placed there. The bones lay exposed to view behind a
grille, and the faithful flocked to the shrine.
   96  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                  [ch. iv.

       When Dr. Buckland was at Palermo on his wedding
   tour in 1826, he, as all strangers did, visited the shrine,
   and with his keen eyes saw in a moment that the bones
   never belonged to Rosalia. "Those are the bones of a

   goat," he said, " not of a woman ! " Of course the priests

   were greatly scandalised, and declared that the saint would
   not permit him to see what only the faithful could discern.
   From that time, however, the bones were enclosed in a
   casket, and neither faithful nor heretics were any longer

   permitted to scan the sacred relics too closely.

      It was on this tour that the Professor recognised the

   comparatively late geological date of the great upward
   movement of the Alps, and declared some of the highly
   inclined rocks to be contemporaneous with our lias and

   oolite.

      On their return journey from Italy, Buckland and his
   wife visited the cavern of Lunel, near Montpellier, which
   yielded to the Professor's strong arms and capacious bags
   many valuable spoils, which were deposited in the Oxford
   Museum.

      His account of this visit, which was made for the purpose
   of instituting a comparison between Lunel and the caves of
   England, is extracted from a volume of the Proceedings
   of the Geological Society.1

      " The result of the examination has established nearly a
   perfect identity in the animal and mineral contents of the
   caverns, as well as in the history of their introductions.
   In working a free-stone quarry of calcaire grossier, the side
   of the present cavern was accidentally laid open ; it is a long

       1 Proceedings of the Geological Society, 1826 -- 1833.

,
1825-1830.]  CAVERNS IN FRANCE                                             97

rectilinear vault of nearly a hundred yards in length, and
of from ten to twelve feet in width and height. The floor
is covered with a thick bed of diluvial mud and pebbles,

occasionally reaching almost to the roof, and composed at
one extremity chiefly of mud, whilst at the other end

pebbles predominate. Stalactite and stalagmite are of rare
occurrence in the cavern of Lunel ; hence neither its bones

nor earthy contents are cemented into a breccia. On

examining the bones collected in the cavern by M. Marcel
de Serres and his associate M. Cristol, Dr. Buckland found
many of them to bear the marks of gnawing by the teeth
of ossivorous animals ; he also discovered in the cave an
extraordinary abundance of balls of album grcecum in the

highest state of preservation. Both these circumstances,
so important to establish the fact of the cave of Lunel
having been inhabited, like that of Kirkdale, as a den of
hyenas, had been overlooked by the gentlemen above
mentioned. The more scanty occurrence of stalactite and
                     of
the greater supply        saalmbuemcaugsrece--cuvmiz.,  in this cavern     are
referred to one and  the                                 the introduction
                                                                            of

less rain water by infiltration into this cave, than into that
of Kirkdale ; in the latter case a large proportion of the
remains of the hyenas appear to have been trodden upon
and crushed at the bottom of a wet and narrow cave, whilst
at Lunel they have been preserved in consequence of the
greater size and dryness of the chamber in which they were
deposited. The animal remains contained in this cavern
differ little from those of Kirkdale ; the most remarkable
addition is that of the beaver and of the badger, together
with the smaller striped, or Abyssinian, hyena."

   In October of the same year, while still on his wedding
tour through the east of France, he visited the Grotte
d'Ozelles, or Quingey, on the banks of the Doubs, five
leagues below Besancon. He described the Grotto in a
French article, from which the following extract is taken :--

   " La grotte d'Ozelles si celebre par son etendue et par

                                                        7
98           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.               [ch. iv.

la quantité extraordinaire et la beauté de ses stalactites --
je résolus de la visiter dans le but de m 'assurer si elle
...ne présentait pas quelque phénomène semblable à ceux des
cavernes à ossemens d'Allemagne et d'Angleterre.           A

l'endroit où est située la caverne, une haute colline,

composée de la variété compacte du calcaire Jurassique,
forme la rive gauche du Doubs, et s'élève sous un angle
trop aigu pour permettre la culture à la charrue. L'on
entre par une ouverture de la grandeur d'une porte de
chambre, à peu près de six pieds de haut et de trois ou

quatre pieds de large. Cette ouverture est à environ
                            au-dessus du niveau de la rivière. . . .
cin"quLeasntceolpoinendess   et les masses de stalactites qui remplissent

une grande partie de l'étendue de la grotte, excèdent de

beaucoup en nombre, et égalent en beauté celles de la

célèbre caverne de l'île de Sky ou d'aucune autre caverne

que j'aie jamais vue, et l'imagination des visiteurs qui
m'ont précédé, s'est plue à leur y faire trouver toutes les
espèces de ressemblance qu'elle pouvait leur fournir entre
ces stalactites et des animaux, des végétaux ou des
morceaux d'architecture ; mais personne avant moi n'avait
songé à chercher des ossemens sous la croûte de stalagmite

qui s'est accumulée au pied de ces stalactites, et a

...formé sur le sol un large tapis ou pavé de différentes
épaisseurs.                 Ce ne fut pas sans peine que je parvins à

persuader à mes guides de m'aider à rompre cette surface,

jusqu'alors laissé intacte, afin d'y rechercher des restes

d'animaux et de détritus diluvien que, d'après l'analogie

qui existe entre cette caverne et d'autres je m'attendais à
trouver dessous ; leur surprise fut très grande de voir ma
prédiction se vérifier à l'égard de l 'existence d'un lit de
limon mêlé de fragmens de pierres et de cailloux roulés,
au-dessous de ce qu'ils considéraient comme le pavé solide
et impénétrable du souterrain, et leur étonnement augmenta
encore, en trouvant à chacune les quatres places que je
choisis pour mon expérience, ce détritus accumulé à une
profondeur que nous ne pûmes percer avec une barre de fer
de trois pieds de longueur, et de plus entremêlé d'une grande
quantité de dents et d'os fossiles. . . . Ainsi, . . . l'absence
1 825-1 830.]  LIFE AT CHRIST CHURCH,                         99

de toute marque de dents sur les plus grands os, tendent
à improuver l'action destructrice des Hyènes dans cette
grotte, et à montrer que les Ours en étaient les principaux
habitans. Ces os lorsqu'ils sont secs happent fortement
à la langue comme tous les ossemens anté-diluviens des
autres cavernes. Vers le centre de cette file de grottes, l'on

arrive dans la plus spacieuse de toutes appelée la salle à
danser, parceque sa grandeur et l'égalité du sol l'on fait
choisir pour l'endroit où se rafraîchissent et où dansent les
personnes qui viennent voir les singulières beautés de ce
lieu. Cette chambre a, dit-on, plus de cent pieds de long,
et dans quelques endroits cinquante de large. . . .
"Je désire mentionner un indice auquel j'ai déjà fait
allusion, et que j'ai trouvé très utile pour faire distinguer
les os anté-diluviens, que l 'on rencontre dans les pentes

et les crevasses, de ceux des animaux récens qui, dans

les temps modernes, se sont introduits dans les mêmes
ouvertures, et par accident ont été mis en contact avec

des restes anciens d'espèces éteintes. C'est la propriété
de happer à la langue, lorsqu'on les y applique tandis

qu'ils sont secs, propriété qui apparemment dérive de la
perte qu'ils ont éprouvée de gélatine animale, sans qu'elle
ait été remplacée par aucune matière minérale. . . .

   '' La propriété de happer n'appartient que très-rarement
aux os de toutes espèces d'alluvion ou de tourbière, et

n'existe pas non plus dans les ossemens humaines que j'ai

examinés, qui venaient des tombeaux romains d'Angleterre

et des tombes druides des anciens Bretons, ni dans aucun

de ceux que j'ai découverts dans les cavernes de Paviland,
Barrington et Wokey Hole,
ouvrage intitulé : ' Reliquioe   et que j'ai  "décrits  dans  mon
                                Diluvianoe!

   The love of natural history in all its branches made
Buckland's home at Christ Church a scene of animal life
not a little strange to the reverend and learned persons
who visited its owner. The house, which was destined to

be the Professor's home for twenty happy and active years,
ioo  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iv.

is thus described by Mr. Thomas I. Sopwith, the famous

mining engineer, who visited it in the " thirties " :--

   " Dr. Buckland's house is one of those venerable fabrics
which form the principal quadrangle of Christ Church.
As soon as the old-fashioned door is opened, abundant
evidence is presented that the residence is that of a zealous

disciple of Geology. A wide and spacious staircase has

its floor and even part of its steps covered with ammonites,
fossil trees and bones, and various other geological fragments,
and in the several apartments piles upon piles of books
and papers are spread upon tables, chairs, sofas, book
stands, and no small portion on the floor itself."

   Writing when he was again the Canon's guest, and had
the pleasure of meeting Mr. Ruskin, Mr. Sopwith says : --

   " Dr. Buckland's house is truly characteristic as the
residence of a geologist and scholar. . . In the breakfast-
room was a series of piles of books, boxes, and papers ; in
short, such a combination of book-stands, chairs, sideboards,
boxes, all blended together in one mass of confusion,
which I was informed had not been invaded by the dust-
cloth for the last five years. The drawing-room at Dr.
Buckland's had its share of variety, and the great interest
of a tolerable deal of confusion through which a person
might range a whole day and find some new index every
moment pointing to weeks and months and years of
occupation. One of the round tables is formed entirely of
coprolites. Another presents on its highly polished sur
face all the variety of lava, etc., found at Mount Etna."

   Mr. Sopwith adds that " the most interesting part of
this interesting mansion is the domestic comfort which so
eminently prevails." The writer judged truly that the
Christ Church home was a happy one. Buckland and his
wife, had a, large family,-- nine altogether, four of whom
1825-1830.]  FAMILY LIFE.

were buried in the vault in Christ Church Cathedral. The

 surviving children were all blessed with excellent health,

good tempers, and loving dispositions. If they never

quarrelled, the reason must have been that they never had

idle playtime. There was always something to do, --
their animals to feed, or their gardens to tend, or, if a wet

day came, they all adjourned to the dining-room and sat
round the big table helping Mrs. Buckland to cut and paste
cardboard into strong neat little trays for specimens, while
one- of the party read aloud, generally from a book of

travel or Arctic voyage. If the book was not illustrated

-- and illustrated books were rare fifty years ago --Mrs.

Buckland would be sure to have found some old pictures
or illustrations of some sort to show them on the subject.
Like their father, she never taught her children without

a picture or a piece of paper and charcoal at hand. To

give zest to their Bible readings they had some quaint
engravings in Mrs. Trimmer's two little square books.
Anthony Trollope once told one of the children, when,
years later, they were talking together over the days of
their youth, that his mother used the same little books for

him, and that he "loved them."

    On one point only Dr. Buckland was a strict father.
He never allowed his children to be unemployed. Those
who were too young to work, folded up old letters, kept
ready to be made into spills for the lighting of their
father's Winchester Taper, which he always used to read
by. When postage stamps first came into use, it was the
children's work to cut them up and stick them on the
envelopes. Pennies were earned for doing these little
102  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                       [ch. iv.

tasks neatly and quickly, and the only pocket money

which the children had, was earned by the quantity and

quality of the work that they did. They were taught Dr.

Watts' hymns, and their mother, if she ever found them

unemployed, would make them repeat the lines : " Satan

finds some mischief still for idle hands to do."   Their father
attributed almost every disaster to laziness,     " which was,"
he said, " the root of all evil."

   The family life of the Bucklands is described so vividly
in the " Life of Frank Buckland," that no apology is

needed for extracting a passage from that volume :--

  "In his early home at Christ Church, besides the stuffed

creatures which shared the hall with the rocking-horse,
there were cages full of snakes, and of green frogs, in the
dining-room, where the sideboard groaned under successive
layers of fossils, and the candles stood on ichthyosauri's

vertebrae. Guinea-pigs were often running over the
table ; and occasionally the pony, having trotted down
the steps from the garden, would push open the dining-
room door, and career round the table, with three laughing
children on his back, and then, marching through the
front door, and down the steps, would continue his course
round Tom Quad. In the stable yard and large wood-
house were the fox, rabbits, guinea-pigs and ferrets,
hawks and owls, the magpie and jackdaw, besides dogs,

cats, and poultry, and in the garden was the tortoise (on
whose back the children would stand to try its strength),
and toads immured in various pots, to test the truth of
their supposed life in rock-cells. There were also visits to
the Clarendon, where Dr. Buckland was forming the nucleus
of the present Geological Museum of Oxford, and to the
Ashmolean Museum, then under the wise and genial care
of the brothers, John and Philip Duncan, where the
children might ride the stuffed zebra, and knew all the
animals as friends, if not yet as relations.
18258-130.]  HOME LIFE  "3

   " In summer afternoons, after the early three o'clock
dinner, Dr. Buckland would drive out Mrs. Buckland and
their children in a carriage, known as the bird's-nest, to
Bagley Wood, to hunt for moles and nests, or to Port
Meadow to gather yellow iris and water-lilies, and fish
for minnows, and often to set free a bright-hued king-

                           PROFESSOR AND MRS. BUCKLAND AND FRANK.

fisher (they were plentiful in those days) which he had
redeemed from some mischievous urchin with a sixpence.
Or another day to Shotover, to dig in the quarries for
oysters and gryphites ; or again to Iffley, to gather snakes'
heads (Fritillaries). Both father and mother were devotedly
fond of flowers, and their horse stopped automatically at
every nursery garden, as at every quarry. Some of the
graver dons were perhaps a little scandalised by such
104                LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                        [ch. iv.

vagrant proceedings,  but how much                 h!a"p1piness  and
wisdom were gathered  in these excursions

The Rev. George Gaisford used sometimes to tell the

story of his watching with Frank at the window to see

the Dean's (Gaisford) carriage as it passed round the

corner of Tom Quad. The moment it was out of sight,
he turned to Frank and cried, " Now then, Frank, let's
                                      "
put  the   crocodile  into Mercury       (the  pond  in  the     middle

of Christ Church Quadrangle, so called from a little

stone statue of Mercury in the centre, used as a fountain).
   Mr. Ruskin writes in " Praeterita " :--

" At the corner of the great Quadrangle of Christ Church
lived Dr. Buckland, always ready to help me,-- or, a greater
favour still, to be helped by me, in diagram drawing for his
lectures. My picture of the granite veins in Trewavas
Head, with a cutter weathering the point in a squall, in the
style of                        dsetiplla,rtImbeenltie. ve.,..foArmt shispabrrteaokffatshte-
           Copley    Fielding,
resources   of the  geological
table I met the leading scientific men of the day, from
Herschel downwards, and often intelligent and courteous
                   --Etvheerymoenneu          ease and amused at that
foreigners. . . .                     was at  science of it usually in
breakfast-table,                        and
themselves interesting. I have always regretted a day of
unlucky engagement on which I missed a delicate toast
of mice ; and remembered with delight being waited upon
one hot summer morning by two graceful and polite little
Carolina lizards, who kept off the flies."

  "Your father the Dean," Lord Playfair writes to Mrs.
Gordon, "was a born experimentalist, and I recollect

various queer dishes which he had at his table. The
hedgehog was a successful experiment, and both Liebig
and I thought it good and tender. On another occasion

           1 " Life of Frank Buckland," pp. 8, 9.
1825-1830.]      HOME LIFE IN OXFORD.                                                       105

I recollect a dish of crocodile, which was an utter failure.
The Dean's experiment in quaint gastronomy used to
remind me of the dinner on garden snails at which Black,
Hutton, and PJayfair determined to get over their natural
prejudice ; but though the three philosophers took one
mouthful, they could not be persuaded to swallow                                            and
                 a
                                                                it,
rejected the morsel with strong language. The crocodile
at your father's table had a similar fate."

On the opposite side of the Christ Church Quadrangle

lived Dr. Pusey, who was most kind friend and neighbour

to both Dr. and Mrs. Buckland, and his spiritual minis

trations afforded much comfort to Mrs. Buckland at the

time of the death of her son Adam when only nine years

old. Adam, also called Conybeare Sedgwick after his

godfathers Dr. Conybeare, Dean of Llandaff, and Professor

Sedgwick, was buried in Christ Church Cathedral, in

vault where already lay two elder children --by name
                 a
Willie and Eva.                                                                                  a

Buckland was kind and affectionate father, and always

liked to have his children about him. The return from

his frequent journeys was awaited by them with eager

expectation, for from the famous blue bag would be turned

out for them on the dining-room floor some strange (in

those days) foreign fruit, such as a bundle of bananas,
or cocoanut in its big outside shell, or " forbidden
fruit " (lime), which the little ones fondly imagined might
it

       a

                       it

                                                       a
                                                              a
                                                                                         a
have grown in the Garden of Eden. On one occasion,

in addition to the blue bag,  large mysterious bundle

was brought in, wrapped in travelling rug. The children
were told that was a " wild beast " of some sort, that

would not hurt them, and that whoever guessed what
106  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. I v.

it was would be rewarded with a penny. The wild beast
proved to be the carcases of a bear, which had been seen
hanging up outside a barber's shop as an advertisement for
the celebrated Bear's Grease -- a pomatum for the hair, then
much in vogue. The beast had been prepared just like a
sheep at the butcher's, only that the skin had been left on
the head and hind-legs to show that it was the veritable

animal. A luncheon party was invited to partake of

joints of bear, and the fat from the inside was given to

the nurse to make into pomatum for the family use.
   The young people were always presented to the nu

merous learned foreigners and illustrious travellers who
came to Oxford to see the Professor's world-famed

collection of fossils and bones at the Clarendon ; and

at dessert in the evening they were told, shortly and
graphically, what these great men were famous for. They

heard that Agassiz came from Switzerland, and how he
once lived in a little hut on a glacier in order to watch
the frozen river slowly move down the valley between the
snow mountains about one inch a year ; that Liebig was
a great German chemist, Sir John Franklin the famous
Arctic voyager, Warburton an African traveller, and so on.

Occasionally one or two ill-clad foreigners with very large
appetites would be entertained with boundless hospitality

and courtesy. At such times the children would listen

with curiosity to the rapid talk in a strange language, and
watch the lively gesticulations, and wonder how, at the
same time, the speakers could manage to empty plate after
plate of food.

    Mrs. Buckland took great interest both in the spiritual
1825-1830.]  POOR JEWS.  107

and bodily welfare of a settlement of Jews living in
St. Ebbe's parish, a very poor part of Oxford. When
several families were once burnt out of house and home,

she greatly befriended them. One man she set up as a
pedlar ; and for many years he travelled about the country

with a mahogany box strapped at his back. Twenty

years after he had thus commenced business, the family

were chiefly living at Islip, during the illness of the Dean.
The pedlar was a regular caller at the Rectory, where he
would display his wares -- silver thimbles, trinkets, and

brooches tastefully arranged in trays on pink wadding --

and generally sold some silver thimbles, which were bought
as gifts to the girls who were the best darners and menders

in the village school. These poor Jews, soon after the fire
had destroyed all their goods, came to Mrs. Buckland to

borrow a glass goblet, which was required for a wedding
that was about to take place. Mrs. Buckland, who lent

them a handsome cut glass one, was invited to the wedding.
She took with her one of her children, a little fellow of
five or six. In the middle of the ceremony a glass was
smashed ; the child called out at the top of his voice,
greatly to his mother's consternation, " Oh, Mamma,

there's your best glass broken ! " It is needless to say

that a substitute had been provided to be smashed, and

that the lent goblet was returned safely. Regularly as

the Feast of the Passover came round, half a dozen of the
large thin wafer-biscuits, about twelve inches across, -- the

" Passover Bread,"--were sent as a present to Mrs. Buck-
land, in token of respect and gratitude from the Jewish

community.
io8           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                                           [ch. iv.

   Buckland was very fond of his garden, and brought

plants from all parts of the Continent to place in often

with the view of acclimatising them. A fig tree, which
                                                                                                               it,
                                                                                                                         is

still in existence at Christ Church, was brought from Aleppo

by Dr. Pocock.1 The Professor was especially fond of

sweet-scented flowers, and was the children's business
              it
to provide him always with a Sunday button-hole. The
                 a
first violet and cowslip were actively searched for, to be
                             ;
succeeded by woodbine, cabbage-rose, southern-wood (old
man), jessamine, and clove-pink and then, when all the

flowers were gone and autumn had set in,                                                                    a  sprig of

lemon verbena picked from greenhouse plant brought

from Sicily.

Dr. and Mrs. Buckland trained their children to take

an interest in the conversation going on at meals, and

always, when they came down to dessert in the evening,

their father would have some anecdote or curious fact to

tell them, and they on their part were expected to have
something of interest to tell him -- or some question to ask.

This was no great difficulty, for the children were never

taken for a dull "constitutional" walk, but were always

sent on some special errand. Sometimes, for instance,

       Edward Pocock, Chaplain to English merchants, Aleppo, 1620.
The Laudian Professorship was founded in his honour by Archbishop
Laud, 1632. He was Professor of Hebrew and Canon of Christ
Church, and was sent at Laud's charges to purchase and collect Arabic

manuscripts now in the Bodleian Library. Professor Margoliouth, who

is at present indexing these manuscripts, adds that Pocock was highly

distinguished as theologian and Orientalist and that in the opinion

of Hallam he did more than any other one man to familiarise Europeans

with the East.
1
                              a
                                                                                                         ;
1825-1830.]  -  OXFORD CASTLE.  109

their errand would be to take some " alicampane "--an

old-fashioned herbal remedy made up with sugar in pink
and white squares, bought from some old Meg Merrilies

in the market--to a barge-man with a bad cough, who,
with the aid of his family, was unlading the barge as it

lay under the shadow of the fine old Norman Keep from
whose postern gate, as they were told, the Empress
Maude escaped in a white sheet over the frozen river to

Abingdon.
    This old-world corner of Oxford, with the high earth

mound adjoining, and the Gaol, or Castle, as it was then
called, was always full of mysterious interest to the little
people. There were no railways then, and several gaily-

painted barges were often to be seen moored along the
Canal Wharf, supplying the city with coals, salt, or pottery.
However grimy their cargo might be, the owners contrived
to keep fresh and bright the gay lines of colour on the sides
of the little cabin at the end of the long black hull. Dr.

Buckland, or occasionally a good-natured bargee, would lift
the children into the empty barge and allow them to peep
into the snug little abode, reeking with the savoury smell
which issued from a black iron pot on its small hob, while
from the tiny low chimney-pipe curled the prettiest
possible wreath of blue-grey smoke.

   Never was a word of gossip or evil speaking permitted ;
the good clever mother would always say, " My dears,
educated people always talk of things ; it is only in the
servants' hall that people talk gossip." Thus the family
were trained from childhood to live in charity with all

men.
no                 LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.     [ch. iv.

One summer day, on the Duke of Cumberland visiting

Oxford, Dr. Buckland had undertaken to lionise him and

a number of gentlemen. The children, returning from

their favourite walk by the house-boats in Christ Church
meadows, came across the distinguished party. " Come
here, children," said Dr. Buckland, " and make your

curtseys to the Royal Duke." The kind old gentleman
patted one on the head, and said, " How old are you, my
                "                             " How can you
little  maid       " Please, sir, I am ten."
              ?

say so ? " exclaimed the more truthful younger sister ;
" you are only nine and a half." At which the Duke
laughed heartily, and said, " Little lassie, you'll not be so

anxious to make yourself older when you have lived more

years."

    Dean Gaisford was very fond of these two little girls.

Whenever Dr. and Mrs. Buckland dined at the Deanery,

the Sedan chair--a most convenient conveyance for

collegiate buildings -- which had carried Mrs. Buckland to

the six o'clock dinner, was sent for the children, who

were carried safely into the large dining-room, and took
their places on either side of the kindly old Dean, whose
pleasure it was to keep them well supplied with dessert.

   The Sundays at Christ Church were the children's red-

letter days. Buckland always went to the morning service

in the Cathedral, and to the University sermon at St.

Mary's. It was their never-failing delight to watch the

procession of the Vice-Chancellor, preceded by the beadle

and college dignitaries, students, and graduates in their
robes, wending its way to the Church of St. Mary in the
High Street, whose spire is one of the glories of the city,
1825-1830.]  SUNDAYS IN OXFORD.  111

and entering by the porch which has in a niche over the
door an image of the Blessed Virgin. In 1640 Archbishop
Laud was charged with many offences. He had repaired
crucifixes ; he had allowed " the scandalous image " to be
set up in the porch of St. Mary's ; and Alderman Nixon,

the Puritan grocer, had, so he declared, seen a man bowing
to the scandalous image. Alderman Nixon's picture, with
that of his wife, is to be seen in the fine old council
chamber of the Guildhall. This lady's portrait, it may be

added, is the only likeness of a woman admitted among
the interesting collection of Aldermen, with the exception
of a fine full-length portrait of Queen Anne. Mrs.
Buckland took the younger members of the family to
the simple morning service at St. Ebbc's Church, of which
the Rev. F. Waldegrave, an excellent evangelical preacher,
was in charge. Mrs. Buckland was an assiduous worker

in Mr. Waldegrave's poor parish.
   After the early dinner came the treat of the week -- a

walk with their father in Christ Church meadows, or, if the
floods were out, up Headington Hill. No plant, tree, or
stone escaped observation, and special notice was taken of
the dates of the reappearance of palm blossom, or the first
return of daisies, and other spring delights. The family
never missed evensong in the Cathedral. The seat allotted

to the Canon's ladies was like a very long saloon railway
carriage, with a seat running along one side of it. As this

pew had only occasional oval openings in the heavy wood

work to admit the light and air, its dreariness and stuffiness

may be imagined.
   The yearly assizes were a great annual function in
H2  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iv.

Oxford, and were very awe-inspiring, solemn events. The

week began with an assize sermon at St. Mary's, which the
Judge attended in state. Dr. Buckland used to take his

children to see the stately procession of the Judge, and
other dignitaries of the law, as it traversed the whole
length of Oxford from the Judge's house in St. Giles' to
the Town Hall in St. Aldates'. The Judge, attired in wig
and robes and seated in his ponderous coach, was driven

by a fat coachman, whose mighty weight seemed to have
caused a depression on the box-seat, covered with hammer
cloth fringed round with gorgeous coloured tassels ; two
or three footmen stood behind the coach, long wands in

hand. At the entrance to the Town Hall, the beadles
were collected to keep order, for there were of course at

that time no policemen. These pompous individuals wore

a quaint dress and cocked hats, long frock-coats lined with
red with brass buttons, and carried in their hands stout

wands of office.
   The prisoners were brought from the old castle to the

Town Hall to stand their trial. The new gaol with its

adjacent judgment hall or law court was not then built.
The Rev. Gilbert Heathcote, Sub- Warden of Winchester,

tells a curious tale which shows the inconvenience arising

from the want of space in the Town Hall buildings.
When he was an undergraduate, he attended Dr. Kidd's
lectures. The Regius Professor of Medicine had a male

and female skeleton suspended from the ceiling, on either
side his lecture table, which he could pull up and down
as required. The male skeleton was of almost gigantic
stature, and was that of a man who was tried for murder
1 82 5- 1830.]   VISIT TO LYME.     113

and convicted in the Town Hall. The bodies of the

criminals in those days were handed over for anatomical

purposes to the Professor of Medicine. This big culprit,

finding the case was going against him through the evidence
of a witness, stretched out his long arm over the witness
box, and with one mighty blow felled the unfortunate

man to the ground and killed him on the spot, so that

one murder begat another.
   On another occasion, the Judge had passed sentence of

imprisonment upon a woman. As she was leaving the

dock, she took off one of her shoes (boots were not worn
in those days), and threw it with -such good aim and with

so good a will at the Judge, that he was not a little
discomfited -- in fact, his Lordship was nearly sent reeling

from the Bench.  ^-

After the death of the little bay Adam, the family went

by coach for change of air to Lyme. The shore in this

neighbourhood is a vast charnel-house of fossil bones of

the monsters that must have at one time lived, preyed on

one another, and ultimately died, at or near this very
spot. On the lias beds of this happy hunting ground

of geologists, Dr. Buckland took the children fossilising,
and made them acquainted with the local celebrity Mary

Anning, who, from the early age of ten, gained her

livelihood and supported a widowed mother by collecting

specimens on the beach. It was in 181 1 that she made

her first great discovery of the ichthyosaurus, which, with

the vertebrae of a fish, partook partly of the character of

the crocodile, but differed materially from any existing

reptile of the lizard kind. At Lyme also lived Sir Henry

                                 8
1 14  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. iv.

de la Beche, who had ample leisure and opportunity to
picture to himself the shape and habits of the former
dwellers on this sea-girt coast, as, by the daily action of

the tides, vertebrae (called there verteberries) and portions
of shells and skeletons were exposed to view, or washed
up from their bed of soft blue lias. Here the remains of
extinct monsters were picked up or disinterred as " curiosi
ties " by Mary Anning, described for the first time by
Buckland, and restored to life by the clever pencil of Sir
H. de la Beche. Some of the largest of the ichthyosauri
were over thirty feet long, the jaw sometimes exceeding
six feet. They were aquatic carnivorous animals, but

breathing air.

   " When we see," says Dr. Buckland, " the body of an
ichthyosaurus still containing the food it had eaten just
before its death, and its ribs still surrounding the remains
of feeding that were swallowed ten thousand or more than
ten thousand times ten thousand years ago, all these vast
intervals seem annihilated, come together, disappear, and
we are almost brought into as immediate contact with
events of immeasurably distant periods as with the affairs
of yesterday."

    Miss Anning received the sum of twenty-three pounds
from the British Museum for this specimen. Later on
she discovered the plesiosaurus, another of these extinct

monsters. It must not, however, be supposed that these

immense fossils, which we see so admirably arranged in
the Reptilian Gallery of the British Museum of Natural

History, were extracted from the rock in which they had

been embedded for ages without considerable trouble
and perseverance ; often the remains were found in a
1 82 5- 1830.]  MISS ANNING.                                115

fragmentary condition, and the greatest judgment and

care were required in arranging the disconnected parts.1

Miss Anning kept a little curiosity shop at Lyme, which

is admirably described in the King of Saxony's account
of his journey through England and Scotland in 1844 :--

" We had alighted from the carriage, and were proceeding
                                 with
along  on foot, when we fell in   and        a shop   in which the
most   remarkable petrifactions               fossil
                                                      remains --the
head of an ichthyosaurus, beautiful ammonites, etc. -- were
exhibited in the window. We entered, and found a little

shop and adjoining chamber completely filled with fossil

productions of the coast. It is a piece of great good
fortune for the collectors when the heavy winter rains
loosen and bring down large masses of the projecting
coast. When such a fall takes place, the most splendid
and rarest fossils are brought to light, and made accessible
almost without labour on their part. In the course of the
past winter there had been no very favourable slips ; the
stock of fossils on hand was therefore smaller than usual :
still I found in the shop a large slab of blackish clay, in
which a perfect ichthyosaurus of at least six feet was
embedded. This specimen would have been a great
a^onc1q5uthisesitteioCrnloinngtfio--nreanmst,avnaeynrdyofmI tohcdeoenracsatiedb.einrettsIhewoapfsriNcaeantuxdrieoamul sanHdiasetdtoa--ryll
events to write down the address, and the woman who
kept the shop, for it was a woman who had devoted herself
to this scientific pursuit, with a firm hand wrote her name
' Mary Anning.' in my pocket-book, and added, as she
returned the book into                       'I
throughout the whole of  Emuyrophea.nd' "s,      am   well  known

   1 It took Miss Anning ten years to extract the entire skeleton of the
plesiosaurus from its watery grave in the lias rocks, only accessible
at low water. Lately a man has spent two years of patient labour in
extracting from its rocky matrix the fossil skeleton of a turtle from
the Cape, which is now placed in the British Museum of Natural
History.

                                                                                                                                            /'
n6  LIFE OF DEAN BUCK LAND.  [ch. iv.

   The tiny old " curiosity shop " close to the beach is still
in existence ; but there are none of the pretty little boxes
of shells or tastefully arranged bunches of seaweed of former

days to be seen now. Foreigners long continued to write
for specimens, little realising that the moving spirit and
indefatigable collector of these old-world treasures had

passed away. Miss Anning's collection was broken up at
her death. The best portion of it passed into the hands

of the Misses Philpot, and is now in the Natural History

Museum, South Kensington ; but a small part of the col
lection is at Oxford. Mary Anning was born in 1800, and
died in 1847. Buckland succeeded in obtaining an annuity

for her. A stained-glass window was erected to her
memory in Lyme Church, with the following inscription :--

   " This window is sacred to the memory of Mary Anning,
of this parish, who died March 9, 1847, and is erected by
the Vicar of Lyme and some of the members of the
Geological Society of London, in commemoration of her

usefulness in furthering the science of geology, as also of
her benevolence of heart and integrity of life."

   Before concluding the account of the visit to Lyme Regis,
allusion should be made to the interesting group of fossil
animals discovered in the neighbourhood. An illustration
of these is given, after the drawing of Sir H. de la Beche,
of which the following is an explanation :--

Explanation of the Drawing by Sir Henry de la Beche called
            " Duria Antiquior," or Ancient Dorsetshire.

   Dr. Buckland always kept a good supply of his old friend's clever
representation of these monster inhabitants of ancient seas, and
frequently after his lectures distributed copies in order to bring to the
05 -a.

-Si
1825-1830.]  "DURIA ANTIQUIOR."  117

minds of his audience the reality of the subjects on which he had

been speaking.
   In the centre of the plate, at fig. I, is seen the mighty Ichthyosaurus,

or the Lizard Fish --in form and structure not unlike the marine
mammalia of the present day. The Ichthyosaurus was an air-breathing
creature, and this is known, firstly, on account of there being an entire
absence of that peculiar modification of the bones which support the
gills in fish ; secondly, because there are found true bony nostrils, and
not olfactory bags, placed in the skin, unconnected with bone, as in

fish ; thirdly, the articulation of the ribs to the spine is similar to

those in recent air-breathing animals. Ichthyosaurus had fins or paddles
at its side, and a long tail, at the end of which, according to Professor
Owen's recent discoveries, was a vertical fleshy fin. It could do what

no whale or grampus of the present day is capable of accomplishing,

viz., could crawl upon the shore, and that most likely at periodical
times, as do the seal, walrus, etc. It had an enormous eyeball, which
was larger in proportion to the skull than the eye of any other kind
of animal ; and this eye, having no eyelids, contained delicate humours,

which, being liable to injury in a chopping sea, were composed of

numerous thin and (probably) flexible bones, which encased the pupil.
Owl-like, it probably pursued its prey at dusk of evening, by moonlight,
or at early morning. It had a formidable array of teeth, each of which
was undermined by the germ of its successor, so that if a violent snap
or a too vigorous captured prey broke away the old tooth, the new
one would come up in its place. In the engraving it is represented

as making good use of these teeth, for it has caught and is about to

devour a Plesiosaurus (fig. 3).
   This also was a curious whale-like creature, which has aptly been

likened to "a turtle threaded through with the body of a snake." This
animal was marine-aquatic in its habits ; but unlike the Ichthyosaurus,

which was a deep-sea animal, it was a shore creature, and lived in the

estuaries of brackish water ; and there, lurking under the oar-weed
and other marine vegetations, obtained its prey by darting out its long
neck and seizing its prey with its sharp and formidable teeth, as is
seen in fig. 4 (and also in the distance), where an unfortunate
Pterodactyle has not got out of the way quickly enough, and is suffering
for his laziness ; while his frightened companions are wheeling about
in the air overhead, like frightened seagulls when one of their comrades

has been captured or shot.
   This Pterodactyle, or wing-fingered saurian, was a monstrous beast,

a true saurian, but yet with leather-like wings like a bat ; the only
u8        LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                [ch. IV.

living approach to them is the insignificant little Draco-Volans of the

isles of the Indian Archipelago.

of  At    fi"g.pa5viesmseeennt-laikefis"h  whose     name     is Dapedius,  so  called on account
     its                                   scales ;   it has   encountered  in  its peregrinations

an Ichthyosaurus, who is making short work of him, and is about to

gorge him down into its capacious stomach in the same manner that

a jack does a roach or dace. We know that Ichthyosaurus fed upon

this fish, because its scales are found in the fossil coprolites.

    In the Oxford Museum is the fossil stomach of an Ichthyosaurus

that had died shortly after its dinner, as it had not had time to digest

entirely the fish it had swallowed. The Ichthyosaurus (as seen in the
engraving) did not refuse to eat cuttle-fish, and we know this because

the ink of the cuttle-fish is found staining the fossil coprolites.

    Other fossil fishes whose remains are found are seen swimming about

in company with young Ichthyosauri, all enjoying life, and following

the laws of nature which ordained that they should both prey upon one

another and be preyed upon themselves.

    Sailing along the surface of this sea, upon which no human eye ever

rested, may be noticed a fleet of the beautiful Ammonite shells. Their

remains are seen at the bottom of the sea, where they would become

gradually covered with mud and converted into fossils, a theme for

the geologists and for the adornment of our cabinets.

   At fig. 6 we see growing in great luxuriance a remarkable form
of life --the Pentacrinite, or Stone Lily, so called on account of the

pentangular or five-sided shape of its supporting column. It consisted

of innumerable calcareous joints, united by a fleshy material ; it was,
in fact, a " stalk star-fish," which is represented in existing seas by the

Comatula, or Feather-star, of our own shores, and by the rare and all

but extinct Pentacrinites of the West Indies.

    For a full and beautifully illustrated description of the Pentacrinite,

as well as of the Ichthyosaurus, Plesiosaurus, Pterodactyle, and other
creatures represented in the drawing, I must refer my readers to

Dr. Buckland's Bridgewater Treatise.
   At fig. 10 is represented the Zamia, or " bird's nest," of the Portland

quarry men, together with restorations of vegetation which once

flourished in luxuriance, but which is found now only in a fossil state.

   At the bottom of the primaeval sea are strewed the bones and
carcases of its inhabitants, both small and great. Saurians, fishes,

molluscs, and shells have all yielded up their remains in obedience

to the dictum which pronounces the sentence of death upon everything
that has ever been or ever will be animated with the breath of life.
1825-1830.]  "DUMA ANTIQUIOR."  119

   In their unknown graves for thousands of past centuries, converted
into hard marble-like rocks, they have lain, and hundreds of skeletons
will lie, till time is no more, leaving but a bare record of their former

existence engraved in tablets of stone on the shores which once formed
the bed of an ancient ocean, now long passed away.

   Meanwhile let it be our privilege to read and interpret the history
of our planet as it existed when yet young in the starry firmament.
Let us compare extinct forms of animal life with their modern living
prototypes ; and from the habits and instincts of animals around us,

learn, not only the laws which govern them as well as ourselves,
the physiological causes which regulate our bodies as well as their

bodies, but also endeavour to learn pleasurable lessons from daily
scenes, and to withdraw the veil which frequently obscures the most
enchanting scenes of nature from ordinary observation.

   Above all, let us join with the inspired writer when he admonishes
us : " But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee ; and the fowls
of the air, and they shall tell thee : or speak to the earth, and it
shall teach thee : and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee."
                         CHAPTER V.

THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD, 1 832 ; THE
       MEGATHERIUM ; THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT
       BRISTOL, 1836; FOREIGN AND ENGLISH FRIENDS;
       THE QUEEN AT OXFORD, 1 84 1.

                                1831 -- 1841.

THE year 1831 brought to light the first germ of the
         British Association. Mr. (afterwards Sir David)
Brewster proposed that a " craft should be built wherein
the united crew of British science could sail." His
notion found an enthusiastic supporter in the Rev. W.
Vernon Harcourt, a great lover of science, who invited all
Philosophical Societies in Great Britain to meet at York.
Buckland, who was unable to be present, owing to the
death of a child, writes to express his " bitter disappoint
ment " at his enforced absence. He was chosen President
of the next meeting, which was held the following year
at Oxford.

   An old geological pupil of his, the Rev. W. Egerton, the
present Rector of Whitchurch, Salop, has kindly placed at
the service of the biographer Buckland's humorous letter
of congratulation to his brother, Sir Philip Egerton,
1831-1841.]     SIP PHILIP EGERTOft                                        121

upon his intended marriage, and visit to Oxford for the
meeting of the Association.

                             " Christ Church,
                                              "January iydi 1832.
"My    dear     Sir     PHILIP, -- Mrs.
                                         Buckland begs to unite

with me in the offering of our most sincere congratulations
to you on the brilliant Discovery announced in your last, of
a Jewel of great price which you have resolved to make
your own, and to submit to the inspection of the learned,
at our proposed scientific meeting in June next. The only
rival specimen I have heard of as likely to be present, and
which has the reputation of being the greatest Beauty in
the mineral world, is a specimen that will be brought by
the Marquis of Northampton, who has joined our Society,
and has lately possessed himself of a fossil lizard enclosed
in amber more exquisitely beautiful than the fairest of the
fossil Saurians, and which your specimen alone I expect
to find possessing the power to eclipse. Your scientific
description of that specimen is, I presume, submitted to
me as a paper to be read at the meeting, when all who
may be present will have opportunity of ascertaining its
fidelity by comparison with the original, and of applauding
the taste and discretion you will have exhibited by the
selection you have made. I presume our friend Lord Cole
will
    "  appear  in his unenviable state of single blessedness.
               repeating our united congratulations, and with
       Again            for                               I remain,
                                                          very sincerely,
most   sincere  wishes       y"oYuor uhrasppainlweassy,s

                                         " W. Buckland."

   To Sedgwick he writes requesting him " by all your
love of Professional Unity and the eternal fitness of things

to locate yourself in a fraternal habitation within my

domicile during the orgies of the next week, beginning the
3rd of June " ; and then goes on to tell him of the arrange
ments that Mrs. Buckland had made for his comfort, and ,
122  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

that of the friends whom he would probably meet. Among
these was the Duke of Sussex,1 who was to be his guest at
Christ Church. Sedgwick had rather ridiculed the notion
of such a gathering when it was first proposed, and had
protested that he would not leave Wales for either York
or Oxford. Murchison, however, made him break his
resolution in favour of the latter city, and his friend's

warm invitation clinched the matter.

   It may be said that at Oxford the British Association
made her most brilliant debut. Only thirteen years pre
viously had geology been recognised by the University as

a science, when its Professor was appointed, and, after much
opposition to the new learning, all Oxford seems to have
united in welcoming with boundless hospitality the
savants of the day. The Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Jones
Collier, gave a public breakfast in Exeter College Gardens,

and a free supply of refreshments was furnished to the
evening meetings in the Clarendon Buildings. The Arch

bishop of York (Vernon Harcourt) sent a fatted buck from
Nuneham Park ; the Duke of Buckingham also supplied

venison ; and never before were there witnessed such

scientific enthusiasm, goodwill, and friendship among all

classes in the old University and Cathedral town.2
    One burning question which the Committee of the

   i The Duke of Sussex was at this time President of the Royal

Society.
   2 " We ascribe the success of the Association exclusively to its

migratory character. The learned junta, now so gigantic and over
whelming, sprang from a lowly origin. Four years ago a few unpre
tending individuals, full of zeal for experimental science, met together
at York for the formation of a philosophic union, in modest imitation of
1831-1841.] LADIES AND THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 123

Association had to decide was whether or not women

were to be admitted to the meetings.  " I was most

anxious to see you," writes Buckland to Murchison in

1832, "to talk over the proposed meeting of the British

Association at Oxford in June. Everybody whom I spoke
to on the subject agreed that, if the meeting is to be of

scientific utility, ladies ought not to attend the reading
of the papers-- especially in a place like Oxford -- as it

would at once turn the thing into a sort of Albemarle-

dilettanti-meeting, instead of a serious philosophical union

of working men. I did not see Mrs. Somerville ; but her

husband decidedly led me to infer that such is her opinion

of this matter, and he further fears that she will not come

at all." In the end Mrs. Somerville decided not to attend

the meeting, for fear that her presence should encourage
less capable representatives of her sex to be present. In
this respect, as in many others, at Oxford and elsewhere,
the lapse of sixty years has made vast alterations. '

Another change which is not unworthy of notice is in the

attitude of the great newspapers towards such gatherings

as that of the Association at Oxford. Almost the only,

if not absolutely the only, reference to the meeting which

occurs in the Times is contained in a leading article for

June 28th, 1832: "We have received," says the article,

certain ambulatory societies in Germany. These excellent persons, not

aware of their own possible importance, formed the most moderate

prognostics of success, and were even apprehensive of total failure.
Professor Buckland, however, with a generosity most chivalrous, invited
the infant body to the hospitable halls of Oxford. Here its numbers
doubled, and the celebrity of the place gave celebrity to the institution."

-- The Oxford University Magazine, November 1834.
124  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

-" some notices from correspondents respecting the character
and proceedings of the present meeting of scientific men
at Oxford," and it goes on to give its reasons for thinking

that such meetings are useless.
   The proceedings opened in the Sheldonian Theatre by

the President requesting Mr. Murchison to present to the
" Father of English Geology," Mr. William Smith,1 the
Wollaston Medal, awarded to him by the Geological
Society. The death of the great Cuvier, which had
recently occurred on May 13th, 1832, called forth from

the President an eloquent and graceful tribute.

    " I cannot," he said, " utter the name of Cuvier without
being at once arrested and overwhelmed by recollections
of mortality, melancholy and painful. We have at this
moment to deplore, in common with the whole philosophic
world, the loss of the greatest naturalist, and one of the
greatest philosophers, that have arisen in distant ages to
enlighten and improve mankind. The names of Aristotle
and Pliny and Cuvier will go down together through every
age in which natural science and natural history, in which
philosophic talent and learning, and everything which, next
to religion and morality, give dignity and exaltation to
the character of man, shall be respected on earth. It was
the genius of Cuvier that first established the perfect
 method after which every succeeding naturalist will model
 his researches. He has shown that the frame and
 mechanism of every animal present an uniformity of design
 and a simplicity of purpose which prove to demonstration
that every individual, not only of the existing species, but
of those numerous and still more curious species which

   1 According to Professor Phillips, in the Life of his uncle, it was at
Dr. Buckland's suggestion that a memorial tablet to William Smith was
placed in All Saints' Church, Northampton, by a subscription among

geologists.
1831-1841.]  MEMORIAL TO CUVIER.  125.

have lived and perished in distant ages, and our know
ledge of which is due to discoveries in Geology, was

formed and fashioned by the same Almighty Hand. At

the age of sixty-three, in the vigour of his mind, he has
been called to an early grave. The gratitude of the great
nation to whose philosophic fame his genius has added
so bright a wreath has already displayed itself by a liberal
provision for his family, and has fixed his widow during
the remainder of her mortal life in that honoured and
well-known mansion in the Jardin des Plantes, which
during a quarter of a century has been ever opened in
friendly hospitality to every son of science assembled at
Paris from every nation under heaven. I fear my feelings
of respect and love and gratitude have transported me
beyond the limits which the task I have undertaken
should impose on me ; still I cannot but rejoice in the
opportunity which this august assembly affords of inviting
you to partake in this great and glorious work, and thus
publicly to record your gratitude to that immortal man,
whose friendship I have ever counted among the most
distinguished honours of my life, and whose genius will
be ever venerated so long as science shall be cultivated or
virtue venerated upon earth."

   Nor was Buckland content with words only. It was, it

may be added, mainly owing to his suggestion and active
exertions that a considerable sum of money was collected
in England, and handed over to M. Cordot, who acted as
treasurer of the fund raised in Paris to commemorate the

memory of the great philosopher and naturalist.
   Among the noticeable events of the week was a lecture

delivered by Buckland on the summit of Shotover Hill

to a large class of the members, including both veterans

in science and ladies. It was at this lecture that, for
the first time, attention was drawn to the importance of
the application of a knowledge of geology to agricultural
126  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

improvements. In the course of his remarks the Professor
pointed out many defects in the ordinary system of
drainage which could be remedied by a knowledge of the
structure of the strata, and adverted to the possibility of

reclaiming the peat bogs.
   Still more remarkable was the interest excited by his

lecture upon the megatherium, which was delivered on
the last day of the meeting. The occasion was the first
on which a fossil monster had been described to an
unscientific audience of ladies and gentlemen. The whole
address forms an excellent illustration of Buckland's power
of imparting interest to the subjects on which he touched.

"How true," wrote Sir Richard Owen in 1853 to Mrs.
Buckland, " is all that you say in the comparison of the

poor Dean's style of communicating knowledge with that
of the best of us. His like will never be listened to again !
Only those who have heard him can appreciate the loss.

It was the most genial inspiration ever vouchsafed to a
teacher of the Creator's doings of old."

    Though the megatherium does not figure in the sketch

given on p. 127, the picture affords an amusing comment
on the enthusiasm of the lecturer, whose personality pos
sessed that marked originality and individuality which lend

themselves readily to caricature.
   The following is Sir Charles Lyell's graphic account of

this celebrated lecture before the Association at Oxford.

Writing to Mantell, June 1832, he says: --

    " Buckland was really powerful last night on the
megatherium -- a lecture of an hour before a crowded
audience : only standing room for a third. Lots of anatomists
there ; paper by Clift ; the gigantic bones exhibited, and
1831-1841.]  THE MEGATHERIUM.                                127

                         Awful Changes !
Man Found Only in a Fossil State ; Reappearance of

                              Ichthyosauri.
     " A change came o'er the spirit of my dream."-- Byron.

  A Lecture. -- " You will at once perceive," continued Professor

Ichthyosaurus, " that the skull before us belonged to some of the lower
order of animals ; the teeth are very insignificant, the power of the jaws
trifling, and altogether it seems wonderful how the creature could have
procured food."

still to be seen there, but likely to be removed by-and-by.
Buckland made out that the beast lived on the ground
by scratching for yams and potatoes, and was covered
like an armadillo by a great coat of mail, to keep the dirt
from getting into his skin, as he threw it up. As he was
as big as an elephant, the notion of some that he burrowed
128                     LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

underground must be abandoned. ' We may absolve him
from the imputation of being a borough-monger ; indeed,
from what I before said, you will have concluded that he was
rather a radical' He concluded with pointing out that
as the structure of the sloth was beautifully fitted for the
purpose for which he was intended, so was the megatherium
for his habits. ' Buffon therefore, and Cuvier even, in de

scribing the sloth, and Cuvier the megatherium, as awkward,
         They are as    aIdemvierrabhleyarfdormBuecdklaans dthedo.g"a'zelle,'
erred.  the best thing                                                         etc.

It was

   In the possession of the writer is the original manuscript
from which Buckland gave the lecture, written out for him
in his wife's clear handwriting. From this document a
few extracts may be given which will show the careful
manner in which he arrived at the habits, form, and
character of this monstrosity, whose fossil remains arrived
at such a very opportune time.

   " It has occurred that within these few days there

has arrived in London a large portion of an animal
apparently the most monstrous of the monster kind, an
animal of which one fragment only had, till within the last
few days, ever reached this country. The fragment to
which I allude has been for several years in the Ashmolean
Museum, to which it was presented by his late Royal

Highness the Duke of York -- this a portion, and an
unimportant portion, of the skeleton of the animal whose

entire restoration you there see,2 a restoration not founded

1 " Life of Sir Charles Lyell," vol. p. 388.i.,
 A very fine skeleton of the megatherium to be seen in the Natural
3                                          is

                    is
History Museum, Cromwell Road.  It      a  cast, while that at the College

                                    is

of Surgeons partly Sir Woodbine Parish's original specimen placed

there in 1832 and partly a restoration. Dr. Buckland took the greatest
pains and interest in setting up the bones, and persuaded Sir Francis

Chantrey, one of his oldest and most intimate friends, to allow casts

of them to be taken in his foundry. From his friend Dr. Clift's
1831-1841]             THE MEGATHERIUM,                                                    129

on imagination, not founded on the putting together of
many and various dislocated fragments discovered at distant

times and intervals, but founded on one entire animal

disinterred from the alluvial districts in the neighbourhood
of Buenos Ayres.1
be"aTsthe' --hiisstvoeryryorfetmhearkmaebglea.theriIutmis  -- in plain English,
                                                            most nearly allied   'Great
                                                                                 to the
family of the sloth, whose structure is very anomalous,
and has been misunderstood by almost every naturalist,
including Bufifon, and even the immortal Cuvier himself. . . .
   " I will illustrate by one example, the specimen before
us, the method of investigation, which Cuvier has pointed
out and followed, that beautiful and simple method of
investigating the structure of every animal, whether of this
world or of the past. The system, of Cuvier is to begin
with the parts that are most important, first with the head

anatomical knowledge he says he derived most important aid in his

investigation of the animal, and this gentleman's beautiful drawings

of the teeth and head were used on the occasion of the lecture.
Dr. Buckland begged his audience to judge qf the " gigantic "~size of the

pelvis by the following fact, that Mr. Clift, loaded with all his honours,
                            " so that he has come
passed bodily through  it,                                 second time into the
                                                           a
world through this cavity in the pelvis of the megatherium "
                                                                                    !
                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                   a
It 1This enormous animal, the megatherium, had been brought to

England by Woodbine Parish, his Majesty's Consul at Buenos Ayres.

      was discovered by a peasant, who, passing the river Salado in

dry season, threw his lasso at something he saw half covered with

water, and dragged on shore the enormous pelvis of the animal the

rest of the bones were obtained by turning aside the current by means

of dam. The animal was about eight feet high and twelve feet long,
a
        a
                  a
and its teeth, though ill adapted for the mastication of grass or flesh,

are wonderfully contrived for the crushing of roots. The fore feet,

nearly yard in length, were armed with three gigantic claws, each

more than            foot long, and forming most powerful instruments for

scraping roots out of the ground. The most curious history that
of the megatherium, with his double skull, like fireman's helmet --
See " Bridgewater," 3rd edition, p. 144.
                                                           a

                                                                            9

                                                                                       is
130             LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                  [ch. v.

and teeth, then to go downwards through the neck and
back to its extremity in the tail. . . .

   " In all animals the teeth are indicative of the character
of the animal ; and next to the teeth the feet, and in the
feet the claws, are indicative of the character : therefore, if

we have the teeth and the feet alone, we are able at once
to see, in the absence of all other parts, the class and genus
of  the animal
    " We have    whose  teeth and feet we possess.
                before  us a gigantic quadruped, which  at  first

sight appears not only ill-proportioned as a whole, but

whose members also seem incongruous and clumsy, if con

sidered with a view to the functions and corresponding
limbs of ordinary quadrupeds. Let us first infer from the
total composition and capabilities of the machinery what

was the general nature of the work it was destined to
perform ; and from the character of the most important

parts, namely, the feet and teeth, make ourselves acquainted
with the food these organs were adapted to procure and

masticate ; and we shall find every other member of the

body acting in harmonious subordination to this chief
purpose in the animal economy. In some parts of its
organisation this animal is nearly allied to the sloth, and
like the sloth presents an apparent monstrosity of external
form, accompanied by many strange peculiarities of internal

structure. . . .

   " The megatherium affords an example of most extra
ordinary deviations and of egregious apparent monstrosity ;
a gigantic animal exceeding the largest rhinoceros in bulk,
and to which the nearest approximations that occur in the
living world are found in the not less anomalous genera of
sloth, armadillo, and chlamyphorus ; the former adapted
to the peculiar habit of residing upon trees ; the two latter
constructed with unusual adaptations to the habit of bur
rowing in search of their food and shelter in sand ; and all
limited in their geographical distribution, nearly to the
same region of America that was once the residence of

the    megatherium.  the  head  most  nearly resemble  those  of
    "
       The bones of
a sloth. The anterior part of the muzzle is so strong and
1831-1841.]  TEETH OF MEGATHERIUM.  131

substantial, and so perforated with holes for the passage
of nerves and vessels, that we may be sure it supported
some organ of considerable size ; a long trunk was needless
to an animal possessing so long a neck ; the organ was
probably a snout, something like that of the tapir, suffi

ciently elongated to gather up roots from the ground ; such
an apparatus would have afforded compensation for the
absence of incisor teeth and tusks. Having no incisors, the
megatherium could not have lived on grass ; the structure
of the molar teeth shows that it was not carnivorous.

   " The composition of a single molar tooth resembles that
of one of the many denticules that are united in the com
pound molar of the elephant ; and affords an admirable
exemplification of the method employed by nature, where
by three substances of unequal density, viz. ivory, enamel,
and crusta petrosa, or caementum, are united in the con
struction of the teeth of graminivorous animals. The teeth
are about seven inches long, and nearly of a prismatic form.
The grinding surfaces exhibit a peculiar and beautiful con
trivance for maintaining two cutting wedge-shaped salient
edges in good working condition during the whole exist
ence of the tooth ; this is the principle of the mechanism
which is adopted in the graminivorous animals. The
various edges are always kept up ; inside and outside them
are depressions, the consequence of which is that the state
of the large tooth is in the state of a millstone kept sharp
by doing its work ; therefore I say it is the perfection of
machinery to keep itself in the highest order by doing the
hardest work. The same principle is applied by tool-
makers for the purpose of maintaining a sharp edge in
axes, scythes, bill-hooks, etc. An axe or bill-hook is not
made entirely of steel, but of one thin plate of steel inserted
between two plates of softer iron, and so enclosed that the
steel projects beyond the iron along the entire line of the
cutting edge of the instrument : a double advantage
results from this contrivance ; first, the instrument is less
liable to fracture than if it were entirely made of the
more brittle material of steel ; and secondly, the cutting
edge is more easily kept sharp by grinding down a portion
132            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

of exterior soft iron, than if the entire mass were of hard

steel. By a similar contrivance, two cutting edges are
produced on the crown of the molar teeth of the mega
therium. As the surfaces of these teeth must have worn

away with much rapidity, a provision, unusual in molar

teeth, and similar to that in the incisor teeth of the beaver

and other rodentia, supplied the loss that was continually
going on at the crown, by the constant addition of new

matter at the root, which for this purpose remained hollow

and filled with pulp during the whole life of the animal.
   " His teeth indicated a peculiarity of structure : they were
not calculated to eat leaves or grass ; they were not calcu

lated to eat flesh ; he was an eater of vegetables. What
then remained for him but roots ? He has a spade and he

has a hoe and a shovel in those three claws in his right
hand. You have seen a bull enraged or a dog scratching
the ground ; these arms would give the action of a dog or a
bull to this animal with a claw such as that, such expand
ing claws as you now see in this animal of South America
in some degree. He is the Prince of sappers and miners.
I speak it in the presence of Mr. Brunel, the Prince of
diggers. Mr. Brunel eyes him and says, ' I should like
to employ him in my tunnel.' ' No,' say I, ' he is not
a workman for you ; he is not a tunneller ; he is a canal

digger, if you please, so I pray you give him the first job
                     '  He will not go an inch below a foot and
you  have  to  do  !

a half : he would dig a famous gutter ; he would drain all
Lincolnshire in the ordinary process of digging for his

daily food. If you could get him to march in a straight
...line in the Cambridgeshire fens, he would dig a gutter of
incomparable utility.   I know from experience the pain

of digging in the position in which that animal stood to
dig ; the construction of the human form is such that a
position on all fours, digging with your own claws, as I
have often done, at the bottom of caves, is a very painful

thing, and there is a dreadful coming on of lumbago after
a quarter or half an hour's work. Now, though the

megatherium was digging from morning to night, he never
could have tired ; he might go on for ever ; he stood on
1831-1841.]    DR. BUCKLAND'S ADDRESS.                133

three legs as easily or more easily than other animals stand
on four. The whole structure of his posterior extremities
                                --watshearell   perpendicular ; he stood
was    rigid ; the  pressure                   was no muscular exertion
like  the poles of  a scaffold

to keep them in their place, therefore he was never'

fat"iguI edsa. y he fed on potatoes ; he lived in those sandy

barren plains  of the Pampas    where you have roots  of that
description.                    had been planted by   nature
               If his potatoes
more than one foot and six inches deep in the earth, he

would have starved before he could have got them. Pota

toes, as every one knows, grow from two inches to one foot
below the surface of the earth ; therefore I say the capacity
of his engine for digging and delving shows the depths of
the soil where these roots grew which formed his food.
We find in addition to that nose a snout, a little longer
than that which the tapir now has. The snout would

pick up the food as the tapir does, and would put it in

as the elephant puts in his apples, and with those sixteen
pegs, as they are contemptuously and sillily called, those

beautiful engines which keep themselves constantly set, he
would munch and munch till he was satisfied. His busi
ness was to be a gardener, a digger, and culler of simples ;
he was a digger up of potatoes and other roots ; he stood
still in dignified composure, and all his concern with other
animals was to keep himself from their annoyance ; he

troubled not them, and woe be to the least beast who
                            "
dared  to    trouble  him
                           !

This account of the first meeting under the presidency

of Dr. Buckland may be fitly closed with the concluding

words of his address :--

" I congratulate each individual here present on the
attainment of what    I consider   almost
fication of which we  are capable   in our     tphreesehnigthesstat teb--eatthie
attainment of that personal knowledge and familiar inter
course which this meeting affords with those whose kindred
minds and congenial pursuits have been long familiar to
134  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

 us through the medium of their works ; a meeting in which
 they whose heads and hearts we have from a distance long
esteemed and loved and venerated are thus brought close
together in friendly and brotherly association, and permitted
 (though but for a short, yet most delightful and intellectual
week of their existence) thus to hold sweet counsel and
communion together amid these our palaces of peace."

    Professor Sedgwick, who required so much persuasion

to attend the meeting, seems from the following speech
to have enjoyed himself. In thanking Dr. Buckland for

the delightful manner in which he had presided over the
meeting, he says : --

   " All who have witnessed the exercise of his great

powers combined with extraordinary tact and temper, so
that through his governing influence the jarring elements
of a society not yet organised had been brought to order
and harmony, must have been struck with admiration.
During the long Philosophic banquet of which they had
been partaking while in his presence, all seemed to have
been living in intellectual sunshine. He looked forward
with confidence and pleasure to the results of this union
between men of common feeling and common sentiments,
who possessed one common object, the promotion of truth
and the improvement of mankind."

   The British Association, after meeting in the four Uni
versity cities of the United Kingdom, selected Bristol for
the place of its next assembly, in 1836. Buckland was
President of the Geological Section. The paper read on
Wednesday, August 24th, was on " Saurian Remains," and
in the course of the discussion which followed, Buckland

mentioned the valuable collection at the Hotwells, which
had been of great service to him in the preparation of his
Bridgewater Treatise. He also produced a human rib as
1831-1841.] BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL.  135

a geological puzzle. It was filled with lead, and his

explanation of the problem, which was abandoned by the

learned company as insoluble, was that it belonged to one
of the " unfortunate beings who perished at the Custom
House at the riots in this city. The animal matter has

been roasted out of it by intense heat, and the cavities

have been filled with lead." 1

   During his stay at Bristol, Buckland was the guest of
the father of Miss Caroline Fox. The young lady writes,
August 31st, 1836: --

   " We were returning from the British Association Meet
ing, and Dr. Buckland was an outside compagnon de
voyage, but often came at stopping places for a little chat.
He was much struck by the dearth of trees in Cornwall,
and told of a friend of his who had made the off-hand
remark that there was not a tree in the parish, when a
parishioner remonstrated with him on belying the parish,
and truly asserted that there were seven."

   This meeting of the Association at Bristol also finds
mention in the Life of Mary Carpenter.

   " She entered," it is said, " with alacrity into all the
preparations made to receive the savants at this meeting.
The acquaintance then begun with many distinguished
men who gathered at her father's table, was occasionally
renewed afterwards. ' In the afternoon,' she wrote in
October, ' Professor Buckland called on his way back to
Oxford. He stayed half an hour, conversing in a most
agreeable and sensible manner about his book,2 and the
contested point of the Creation ; he very wisely determines
not to attempt to reason with those who shut their eyes
and say that the geologists invent facts. With regard to

1 Bristol Gazette, September 1st, 1836.
* The Bridgewater Treatise.
   136           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                           [ch. v.

   the  repmroagrrkeessdive: n"eLsset  of the Creation, proved by geologists,
   he                                  man be placed in the early periods of

   the earth  ;  deprive him of oxen, horses, and all domestic
   animals "
                 (;yao"nupdukhtneohwwimouthltdoatdliienv.eo"n'ea"m1aorneg  to be    found in   the
   limestone)                                                                the  crocodiles  and
   mammoths,

       In a course of Bampton Lectures preached at St. Mary's,
   Oxford, in 1833, the British Association was attacked as
   mischievous and absurd ! The attack induced Buckland
   to write to Mr. W. Vernon Harcourt :--

      " In my humble opinion it is highly expedient for the
   interests of the Association and of the University that you

   should take up the subject in a manner which no man can
   do as well as yourself, to set the question at issue before
   the public on its right footing."

   The attitude which was assumed by many theologians

   towards science, and especially towards geology, was at

   this time exceedingly hostile. Nor did the Professor escape
   attack. " Buckland is persecuted," writes Baron Bunsen

   to his wife in April 1839, "by bigots for having asserted

   that among the fossils there may be a pre-Adamite species.

   ' How ! ' say they ; ' is that not direct, open infidelity ?
   Did not death come into the world by Adam's sin ? ' I

   suppose then that the lions known to Adam were originally
                                                  "
   destined  to  roar  throughout      eternity
                                                 !

   It was about this time that Buckland was asked by the

   rector of the parish in which William Smith was born,
   if the geologist was not an ignorant old humbug. On

   another occasion, when he was stating some geological

        1 " Life and Work of Mary Carpenter," by J. Estlin Carpenter.

r
1831-1841.]            PROFESSOR AGASSIZ.               137

truths concerning saurians to a hunting and shooting

clergyman near Lyme, in whose parish they abound in the

quarries of lias, his sporting friend stopped the Professor
by saying, " "Tis very well for you to humbug those fellows

at Oxford with such nonsense ; but we know better at
              "
Mugbury          " Such is the honour of prophets in their
             !

own    country    "    adds  the  Professor.

                 !

Among the numerous foreigners whom common tastes,

interests, and pursuits made known to Buckland was Pro
fessor Agassiz. Their life-long friendship began in 1834,

when Agassiz was Buckland's guest at Christ Church, and

was received by scientific men with a cordial sympathy
which left not a day or an hour of his sojourn in

England unoccupied.          Dr. Buckland writes to Agassiz,

August 1834: --

" I am rejoiced to hear of your safe arrival in London,
and write to say that I am in Oxford, and that I shall be

most happy to receive you and give you a bed in my house
if you can come here immediately. I expect Monsieur
Arago and Mr. Pentland from Paris to-morrow (Wednesday)
afternoon. I shall be most happy to show you our Oxford
Museum on Thursday or Friday, and to proceed with you
towards Edinburgh. Sir Philip Egerton has a fine collec
tion of fossil fishes near Chester, which you should visit on
your road. I have partly engaged myself to be with him
on Monday, September 1st, but I think it would be desir
able for you to go to him on Saturday, that you may have
time to take drawings of his fossil fishes.
"      cannot                                 I  shall
    1            tell  certainly  what  day             leave Oxford

until I see M. Arago, whom I hope you will meet at my
house on your arrival in Oxford. I shall hope to see you
Wednesday evening or Thursday morning. Pray come to
my house in Christ Church with your baggage the moment
you reach Oxford."
138  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                            [ch. v.

Agassiz always looked back with delight on his first

visit to Great Britain. Guided by Buckland, to whom

not only every public and private collection, but every

rare specimen in the United Kingdom, seem to have been

known, he wandered from treasure to treasure. Every day

brought its revelations, until, under the accumulation of

new facts, he almost felt himself forced to begin afresh the

work which he had believed to be well advanced. He

might have been discouraged by a wealth of resources which

seemed to open out countless paths, leading he knew not

whither, but for the generosity of the English naturalists,

who allowed him to cull, out of sixty or more collections,

two thousand specimens of fossil fishes, and to send them

to London, where, by the kindness of the Geological

Society, he was permitted to deposit them in a room in

Somerset House. The mass of materials once sifted and

arranged, the work of comparison and identification became

relatively easy. He sent at once for his faithful artist, Mr.

Dinkel, who began, without delay, to copy all such speci

mens as threw new light on the history of fossil fishes, a

work which detained him in England several years.1 On

October 13th, 1834, Dr. Buckland writes to Mr. Vernon
Harcourt : " My fishing excursion with Agassiz has ended

most prosperously ; he has caught too large a multitude for

his publication without expansion beyond its already bulky
"Idimensions." Again in 1835 he writes :
                                          hope you will

be able to get Agassiz another grant of £100 in considera

tion of his labours." In a letter to Murchison, written
in the same year, he says : " Harcourt seems to agree in

     1 " Louis Agassiz : His Life and Correspondence.
1831-1841.]  AGASSIZ AND BUCKLAND.  139

the propriety of asking for another grant to Agassiz, if he
brings with him some good work done out of English
Fishes since last meeting." He knew well the hard struggle

Agassiz had with life, and in his generous large-heartedness
did all he could to assist him. Both Dr. Buckland and his
wife had the greatest affection and esteem for the simple-

minded young Swiss Professor, and both cordially sympa
thised with him in his enthusiastic love of science, as well

as in his belief that scientific facts are in truth but transla
tions into human language of the thoughts of the Creator.
For such aid and sympathy Agassiz was deeply grateful.
His private letters contain touching passages, in which,

in the most natural manner possible, his enthusiasm breaks

to the surface, or he regrets his want of money, not for
himself, but for the work he longed to complete, or

expresses his heartfelt gratitude towards all those who

helped him to bring out his splendid addition to the science
of geology.

   Not only in his indefatigable energy in the cause of

science, but also in his forgetfulness of his own domestic

comfort, Agassiz greatly resembled Buckland. It might
have been Buckland, if it had not been Agassiz, who--
if the story be true-- prepared his coffee in the morning

and his tea in the evening in the same saucepan in which
all day he was boiling up specimens for skeletons ! The
two friends were alike also as lecturers and founders of

museums and scientific societies, and in their power of

communicating to others their own enthusiasm. Change
Neuchatel into Oxford, and the following description of the
Swiss Professor might have been written of Buckland : --
140  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                 [ch. v.

   " Il se montra, dès ses débuts, un professeur merveilleux,

qui communiquait sa flamme à ses auditeurs et les entraî

nait à la conquête de la vérité. Il se produisait sous

son influence un remarquable mouvement scientifique, que
les événements de 1848 devaient brusquement interrompre,
de cette époque datent la fondation de la Société des
Sciences Naturelles et l'extension du riche musée."

    Agassiz was fired with the same love and passion for his
museum which inspired Buckland. The Swiss Professor
had many brilliant offers of advancement, but " ce que le

retenait surtout en Amérique, c'était son musée de Cam

bridge, sa création, l'oeuvre de sa vie en faveur de laquelle

il avait su éveiller l'intérêt général." '

    Though the two men were equal in their love for their

respective museums, they were not equally fortunate in
obtaining recognition of the value of their collections.
The appreciation of the new geological science by Ameri
cans in 1858 forms a striking contrast to the neglect of
it which was evinced by the Oxford University in 1856.
The legislature of Massachusetts gave a valuable site to

Agassiz for his museum ; a private individual bequeathed

50,000 dollars ; and private subscriptions were raised

which amounted to 71,000 dollars. Buckland's museum,
on the other hand, which was the result of forty years

of travel, toil, and self-denial, has almost perished for want
of a few hundred pounds from the University chest to

unpack and arrange it in the new building to which it
was removed in 1856.

    Agassiz was at this time engaged in working out his

     1 " Louis Agassiz "-- Philippa Godet.
1831-1841.]  GLACIERS.  141

glacial theory, and found in Buckland an uncompromising
opponent. " We have made," writes Mrs. Buckland in 1838
to the Swiss Professor, " a good tour of the Oberland, and

have seen glaciers, etc., but Dr. Buckland is as far as ever

from agreeing with you." It is no slight proof of his

openness of mind that he frankly acknowledged his error,

when he found that the discoveries of Agassiz satis

factorily explained the existence of boulders and large

water-worn stones in positions far above what is now the
reach of the agencies to which they must have been at one

time subjected. To complete the glacial theory, the two

friends travelled together to Aberdeen to confer with the

celebrated Professor Fleming, to whom in his monograph
on Fossil Fishes Agassiz refers. " We have found," writes
Buckland in 1840 to the Aberdeen Professor, " abundant

traces of glaciers round Ben Nevis." To the glacial theory

he became an enthusiastic convert, and was not satisfied

till he had made other leading geologists recognise the
importance of the discovery. " Lyell," he writes to Agassiz,
" has accepted your theory in toto ! ! On my showing him
a beautiful cluster of moraines within two miles of his

father's house, he instantly accepted it as solving a host

of difficulties that have all his life embarrassed him."

Buckland himself supported Agassiz with an elaborate

paper of observations on the polished, striated, and furrowed
surfaces of the sides of mountains. In writing to tell his

Swiss friend that the paper was being prepared, he adds :
" I expect Murchison will be converted by the inspection

of the moraines near Lyell's house. I have found similar

polish and scratches on the rock of Edinboro' Castle, and
142  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

have sent an artist to daguerrotype them." Among the many

diagrams and drawings left by him to Oxford University
is an interesting sketch of the primitive habitation -- a block
of schist on the great moraine--in which Agassiz lived on

the Aar glacier. It was known in the scientific world by

the name of " L'H6tel des Neuchatelois," and on the sketch
Buckland has written the words " Given me by Agassiz."

    Buckland's championship of the glacial theory was the
subject of a poetic " Dialogue between Dr. Buckland and

a Rocky Boulder," written by his friend Philip Duncan.
The following are the lines : --

                                         " Buckland, loquitur.

     " Say when, and whence, and how, huge Mister Boulder,
        And by what wondrous force hast thou been rolled here ?
        Has some strong torrent driven thee from afar,
       Or hast thou ridden on an icy car?
       Which, from its native rock once torn like thee,
        Has floundered many a mile throughout the sea,
       And stranded thee at last upon this earth,
        So distant from thy primal place of birth ;
        And having done its office with due care,
       Was changed to vapour, and was mixed in air.

                                         " Boulder, respondit.

     " Thou great idolater of stocks and stones,
       Of fossil shells and plants and buried bones ;
       Thou wise Professor, who wert ever curious
       To learn the true, and to reject the spurious,
       Know that in ancient days an icy band
        Encompassed around the frozen land,
       Until a red-hot comet, wandering near
       The strong attraction of this rolling sphere,
        Struck on the mountain summit, from whence torn
       Was many a vast and massive iceberg borne,
1831-1841.]    GLACIAL THEORIES.                             143

And many a rock, indented with sharp force

And still-seen striae, shows my ancient course ;

And if you doubt                  go with friend Agassiz
               :
And view the signs in Scotland and Swiss passes."
                  I

                           is it,
                                 a
   How effective was Buckland's support of the views of the
young Swiss Professor shown by the testimony of men       a
who were afterwards eminent in science. Thus Professor
Prestwich writes " was young man during Dr. Buck-               it
                                                                      is
land's latter years, and used to listen at the Geological
Society to his vigorous and successful advocacy of glacial
period." So, too, Professor Bonney declares that "
to Dr. Buckland we owe the recognition of the action of

glaciers in the country."

   Of the glacial theory of Professor Agassiz, Buckland gave
the following description in an Ashmolean lecture --
                                                          :

" Agassiz considers the glacial period was between the
ancient and present state of our planet, and that the
melting of this ice was the cause of enormous deluges,
which have produced in the low lands many of the great

accumulations of gravel to which the name of diluvium has
                     abundant evidence of the effects
been applied. There  is
of glaciers (such as now exist in Switzerland) in most ofis
the valleys proceeding from the higher ranges of moun

tains in this country. It well known that large pieces
of rock constantly fall on the glacier margin. The
progressive motion of the ice carries these stones partly
on the surface and partly at the bottom of the glacier.
Every glacier  thus thickly set with fragments fixed
               is
                                                      a
firmly in the ice, like the teeth of file, and these being
slowly forced against the sides and bottom of the valley
are continually producing a series of scratches and grooves
upon the rocks they pass. The expansive force that

moves the glacier caused by the successive thawings and
               is

freezings of the ice. Precisely similar effects appear to
144  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

have taken place in the north of England and in Scotland
in the period before our epoch. That the glaciers in
Switzerland once occupied a very different level from their
present one, is evident from the fact that the surface of
the valley of the Arve, descending from the Grimsel, shows
scratches several thousand feet above the level of the present
glacier. I found similar scratches over a breadth of two
or three miles in a high valley on the north shoulder of
Schiehallion in Perthshire ; the scratches are most dis
tinctly preserved on the surface of two dykes of porphyry,
but are also apparent on the harder kinds of slate stone.
Traces of the action of glaciers down to the present level
of the sea are distinctly visible, between high and low water
mark, upon the surface of the granite on the left margin
of Loch Leven, and also at Bunaw Ferry on Loch Etive.

    " Large round blocks of granite are brought down by
the glaciers. Similar cases of transport by ice occur at
the present time in the Arctic regions, where vast masses
of stone and mud are drifted annually to sea on icebergs,
to be stranded on distant shores. In this way we can
explain the condition of the east coast of England, where
blocks of Scandinavian porphyry have been stranded by
icebergs from the Baltic."

   The parallel roads of Glenroy may also, Buckland says,

be satisfactorily referred to a lake produced by two glaciers
descending from the north and east sides of Ben Nevis to
the valley of Glen Spean. He also discovered similar signs
of glacial action in Wales. Mr. Murray Browne says that --

" Dean Buckland pointed out distinct traces of glacier
action at Aberglaslyn Pass, near Beddgelert. This was (I
believe) the first time that traces of glacier action were
pointed out in  Wales." (Every one can now see them at
every corner.)  " The Dean made a note to this effect in the

visitors' book at the Goat Hotel, Beddgelert. The page in
which this was written was cut out and framed, and for

many years hung up in the hotel. Recently, owing to a
/i
                                        :_'  £fSufr""'STM°ra
            §TJ>« SSSbhAr Coui-si

sir qj m e  toUoiuufan IMMENSE

            oslBC^ou°rssenuopiolZn TSnliTghXtuI£Um-'li-is:'ImihSvu-',,. c

                                                                           [Face p. 145.
1831-1841.] THE COSTUME OF THE GLACIER.  145

change of ownership, it has passed into other hands, and is
now, I believe, in the possession of a Mr. Jones of Mailing-
ton, Chester, who owns property in Beddgelert. The Dean
was ridiculed about it at the time, as mentioned in Frank
Buckland's Life."

   Mr. Sopwith, who was Dr. Buckland's companion in
some of his tours in search of glacier scratches, made a
semi-caricature of Buckland, who, encumbered with the
numerous heavy cloaksr thick travelling boots, bags of
fossils, and rolls of maps, presents a figure fancifully like
a glacier. The sketch is entitled " The costume of the
glacier." Dr. Buckland is represented as standing on a
smooth bit of rock covered with scratches under his feet,
and the explanation is then given : " The rectilinear course
of these grooves corresponds with the motions of an
immense body, the momentum of which does not allow
it to change its course upon slight resistance." By his
side are drawn " specimen No. 1, scratched by a glacier
thirty-three thousand three hundred and thirty-three years

before the creation ; No. 2, scratched by a cart wheel on
Waterloo Bridge the day before yesterday ; the whole
picture being scratched by T. Sopwith."

   Of Buckland's English friends, the Archbishop of York

(Vernon Harcourt) and his family were among the greatest,
and, of course, when the Archbishop came to reside at
Nuneham, near Oxford, the intimacy between the families
greatly increased. From the Harcourt papers, lately pub
lished for private circulation only, it is interesting to read
the correspondence which the Archbishop carried on with
most of the illustrious people of the day, both scientific and

political. It was the Rev. William Vernon Harcourt at

                                                                                                   10
146  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

whose instigation Buckland discovered in the cave at Kirk-
dale in 1 82 1 the fossil remains which became the nucleus of
the York Museum,1 and it was also he who, ten years after

wards, was the mainspring and active secretary of the
British Association in 1831. During the summer term at
Christ Church scarcely a week passed without a party from

Nuneham coming over either to breakfast (breakfast parties
were then the fashion) or to luncheon. The frequency of
such arrivals vividly impressed Dr. Buckland's butler. He
had, he says, " good cause to remember those parties, for
two or three carriage loads would come over at a time,

and eighteen or twenty would sit down to luncheon, and
Master Frank was always sent round the table to show

the guests the Siberian mammoth, which had been
mounted in a silver box. The children always came

down to the drawing-room afterwards, to see the company

before they went off to the Museum."

   In June 1841 the Archbishop had the honour of enter

taining the Queen and the Prince Consort at Nuneham,
during their visit to Oxford. Mrs. Buckland notes in her
journal her regret that, owing to the serious illness of
one of her younger children, she is unable to leave the

house to take part in the enthusiastically loyal reception
given by the citizens and students of the University city
to the Royal visitors. The unusual bustle in the beautiful
 streets may be imagined. The Queen and Prince arrived
on the 12th of June, and coaches, flys, tandems, and every

   1 This Museum was the origin of the establishment of the Yorkshire
Philosophical Society, of which William Vernon Harcourt was chosen

President.
1831-1841.]  ROYAL VISIT TO OXFORD.  147

 available vehicle, were filled with anxious subjects, whose

 loyalty and curiosity kept pace with each other. Nuneham
 Park, with its velvet lawns sloping down to the Thames,
 was thrown open to all by the courtly hospitality of its
 venerable owner. The result was that thousands of spec

 tators (and among them the village schoolchildren in their
 white dresses) witnessed the arrival of the Royal Party,
 escorted by the Oxford Yeomanry. From all sides the
 progress of the distinguished visitors was saluted with

 tremendous cheering.

    On the following day, June 13th, 1841, Prince Albert
drove into Oxford to be present at the annual com
memoration in the Sheldonian Theatre. It was hoped
that the Queen and Prince would both attend it ; but
Her Majesty was " dissuaded," says the Times, by cogent
reasons from accompanying her Royal Consort. Amongst
these reasons it is sufficient to particularise this one. The

University authorities would have been compelled, by
ancient prescription, to grant an additional vacation of an
entire term, a concession which would have been attended
by great inconvenience. The Prince Consort was met
at the Schools by the Duke of Wellington, who was
the Chancellor of the University ; the Vice-Chancellor,
Dr. Wynter, President of St. John's College ; and by the

Heads of Houses, all wearing Court dress. At 10.30 a.m.

the procession, headed by Prince Albert, entered the
theatre. After the proceedings in the theatre ' were over,

   1 Professor Keble delivered the Creweian Oration in Latin. The
prize essays were then recited. The Latin essay was by Benjamin
Jowett, late Master of Balliol.
148  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. v.

Prince Albert was taken to the Town Hall, where in the

council chamber addresses were presented to him by the
City of Oxford and by the County. Immediately after
the address the Prince proceeded to St. John's College,
a sumptuous entertainment being served up in the hall.
The hall doors were thrown open even during the luncheon,
and strangers were permitted to view the whole proceedings.
Every part of the College exhibited the most boundless
hospitality. In fact open house was kept, and vast num
bers availed themselves of the opportunity of indulging

in College fare.
   The present President of St. John's, the Rev. Dr. Bellamy,

relates a curious incident connected with the Prince's entry
into St. John's quadrangle. In order to provide a better
approach, the College authorities had caused an opening
to be made from the street through the middle of the wall
which bounds the bank opposite the central gate. The

bank being higher than the footway in front of the

College quadrangle, they caused planks to be placed
between it and the College gateway, so as to make an

inclined plane. Then they covered the plane, as indeed

the whole space between the opening made in the wall
of the bank and the President's lodgings, with red cloth,

intending that the Queen (whom they hoped to see) and
Prince Albert should alight from their carriages at that
opening and walk on the red cloth from it to the President's

door. When, however, the arrival took place, the Duke of
Wellington's carriage drove up first, and to their horror,
for they feared the planks would give way, went straight
through the opening and down the inclined plane over the
1831-1841-]  ROYAL VISIT TO OXFORD.  149

red cloth into the College. The Prince's carriage and the
other carriages followed ; but no ill consequences ensued,
the planks, though only intended for pedestrians, sup
porting bravely the weight of the carriages.

   After the luncheon the Prince and his party visited the
chief objects of attraction in the University, including
Buckland's Museum, and afterwards attended Divine
Service in the Chapel of New College.
                        CHAPTER VI.

DR. BUCKLAND'S NOTES ON DRAINAGE ; THE AGRI
      CULTURAL SOCIETY AT OXFORD IN 1 839, AND AT
      CAMBRIDGE IN 1840 ; EXPERIMENTAL FARM AT
      MARSH GIBBON ; ALLOTMENTS AT ISLIP ; LECTURE
      ON THE POTATO DISEASE, 1 845 ; DISCOVERY OF
       COPROLITES ; PARTIES AT DRAYTON MANOR ; LORD
       PLAYFAIR'S RECOLLECTIONS OF BUCKLAND.

                                          1839--1845-

   " Agriculture feeds us ; to a great degree it clothes us ; without it
we could not have manufactures and we should not have commerce.
These all stand together; but they stand together like pillars in a
cluster, the largest in the centre -- and that largest is Agriculture." '

IT has been most truly said that Dr. Buckland devoted
      all his varied scientific knowledge and experience to
the benefit of his fellow-men. " This craving," to quote

the words of Professor Williamson,2 "to be useful in

   1 Words spoken by Daniel Webster, American orator and statesman,
responding to the toast of distinguished strangers, at the meeting of the
Agricultural Society in Queen's College Quadrangle, 1839.

   8 Professor W. C. Williamson, LL.D., F.R.S., Professor of Botany
in the Victoria University, Owens Coll., Manchester. The biographer
is greatly indebted to this distinguished gentleman for the assistance
he rendered her when she commenced this memoir. Buckland's
shrewdness in the discovery of great talent is to be seen in the

                                                                        150
1839-1845G      AGRARIAN RIOTS.  151

promoting the welfare of the world around him charac
terised his entire life."

   So far back as 1818 the subject of agriculture had
occupied his attention. And, apart from the natural

affinity between agriculture and geology, there were
special circumstances in the condition of the time which
appealed strongly to so ardent a philanthropist. The fall
of prices after the Peace of 1815 produced wide-spread
ruin, and, for the moment, the distress was aggravated by
the displacement of labour which was temporarily effected
by the introduction of machinery into agricultural opera
tions. Riots of agrarian origin were not infrequent ;
machine-breaking, rick-burning, and the destruction of the
shops of butchers and bakers, testified to the almost uni
versal distress and discontent in country districts. Buck-
land's letters illustrate the disturbances, which became,

from 1 81 5 to 1845, a common feature in English rural life.
Thus, in November 1830, he writes to Murchison a letter
from which the following passage is extracted : --

   " If it be a very hard-run thing, I shall feel it my duty

to come up to town, and vote for Herschel as President

of the Royal Society ; but I shall be very sorry to leave
home on Monday next without a most urgent necessity,

for my wife's father and mother, six miles from here, are in

"Ifollowing letter written by him in 1834 to the learned Professor, then
quite a youth:  was much gratified at seeing that the Editor
of the Literary Gazette took the same view which I have done of your
interesting account of the British Tombs. I am happy to have been
instrumental in bringing before the public a name to which I look
forward as likely to figure in the annals of British Science. I trust

you will not fail to receive in your native town that encouragement

which strangers, as far as their means extend, are ready to proffer you."
   152  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

hourly expectation of a mob from Abingdon to set fire to
their premises, and there are threats of a mob coming
into Oxford from the neighbourhood of Benson, and our
streets, every night, are on the point of a row between the
tow" nMyanbdrogthoewrn-.in-law has just come in with seven prisoners,
and has lodged them in Oxford Castle for to-night. To
morrow he will take them to the jail at Abingdon, where
there was a rescue this morning of seven out of eight
prisoners brought in from Hungerford, and a rescue will be
attempted to-morrow when the men are taken over from
Oxford Castle. Not one soldier is to be found in the
land ; and my brother-in-law is fighting with a party of
fox-hunters, turned into special constables, and galloping
sixty or seventy miles a day during all the past week."

    On so kind-hearted a man as Buckland, the agricultural
distress, with which his frequent journeys through the
country made him unusually familiar, produced a profound
impression. Convinced as he was that the true remedy
was to be found in improved methods of cultivation, and
in the utilisation of all the assistance that science could

supply, he endeavoured, both by example and by precept,
to help forward the work of agricultural progress.

   Among his MSS. lectures and notes1 are some very
interesting remarks on the possibility of reclaiming bogs.
It was, perhaps, his oft -repeated maxim, that "there is
no waste in nature," which induced him to take endless
trouble -- to visit, examine, and make notes on all the

different bogs, morasses, fens, and marshes in the United

   1 The biographer is much indebted to Professor Green for his great
courtesy and kindness in allowing her access to these MSS. and
Portfolios, which have greatly assisted her in compiling this memoir.

w
1839-1845-]  LAND DRAINAGE.  153

Kingdom, with a view to the possibility of their being
rendered useful for agricultural purposes. The question
was becoming urgent. The demand for food grew daily

greater, and the falling prices and general agricultural ruin

which followed the Peace of 181 5 reduced the supply.
The population of the country was increasing at an enor

mous rate, while at the same time there was a constant

recurrence of bad seasons.

   The mass of information which Buckland collected

extends over a period from 181 8 to 1847, and apparently

has never been published. Public attention was by him

directed to the commercial good that would attend the
draining of marsh lands so as to render them capable of
" yielding their increase," and to the improvement which
might be effected in the health of the dwellers in fen
districts. Among his memoranda occurs such an entry
as this : " Within the last few years Seaton fever and

Cambridge fever have happily become extinct." On the
possibility of reclaiming peat bogs he writes :--

   " A mere peat bog, whether wet or drained, is a mass

of inert vegetable matter, which, till some method be dis
covered of exciting putrefaction, must remain unproductive
for ever. The plan of burying the surface under a covering
of new matter is one which can only be practised in places
where the neighbourhood supplies the necessary materials
-- by sinking a shaft and raising the under stratum, whether
clay marl or limestone gravel. This system may be adopted
in most of the bogs of the great central belt of Ireland,
they being generally based on the limestone rock, and
abounding in hillocks and ridges of limestone gravel, for
the burning of which the peat supplies fuel. But, in the
majority of the mountain bogs, the distance of lime and
the exposure of their situation render the capability and
154  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                              [ch. vi.

advantages of reclaiming them problematical, although
tIhfeairbiongclibneedcopveorseitdionwitwhoualdnemw uacnhd  facilitate    their drainage.
                                                             artificial   crust, without
doubt that crust will be productive, or, if the whole sub
stance of the mass be floated off and carried away, the
surface that had been buried will naturally be recovered ;
but the command of water and the necessary materials are
so essential to the execution of these expedients that to
apply them on the large scale is almost impossible. It is
on the edges of large bogs and near the limestone ridges
and hummocks that daily encroachments are made upon
the bogs of Ireland ; but the pieces enclosed are so small,
and distributed among such numbers of peasants, whose
time is of little value, that the expense, however great,
becomes imperceptible. The land that had been covered
by the great moss of Kincardine, near Stirling, was
regained by the removal of the entire substance of the
moss by Lord Kaimes. The same thing has been done on
a less scale in a moss near Londonderry. Bogs are not
unhealthy. Ireland abounds with lakes and bogs which

might be supposed to have some influence on the climate
and animal economy of the inhabitants ; but it does not
appear that it is anywhere unhealthy. No people are
more healthy than those who live in the midst of the most
extensive and wettest mosses ; their atmosphere is entirely
free from those putrid vapours which are the constant
attendants of more fertile fens and marshes ; even the
smoke of peat that constantly clouds their cabins is said
to be beneficial to the health of the inhabitants. The

symmetry and athletic frame of the Irish, their ardent
passions and constant flow of animal spirits, which render

them always cheerful, often turbulent and boisterous, are

to be attributed to that uninterrupted health and vigorous
constitution which are derived from the salubrity of the

climate.
   " Those bogs with which Ireland is in some places over

grown are not injurious to health. The watery exhala
tions from them are neither so abundant nor so noxious

as those from marshes which become prejudicial from the
1839-1845-]                 DRAINAGE OF BOGS.                     155

various animal and vegetable substances that are left to
putrefy as soon as the waters are exhaled by the sun.
Bogs are not, as one might suppose, masses of putrefaction ;
but, on the contrary, they are of such a texture as to resist
putrefaction above any other substance we know of. I
have seen a shoe neatly stitched taken out of a bog entirely
fresh ; from its fashion it must have been there some
centuries. I have seen butter, called rouskin, which had
been hid in hollow trunks of trees so long that it was
become hard and almost friable, yet not devoid of unctu-
osity ; the length of time it had been buried must have been
                            feet of bog     had grown over it.
ver"yCgarpetaati,n  as ten                  water did not become  putrid
                     Cook   found peat
after being long kept in warm climates. The antiseptic
quality of peat is imparted to water in which it has been
infused, and extends to all substances that may chance to
be buried in it. In the Phil. Trans, for 1747 is an account
of the body of a woman found under a moss in Lincoln
shire, which from the antique sandals found on her feet
had remained there for centuries ; yet the body had
suffered nothing by corruption, the hair and nails were
                                             skin soft and   strong, but had
fresh as     awhteanwnlyivicnoglo, utrh--e  I should rather
acquired                                                     say, tanned. A
human body was found twelve feet deep in the estate of
Lord Moira. It was clothed in garments made of hair,

and yet, though they must have been buried before the
introduction of the use of wool, the body and clothes

were no way impaired. A piece of cloth found ten feet
deep in a moss at Glassford, Lanarkshire, was perfectly
fresh and well preserved. In 1786 a woollen coat of coarse

...net-work was found in a bog at the depth of seventeen

feet.

   " Ireland is inferior in fertility to England, because that
which is the most productive of all our strata (the red marl)
is in the far greater part of Ireland entirely wanting, and
because it possesses not such districts as the marsh lands
of Cambridge and Lincoln and the south of Yorkshire. It

is true that, in passing from London to Holyhead, you see
but little of our most prolific strata ; but cross the island
156              LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                               [ch. vi.

from Exeter to Carlisle, and you will scarce pass over a
mile of uncultivated ground. Marsh lands are, for the most

part, exceedingly unhealthy, from the putrid vapours that
are exhaled from their animal and vegetable contents ;
the fens of Lincolnshire and Essex and Romney Marsh
afforded, before their drainage, too convincing a proof.
Where stagnant water that has not been impregnated with
moss prevails, nothing is more common than intermittent
fevers and malignant epidemics. The soil of the English
marshes is a black spongy moor of rotten vegetable
matter. The bogs of Ireland consist of inert vegetable
matter, covered more or less with unproductive vege
tation and containing a large quantity of stagnant water.
The difference between these soils            that the rotten vege
table matter of the one produces unrivalled crops of cornis,
and grass, whilst the inert vegetable matter of the other   a
                 kind of
throws out no    wood     plant useful to man.                 fuel,  and  the
   " In Ireland            scarcely ever used for
     is
                 is

                                  is
                                          is
great supply for the poor from the extensive bogs, which,
near great towns, become on this account valuable pro

perty. A bog near Limerick sold for £80 an acre. Much
turf consumed in Dublin and Limerick. . . . The tolls of
the Dublin turf boats alone produce an income of £10,000
per annum. The season for cutting, drying, and carrying
home turf        considered in Ireland, and many parts of

Scotland, to be of as much importance as the harvesting

of corn. An idle alarm has often been excited by the
plans of draining and reclaiming bogs, as the stock of
fuel would be thus destroyed. But, after bog has beenit a if
drained and covered with thin stratum of earth, the mass
                          a                              it

below, thus becoming the subsoil, will be so compressed
as to afford a better fuel than before, and in a state that

requires much less drying. The stock indeed would in
this case be exhaustible, whereas at present
                                                               replenishes

itself. But there can be no question but that would
be national advantage to convert to the purposes of
     a

supplying food to man those bleak, barren, and dreary
wastes which now answer no other purpose than that of

supplying fuel."
i839-i845-J ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.  157

   In 1839 Buckland, whose natural talent for organising
societies was further excited by his strong conviction of

the intimate connection between Agriculture and Geology,

succeeded, together with Sir Thomas Acland, Mr. Philip

Pusey, and others, in offering a reception at Oxford to the

new science of Agriculture as enthusiastic as that which

the University City had accorded seven years previously to

the sister science of Geology. The founder of the Agricul

tural Society, and its first President, Lord Spencer, was

a keen agriculturist. Dr. Gilbert, the Vice-Chancellor

(afterwards Bishop of Chichester), was a great friend of

Dr. Buckland's, so there was no difficulty in inducing the

University authorities to allow the quadrangle of Queen's
College to be roofed over for the reception of the expected

visitors. This was considered a wonderful achievement,

and it took a fortnight to accomplish.  On the evening

before the meeting two thousand guests sat down to dinner

in the covered quadrangle. Buckland made an eloquent

speech, detailing the many advantages which the promoters

of the Society hoped would arise from associating practice

with science. Many allusions record the effect produced

by his address ; but at that time there were no reporters,

and, therefore, no connected record is preserved of this

and many other speeches. It is curious to see, as has

been already noticed, how meagre the reports were, for

many years to come, even of large meetings like the British

Association. The first day of the meeting finished with

another large dinner in the quadrangle, where Sir Thomas

Acland proposed the toast of Dr. Buckland, President of

the Geological Society, who had done so much for science
158  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

in Oxford and in the world at large. In the course of
his reply, Buckland suggested that a joint Committee
should be formed from members of the Agricultural Society
and of the Geological Society, in order to co-operate for
the improvement of agriculture.

    " We all," he said, " have to deal with one common
parent, the Earth. It is our business, as geologists, to
consider the history of its origin and the cause of its
present condition ; and it is your business to operate on
the surface, and extract from it the abundant riches with
which Providence has stored it. From such a combination
we may anticipate the most splendid results."

    In the following year there was a meeting of the
Agricultural Society at Cambridge, after the precedent
set them by the British Association. In the hall of Trinity
College Buckland again pointed out the great advantages
to be derived by agriculture from the study of geology.
In conjunction with Mr. Murchison and Mr. de la Beche,
he also undertook a gratuitous survey for the Society ; and
when, in March 1840, the Agricultural Society obtained a
Royal Charter, Buckland was the first honorary member.

    In an address at one of the Society's meetings (he
hardly ever missed one) he said : --

   " The scientific research for water and the scientific con
version of barren soils to fertility by the practical application -
of geology must obviously be impotent in some of their
most fundamental points without a knowledge of the com
position of soil and structure of the earth."

   In 1840 Dr. Buckland bought some clay land at Marsh

Gibbon, a few miles from Oxford, in order to try practical
experiments upon draining heavy clay soil. He used to

y~
1839-1845-]  MARSH GIBBON.  159

drive his younger children over with him in a capacious
yellow carriage, drawn by a tall, gaunt, gentle horse, called
" Old Owen," two or three times a week, in order to
superintend the work himself, for it was one of his favourite

sayings, " If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."

In these early days of drainage and of sanitary building,
it was very necessary that the workmen should be in
structed at every step. The farmhouse had the foundations
of the walls laid in brick, with large slates laid on the top
crosswise, as a damp-proof course. Perforated air bricks,
made under his direction at the adjacent brickyard, were
inserted in the walls, as well as chimney ventilators ; even

the stables and cowsheds were also ventilated, though this
was considered at the time a very unnecessary waste of

money.

    In proof of the success resulting from scientific draining
and cultivation Dr. Buckland exhibited at the Ashmolean
in 1844 an enormous turnip, measuring a yard in circum
ference, which had been grown on land that before had
lain waste.

    Marsh Gibbon has retained its fascination for scientific

experiment, and has been made by the Ewelme trustees

into a model sanitary village, with excellent labourers'
cottages let at very reasonable rents. Buckland's work
there and his personality are still remembered in the parish,
and the Rector, the Rev. Edward Holmes, thus writes to
the biographer :--

  "As regards the farm which Dr. Buckland sold in 1845,

the present owner, Mr. David Jones, says that the drainage
pipes were made in two pieces, upper and lower, for main
160          LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.             [ch. vi.

drainage, and that these were still of benefit on the ploughed
land. Dr. Buckland used soot with the wheat, and rags
used to be ploughed in."

   Dr. Buckland was a great favourite among the farmers.
He endeavoured to convey to their minds great facts in

an amusing strain, and was therefore generally successful
in his attempts ; and he was, in a marked degree, a
sympathetic friend and adviser to the labourer, miner,
and mechanic, from whom, as he was wont to say, " he had
learnt many a lesson."

   In 1842, as the following extract from a letter written to
Sir H. de la Beche in November of that year shows, he
was contemplating the purchase of another experimental

farm at Torrington.

     " I am going," he writes, " to look at an estate near

Torrington to-morrow with a view to purchasing  is it,  on

examination  it  should prove capable of great improveif

ment by thorough draining, sheepfolding, and alternating
crops of green and grain.
                           fear the climate           bad,
                           I

                                     is
four hundred feet above sea, and within twenty miles
of Dartmoor, over which pass all the south-west winds that
come to Torrington. The whole barren coal measures.
What think you of their reclaimability by Scotch and
Norfolk husbandry, and of the convertibility of the wet

rushy clay fields into good meadows by thorough draining
The climate cannot be worse than Scotland."     1
                                                          ?
   The following letter, written by Sir Robert Peel in 842,
illustrates Buckland's readiness to appreciate and adopt
any agricultural improvement. Smith of Deanston, whose
successful experiments on his Scottish farm revolutionised
the old ideas of drainage, was at this date unknown even
1839-1845O AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTS.                                             161

to so energetic an agriculturist as the Premier. The letter
is written to Philip Pusey, himself one of the promoters
of the Agricultural Society, and one of the foremost
champions of " Practice with Science."

" My DEAR Sir, -- I comply, with the greatest pleasure,
with your wish that I should give you the particulars
respecting the field which I drained and subsoiled, the
produce of which was sent to you by our common friend,

Dr. Buckland.
   " I was riding with him over a part of my estate in the
autumn of 1 840. He remarked a quantity of manure put
upon a field, of poor soil, very wet, and in bad condition

generally, and said the tenant who placed it there went
to very needless expense, for that manure would be of no
service while the land remained undrained and in the state
in which it then was. He said also that the land in Scot

land, which had been so much improved by Mr. Smith of
Deanston, was naturally no better than that on which we

were riding, and that in its original state it resembled that
land in respect to the quality and properties of the soil in

ma"nTyhepsaertirceumlaarrsk.s of Dr. Buckland did not pass unheeded.
I selected the worst field I could find, and determined

strictly to follow the plan of Mr. Smith in respect to so
                                                               I
far as draining and subsoiling are concerned.                           it

                                                                            it,
                                                               first pro
posed to the tenant that he should retain the field and
do the work under my directions but he thought too
                  it
                                                            ;
expensive for his means, and preferred giving up the field
and letting me take into my own hands.
"Enclosed are the details with respect to the mode of

treatment conveyed in answers to queries put by me.
The produce you have,        believe, from Dr. Buckland.
The weight given  is

                          I
                            I
                  of the turnips, with the tops, but

without the fibrous roots.     was advised by very good
practical farmers not to sow turnips, but to have fallow
                                                               a

for wheat they thought the land not very well suited for
;

turnips, and that the best period for sowing them was

                                                               11
1 62  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

gone by. But I was desirous to exhibit the result of my
experiment, which I had mainly undertaken for the pur
pose of encouraging others in my neighbourhood to follow
my example.

                      " Believe me, dear Sir,

                             " Very faithfully y"oRuros,bert Peel.

  " Whitehall, January 13/*, 1842."

   It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that, in 1845,
" famine was sore in the land." The potato disease had

broken out with great virulence, and it was suddenly found
that this crop was as important as the wheat crop. Sir
Robert Peel conferred anxiously with Buckland at this

important crisis, which both these pre-eminently practical
men had foreseen. When in 1845 the potato disease
assumed alarming proportions, Buckland devoted himself
vigorously to the task of ascertaining the causes and
remedies for this severe blow to agricultural prospects.

   Having mastered all the facts he could collect by per

sonal experiment, observation, and inquiry, he read a

lecture on the subject before the Ashmolean Society at
Oxford on November 5th, 1845. He afterwards, at very
considerable expense, printed his remarks and distributed
them throughout the whole of England, sending a copy
to the mayor or civil authority of every town, village, and
hamlet. Not only did he give practical advice on the best
means of combating the existing evil ; he also indicated the
substances which formed the best substitutes for potatoes
among the poorer classes, by whom the failure of this
useful vegetable was most severely felt. His exertions in
this cause were fully appreciated, and conferred much
1839-1845-]  ALLOTMENTS AT ISLIP.  163

benefit on many who, but for his intervention, would have
had no opportunity of obtaining information while there
was still time to turn it to practical use.

    As potato disease still exists in a more or less degree,
Buckland's practical advice for its cure may still be interest
ing. He says :--

   " It is important that all leaves and stems should be
burnt, in order to destroy the spawn of the fungi. For

next year's planting, small and sound tubers should be

selected, and planted whole ; or, if cut, the select parts

should be shaken in a sieve with quicklime ; care should
also be taken to keep those selected for seed dry."

   In the early part of 1846, as soon as he was established
at the Deanery of Westminster, he went down to Islip and
prospected there for ground suitable for allotments. He
chose a piece of land on the top of the hill, overlooking
a moor, and well exposed to the sun. This ground was
converted, by permission of the Duke of Marlborough,
to whom it belonged, into allotments, one of which

Buckland rented himself in order to experiment upon
growing different sorts of wheat and barley. Greatly to
the delight of the tenant and of his whole family, a
splendid crop of red-coloured wheat, grown from Egyptian
seed, came up, in spite of the bad season, with well-
filled ear and tall erect stem, rustling golden red1 in
the summer sunshine, a magnificent advertisement to the
Islip labourers of what the earth would grow with care and

trouble. At this time any ray of hope that could be held

   1 Just the colour of the African gold tribute in the gem room of the
British Museum.

                    "
164  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

out was greatly needed. Agricultural prospects were at
a very low ebb, and every sort of advice was looked upon
with the utmost contempt and scorn by the John-Trot
geniuses of farming. The more ignorant a man is, the
more conceited he is ; and, in order to convince both

farmer and labourer that science was any good, it was
very important to be able to point to practical proofs of
its benefit.

    Buckland's conviction of the immense value which

Geology might confer on Agriculture was abundantly veri

fied by his discovery of the fertilising qualities of coprolites.

It is difficult for the farmer of to-day, who is provided by

chemistry with numerous agencies to stimulate and enrich

the soil, to appreciate the value and importance of this

discovery. At that time the farmers' saying " Nothing

like muck " was certainly true, for muck was the only
manure that was available. No artificial substitutes were

invented, and guano was still unknown except at almost

prohibitive prices.
   In Baron Liebig's " Letters on Chemistry " the following

passage occurs, which foreshadows the important results
that have since followed the use of this unexpected source
of agricultural wealth : --

   " To restore the disturbed equilibrium of constitution to

the soil, to fertilise her fields, England requires an
enormous supply of animal excrements ; and it must
therefore excite considerable interest to learn, that she
possesses beneath her soil beds of fossil ' guano,' strata of
animal excrements in a state which will probably allow
for their being employed as manure at a very small
expense. The coprolites discovered by Dr. Buckland (a
1839-1845-]  SIR R. PEEL AT DRAYTON.  165

discovery of the highest interest to geology) are these
excrements ; and it seems probable that in these strata
England possesses the means of supplying the place of
recent bones, and therefore the principal conditions of
improving agriculture."

   Speaking of the same valuable discovery, Sir Roderick
Murchison recalls, not without a touch of true pathos, the
" fervid anticipation " with which Buckland was

" led to hope that these fossil bodies would prove of real use
in agriculture ; and one of the many regrets I have experi
enced since his bright intellect was clouded, was that my
friend had not been able to appreciate the truly valuable
results that have followed from this his own discovery, which,
at the time it was made, was treated as a curious but
unimportant subject, and almost scouted as being too mean
for investigation. The hundreds of tons of these phosphatic
coprolites and animal substances which are now extracted,
to the great profit of the proprietors of Cambridgeshire
and the adjacent counties, for the enrichment of their lands,
is a warning commentary to those persons of the ' cui
bono' school who are ever despising the first germs of
scientific discovery."

   It was the delight of Sir Robert Peel to gather round

him at Drayton Manor the most distinguished men of the
day in art and science and literature. From these parties
Buckland was hardly ever absent. He was, indeed, a
frequent visitor at Drayton at other times, and both from
Sir Robert and Lady Peel he always received the greatest
kindness and goodwill. These parties at Drayton gener
ally consisted of about five or six persons eminent in their
various branches of science and information. The names
of George Stephenson, Smith of Deanston, Dr. Lyon
Playfair, Baron Liebig, Mr. Mechie, Sir W. Follett, Mr.
166            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                [ch. vi.

Arkwright, Mr. Philip Pusey, Professor Owen, Sir H. de
la Beche, etc., suggest the abundance of the stream of wit

and knowledge that must have passed from mind to mind

under the worthy presidency of Sir Robert himself. It

was at one of these meetings that the following incident,
which is recorded in Smiles's " Life of George Stephenson,"
took place :--

" On one occasion, an animated discussion took place
between Mr. Stephenson and Dr. Buckland on one of the
great engineer's favourite theories as to the formation of
coal. The result was, that Dr. Buckland, a much greater
master of tongue-fence than Stephenson, completely
silenced him. Next morning before breakfast, when

Stephenson was walking in the grounds, deeply pondering,
Sir  William   Follett                                         him   what he
     thinking  about    ?  --ca'mWe hyu,p,SirandWilalisakmed,  I am  thinking
was

over that argument I had with Buckland last night. I
know I am right, and if I had only the command of words
which he has I'd have beaten him.' ' Let me know all
about it,' said Sir William ; ' and I'll see what I can do for
you.' The two sat down in an arbour, where the astute

lawyer made himself thoroughly acquainted with the
points of the case ; entering into it with all the zeal of an
advocate about to plead the dearest interests of his client.
After he had mastered the subject, Sir William rose up,
rubbing his hands with glee, and said, ' Now I'm ready for
him.' Sir Robert Peel was made acquainted with the
plot, and adroitly introduced the subject of the controversy
after dinner. The result was that, in the argument which
followed, the man of science was overcome by the man of
the law ; and Sir William Follett had, at all points, the
mastery over Dr. Buckland. 'What do you say, Mr.
Stephenson ? ' asked Sir Robert, laughing. ' Why,' said he,
' I will only say this, that of all the powers above and
under the earth, there seems to me to be no power so
great as the gift of the gab.'"
1839-1845.] BUCKLAND AND STEPHENSON.                           167

   It was, however, not so certain that the victory rested

with the lawyer. Frank Buckland says : --

   " Although unwilling to spoil a good story, I cannot resist
calling Dr. Lyon Playfair into the witness-box to tell his
story also. He was present at this very party, and tells me
that, although Sir William Follett, armed with practised

rhetoric, made a brilliant charge upon Dr. Buckland's
theory, yet that the Professor, relying on the stern,
stubborn, undisputed facts of geology, and using the
weapons of common sense, stood his ground well, honestly,
and unshaken in this intellectual assault of arms." 1

Another story is told of Dr. Buckland and George Ste

phenson, when both were staying with Sir Robert Peel at

Drayton. The party had just returned from church, and

were standing together on the terrace near the hall, when

they observed in the distance a railway-train flashing along,
throwing behind it a long line of white steam. " Now,

Buckland," said Mr. Stephenson, " I have a poser for you :

can you tell me what is the power that is driving that
train ? "

" Well," said the doctor, " I suppose it is one of your
                "
big  engines
              ?

" But what    drives  the  engine    "

                                   ?

" Oh, very likely a canny Newcastle driver."
" What do you say to the light of the sun ? "
" How can that be ? " asked the doctor.

"It is nothing else," said the engineer: "it is light

bottled up in the earth for tens of thousands of years ;

light absorbed by plants and vegetables being necessary

           1 Memoir, " Bridgewater," 3rd edition, pp. 64, 65.
168  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

for the condensation of carbon during the process of their
growth, if it be not carbon in another form. And now,

after being buried in the earth for long ages in fields
of coal, that latent light is again brought forth and
liberated, and made to work, as in that locomotive, for

great human purposes."
   Like a flash of light, the saying illuminated in an instant

an entire field of science.1
   The following letter, written by Lord Playfair to the

biographer, recording some memories of Buckland, may

be appropriately inserted in a chapter mainly devoted
to the Dean's agricultural investigations, since Lord
Playfair's brilliant discoveries in chemistry have themselves
proved of such infinite service to the scientific farmer.

   " My dear Mrs. Gordon, -- You ask me for some

personal memories of your father, Dean Buckland, who was
one of the best and dearest friends of my youth. I forget
the circumstances of my introduction to him, but it must
have been in 1840. I had before that year met him
at scientific assemblies, and was an admirer of his scientific
books ; but until 1840 1 do not think that I knew him
personally. However, we were introduced, most probably
by our mutual friend Sir Henry de la Beche. Our acquaint
ance ripened into a closer and more intimate friendship
 than appears possible by the relations of a man of
 world-wide fame, in mature years, with a young Scotch
 youth who had just emerged from his scientific studies
 at College. The kindness of Buckland's heart explains
 this anomaly. I had published one or two original
 investigations in Germany, which had attracted some
 attention among chemists, and I found to my surprise that,
 both at Berlin and in London, the young chemist of

',1 " Cyclopaedia of Nature Teachings," Hugh Macmillan, LL.D.
1839-1845-] LORD PLAYFAIR'S REMINISCENCES.               169

twenty-one was welcomed as a colleague by men whose

names still remain revered in the history of science. Of

these men your father had most influence upon my career,

and     was   certainly  my most intimate friend.  much  interest
    "  Dr.   Buckland    had for some time taken

in the relations of geology to agriculture, but had found

these to be of a complicated character, for, though the

rock beneath the soil influenced the crops in a marked

degree, it was less dominant in its influence than the
surface soil, which frequently consisted of detritus having
little relation to the geological structure beneath. This
led your father to look to chemistry as a science which

might be brought into more useful practical connection
with agriculture. Liebig had shortly before written his
masterly work on Agricultural Chemistry, which I intro
duced to this country by an English translation. This
made me the natural exponent of Liebig's views in
England, specially as I kept myself in close correspondence
with my great master, and became acquainted with all his
new researches. In these your father was much interested,

and did much to popularise them among agriculturists.
Personally I did not then see much of your father, as I
resided in Clitheroe and afterwards in Manchester ; but
I visited him in Oxford on two occasions, and we had
lively conversations as to the best methods of inducing
farmers to throw the light of science on their important

industry.

  "In 1842 Baron Liebig offered to pay me a visit in

Manchester, when I was living in humble lodgings, ill

calculated to receive my illustrious friend. On consulting
Dr. Buckland he suggested that I should induce Liebig to
make a tour in Great Britain, where he was certain to
be received with welcome and with honour. Though I
became ' personal conductor ' of this tour, your father
joined us in part of it and contributed much to its success.
We went together to the meeting of the Royal Agricultural
Society, which will explain the fact that, in the published
print to which you refer, his portrait appears standing
beside Lord Ducie, Baron Liebig, T. C. Morton, and
170  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vi.

myself. This tour, in which your father took such an
active part, did a great deal to stimulate the leading
agriculturists of the country to carry out the motto of
the Royal Agricultural Society, ' Practice with Science.'
Among other houses which he visited were those of Sir
Robert Peel at Drayton Manor, Lord Ducie at Portworth,
Lord Fitzwilliam at Wentworth, Lord Essex at Cassiobury,
Philip Pusey, then the ruling spirit of the Agricultural
Society, Mr. Webb and Mr. Miles at Bristol, and Mr.
Crosse. The opportunity was taken of our visits to hold

meetings in the neighbouring towns, and the genial,
amusing speeches of your father contributed much to
their success. Baron Liebig always spoke in German, so
my function chiefly consisted in rendering his speeches
comprehensible to the audience, by repeating them in
English after he had finished.

    " One notable fact should not be omitted. Your father

had shown that the coprolites found in various rocks
could not be anything but the fossil dung of extinct
animals, as the intestinal marks were still obvious. Dr.
Buckland took us to see these coprolites in the strata in
which they occur. Liebig, on being convinced of their
probable origin, said they must contain abundance of
phosphate of lime, the most needed manure for our
exhausted soils. By the post of the same day I sent
some to my laboratory in Manchester, where it was found
that they abounded in phosphate of lime. Later, on his
return to Germany, Liebig made complete analysis of the
coprolites, and what your father termed ' pseudo-copro-
lites,' which were also found to contain this important
earth. This was the origin of the great industry of Super
 phosphates, which has done so much for agriculture.
 During part of our tour Dr. Daubeny was with us, and he
suggested that mineral phosphates such as he had seen in
 Estramadura might be used when coprolites failed, and
this source is now largely used in agriculture.

    " I hope that I have answered your question as to
 whether your father did much to promote the application
 of science to agriculture. In relation to this you ask me
1839-1845-] CHARACTERISTICS OF BUCKLAND.  171

another question, whether Dr. Buckland and the great
Minister Sir Robert Peel worked together for this purpose.

To make this clear to you I must interpolate an anecdote
of my own personal history. While I was Honorary
Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution of Man
chester, the chair of chemistry at the University of
Edinburgh became vacant, and for this I was an unsuccess
ful candidate, though I was second in the running. While

smarting under this disappointment I received a letter from
Faraday saying that the University of Toronto in Canada
had entrusted him with the selection of a Professor of
Chemistry, and that he nominated me. As there was
little opening at that time for any chemist in this country,

I accepted the appointment. This was a grief to your
father, who did not wish me to leave the country. No
doubt he represented his views to Sir Robert Peel, for at

this time the latter invited me to pay him a visit at
Drayton Manor. As I had never seen this great states

man, I was much astonished at the invitation, which of
course I accepted with much pleasure. On going to

Drayton Manor I found a large party, including your
father. Next morning we found that all the neighbouring
landlords and farmers met at Drayton Manor, and they
were addressed by Dr. Buckland and by myself, as well
as by Sir Robert Peel, on the application of science to

agriculture. Reporters were present, and these speeches
at the time produced an effect on the public. After
staying at Drayton Manor for a few days, Sir Robert Peel
told me that he had wished to form his own opinion of

me, and that he entirely agreed with Dr. Buckland that I

should not take a foreign Professorship, offering his power

ful influence to get me employment if I resigned it. It
is needless to state that I did, and I am proud to say Sir
Robert Peel honoured me with his friendship till his death.

On my future visits, which were numerous, to Drayton

Manor, I generally met your father. On one of these

occasions the Deanery sof Westminster became vacant,
and your father thought that Sir Robert Peel would offer
it to him. Though it was not a bishopric, Dr. Buckland
   172                           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                  [ch. VI.

   had the genuine feeling of ' nolo episcopari,' and thought
   it was his duty to refuse it.
      " For at least an hour in my bedroom I had to combat
   his scruples of conscience, or rather of his modesty, until
   at last I got his promise to accept the appointment if it
   -were offered. Other persons more competent than I am
   will tell you about his life as Dean of Westminster. Not
   that I am ignorant of
                                         for there was scarcely week
            II
                 I

                                                it,
                                                               a

                                                                                                        a
   that did not dine at the Deanery, and continued in the
   enjoyment of his friendship till the cloud came over his
   mind.
       " But                     may conclude with  short estimate of his cha

   racter. Dean Buckland was one of the most active-minded
   men ever met. To all subjects under his attention he
   gave the best efforts of his mind. Of course geology was
   his special science, but he did not limit himself to it.

   Whenever he thought he could be useful to humanity, he
   threw himself into the work with heart and soul. He

   often co-operated with me, for instance, in promoting

   public health, while acted as a commissioner to investi
                                      I

                                                                   a
   gate into the sanitary condition of the United Kingdom.
   He was deeply impressed with the opinion that cleanliness
                                                                      '

        next to godliness,' and he was most robust preacher
   it ison this subject. During the cholera he rather startled the
        Icongregation on the Day of Humiliation by preaching on

                              '
   the text Wash and be clean,' and an admirable sermon
        was. His geniality and love of humour, and even of
   downright fun, made him charming companion.
       " need not tell his daughter of the deeper qualities ofa

   the man, of his love of truth, of the real reverence of his

   nature notwithstanding the exuberance of his spirits.
   His kindly nature few could know better than myself,
   though am sure there are many men of science who
              I

                         II
   could testify, as can, that they owe much to his warm

   sympathies and active friendship when they were fortunate
   enough to win it.
                                      am, dear Mrs. Gordon,
                                   "                      " Yours sin"cePrLeAlyY, FAIR."

V
                        CHAPTER VII.

LANDSLIP AT AXMOUTH, 1 839 ; BURMESE, AMERICAN, AND
       INDIAN COLLECTIONS OF FOSSILS ; THE MOA ; THE
       FOUNDATION OF THE SCHOOL OF MINES ; MEETINGS
      OF THE SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS J INTEREST IN
       PISCICULTURE.

ON Christmas Day, 1 839, occurred the remarkable land
          slip at Axmouth, the extent of which, says Buckland,
"far exceeds the earthquakes of Calabria, and almost the
vast volcanic fissures of the Val del Bove on the flanks of
Etna." Dr. and Mrs. Buckland were both quickly on the
spot, and while the Professor made careful investigations
into the cause of the catastrophe, his wife, with her clever
pencil, made a series of careful drawings of this curious
phenomenon, from one of which the illustration on the
following page is taken. Buckland at an Ashmolean
meeting thus describes the event : --

   " The recent sinking of the land and elevation of the
bottom of the sea at Axmouth, Devon, which occurred
during two days, December 25 th and 26th, have no analogy
to the motions of an earthquake, but come from an entirely
different cause. The cliffs on that part of the coast consist
of strata of chalk and cherty sandstone, resting on a thick
bed of loose sand or fox-mould, beneath which is a series
of beds of fine clay impervious to water. Owing to the

                                                                       173
LANDSLIP AT AXMOUTH.  175

long continuance of wet weather in the last autumn, the
lower region of the fox-mould had become so highly
saturated with water as to be reduced to semi-fluid quick
sand. The coast from Axmouth to Lyme Regis presents
vertical cliffs of chalk about five hundred feet above sea

level, between which cliffs and the beach a space, varying
from a quarter to half a mile in extent, is occupied by
ruinous fallen masses of chalk and sandstone, forming an
undercliff similar to that in the south coast of the Isle of
Wight. The landslip at Axmouth began in the night of
December 24th, 1839, and during the following day slight
movements of the undercliff were noticed ; a few cracks

also appeared in the fields above.

    " About midnight of December 25th the inhabitants of
two cottages in the undercliff were awakened by loud sounds
produced by the grinding of slowly moving masses of the
adjacent rocks ; they found the floors of their houses rising
upwards towards the ceiling, and with difficulty escaped. In
a few hours one cottage was thrown down. About midnight
also the two coastguards observed a huge reef of rocks
gradually rising out of the sea at a short distance from the
shore ; they moved slowly upward during December 26th,
 until a reef or breakwater was formed half a mile long and
 ranging from ten to forty feet in height, between which
 and the shore was a basin of salt water about five acres
in extent and in some parts twenty-five feet deep. The
 men who saw the reef rising fled to the top of the cliffs,
 where they soon found the fields on which they trod
 intersected by chasms, from which they made their escape
 with difficulty. Fifty acres were gradually severed from
the mainland during December 26th. Of these a portion
 subsided about fifty feet below its former level, and the
 rest sank into a tremendous chasm extending three

 quarters of a mile from east to west and varying in breadth
 from two hundred to four hundred feet. Towards the face
 of the new cliff, a portion of the mass presents a most
 picturesque appearance of ruin and confusion, arising from
 the fact of its having broken up into fragments, which
 having sunk to unequal depths and being divided by deep
176  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

chasms give the appearance of castles, towers, and pinnacles.
The upward movement of the reef was simultaneous with

the downward movement of the land. A similar elevation

of a reef was produced in March 1790 by the subsidence of
about eight acres of chalk in the parish of Beer, three miles

west of Axmouth. A third example of the same kind

but on a minor scale took place last February in the day
time at Whitlands, about a mile and a half west of Lyme.
The most decisive confirmation of the theory of hydrostatic
pressure causing the elevation of reefs beneath the sea was
afforded at Whitlands by the rising of two reefs at a short
distance from the shore, which were seen to rise as the
undercliff descended."

    Buckland concluded his address by giving a list of land

slips which have occurred along the coast at various times,
and by stating that similar landslips, under similar conditions,

often occur on the sides of inland valleys. A stratum of

solid stone, resting on a bed of permeable sand, beneath
which is a bed of impermeable clay, are the conditions of
most of the landslips from the sides of hills into the

adjacent valleys.

   In the cause of his beloved science a journey to the
extreme North of Great Britain was nothing to Buckland.

A large artificial lake under the Pentland Hills, some

sixty feet deep, had dried up after a season of great
drought. As many parts of the bottom of this lake were

calculated to throw much light upon several important
phenomena in geology, an opportunity occurred of acquir
ing evidence of which Buckland was not slow to avail
himself. One of the phenomena which were thus illustrated
was the manner in which several species of locomotive

fresh-water shells were found congregated in one dense
SPECIMENS FROM BURMAH.  177

 bed, extending over a small area near the lowest bottom
of the pond to which the water had subsided. Other
 beds of sediment at the bottom of the pond were found
crowded with bivalve shells deeply embedded in mud, to

the exclusion of shells of the more locomotive univalves.

These facts seemed to throw light on the appearance in the
Petworth and Purbeck marbles of only one species of uni
valve shells, and the non-existence of these univalves in
other beds of the same marble which contain exclusively
bivalve shells. Another point was the collection of fish in
one spot. The fish which had survived were congregated
with the surviving molluscs in the remaining shallow water,

and, if this dried up entirely, the first bed of mud formed

by the returning water of the next flood would bury them
in one stratum, after the manner of fish that are entombed
in miscellaneous shoals in the strata of Solenhofen and
other places. Another phenomenon in the pond was the
occurrence of recent footsteps of animals and birds on the
surface of the soft beds of mud and sand since the water

had subsided. These illustrate many similar footprints
which have been discovered upon the slabs of stone in the

new red sandstone formations.
   From all parts of the world came specimens and collec

tions, on which Buckland was asked to report. Thus in
1827 he was called upon to examine some fossil animal
and vegetable remains collected by Mr. Crawfurd on a
voyage up the Irawadi from Rangoon to Ava of five
hundred miles. The specimens were principally collected
from a tract of country on the east bank of the Irawadi,
near the town of Wetmasut, about half-way between Ava

                                                                                                              12
178  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

and Prome. The bones were found in soil which chiefly

consisted of barren sandhills mixed with gravel intersected

by deep ravines ; beneath these hills are strata containing
shells and lignite, through which wells are sunk about two
hundred feet to collect petroleum. Buckland, in his report,
suggests that it would be an interesting subject " of

inquiry, whether any fossil remains of elephant, rhinoceros,

hippopotamus, and hyena exist in the diluvium of tropical
climates ; and, if they do, whether they agree with the

recent species of these genera or with those extinct species

whose remains are dispersed so largely over the temperate

and frigid zones of the northern hemisphere." " It deserves

remark," he adds, " that the gavial and several other
pachydermata found by Mr. Crawfurd l do not now inhabit

the Burmese country."
   In 1835 another large consignment of specimens arrived

from Connecticut and other parts of America. The most
important of these were the fossil footprints preserved in
sandstone of a gigantic Dinosaur, a link between reptiles

and birds, whose feet measured sixteen inches in length
exclusive of a large claw measuring two inches. The

most frequent distance which intervenes between the larger
of these footsteps is four feet ; sometimes they are six

feet asunder : the latter were probably made by the animal

while running. There were also tracks of another gigantic
species, having three toes of a more slender character : these
tracks are from fifteen to sixteen inches long, exclusive of
a remarkable appendage extending backwards from the

   1 Mr. Crawfurd was the first to find these extinct animals in Asia ;
iiost of his specimens are at the Geological Museum, Jermyn Street.
SPECIMENS FROM INDIA.  179

heel eight or nine inches, and apparently intended (like a
snow-shoe) to sustain the weight of a heavy animal walking
on a soft bottom. The impress of this appendage resembles
those of wiry feathers or coarse bristles, which seem to have

sunk into the mud an inch deep, while the toes had sunk

much deeper. Round their impression in the mud was

raised a ridge several inches high, like that round the track
of an elephant in clay. The length of the step of this
creature appears to have been six feet ; the footsteps on
the five other kinds of tracks are of smaller size, and the

smallest indicates a foot but one inch long and a step from
three to five inches. The length of the leg of the African
ostrich, it may be added, is about four feet, and that of the

foot ten inches. These tracks appear to have been made
on the margin of shallow water, that was subject to changes
of level, and in which sediments of sand and mud were

alternately deposited.
   The next collection came from India, and contained the

first specimens ever brought thence to this country. In

1836 Dr. Buckland examined a number of fossils from the
hill-slopes and ravines that traverse that part of the Siwalik
Sub-Himalayan range of hills which lies between the
Jumna and the Sutlej rivers. He describes
"a large ruminating animal called the Sivatherium, ap
proaching the elephant in size, discovered in the Sub-
Himalayan range of hills. The jaw of this animal is twice
as large as that of a buffalo, and larger than that of a
rhinoceros. The front of the skull is remarkably wide, and
retains the bony cores of two short, thick, and straight
horns, similar in position to those of the four-horned
antelope of Hindostan. The nasal bones are salient in
a degree without example among ruminants, and exceed
180  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

in this respect those of the rhinoceros, tapir, and palaeo-
therium, the only herbivorous animals that have this sort of
structure. Hence there is no doubt that the sivatherium
was invested with a trunk, and probably this organ had an
intermediate character between the trunk of the tapir and
that of the elephant."

   The Sivatherium is one of a group of a remarkable series
of animals, all of which (with the exception of the giraffe)
are extinct. Buckland pointed out the importance of these
newly discovered fossil animals in filling up intervals in the
order of pachydermata, where links were previously wanting
to connect many living genera, between which the distance
is much wider than in any other species of mammalia.

   The famous Moa or Dinornis was also brought before
Buckland. On May 29th, 1843, he read some interesting
letters detailing the discovery of the bones of a gigantic
bird, which must have recently inhabited New Zealand,
even if it did not prove to be still an inhabitant of that
colony. The announcement of its supposed existence
was conveyed in a letter from Dr. Buckland's Torquay
friend, Mr. William Williams, dated February 28th, 1842.
The writer says that, hearing from the natives of an extra
ordinary monster which inhabited a cave on the side of

a hill near the river Weiroa, he was induced to offer a

reward to any person who produced either the bird or one
of its bones. In consequence of this offer a large but
much worn bone was found, and, shortly after, another of
smaller size was discovered in the bed of a stream which
runs into Poverty Bay. The natives were then induced to
go in large numbers to turn up the mud in the bed of
the same river, and soon brought to Mr. Williams a large
THE DINORNIS.                                  181

collection of bones, which proved to have belonged to a bird

of gigantic dimensions. The length of the large bone of

the leg is two feet ten inches. The bones were found a little

below the surface in the mud of several other rivers, and

in that situation only. The bird to which they belonged

is stated to have existed at no very distant period and in

considerable numbers, as bones of more than thirty in

dividuals had been collected by the natives. Mr. Williams

had also heard of a bird having been recently seen near

Cloudy Bay in Cook's Strait by an Englishman, accom

panied by a native, which was described to be not less

than fourteen or sixteen feet in height, and this creature

he supposed to be about the size of that to which the
bones belonged. Of these bones, one case had already

arrived and a second was daily expected.

  A letter from Professor Owen, dated January 21st, 1843,

detailed the contents of the box which had arrived ; and

from these fragments it was clear that they had belonged

to the species of birds which the Professor had already

described in the Zoological Transactions 1 from a fragment

of the femur which he had received some time previous.

The bird forms a new genus, on which Professor Owen

bestowed the name " Dinornis Nova Zelandiae."  His

diagnosis of the species, size, and character of the bird was

a remarkable testimony to his extraordinary sagacity. By

the process of severe philosophical induction, and not by

mere guesswork, he was enabled to describe the bird with

the utmost accuracy from the inspection of the solitary

Vol. iii., p. 32, pi. iii.
1 82  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vn.

small fragment of the thigh which was then the only bone
of the creature in Europe. The description in every
particular was confirmed by the arrival of Mr. Williams'

specimens.

   In all projects which could promote the spread of
scientific and technical knowledge, especially of subjects
connected with his favourite studies, Buckland took a
prominent part. The foundation of the School of Mines
in Jermyn Street was largely due to his efforts.1

   Mr., now Sir B. W., Richardson, in his book of extracts
from Mr. Sopwith's Journal, mentions that on June 8th,
1837, " Two events of importance took place : one a visit
to the famous Dr. Buckland, father of the late Frank
Buckland, at Oxford; and a second, the projection of a
School of Mines, arising, as it seems, out of that visit."

   "In the breakfast-room," Mr. Sopwith says, "Dr. Buckland

introduced me to Mrs. Buckland and to Dr. Davies Gilbert.
Dr. Buckland said that he had been applied to to recom
mend some one as a proper person to undertake the office
of Mining Commissioner on the part of the Free Miners.
' I told them,' said the Doctor, ' that they must have nothing
short of Newcastle, and I named Mr. Buddle and yourself.'

I sat next to Dr. Gilbert, and had with him and Dr. Buckland

a conversation on the subject of a School of Mines. Dr.
Gilbert said that great advantages had been derived from
the institution of a Polytechnic School in Cornwall, of
which he has been an active promoter. Before leaving,

   1 At the suggestion of Sir Roderick Murchison, and at the generous
expense of many of the most eminent scientific men of England, a bust
of Buckland was placed on December 2nd, i860, in the Geological
Walhalla of the Jermyn Street Museum, in company with the busts of
Sir H. de la BSche, Professor E. Forbes, Greenhough, Playfair, Smith,
Hutton, and Sir James Hall.
THE SCHOOL OF MINES.  183

he made me write a minute to the effect that Mr. Buddle
and I should dine with him at the Geological Club in
London on the following Wednesday."

    In the autumn of 1838, at the meeting of the British
Association at Newcastle, Buckland again conferred
with Mr. Sopwith, Sir Charles Lemon, and others upon
the best mode of bringing the subject of an application
to Government on Mining Records before the Association.

"It was," he said, " indispensable for the country to have

a scientific education in connection with manufacture and
mining." The immediate outcome of his efforts was a
grant of money from the Association for the purpose of
collecting and preserving information as to the geological
structure and mineral riches of the country. The oppor
tunity was one which was not to be lost. Sections of the

strata on the numerous railroads in various parts of the
United Kingdom, many of which traversed important
mineral districts, were exposed in cuttings, and, before
they again became covered, would afford much valuable
information.

   The collection of all this information in one central spot
was one of the objects which Buckland had in view in his
projected School of Mines. But the more he considered
the scheme, the more varied appeared to be its utility.
The Jermyn Street Museum and School was to serve as
the central map office of the Geological Society ; as a
Mining Record office, where all plans of mines abandoned
or existing are registered and kept ; as a statistical office,
in which might be collected all the documents that bear
upon the mineral produce of the country ; and, finally, as
184  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii

a technical college, where students are trained in mining
and assaying. The necessity for such an institution

became every day more apparent.

   It was not long before his persistent efforts were re

warded. He was able to announce to the Geological

Society that he and his friends had obtained the co

operation of the Departments of Woods and Forests and
of the Ordnance, of the British Museum, of the Institute
of Civil Engineers, and of the British Association, " in
furthering and advancing the knowledge of the structure
of the earth." He had made out a strong case in favour

of such a school when he insisted on

" the pecuniary value and statistical utility of geological
investigations in directing the researches of industry to
those points where they may be profitably applied, and
in preventing such large expenditures of capital as, under
ignorance of the internal structure of the earth and the
peculiar productions of such geological formation, we have
in times past seen thrown away in ruinous searches after
coal, when the slightest knowledge of geology would have
given information that no coal could possibly be found.
Never more shall we witness a recurrence of such un
pardonable waste of public money as that which is said
to have been lavished in sending lime from Plymouth
to build the fortress of Gibraltar, on a rock exclusively
composed of limestone."

   The projected School of Mines was also to serve as a
Museum, in which might be exhibited specimens of the
various stones, marbles, and granite which were employed
both at home and abroad in building. Buckland had
already collected similar samples in the Oxford Museum,
in order that ocular demonstration might afford to architects
ROMAN VILLAS.  185

and engineers information respecting the relative durability
of building materials which could be supplied in no other way.

   At the Society of Civil Engineers Buckland was a

well-known figure, and on some points a recognised

authority. He rarely missed the reading of any paper of
importance at the meetings of the Society, taking an

active part in the discussion. Whenever his personal

aid and influence could be useful, they were cheerfully
given. His archaeological knowledge was sometimes of

great service to the Society. Acquainted with every
Roman villa then known in the country, he had not only
observed the Roman method of building, draining, and
warming their houses, but had also examined the cement

in which the beautiful tesselated pavements are so firmly
fixed, and had caused models to be made of the peculiar
fan-tailed tiles which he discovered at Whcatley Villa,

near Oxford. It was a definite article of his archaeological

creed that Roman villas would not have fallen into ruins

so completely, had not snails absorbed the mortar to
make their own natural coverings. He constantly, it may

be added, brought home from Stonesfield and Wheatley
Villas some of the large edible snails that live there ; but
they did not long survive in the Islip garden.

   In London Buckland put his knowledge of the relative
durability of different stones to valuable account. He
was convinced that the lavish use of Bath stone in the

metropolis was a gross mistake, and when Dean of West

minster he would allow none to be used in the Abbey.

He preferred Normandy stone or Yorkshire stone, both of

which were as cheap and more enduring.
1 86  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

    His opinion on this subject was recognised as so authori
tative that his advice was often asked by practical men in

important undertakings. The old breakwater at Weymouth
having been much injured by the pholas boring into the
limestone, the engineer consulted Dr. Buckland upon the
best stone to be used in making the new one. After many
,exhaustive inquiries, he recommended that Portland stone
(of which St. Paul's is built) should be used, as the
pholas will not bore into it on account of the quantity of
silica or flinty matter it contains. In 1841 he published
a. paper in the Proceedings of the Geological Society upon
the agency of land-snails in corroding and making deep
excavations in compact limestone. He examined the
peculiar hollows on the under surface of a ledge of carboni
ferous limestone rock, and, as he found in them a large
number of the shells of Helix aspersa, he concluded that

the cavities had been formed by snails, and that probably
many generations had contributed to produce them. He
intended to ascertain whether the cavities were hollowed
out by these snails by means of an acid secreted by them,
or by means of their rasp-like tongues. In a speech
delivered before the Geological Section of the British

Association at Cambridge in 1845, ne discussed the ques
tion at some length. The following extract from the

Times gives a summary of what he said :--

   " Dr. Buckland described the agency of land-snails in
forming holes and trackways in compact limestone. His
attention had first been called to the subject by a discussion
on the perforations sixty feet high at Tenby Castle, which
were by some taken to be evidence of a raised beach, but
WATER SUPPLY OF TOWNS.  187

which he considered as the workmanship of land-snails.
He considered that by means of the acid with which they
were provided snails could make perforations into the most
solid forms of limestone, but the perforations were unlike
those made by any other animals, or those made by the
salt of the sea and the carbonic acid of the atmosphere.
These perforations were never found where the rain and
frosts could operate, and always had the aperture down
wards. From observations made at Richborough last year,
he had concluded that these perforations were not made
to a greater depth than an inch in a thousand years."

   Subsequently he seems to have leaned to the opinion
that the perforations were bored by the rasp-like tongues

of the snails. It was with a view to the establishment or

disproof of this theory that his wife and her youngest
daughter Caroline during his illness at Islip made a large
collection of the tongues of both land and fresh-water
snails, which they mounted in Canada balsam, and careful
drawings were made of them.

   Another favourite topic of discussion at the Society of
Civil Engineers was the water supply of large towns.
The following extract from the Bridgewater Treatise on
artesian wells shows the practical value Professor Buck-
land attributed to this " prime necessary of life," as well as
the poetic view with which he regarded it : --

   " In some places application has been made to economical
purposes, of the higher temperature of the water rising from
great depths. In Wurtemberg, Von Bruckmann has
applied the warm water of artesian wells to heat a paper
manufactory at Heilbronn, and to prevent the freezing of
common water around his mill wheels. The same practice
is also adopted in Alsace, and at Canstadt, near Stuttgard.
It has even been proposed to apply the heat of ascending
188  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

springs to the warming of greenhouses. Artesian wells
have long been used in Italy, in the duchy of Modena ;
they have also been successfully applied in Holland, China,
and North America. By means of similar wells, it is
probable that water may be raised to the surface of many
parts of the sandy deserts of Africa and Asia, and it has
been in contemplation to construct a series of wells along
the main road which crosses the Isthmus of Suez. ' . . .

Among the incidental advantages arising to man from the
introduction of faults and dislocations of the strata into

the system of curious arrangements that pervade the
subterranean economy of the globe, we may further
include the circumstance, that these fractures are the most
frequent channels of issue to mineral and thermal waters,
whose medicinal virtues alleviate many of the diseases of
the human frame.

   " Thus in the whole machinery of springs and rivers, and
the apparatus that is kept in action for their duration,
through the instrumentality of a system of curiously con
structed hills and valleys, receiving their supply occa
sionally from the rains of heaven, and treasuring it up in
their everlasting storehouses to be dispensed perpetually
by thousands of never-failing fountains, we see a provision
not less striking than it is important. So also in the
adjustment of the relative quantities of sea and land, in
such due proportions as to supply the earth by constant
evaporations, without diminishing the waters of the ocean ;
and in the appointment of the atmosphere to be the
vehicle of this wonderful and unceasing circulation ; in
thus separating these waters from their native salt (which,
though of the highest utility to preserve the purity of the
sea, renders them unfit for the support of terrestrial animals
or vegetables), and transmitting them in genial showers to
scatter fertility over the earth, and maintain the never-
failing reservoirs of those springs and rivers by which
they are again returned to mix with their parent ocean ;

   1 The French have since this time successfully sunk a series of
artesian wells in the Sahara. --K. Hunt.

X
PISCICULTURE.  1 86

in all these circumstances we find such evidence of nicely
balanced adaptation of means to ends, of wise foresight,
and benevolent intention, and infinite power, that he must
be blind indeed who refuses to recognise in them proofs
of the most exalted attributes of the Creator."

    Pisciculture was a subject to which Buckland devoted

much attention. It was from his father that Frank

Buckland must have inherited his taste for fish-hatching.
In 1 844 Buckland gave an account of his visit to the experi
mental ponds at Dumlanrig, in company with Professor
Agassiz, who was himself conducting a series of analogous
experiments on the trout of the lake of Neuchatel. The
Doctor alluded to the great probable advantages of hatching
the ova in artificial ponds with a view to the preservation
of the young fry. In the experiments of Agassiz and Sir
F. Mackenzie it was found necessary to feed the fry with
the paunches of sheep. The growth of the salmon after

it descends to the sea was stated by an old fisherman at
Axmouth to average a pound a month, and the fish of the
different rivers appear to return to spawn at different
periods. The food of the salmon in the sea is probably the
jelly-fish, for the stomach has many blend sacs and seems
adapted for rapid digestion. Dr. Buckland referred to Mr.
E. Forbes' observations on the shelly molluscse, the young
of which when hatched are locomotive, float about with

little wings, and perhaps furnish food for the salmon.
He alluded also to the advantage of assisting the salmon
by staircases, where the falls of rivers are too high to be
cleared by a single leap of the fish.

    His remarks upon the locomotion of fishes are interest

 ing, as the subject is now happily illustrated at the Brighton
i go  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vii.

Aquarium. Thus he describes gurnards as " closing their
fins against their sides, and, without moving their tails,
walking along the bottom, by means of six rays, three

on each pectoral fin, which they placed successively on the
ground. Their great heads and bodies seemed to throw
hardly any weight on these slender rays or feet, being
suspended in water and having their weight further

diminished by their swimming bladder." A flagstone, to

which he gave the name " Ichthyopatolites," was sent to
the Professor from a coal shaft at Mostyn, with an impres
sion on it like the trackway of a fish, crawling along the

bottom by means of its fins.
   The late Rev. Gilbert Heathcote, Sub-Warden of Win

chester, used to tell the following story in connection with
the Professor's observations on the locomotion of fishes.1

    Dr. Buckland was Mr. Heathcote's guest at a New
College " gaudy " dinner, when a turbot was brought on the
table. The Doctor, being at that time interested in the
question of the movement of fishes, said, " I should like
that fine fellow's head and shoulders to examine -- just
what I wanted : do you think I can have it ? "

    " Certainly," said his host, and, when the fish was

removed to the side-table, he offered to have it put on
one side for him.

   " Thank you," said the Professor, " but I would rather
cut it off myself, as I can tell better what I want." So up
he jumped, napkin in hand, and in a few minutes returned

in great glee, with the coveted specimen in his hand,

   1 Mr. G. W. Heathcote had observed that a pike can creep along

the grass.
              MR. HEATHCOTES ANECDOTES.                       191

wrapped up carefully in the napkin, which he promised to
return. The parcel was thrust in the big outside pouch-

pocket worn in the dress-coats of those days.
   After the dinner was over, Mr. Heathcote was called

upon to propose the toast of Dr. Ingram (the celebrated

author of "Memorials of Oxford                                He was a junior Fellow,
          is
                      a

                                 a
                                                         ").
and was rather taken aback at being thus unexpectedly

asked to make speech, and when he got up he could not
for the life of him think of what to say about this well-

known dignitary. Dr. Buckland happily came to his
rescue, and, making funnel of his hands, whispered, " Say

-- there  so much to say on the subject that you don't

know what to say first." Mr. Heathcote took the hint,

and that utterance gave time for the particular compliment

to Dr. Ingram as an author to come to his mind, and

the whole party cheered the allusion to Dr. Ingram's

achievement.

                                                              /
CHAPTER VIII.

THE BRIDGEWATER TREATISE        ON  "GEOLOGY AND
       MINERALOGY CONSIDERED  WITH   REFERENCE TO
       NATURAL THEOLOGY."

"We can read Bethel on a pile of stones,

  And, seeing where God has been, trust in Him."

                                                    Lowell, Cathedral.

IN 1830 Dr. Buckland was requested by the trustees under
      the will of the late Earl of Bridgewater to write one
of the eight treatises designed in accordance with the will
to "justify the ways of God to man." " Geology and
Mineralogy Considered with Reference to Natural Theo
logy " is the title of the book which is best known to the
public in connection with Dr. Buckland's name. That some
portions of this valuable work have grown obsolete by the
progress of these sciences is a matter of course. But the

main argument is as powerful as ever, and has been
accepted by men who, like Professor Owen and Professor
Phillips, occupy an unassailable position in the scientific
world ; and so little has it been superseded by any other
work on the subject that Professor Boyd Dawkins uses it
as a book of reference at the present day in Owens College,
Manchester. The Treatise, which was six years in writing

                                                                        192
BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.  193

and was not published until 1836, was widely read and
won a distinguished reputation for its author. Most of
his work was done at night, and his habits in this respect
made it difficult for him to write except at home. " I
have about as much command of time here," he writes to

Murchison when on a visit the year that the Treatise was
published, " as a turnpike man, and as I have not your
valuable military talent of early rising I cannot steal a

march upon the enemy by getting over the ground before

breakfast."

   The third edition, brought out after the Dean's death
in 1856, was edited by Professor Phillips, and prefaced
by a short memoir by Frank Buckland, who thus writes
of Mrs. Buckland :--

   " Not only was she a pious, amiable, and excellent help
mate to my father ; but being naturally endowed with great
mental powers, habits of perseverance and order, tempered
by excellent judgment, she materially assisted her husband
in his literary labours, and often gave to them a polish
which added not a little to their merits. During the long
period that Dr. Buckland was engaged in writing the Bridge-
water Treatise, my mother sat up night after night, for
weeks and months consecutively, writing to my father's
dictation ; and this, often till the sun's rays, shining through
the shutters at early morn, warned the husband to cease
from thinking, and the wife to rest her weary hand."

   The labour of preparing a work which broke new ground
in so many directions was enormous. Speaking of the book
before the British Association at Bristol in 1836, Buckland
explains the causes which had delayed its appearance.

   " Let any person," he says, " the least conversant with
books of a similar description ; let any person who knows

                                                                                                             13
194       LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                        [ch. viii.

what it   is to have  drawings,    many of them from    msiucbrojescctosp--ic
objects,   made by    artists, of   new and unfamiliar

let him consider that five or six different artists have
been employed -- that all their errors had severally to be
corrected, that these engravings consist of seven hundred
and five figures -- then I repeat that he alone who has had
a full experience of the difficulty will be able to appreciate
the causes of the delay. For my own part I am astonished
it has been finished so soon ; and of this I assure you, that

such is the intricacy of the subject, such the tiresomeness
of the details, that were the work to be done over again,
no power on earth should induce me to undertake it."

   In the second chapter of the Bridgewater Treatise Dr.
Buckland uses an argument, which is now familiar, but was
then comparatively ignored. He urged that the Bible was
not written to teach scientific truth, but to reveal God and
to instruct us in the Divine Life. Nay more ; he does
not hesitate to say that, if the Bible had been made an
adequate text-book of science, men would have found it a
source of perplexity and not of enlightenment.

   " We may fairly ask of those persons who consider
physical science a fit subject for revelation, what point they
can imagine short of a communication of Omniscience at
which such a revelation might have stopped, without im
perfections of omission, less in degree, but similar in kind,
to that which they impute to the existing narrative of

Moses? A revelation of so much only of astronomy as

was known to Copernicus, would have seemed imperfect
after the discoveries of Newton, and a revelation of the

science of Newton would have appeared defective to La
Place ; a revelation of all the chemical knowledge of the

eighteenth century would have been as deficient in com
parison with the information of the present day, as what is
now known in this science will probably appear before the
termination of another age. In the whole circle of sciences
OPINIONS OF THE TREATISE.  195

there is not one to which this argument may not be
extended, until we should require from revelation a full
development of all the mysterious agencies that uphold the
mechanism of the material world."

   This argument is unanswerable, and in an article on
the work in the Quarterly Review (April 1836), it is so
treated by the reviewer, who regards the Treatise as one cal
culated to " astonish and delight all lovers of science, if any
such there be who may be ignorant of the extent of the
field which geology has laid open." In concluding his
notice of this " most instructive and interesting volume,
of which every page is pregnant with facts inestimably
precious to the natural theologian," the author of the article
thanks Dr. Buckland for his

" industry and research, and for the commanding eloquence
with which he has called forth the very stocks and stones
that have been buried for countless ages in the deep recesses
of the earth to proclaim the universal agency throughout
all time of one all-directing, all-pervading mind, and to
swell the chorus in which all creation 'hymns His praise,'
and be a witness to His unlimited power, wisdom, and
benevolence."

   It is interesting to observe that the Edinburgh Review

(April 1837), in an elaborate article on geological science
suggested by the same work, writes in a similar strain,
and praises the book "as pregnant with the deepest in
struction and calculated to inspire the most affectionate
veneration for that Great Being who has made even the
convulsions of the material world subservient to the civilisa
tion and happiness of His creatures." Later on, the writer,
196  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. viii.

like his predecessor in the Quarterly, praises Dr. Buckland's
" lofty and impressive eloquence," and adds : " We have
ourselves never perused a work more truly fascinating, or
more deeply calculated to leave abiding impressions on the
heart."

   Other criticisms were not so favourable. In one of the
few letters which have been preserved of Mrs. Buckland's,
she alludes to the attacks that were made upon her husband

in the press.

   " A note from Dr. Shuttleworth thanks you for your

present (of the Bridgewater Treatise), which he considers
'to be a valuable addition to the philosophical literature
of our country, or rather of our planet, as we nowadays
express ourselves.' I could not resist opening this as

well as Drs. Frowd's and Simmonds' notes, and I hope
you will keep your letters of thanks for my perusal.
Keep the St. James's Chronicles, every one of which has a

rap at you ; but I beseech you not to lower your dignity
by noticing newspaper statements. I have not seen the

Standard nor John Bull ; but I hear they are in the same

strain."

   The novelty of many of the conclusions at which Buck-
land arrived easily accounts for divergencies of opinion as
to the work. But no one who reads the Treatise can fail
to be struck with the lucidity of the style. Not even Paley
in his " Natural Theology " is clearer than Dr. Buckland,
and the second volume, which consists of plates, makes
the whole subject intelligible to persons who have never
had a scientific education. In the chapter on the Fossil
Vertebrated Animals occurs a passage upon Cuvier, which
may be quoted as a noble tribute from a distinguished
man of science to the genius of the great Frenchman.
                 BUCKLAND AND CUVIER.                                       197

   " The result   of his  researches,"   Dr. Buckland writes,
                 in the   ' Ossemens    Fossiles,' has been to
" as recorded

show that all fossil quadrupeds, however differing in
generic, or specific details, are uniformly constructed on
the same general plan, and systematic basis of organisation,
as living species ; and that throughout the various adapta
tions of a common type to peculiar functions, under
different conditions of the earth, there prevails such
universal conformity of design, that we cannot rise from
the perusal of these inestimable volumes without a strong
conviction of the agency of one vast and mighty intelli
gence, ever directing the entire fabric, both of past and

present systems of creation. Nothing can exceed the
accuracy of the severe and logical demonstrations, that
fill these volumes with proofs of wise design, in the
constant relation of the parts of animals to one another,
and to the general functions of the whole body. Nothing
can surpass the perfection of his reasoning, in pointing
out the beautiful contrivances, which are provided in
almost endless variety, to fit every living creature to its
own peculiar state and mode of life." 1

Of Buckland, as of Cuvier, it may be truly said that both

men wrote and studied with the same high object in view,

and that both, in the course and by the means of their

studies, were alike impressed with an assurance of the

existence of one Supreme Creator of all things, and, to
quote the words of Boyle, with " the high veneration man's

intellect owes to God."
   The following extracts from the " Essay," as Buckland

modestly called serve to illustrate the general argument
                 1 it,

                                                      i.,

                                                                        is
of the whole, and the special examples by which the

argument was enforced. The section which                                    devoted

                 Bridgewater, vol. p. 141.
198           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                   [ch. viii.

to recent discoveries earned for the author the apt title of
" the ^Esop of extinct animals." l

   On the general history of fossil organic remains
Buckland writes :--

" As ' the variety and formation of God's creatures in
the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms ' are specially
marked out by the founder of this Treatise as the subjects
from which he desires that proofs should be sought of
the power, wisdom, and goodness of the Creator ; I shall
enter at greater length into the evidences of this kind,
afforded by fossil organic remains, than I might have done,
without such specific directions respecting the source from
wh"icFhrommy             are to be derived. . . .
              arguments  preservation in which     we  find  the
              the high
remains of animals and vegetables of each geological
formation, and the exquisite mechanism which appears in
many fossil fragments of their organisation, we may collect
an infinity of arguments, to show that the creatures from
which all these are derived were constructed with a view
to the varying conditions of the surface of the earth, and to
its gradually increasing capabilities of sustaining more com
plex forms of organic life, advancing through successive
stages of perfection. Few facts are more remarkable in the
history of the progress of human discovery, than that it
should have been reserved almost entirely for the researches

   1 Mr. Waterhouse Hawkins, after a continuous mental and bodily

labour of more than three years, presented to the public notice in
the gardens of the Crystal Palace at Sydenham restorations of no less

than thirty-three extinct animals, known to us only by their fossil
remains. He told Mr. Frank Buckland that in modelling his restora

tions he had received the greatest assistance from the Plates in the
Bridgewater Treatise, many of which were drawn by Mrs. Buckland.

Mr. W. Hawkins gave to Mrs. Buckland the original sketch from his
own pencil, which is here reproduced, of his marvellous models of
ancient marine saurians, the originals of which are now at Sydenham.

   For description see Bridgewater, p. 38.
                  RESTORATION  OF SAURIANS'AND  OTHER EXTINCT  ANIMALS.

i. Pterodactyle.                     communis.                 Teleosaurus.
2. Dapedius.                        macrocephalus.             Plesiosaurus

                                                                     [Front
                  3. Ichthyosaurus                                                                                                      p.
                  4, Plesiosaurus
                                                                                                              by
                                                                                    a
                                                               5- 6.
                                                                             dolichodeirus.

                                                                             drawing  IVaterhouse Hawkins.

                                                                                             [Face                                          198.
HARMONY OF ORGANISATIONS.  199

of the present generation to arrive at any certain knowledge
of the existence of the numerous extinct races of animals,

which occupied the surface of our planet in ages preceding
the creation of man. . . .

    " Wc can hardly imagine any stronger proof of the unity
of design and harmony of organisations that have ever
pervaded all animated nature, than we find in the fact
established by Cuvier, that from the character of a single
limb, and even of a single tooth or bone, the form and pro
portions of the other bones, and condition of the entire
animal, may be inferred. This law prevails no less
universally throughout the existing kingdoms of animated
races, than in those various races of extinct creatures that

have preceded the present tenants of our planet ; hence,
not only the framework of the fossil skeleton of an extinct
animal, but also the character of the muscles by which each
bone was moved, the external form and figure of the body,
the food, and habits, and haunts, and mode of life of crea

tures that ceased to exist before the creation of the human
race, can with a high degree of probability be ascertained.
The study of organic remains, indeed, forms the peculiar
feature and basis of modern geology, and is the main cause
of the progress this science has made since the commence
ment of the present century. We find certain families of
organic remains pervading strata of every age, under nearly
the same generic forms which they present among existing
organisations. Other families, both of animals and vege
tables, are limited to particular formations, there being
certain points where entire groups ceased to exist and were
replaced by others of a different character. The changes
of genera and species are still more frequent ; hence it has
been well observed, that to attempt an investigation of the
structure and revolutions of the earth, without applying
minute attention to the evidences afforded by organic
remains, would be no less absurd than to undertake to

write the history of any ancient people, without reference to
the documents afforded by their medals and inscriptions,
their monuments, and the ruins of their cities and temples.
The secrets of Nature, that are revealed to us by the history
200  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. viii.

of fossil organic remains, form perhaps the most striking

results at which we arrive from the study of geology. It

must appear almost incredible to those who have not
minutely attended to natural phenomena, that the micro
scopic examination of a mass of rude and lifeless limestone
should often disclose the curious fact, that large proportions
of its substance have once formed parts of living bodies.

It is surprising to consider that the walls of our houses are
sometimes composed of little else than comminuted shells,
that were once the domicile of other animals, at the bottom
of ancient seas and lakes. It is marvellous that mankind
should have gone on for so many centuries in ignorance of
the fact, which is now so fully demonstrated, that no small
part of the present surface of the earth is derived from the
remains of animals that constituted the population of
ancient seas. Many extensive plains and massive mountains
form, as it were, the great charnel-houses of preceding

generations, in which the petrified exuviae of extinct races
of animals and vegetables are piled into stupendous
monuments of the operations of life and death, during

almost immeasurable periods of past time. ' At the sight
of a spectacle,' says Cuvier, ' so imposing, so terrible, as that
of the wreck of animal life, forming almost the entire soil

on which we tread, it is difficult to restrain the imagination
from hazarding some conjectures as to the causes by which
such great effects have been produced.'1 The deeper we
descend into the strata of the earth, the higher do we ascend
into the archaeological history of past ages of creation.
We find successive stages marked by varying forms of
animal and vegetable life, and these generally differ more
and more widely from existing species as we go further
downwards into the receptacles of the wreck of more
ancient creations.

   " When we discover a constant and regular assemblage
of organic remains, commencing with one series of strata,
and ending with another, which contains a different
assemblage, we have herein the surest grounds whereon

   1 Cuvier, "Rapport sur le Progres des Sciences Naturelles," p. 179.
       SHELLS.  20 1

to establish those divisions which are called geological forma
tions. . . . Thus it appears, that the more perfect forms of
animals become gradually more abundant, as we advance
from the older into the newer series of depositions, whilst

the more simple orders, though often changed in genus
and species, and sometimes losing whole families, which

are replaced by new ones, have pervaded the entire range
of fossiliferous formations. . . Minute examination discloses

occasionally prodigious accumulations of microscopic shells,,

that surprise us no less by their abundance than their

extreme minuteness ; the mode in which they are some

times crowded together, may be estimated from the fact
that Soldani collected from less than an ounce and a half

of stone found in the hills of Casciana, in Tuscany, ten
thousand four hundred and fifty-four microscopic cham
bered shells. The rest of the stone was composed of
fragments of shells, of minute spines of Echini, and of
a sparry calcareous matter. Of several species of these
shells, four or five hundred weigh but a single grain y
of one species he calculates that a thousand individuals

would scarcely weigh one grain. . . . Similar accumulations
of microscopic shells have been observed also in various

sedimentary deposits of fresh-water formation. A strik
ing example of this kind is found in the abundant

diffusion of the remains of a microscopic crustaceous
animal of the genus Cypris. Animals of this genus are
enclosed within two flat valves, like those of a bivalve
shell, now inhabiting the waters of lakes and marshes.
Certain clay beds of the Wealden formation below the

chalk are so abundantly charged with microscopic shells
of the Cypris Faba, that the surfaces of many laminae into-
which this clay is easily divided, are often entirely covered
with them as with small seeds. The same shells occur

also in the Hastings sand and sandstone, in the Sussex

marble, and in the Purbeck limestone, all of which were

deposited during the same geological epoch in an ancient
lake or estuary, wherein strata of this formation have
...been accumulated to the thickness of nearly a thousand
feet.  In the case of deposits formed in estuaries, the
202  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. vm.

admixture and alternation of the remains of fluviatile
 and lacustrine shells with marine exuviae, indicate condi
 tions analogous to those under which we observe the
inhabitants both of the sea and rivers existing together
in brackish water near the deltas of the Nile, and other
great rivers. Thus, we find a stratum of oyster shells,
 that indicates either the presence of salt or brackish water,
 interposed between limestone strata filled with freshwater
shells, among the Purbeck formations ; so also in the sand
and clays of the Wealden formation of Tilgate Forest we
have freshwater and lacustrine shells intermixed with
remains of large terrestrial reptiles, e.g., Megalosaurus,
 Iguanodon, and Hylaeosaurus ; with these we find also the
bones of the marine reptiles Plesiosaurus ; and from this
admixture we infer that the former were drifted from the
land into an estuary, which the Plesiosaurus also having
entered from the sea, left its bones in this common recept
acle of the animal and mineral exuvise of some not far
-distant land."

    It will be remembered that in 1820 the Professor had

visited the caves of Monte Bolca, when his friend Count

Breiiner depicted him in his " fishing " costume. It may,

therefore, not be uninteresting to hear the account which

he gives in the Treatise of the quarries :--

    " The circumstances under which the fossil fish are
found at Monte Bolca seem to indicate that they perished
suddenly on arriving at a part of the then existing seas,
which was rendered noxious by the volcanic agency of
which the adjacent basaltic rocks afford abundant evidence.
The skeletons of these fish lie parallel to the laminae of the
strata of the calcareous slate ; they are always entire, and
 so closely packed on one another that many individuals
are often contained in a single block. The thousands of
specimens which are dispersed over the cabinets of

Europe have nearly all been taken from one quarry. All

these fish must have died suddenly on this fatal spot,
STONESFIELD QUARRY.                                                                                                       203

and have been speedily buried in the calcareous sediment
then in the course of deposition. From the fact that
certain individuals have even preserved traces of colour
upon their skin, we are certain that they were entombed
before decomposition of their soft parts had taken place." '

   The Stonesfield quarry, near Oxford, which yielded
such prolific spoils to his geological hammer, is described
in the following words :--

   " At this place, a single bed of calcareous and sandy

slate, not six feet thick, contains an admixture of terres
trial animals and plants with shells that are decidedly
marine ; the bones of Divelphys (Opossum), Megalosaurus,
and Pterodactyle are so mixed with Ammonites, Nautili,
and Belemnites, and many other species of marine shells,
that there can be little doubt that this formation was
deposited at the bottom of a sea, not far distant from
some ancient shore. We may account for the presence
of remains of terrestrial animals in such a situation by
supposing their carcases to have been floated from land
at no great distance from their place of sub-marine
interment." 2

   It was in these Stonesfield quarries that the megalo

saurus was discovered ; but, before giving Buckland's
account of the monster, it may be convenient to mention
the specimen which Frank Buckland calls, in his
" Curiosities of Natural History," " the great gem of the
Stonesfield fossils, the jaw of the Phascolotherium,3 a
small marsupial or pouched animal (hence such a big
name for such a little creature : phascolos, a leathern bag,

1 Bridgewater, vol. p. 124.
32

                                    i., i.,
                                               p.

                                                                                                                       ;
Bridgewater, vol.  122.

Lower jaw and teeth of Phascolotherium Bucklandi from great

oolite (Stonesfield). Oxford Museum, table-case 14 Fig. 97, B.M.N. H.
204  LIFE OF DEAN BUCK LAND.  [ch. viii.

and therium, a beast), the first, and, at one time, the
sole evidence of mammalian life having existed at the

earlier period of the earth's history ; it has found a good,
and, we trust, a lasting home in the museum at Oxford,
but a few miles from the place where, ages and ages ago,
it roamed over the neighbourhood of Woodstock. Little
did this tiny beast think that one day its under jaw would
cause Dons to open their eyes with astonishment, and
Professors to tax their memories and brains for appro
priate words wherewith to descant upon its beauty, and
upon the deductions logically to be inferred from it as to
the climate and state of animal and vegetable life at the
time it existed."1

    Cuvier,2 to whom Dr. Buckland had dedicated his

memoir on the megalosaurus (big lizard), speaks of his
discovery in the following terms :--

   " L'un des hommes qui honorent la géologie par les
observations précises et suivies, et par la résistance la plus
constante aux hypothèses hasardées, Monsieur le professeur
Buckland, a fait depuis plusieurs années cette belle décou
verte, et j'en ai vu les pièces chez lui à Oxford en 1818 ;
j'y en ai même dessiné quelques-unes ; mais il a eu, depuis,
la complaisance de m'adresser le mémoire qu'il va donner
sur ce sujet dans le Recueil de la Société Géologique de
Londres, où il fait connaître exactement les os qu'il possède
et les circonstances de leur gisement ; c'est de cet écrit
que je tire les principaux matériaux du présent article."

    " Although," says Buckland, " no skeleton has been
found entire, so many perfect bones and teeth have been
discovered in the same quarries, that we are nearly as well
acquainted with the form and dimensions of its limbs, as

if they had been found together in a single block of stone.
From the size and proportions of these bones, as compared

with existing lizards, Cuvier concludes the Megalosaurus to

                 1 " Curiosities of Natural History," 2nd series.
                   8 " Ossemens Fossiles," vol. v., p. 2. (Paris, 1825.)
     THE MEGALOSAURVS.                                205

have been an enormous reptile, measuring from forty to
fifty feet in length, and partaking of the structure of the
Crocodile and the Monitor. As the femur and tibia
measure nearly three feet each, the entire hind leg must
have attained a length of nearly two yards. The bones
of the thigh and leg are not solid at the centre, as in

crocodiles and other aquatic quadrupeds, but have large
medullary cavities, like the bones of terrestrial animals.
We learn from this circumstance, added to the character
of the foot, that the Megalosaurus lived chiefly upon the
land. . . . The form of the teeth shows the Megalosaurus to

have been in a high degree carnivorous : it probably fed
on smaller reptiles, such as crocodiles and tortoises, whose

remains abound in the same strata with its bones. It
     also have taken to the water in                  of Plesiosauri
may  fishes. The most important part  p' uorfstuhiet  Megalosaurus
and
yet found consists of a fragment of the lower jaw, con
taining many teeth. The form of this jaw shows that the
head was terminated by a straight and narrow snout. . . .
In the structure of these teeth we find a combination of

mechanical contrivances analogous to those which are
adopted in the construction of the knife, the sabre, and
the saw. When first protruded above the gum the apex

of each tooth presented a double cutting edge of serrated
enamel. In this stage, its position and line of action were
nearly vertical, and its form like that of the two-edged
point of a sabre, cutting equally on each side. As the

tooth advanced in growth, it became curved backwards in
the form of a pruning knife, and the edge of serrated

...enamel was continued downwards to the base of the inner
and cutting side of the tooth.  In a tooth thus formed
for cutting along its concave edge each movement of the jaw

combined the power of the knife and saw ; whilst the apex,
in making the first incisions, acted like the two-edged
point of a sabre. The backward curvature of the full-

   1 This " most important part" is in a case in an upper gallery of the

Oxford Museum, while the rest of the specimen is in a separate case
on the ground floor.
206  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                           [ch. vm.

grown teeth enables them to retain, like barbs, the prey
which they had penetrated. In these adaptations, we see
contrivances, which human ingenuity has also adopted, in
the preparation of various instruments of art.

   " In a former chapter I endeavoured to show that the
establishment of carnivorous races throughout the animal
kingdom tends materially to diminish the aggregate
amount of animal suffering. The provision of teeth and
jaws, adapted to effect the work of death most speedily, is
highly subsidiary to the accomplishment of this desirable
end. We act ourselves on this conviction, under the

impulse of pure humanity, when we provide the most

efficient instruments to produce the instantaneous and
most easy death of   the innumerable  animals   that
slaughtered for the  supply of human  food." '        are  daily

   Those readers who are curious to see the big wild-beast
and the big lizard -- the Megatherium and the Megalo-
saurus --may see Mr. Waterhouse Hawkins's wonderful
restorations of these and other fossil monsters in the lower
lake of the grounds of the Crystal Palace. On a pro
minent point of the lake are placed some half-bird, half-
bat-like creatures called Pterodactyles, which have also
been discovered, together with the little opossum and the
big lizard, in the Stonesfield quarries.2

   " The structure of these animals," says Buckland, " is so
exceedingly anomalous, that the first discovered Pterodac-
tyle (or Flying Lizard) was considered by one naturalist
to be a Bird, by another as a species of Bat, and by a

   1 Bridgewater, vol. p. 227.
     What picture we might have of Old World life at Stonesfield

   representation could be made in the Oxford Museum of the fauna
and flora found there, and of which no entire record has ever been

made!
a
     2
                   a
                                        i.,

                                                                                                     if

A
       EXTINCT MONSTERS.                             20T

third as a flying Reptile. This extraordinary discordance
of opinion respecting a creature whose skeleton was almost
entire, arose from the presence of characters apparently
belonging to each of the three classes to which it was-
referred ; the form of its head and length of neck resem
bling that of Birds, its wings approaching to the pro
portions and form of those of Bats, and the body and
tail approximating to those of ordinary Mammalia. These
characters, connected with a small skull, as is usual among
reptiles, and a beak furnished with not less than sixty
pointed teeth, presented acombination of apparent anomalies
which it was reserved for the genius of Cuvier to reconcile.
In his hands, this apparently monstrous production of the
ancient world has been converted into one of the most

beautiful examples yet afforded by comparative anatomy,
of the harmony that pervades all nature, in the adaptation
of the same parts of the animal frame to infinitely varied
conditions of existence. . . .
   " The Pterodactyles are ranked by Cuvier among the most
extraordinary of all the extinct animals that have come
under his consideration. ' Ce sont incontestablement de

tous les etres dont ce livre nous revele l'ancienne existence,

les plus extraordinaires, et ceux qui, si on les voyait vivans,
paroitraient les plus Strangers a toute la nature actuelle '
(Cuvier, ' Ossemens Fossiles,' vol. v.). We are already
acquainted with eight species of this genus, varying from
       size of a snipe to that of
the    In external form, these     a cormorant.1     resembled
    "                              animals somewhat

our modern bats and vampires : most of them had the
nose elongated, like the snout of a crocodile, and armed
with conical teeth. Their eyes were of enormous size,
apparently enabling them to fly by night. From their
wings projected fingers, terminated by long hooks, like the
curved claw on the thumb of the bat. These must have

formed a powerful paw, wherewith the animal was enabled

   1 Some fragments of Pterodactyle bones from the green sand,
Cambridge, must have belonged to one of gigantic dimensions, and could
not have been of less expanse from wing to wing than 27 feet.
208  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. viii.

to creep or climb, or suspend itself from trees. It is
probable also that the Pterodactyles had the power of

swimming, which is so common in reptiles, and which is
now possessed by the vampire bat of the island of Bonin.

    " Thus, like Milton's fiend, all qualified for all services
and all elements, the creature was a fit companion for the
kindred reptiles that swarmed in the seas, or crawled on
the shores of a turbulent planet.

                                                             ' The fiend,
               O'er bog or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,
             With head, hands, wings, or feet pursues his way,
               And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies.'

                                                    Paradise Lost, Book II., line 947

With flocks of such-like creatures flying in the air, and
shoals of no less monstrous ichthyosauri and plesiosauri
swarming in the ocean, and gigantic crocodiles and tortoises
crawling on the shores of the primaeval lakes and rivers,
air, sea, and land must have been strangely tenanted in
these early periods of our infant world." '

   " As the most obvious feature of these fossil reptiles is the
presence of organs of flight, it is natural to look for the
peculiarities of the Bird or Bat, in the structure of their
component bones. All attempts, however, to identify them
with birds are stopped at once by the fact of their having
teeth in the beak, resembling those of reptiles : the form
of a single bone, the os quadratum, enabled Cuvier to
pronounce at once that the creature was a Lizard : but a
Lizard possessing wings exists not in the present creation,
and is to be found only among the Dragons of romance and
heraldry ; while a moment's comparison of the head and
teeth with those of Bats shows that the fossil animals
in question cannot be referred to that family of flying
mammalia. As an insulated fact, it may seem to be of
little moment whether a living Lizard or a fossil Ptero-
dactyle might have four or five joints in its fourth finger,

                1 Geological Trans. (London), N. S., vol. iii., Part I.
EXTINCT REPTILES.                                  209

or its fourth toe ; but those who have patience to examine
the minutiae of this structure, will find in it an exemplifica
tion of the general principle, that things apparently minute

and trifling in themselves, may acquire importance, when
viewed in connection with others, which taken singly
appear equally insignificant. Minutiae of this kind, viewed
in their cogent relations to the parts and proportions of
other animals, may illustrate points of high importance in
                                             with  the still
physiology, and thereby become connected           examine
higher considerations of natural theology.  If we
the forefoot of the existing Lizards, we find the number
of joints regularly increased by the addition of one, as
we proceed from the first finger, or thumb, which has
two joints, to the third, in which there are four ; this

is precisely the numerical arrangement which takes place
in the three first fingers of the hand of the Pterodactyle.
Thus far the three first fingers of the fossil reptile agree in
structure with those of the forefoot of living Lizards ; but
as the hand of the Pterodactyle was to be converted into
an organ of flight, the joints of the fourth or fifth finger
were lengthened to become expansors of a membranous
wing. As the bones in the wing of the Pterodactyle thus
agree in number and proportion with those in the forefoot
of the lizard, so do they differ entirely from the arrange
ment of the bones which form the expansors of the wing
of the bat. The total number of toes in the Pterodactyles
is usually four ; the exterior, or little toe, being deficient :

if we compare the number and proportion of the joints in
these four toes with those of Lizards, we find the agree

ment as to number, to be not less perfect than it is in the
fingers ; we have, in each case, two joints in the first or
great toe, three in the second, four in the third, and five in
the fourth. As to proportion also, the penultimate joint is
always the longest, and the antepenultimate, or last but two,

the shortest ; these relative proportions are also precisely
the same, as in the feet of lizards. The apparent use of this
disposition of the shortest joints in the middle of the toes of
the Lizards, is to give greater power of flexion for bending
round, and laying fast hold on twigs and branches of trees
2io  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                               [ch. viii.

of various dimensions, or on inequalities of the surface of
the ground or rocks, in the act of climbing or running.

All these coincidences of number and proportion can only
have originated in a premeditated adaptation of each part
to its peculiar office ; they teach us to arrange an extinct
animal under an existing family of reptiles ; and when we
find so many other peculiarities of this tribe in almost
every bone of the skeleton of the Pterodactyle, with such
modifications, and such only as were necessary to fit it for
the purposes of flight, we perceive unity of design pervading
every part, and adapting to motion in the air organs
which in other genera are calculated for progression on the

gro"uWndi,thorreingatrhde  water. . . .    it  has  been  conjectured  by
                           to their food,

Cuvier that they fed on insects, and from the magnitude
of their eyes that they may also have been noctivagous
(wandering by night). The presence of large fossil
Libellula, or Dragon-flies, and many other insects, in the
same lithographic quarries with the Pterodactyles at
Solenhofen, and of the wings of coleopterous insects, mixed
with bones of Pterodactyles in the oolitic slate of Stones-
field, near Oxford, proves that large insects existed at the
same time with them, and may have contributed to their
supply of food. We know that many of the smaller lizards
of existing species are insectivorous ; some are also carni
vorous, and others omnivorous ; but the head and teeth of

two species of Pterodactyle are so much larger and stronger
than is necessary for the capture of insects, that the
larger species of them may possibly have fed on fishes,
darting upon them from the air after the manner of Sea
Swallows and Solan Geese. The enormous size and

strength of the head and teeth of the P. crassirostris would
not only have enabled it to catch fish, but also to kill and
devour the few small marsupial mammalia which then

existed upon the land.
   " The entire range of ancient anatomy affords few more
striking examples of the uniformity of the laws which
connect the extinct animals of the fossil creation with

existing organised beings, than those we have been

-N ,-A
THE MOSASAURUS.                               211

examining in the case of the Pterodactyle. We find the
details of parts which, from their minuteness, should seem
insignificant, acquiring great importance in such an investi
gation as we are now conducting ; they show, not less
distinctly than the colossal limbs of the most gigantic
quadrupeds, a numerical coincidence and a concurrence of
proportions which it seems impossible to refer to the
effect of accident, and which point out unity of purpose,
and deliberate design, in some intelligent First Cause,
from which they were all derived. We have seen that,
whilst all the laws of existing organisation in the order
of Lizards are rigidly maintained in the Pterodactyles ; still,
as Lizards modified to move like Birds and Bats in the
air, they received, in each part of their frame, a perfect
adaptation to their state. We have dwelt more at length
on the minutiae of their mechanism, because they convey
us back into ages so exceedingly remote, and show that
even in those distant eras, the same care of a common
Creator, which we witness in the mechanism of our own
bodies, and those of the myriads of inferior creatures that
move around us, was extended to the structure of creatures
that, at first sight, seem made up only of monstrosities." '

    Among the treasures of the Bucklandean Collection at

Oxford is a cast of the Mosasaurus. It bears an inscrip
tion on the edge of " Given by the Museum of Natural
History at Paris to Dr. Buckland," and was presented to

Buckland by Cuvier, who was then omnipotent at the
French Museum, as an evidence of his friendship, and
of the high esteem with which he regarded him. This

relic possesses so curious history, that may be inter

esting to make further extract from the Bridgewater
Treatise concerning the history of the great animal of
Maestricht.
1

   a
        it,

                     a
                                    i.,

                                          it
Bridgewater, vol. pp. 216-227.
212         LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. viii.

   " The Mosasaurus (the river Meuse and saurus, a lizard)
has been long known by the name of the great animal
...of Maestricht, occurring near that city in the calcareous
freestone.  A nearly perfect head of this animal was
discovered (1780) in the quarries under the hill of St.
Pierre, by Dr. Hofmann, Surgeon to the Forces quartered
in the town of Maestricht.1 This celebrated head during
many years baffled all the skill of Naturalists : some

considered it to be that of a whale, others of a crocodile ;

but its true place in the animal kingdom was first suggested
by Adrian Camper, and at length confirmed by Cuvier.
By their investigations it is proved to have been a gigantic
marine reptile, most nearly allied to the Monitor.2 The

geological epoch at which the Mosasaurus first appeared

seems to have been the last of the long series during which
the oolitic and cretaceous groups were in process of
formation. In these periods the inhabitants of our planet
seem to have been principally marine, and some of the

largest creatures were saurians of gigantic stature, many
of them living in the sea, and controlling the excessive

   1 It is recorded of this fossil that one of the canons of the cathedral

church of Maestricht brought an action at law against the discoverer,
Dr. Hofmann, and obtained possession from him ; but he was not

allowed to hold his prize long, for, when the French Revolution broke

out, and the armies of the Republic advanced to the gates of Maestricht,
1795, the town was bombarded, and at the suggestion of the committee
of savants who accompanied the French troops to select their share
of the plunder, the artillery was not allowed to play on that part of the
town in which the celebrated fossil was known to be preserved. After
the capitulation of the town, it was seized and carried off in triumph.
The specimen has since remained in the museum of the Jardin des
Plantes in Paris, and a cast of it is now in the British Museum.

   ' The monitors form a genus of lizards, frequenting marshes and

the banks of rivers in hot climates ; they have received this name from

the prevailing but absurd notion that they give warning by a whistling
noise of the approach of Crocodiles and Caymans. One species, the
Lacerta Nilotica, or lizard of the Nile, which devours the eggs of
Crocodiles, has been sculptured on the monuments of ancient Egypt.
THE MOSASAURUS.  213

increase of the then existing tribes of fishes. From the
lias upwards, to the commencement of the chalk formation,
the Ichthyosauri (ichthus, a fish) and Plesiosauri (plesios,
near to) were the tyrants of the ocean ; and just at the
point of time when their existence terminated during the
deposition of the chalk, the new genus Mosasaurus appears
to have been introduced, to supply for a while their
place and office,1 being itself destined in its turn to give
place to the Cetacea of the tertiary periods. As no saurians
of the present world are inhabitants of the sea, and the
most powerful living representatives of this order, viz. the
crocodiles, though living chiefly in water, have recourse
to stratagem rather than speed for the capture of their
prey, it may not be unprofitable to examine the mechanical
contrivances by which a reptile, most nearly allied to the
monitor, was so constructed as to possess the power of
moving in the sea with sufficient velocity to overtake and

capture such large and powerful fishes as, from the enormous
size of its teeth and jaws, we may conclude it was intended

to devour.

   " The head and teeth point out the near relations of
this animal to the monitors ; and the proportions main
tained throughout all the other parts of the skeleton
warrant the conclusion, that this monstrous monitor of

the ancient deep was five-and-twenty feet in length,
although the longest of its modern congeners does not
exceed five feet. The head here represented measures
four feet in length ; that of the largest monitor does not
exceed five inches. The most skilful anatomist would be
at a loss to devise a series of modifications by which a
monitor could be enlarged to the length and bulk of a
grampus, and at the same time be fitted to move with
strength and rapidity through the waters of the sea ; yet
in the fossil before us we shall find the genuine characters

   1 Remains of the Mosasaurus have been discovered by Dr. Mantell
in the upper chalk near Lewes, by Professor Owen in the upper chalk
of both Kent and Sussex, and by Dr. Morton in the green sand of

Virginia.
   214  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. viii.

   of a monitor maintained throughout the whole skeleton,
   with such deviations only as tended to fit the animal for

   its marine existence.
      " The Mosasaurus had scarcely any character in common

   with the crocodiles, but resembled the iguanas, in having
   an apparatus of teeth fixed on the pterygoid bone
   and placed in the roof of its mouth, as in many serpents
   and fishes, where they act as barbs to prevent the
   escape of their prey. The other parts of the skeleton
   follow the character indicated by the head. The vertebrae
   are all concave in front, and convex behind ; being fitted
   to each other by a ball and socket joint admitting easy
   and universal flexion. From the centre of the back to
   the extremity of the tail, they are destitute of articular
   apophyses, which arc essential to support the back of
   animals that move on land : in this respect they agree with
   the vertebrae of dolphins, and were calculated to facilitate
   the power of swimming ; the vertebrae of the neck allowed
   to that part also more flexibility than in the crocodiles.
   The tail was flattened on each side, but high and deep
   in the vertical direction, like the tail of a crocodile, forming
   a straight oar of immense strength to propel the body
   by horizontal movements analogous to those of sculling.
   Although the number of caudal vertebras was nearly the
   same as in the monitor, the proportionate length of the
   tail was much diminished by the comparative shortness
   of the body of each vertebra ; the effect of this variation
   being to give strength to a shorter tail as an organ for
   swimming ; and a rapidity of movement which would
   have been unattainable by the long and slender tail of the
   monitor, which assists that animal in climbing. There is
   a further provision to give strength to the tail, by the

   chevron bones being soldered firmly to the body of each
   vertebra, as in fishes. The total number of vertebrae was

   one hundred and twenty-three, nearly the same as in the
   monitors, and more than double the number of those in
   the Crocodiles. The ribs had a single head, and were round,

   as in the family of lizards. Of the extremities, sufficient

   fragments have been found to prove that the Mosasaurus,

\
FOSSIL FOOTSTEPS.  215

i.,instead of legs, had four large paddles, resembling those of
the Plesiosaurus and the Whale : one great use of these
was probably to assist in raising the animal to the surface,
in order to breathe, as it apparently had not the horizontal
tail, by means of which the Cetacea ascend for this purpose.
All these characters unite to show that the Mosasaurus
was adapted to live entirely in the water ; and that
although it was of such vast proportions compared with
the living genera of these families, it formed a link
intermediate between the Monitors and the Iguanas. How
ever strange it may appear to find its dimensions so much
exceeding those of any existing Lizards, or to find marine
genera in the order of Saurians, in which there exists at
this time no species capable of living in the sea, it is
scarcely less strange than the analogous deviations in the
Megalosaurus and Iguanodon, which afford examples of
still greater expansion of the type of the Monitor and
Iguana, into colossal forms adapted to move upon the land.
Throughout all these variations of proportion, we trace the
persistence of the same laws, which regulate the formation
of living genera ; and from the combinations of perfect
mechanism that have, in all times, resulted from their opera
tion, we infer the perfection of the wisdom by which all
this mechanism was designed, and the immensity of the
power by which it has ever been upheld." 1

   One more extract shall be given, a brief but eloquent

passage on Fossil Footsteps --the marks of reptiles of

whose bones no remains have been found.

   " The Historian or the Antiquaiy may have traversed
the fields of ancient or of modern battles ; and may have
pursued the line of march of triumphant conquerors, whose
armies trampled down the most mighty kingdoms of the
world. The winds and storms have utterly obliterated the
ephemeral impressions of their course. Not a track remains
of a single foot, or a single hoof, of all the countless millions

                                1 Bridgewater, vol. chap. xiv.
216           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.          [ch. viii.

of men and beasts whose progress spread desolation over
the earth. But the Reptiles that crawled upon the half-

finished surface of our infant planet, have left memorials
of their passage, enduring and indelible. No history has
recorded their creation or destruction ; their very bones are
found no more among the fossil relics of a former world.

Centuries, and thousands of years, may have rolled away,

between the time in which these footsteps were impressed
by Tortoises upon the sands of their native Scotland, and
the hour when they were again laid bare, and exposed to
our curious and admiring eyes. Yet we behold them

stamped upon the rock, distinct as the track of the passing
                                 as if to
animal upon   the recent snow ;            show that thousands
of years are   but as nothing    amidst    Eternity -- and, as it
were, in mockery of the fleeting perishable course of the

mightiest potentates among mankind." 1

   The variety and number of these impressions have created

a new science, and Ichnology has taken a definite place as

a branch of palaeontological research. It may be added that

the slabs bearing the footprints to which he alludes in the

Treatise had been used to form a garden wall, from whence
four of them were taken, full of beautiful impressions of the
feet of these animals, with a cast of the nails as perfect as

if they had been taken in wax. Dr. Buckland was in the

quarry himself, and assisted one of the workmen to raise a
slab on which were these prints, which had never seen the

sun since the time they were first made. It was while

he was writing the Bridgewater that a slab of sandstone
with these footmarks had been sent him to decipher. He

was greatly puzzled ; but at last, one night, or rather

between two and three in the morning, when, according to

              1 Bridgewater, vol. chap. xiv.i.,
THE CHEIROTHERIUM.  217

his wont, he was busy writing, it suddenly occurred to him
that these impressions were those of a species of tortoise.
He therefore called his wife to come down and make some

paste, while he went and fetched the tortoise from the

garden. On his return he found the kitchen table covered
with paste, upon which the tortoise was placed. The
delight of this scientific couple may be imagined when
they found that the footmarks of the tortoise on the paste
were identical with those on the sandstone slab. Lecturing
one day in Scotland on the fossil footsteps of animals,

including the Cheirotherium,1 one of his auditors at the

end of the lecture referred to his diagrams exhibited, and

said : " It seems, Dr. Buckland, from your drawings that all

your animals walked in one direction."
   " Yes," was the reply. " Cheirotherium was a Scotchman,

and he always went south."

    Professor Buckland finishes his book with the following

words :--

   " The whole course of the inquiry which we have now
conducted to its close, has shown that the physical his
tory of our globe, in which some have seen only waste,
disorder, and confusion, teems with endless examples of
economy, and order, and design ; and the result of all our
researches, carried back through the unwritten records of
past time, has been to fix more steadily our assurance of
the existence of one supreme Creator of all things, to exalt
more highly our conviction of the immensity of His perfec
tions, of His might and majesty, His wisdom, and goodness,
and all-sustaining providence ; and to penetrate our under-

   1 The form, shape, and structure of the creature who made the
footprints being unknown, the name of Cheirotherium, or beast with a
hand, was given to it.
218  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                      [ch. vm.

standing with a    profound and     sensible  Gpoedr.c' e'ption  of  the
' high veneration  man's intellect  owes to
" The Earth from her deep foundations unites with the

celestial orbs that roll through boundless space, to declare
the glory and show forth the praise of their common Author
and Preserver ; and the voice of Natural Religion accords
harmoniously with the testimonies of Revelation, in ascrib
ing the origin of the universe to the will of one eternal
aFnirdstdoCmauinseanot fInatlleltlihgienngcset,htahtesuAblmsisitg--hty' thLeorsdamaendyessuteprrdeamye,
to-day, and for ever,' ' before the mountains were brought
forth, or ever the Earth and the World were made, God
from everlasting and world without end.' " 2

     1 Boyle.                       chap. xxiv.
     8 Bridgewater, vol.            i.,

                                             \
                  CHAPTER IX.

                                   WESTMINSTER.

" T NEVER," said Sir Robert Peel, " advised an appoint-

   A ment of which I was more proud, or the result of
which was in my opinion more satisfactory, than the
nomination of Dr. Buckland to the Deanery of West

minster."

   The appointment was made in 1845, in succession to
Dean Wilberforce, who was promoted to the See of Oxford.
Soon afterwards Dean Buckland was inducted to the living
of Islip, near Oxford, bequeathed by Edward the Confessor
to the Abbot of Westminster. Mrs. Buckland writes to Sir
Philip Egerton from Christ Church in November 1845 :--

   " It is indeed true that Dr. Buckland is to be Dean of
Westminster. I have one son in the Treasury ; the other,
Frank, will soon also be a resident in London, pursuing
his call to surgery. To have a home for these boys would
of itself be a recommendation to me for a permanent
residence in London, and Sir Robert Peel's kindness has

conferred upon my husband the only piece of preferment

that would suit him in all respects. It comes wholly

unexpected ; while we were at Havre this summer Peel
offered Dr. Buckland the Deanery of Lincoln, which he
declined, and never supposed Westminster would be

                                                                       219
220  LIFE OF DEAN BUCK LAND.                        [ch. ix.

thought of for him. I think Sir R. Peel has shown much
moral courage in making choice of a person of science,

for it was sure to raise a clamour, and among good people

too. It has always been quite unintelligible to me how it
happens that on the Continent, where there is far less
religion than in England, a man who cultivates Natural
History, who studies only the works of his Maker, is highly
                                                    posts of
considered and raised by common    consent to
honour, as were Cuvier, Humboldt,                    on the
                                   etc., -- while,

contrary, in England, a man who pursues science to a
religious end (even who writes a Bridgewater Treatise) is
looked upon with suspicion, and, by the greatest number
of those who study only the works of man, with contempt.
Perhaps you can comprehend this anomaly, I cannot." 1

   She adds : " The house is large and very good, but it

does not look like a very lively abode, for it opens into the

Abbey and contains the Jerusalem Chamber."
   The Deanery would indeed easily make four houses,

the different wings being separated by large landings

and passages ; and there were sixteen staircases. A long

corridor, in which hung portraits of former deans, led into
the Abbey, Abbot's Place or Palace, and death-chamber of

   1 It is noteworthy that Professor Burdon Sanderson, in his late
address at the British Association, had still cause to lament the little

assistance and encouragement that scientific research receives, either
from the Government or the nation, in Great Britain. Buckland in

1819, on his appointment as first Professor of Geology, in his inaugural
address, when speaking of this " new learning," says : " For some
years past these newly created sciences have formed a leading subject
of education in most Universities on the Continent." Professor
Sanderson tells us, seventy-four years afterwards, " Those who desire
either to learn the methods of research or to carry out scientific
inquiries have to go to Berlin, to Munich, to Breslau, or to the Pasteur
Institute in Paris, to obtain what England ought long ago to have

provided."
                               THE DEANERY.

the Lancastrian King whose death it was foretold should

take place at Jerusalem.

                    " Bear me to that chamber ; there I'll lie,
                      In that Jerusalem shall Harry die."

Dean Buckland thought that the antechamber through
which it was approached was probably the scene of Prince
Henry's wild grief over the crown. In a later day the
Jerusalem Chamber has become a household word as

the room in which meets the restored Convocation of

Canterbury.
   The entrance to this oldest part of the Deanery remains

exactly as it was in 1848. In the "Robing Room," as

the antechamber was called, might be found at all seasons
of the year a blazing fire, and here for thirty years
the excellent portress, Mrs. Burrows, was in attendance
twice daily, to air the linen surplices of the canons in
residence, as it was highly necessary that these elderly
dignitaries should be protected as far as possible from the
well-known deadly cold of the Abbey.1

   1 "The apartments of the Abbot of Westminster are nearly in the

same state, at the present hour, as when they received Elizabeth (widow
of Edward IV.) and her train of young princesses. The noble stone
hall, now used as a dining-room by the students of Westminster
School, was, doubtless, the place where Elizabeth seated herself in her
despair 'alow on the rushes, all desolate and dismayed.' Still may

be seen the circular hearth in the midst of the hall, and the remains of
a louvre in the roof, at which such portions of smoke as chose to leave
the room departed. But the merry month of May was entered when

Elizabeth took refuge there, and round about the hearth were arranged
branches and flowers, while the stone floor was strewn with green
rushes. At the end of the hall is oak panelling latticed at top, with
doors leading by winding stone stairs to the most curious nests of little
222  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

    The Abbot's quarters were over the antechamber, and
from them he had communication both with the Abbey

and the Jerusalem Chamber. These rooms have of late
years been repaired, and Dean Bradley now occupies the
upper rooms. In Dr. Buckland's occupation of the Deanery,

the old wainscot was so dilapidated and the rooms so cold

and dismal that his servants disliked sleeping in them,
and complained of the queer noises and gusts of wind

blowing their candles out. At length, one stormy night,
a piece of the wainscot of the narrow passage leading into
the Abbot's gallery in the south-west end of the Abbey

nave fell down with a crash, and discovered a well-like

rooms that the eye of antiquarian ever looked upon. These were,
and still are, the private apartments of the dignitaries of the Abbey,
where all offices of buttery, kitchen, and laundry are performed under
many a quaint gothic arch, in some places, even at present, rich with
antique corbel and foliage. This range, so interesting as a specimen of
the domestic usages of the middle ages, terminates in the Abbot's own
sanctum or private sitting-room, which still looks down on his lovely
quiet flower garden. Nor must the passage be forgotten leading
from this room to the corridor, furnished with lattices, now remaining,
where the Abbot might, unseen, be witness of the conduct of his
monks in the great hall below. Communicating with these are the
State apartments of the Royal Abbey, larger in dimensions and more
costly in ornament, richly dight with painted glass and fluted oak
panelling. Among these may be noted especially the organ-room, and
the antechamber to the great Jerusalem Chamber -- which last was the
Abbot's state reception-room, and retains to this day its gothic window
of painted glass of exquisite workmanship, its curious tapestry and fine

original oil portrait of Richard II." --Agnes Strickland's Queens of
England, vol. hi., p. 409.

    Miss Strickland adds in a note that " the fireplace, before which

Henry IV. expired, had been enriched by Henry VII. with elaborate

wood entablatures, bearing his armorial devices ; an addition which is
the most modern part of this exquisite remnant of domestic antiquity."
WESTMINSTER.  223

opening. The alarm was great among the domestics ; but
the Dean's sons were delighted at the discovery, and, having
first ascertained that the air was pure by letting down a
lighted candle, one of them descended by a rope and found
a worm-eaten wooden bedstead and table, both in a state
of crumbling decay. It was said to have been one of Dean
Atterbury's hiding-places. Another of these hiding-places
was in the wall of the library, a fine old room of sixty feet
in length over the south cloisters. The drawing-room
extends over the entrance to the Deanery from the cloisters
and over the college kitchen. Under the floor of these
rooms the rats had taken up their quarters, and when the
house was quiet would run riot in all directions. These
invisible guests, for none were ever seen, were the horror
of the servants ; but the Dean, to prevent his children
from being frightened, told them stories of the rats' clever
doings, and how on one occasion they emptied a small cask
of choice apricot wine, which his aunt had made for him
in his college days, by dipping their tails into a hole that

they had gnawed.
   Buckland may be said to have kept open house at the

Deanery. Friends were always coming to breakfast or to
luncheon ; and this continuous stream of visitors served to
fill his home with life and movement. The house was the

centre also to which men of science resorted, and where
many of their discoveries were explained or illustrated.
The following note to Professor Faraday, written on
June 13th, 1849, will serve as an example: --

  " My DEAR PROFESSOR, -- If you can give us the pleasure

of your company at lunch to-morrow at two, or any time
224            LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                   [ch. ix.

between two and four, you will meet William Harcourt and
some other naturalists, and see chloroform administered to

Beast,  Bird,  Reptile,  and  Fishes.
                                " Very
                                        truly  yours,
                                               "W. BUCKLAND."

Among the interesting " fixtures " at the Deanery is a

drawing, by Canaletti, of the procession of the Knights

of the Bath, painted for Dean Wilcocks in 1747, who, like

his predecessor Atterbury, also held the See of Rochester.

The Dean of Westminster is ex-officio Chaplain of the
Order, and the tradition of the picture is that Bishop

Wilcocks was so proud of the position assigned him in the

procession of walking next the King, that he caused the

picture to be painted in order to commemorate
               is                                                                       and to
                          is

                                                    is
                                                                    a
                                                                                 a it,
mark as well the completion of Mr. Christopher Wren's

towers. The Dean of Westminster on all official occasions

wears the badge of the Order, attached to a wide red ribbon.

The badge emblematic of the sacredness of the Order --

three garlands twisted together in honour of the Holy

Trinity, and supposed to be derived from Arthur, founder
of British chivalry. The motto " Tria numina juncta in

uno," and there          a rose, shamrock, and thistle in the
centre. The Dean wears the robes on " collar day " when

he goes to Court.

     The leads over the rambling old Deanery made delight

ful playground for Buckland's children, who found that

the novelty of growing mustard and cress in boxes on the

roof was quite as interesting as sowing their names in the

Oxford soil. There was much more light and sunshine

on the leads than in the high-walled Oxford college garden,

and they could always find a snug sheltered corner, which
SUBSOIL OF WESTMINSTER.  225

ever way the wind blew. But their favourite leads were
those over the drawing-room, college hall, and Jerusalem
Chamber, looking west. Magnificent sunsets were to be
seen from these, particularly in the short winter days, when
the wreaths of blue smoke came curling up from the
chimneys of the low red-tiled roofs of old Westminster
slums, and formed into fantastic-shaped purple and golden
and crimson clouds as they caught the rays of the setting
sun over St. James's Park and Buckingham Palace.

   It was natural that the Dean, with his turn for geology

and sanitary science, should carefully examine the soil on

which the Abbey is built, and this is his report :--
   " Thorney Island, the site of the Abbey and adjacent

parts of Westminster, between the Thames and the lake
in St. James's Park (which was once a swampy creek
crossing between Charing Cross and Whitehall into the
Thames), is a peninsula of the purest sand and gravel,
which may be seen in the foundations of the Abbey and in
the new deep graves in the Churchyard of St. Margaret's.
The surface of the peninsula is several feet above high
water mark ; its north frontier is marked by the steps
ascending from the Horse Guards Parade to Duke Street,
and by the Terrace, covered with houses, on the south of
Birdcage Walk, whence it extends under Wellington
Barracks to Buckingham Palace Gardens and Hyde Park.
By the isthmus under this terrace, the peninsula of Thorney
Island is connected with the gravel beds of Hyde Park,
from whence the rain-water which fills the lower region of
that gravel, and of the gravel in the Palace Gardens, has
unbroken communication with the pure sand and gravel
of the so-called Thorney Island (really a peninsula), and
hence pure and much sought after water is supplied to the
well and pump in Dean's Yard, and other wells in St.
Peter's College, and to a pump near the north end of St.
Margaret's Church."

                                                                                                              15
226  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

   No doubt this stream, which Dean Stanley calls the
" vivifying centre of all that has grown up and around,"

had much to do with the monks' settlement on Thorney
Island 1280 years ago. The monks practised the " healing

art," and, though medical skill in those days was rude and
simple enough, the monks knew that the secret of good
health consisted in drinking pure water, and hence a Holy

well, or a Wishing-well, is to be met with in the precincts
of most ruined Abbeys. No local traditions, it has been
said, are "so durable as those writ in water." In 1845 the
bright pure water from the old pump in Dean's Yard was

still considered beneficial as an eye water, and Buckland
prescribed it as such with the best results. London was

not then supplied with water, as at the present time.
Every day, and all the morning long, might be seen a
continuous stream of water-carriers -- men, women, and
children -- coming for the life-giving beverage. But it was
in the middle of the day, when the " boys " came rushing
out of school, that the scene became exciting between

water-carriers and scholars. Buckets were hurled over the

tall iron railings enclosing the playground, alongside which
stood the famous pump ; the wooden yokes and chains,
upon which the buckets hung, followed ; pitchers were
seized, and the contents thrown in all directions. Great
was the scrimmage ; plentiful the splashing, and loud

the cracking of pottery ; boisterous often were the jokes ;

and lively was the merriment for a few minutes, --and
then, boy-like, some other diversion was thought of, and
the lads in their quaint black-tailed coats and white

" chokers " dispersed.
REFORM OF WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.  227

   But these merry scenes belong to the past. In making

the Metropolitan Railway, twenty-four years ago, the spring,
which supplied the Dean's Yard pump, and formed on
its way the King's scholars' pond in Tothill Fields, was
cut across ; and two engines are now employed, night and
day, at the Victoria underground station, one pumping
away the water from the spring rising in Hyde Park at the
rate of 1200 gallons per minute, the other pumping away
the sewage from the King's scholars' sewer. By draining
the subsoil at Westminster, the Dean's Yard well is dried

up, as also several other wells in the neighbourhood ; and
the trees in the Dean's Yard are, it is to be feared, in
danger of dying from drought.

   As Dean of Westminster the busiest portion of Dean
Buckland's always busy life began, and in all the good
works which were set on foot he was warmly seconded by
his wife. Yet he was never so busy as to be prevented
from journeying to Oxford to lecture on his favourite science.
Rising soon after seven, he worked incessantly till two or
three o'clock the next morning, allowing himself scarcely
time for meals, and less for recreation. One of the practica 1
tasks to be accomplished was the removal of many great
abuses that had crept into Westminster School. " In that
foundation," Sir Roderick Murchison writes, " education

could be no longer obtained except at costly charges, and
even when these were paid, the youths were ill fed and

worse lodged. All these defects were speedily rectified by

the vigour and perseverance of Dean Buckland. The

charges were reduced ; good diet was provided ; the rooms
were well ventilated, and the buildings properly under
228           LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

drained ; so that, these physical ameliorations accompany

ing a really sound and good system of tuition, the fame

and credit of this venerable seminary was soon restored."

   It is difficult, in the light of modern sanitary reforms, to

realise the condition of the school about fifty years ago.
Among a large collection of MS. papers in the Oxford
Museum, chiefly consisting of notes of lectures, to which
Professor Green has kindly allowed the biographer to have
access, is found a practical letter ' of Buckland's, giving
details of his proposed alterations, and announcing a
promised subscription from Her Most Gracious Majesty
the Queen of £500, and from the Archbishop of York
^300, and further donations from old Westminsters.

    Dean Buckland followed the precedent set him by Dean
Atterbury in appealing to the Crown for a subscription
towards the contemplated improvements. As in the case

of his predecessor, the domestic comfort of the Queen's

scholars was the first matter to engage his attention. In

     1 " Improvements in Westminster School. -- "The Dean and Chapter

of Westminster take this method of making known to the old West

minsters that they have resolved to increase the comfort and diminish

the expense   of the Queen's scholars in the following manner.
              providing all their meals at the cost of the Establishment.
   " 1st. By
     " 2nd. By fitting up large and convenient rooms for study, etc., in

the entire cloister under the dormitory.
   " 3rd. By building a sanatorium at the end of the dormitory, with

rooms for a resident matron.

     "4th. By refitting the present lavatory and necessary offices with

improved hydraulic apparatus.
   " 5th. By undertaking that the necessary charges on the Queen's

scholars shall not exceed ^45 per annum, exclusive of books, clothes,
washing, and journeys, and the leaving fees, if the subscriptions should
WESTMINSTER SCHOOL DORMITORY.  229

many ways, but happily not in all, these two Deans
resembled each other in character. Both were men of
powerful intellects and of exhaustless energy ; both were
eager to remove abuses and to attack prejudices ; and
both possessed the gift of persuasive eloquence. Dean
Buckland, however, was eminently truthful : the most
splendid speech Atterbury ever delivered was in vindica
tion of his innocence when charged with intriguing for the
Pretender. Yet it is known that he had been plotting
with the Jacobites all along, and on the death of Queen
Anne had even offered Ormond to proclaim the Pretender
at Charing Cross in his lawn sleeves.

   In 1713 the School dormitory was in the monks' granary
on the west side of Dean's Yard. " The gaping roof and

open windows freely admitted rain and snow, wind and
sun ; the beams cracked and hung with cobwebs, the

cavernous walls with many a gash inflicted by youthful

be adequate to the costs of the contemplated improvements, which are

estimated at from ,£3,000 to ,£4,000.
   " 6th. It is intended in no degree to diminish the present expenses

of the Dean and Chapter, and that all reductions of charges that may
arise from better management shall be for the benefit of the Queen's
scholars.

   " The Dean and Chapter having ascertained that the present dormitory
was built more than a century ago, by contributions from persons
educated at Westminster, in addition to large grants from the Crown

and from Parliament, have thought it reasonable to appeal again to the
Crown and to old Westminsters of the present time for their aid to
render more accordant with modern manners the building which has

hitherto, with much inconvenience, been applied to the manifold

purposes of station, study, and dormitory.

                                             " William Buckland (Dean).
                                                                   "June 24th, 1846."
230  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                         [ch. ix.

Dukes and Earls in their boyish days ; the chairs scorched

by many a fire and engraven deep with many a famous
name."1 Again and again Dean Atterbury urged its

rebuilding in the college gardens ; but the Canons pre
ferred that it should remain where it was, as their houses

looked on the gardens. It was only by the casting vote

of the Dean that a motion was carried in favour of re

building the dormitory over the wide cloister which

extended along the gardens' western side.

   Buckland found that Dean Atterbury's dormitory, after

over a hundred years' use as bedroom, sitting-room, and
play-room, was in a most dismal condition, -- with the

walls blackened by smoke, and, here and there, hung with

moth-eaten green baize curtains ; the tables and lockers

seamed and scarred in all directions, and the floor

Taking his children to see the place, their father asked, "Well,
children, what's this floor like ? " The answer was prompt.
" The fossil ripple marks in our hall at home." (A fossil
slab of ripple marks now in the Oxford Museum.) The
floor was only cleaned once a year, so that its rough

surface was not to be wondered at, as the boys did a great
deal of cooking there amongst their other diversions.
The windows were prison-like, small and near the ceiling.
Mr. F. H. Forshall, the School chronicler, relates that, fifty
years ago, " as a rule, the windows were kept broken and
a slide was sometimes formed down college in a time of
hard frost. On one occasion the floor was converted into

a draught board ; the Under Elections formed the pieces, and

     1 Dean Stanley's " Memorials of Westminster."
DRAINAGE OF WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.                            231

two seniors, standing on tables, directed their movements.
When a king was made he was represented by one of the
bigger boys with a small one on his back." '

   The lavatories were in a far worse condition than those

of Winchester, to which Buckland had been accustomed

in his youth. A ditch filled with black mud --a creek

of the Thames it was said to be -- came up as far as these
buildings ; but apparently no tide ever succeeded in
washing back into the river any of its murky contents.

   Such insanitary conditions were intolerable to Buck-

land, and he set himself with characteristic energy to
improve both the dormitory and the lavatories. His

scientific reputation and his determination overpowered
all resistance. Yet a weaker man would have been power
less. " I doubt," writes the Rev. E. Marshall, one of the

late masters at Westminster, " if any one with a less com

manding scientific reputation than Dr. Buckland, even with
all the power of the Dean, could have overcome the
prejudice which at that time was entertained against the

alterations."
   The cloister under the dormitory in the college garden

was converted into day-rooms ; a matron's house and sick

room were instituted ; and convenient offices were built.

These thorough reforms may be said to have been carried
out by his force of will. Mr. Forshall states that "the
advantages to the boys of these reforms were almost
incalculable. Thinking that the Queen's scholars were
entitled to free commons, he provided breakfasts in Hall ;

1 F. H. Forshall, " Westminster School Past and Present."
232  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

and by erecting a sanatorium, obviated the necessity of

their using boarding houses, thus effecting a saving to each
boy's parents of at least £30 per annum. Fully to
appreciate this we must remember that the School had no
fees of its own, but was entirely dependent on the Dean

and Chapter ; so what was spent was practically taken from
the incomes of the Dean and Prebendaries."

   In all these new arrangements Dean Buckland took a
personal interest. Every Sunday morning, -- after the
Abbey service was over, and after he had, according to

the old Christ Church fashion, taken his children for a

walk in St. James's Park to see the water-fowl, and to be

rewarded with a penny if they spied any new importation
among the feathered flock,--he took them the round of the

School premises, beginning always with the " sick house,"
chatting with any of the seniors they met, inquiring how

the new arrangements he had made for them suited their

convenience, and asking them for practical suggestions.
He also constantly visited the college kitchen to see that

the food provided for the boys was of proper quality and
properly dressed, and daily a "bever"1 loaf was sent in
from College Hall for his own breakfast.

   Among other additions to the comfort of the boys, he

secured an excellent butler, Cleghorn by name, who had
been a prominent member of the police force, and almost
killed by sheep stealers. Cleghorn used to tell the boys

   1 " Bever," from the old French beuve = boire, to drink ; refresh

ments consisting of bread and beer, formerly served in the afternoon
in College Hall, answering to our five o'clock tea, now applied to the
rolls on the Hall table.
WORK AT WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.               233

of the trouble the Dean took in looking after the details

of food and drink, and instead of the everlasting mutton,

they had new dishes and pies and puddings never before

seen at college dinners. The severe conservatism, however,

of the Westminster boys at first resented the innovation,

and the puddings were thrown at the cook's head ! But,

as Mr. Forshall, himself an ardent Old Westminster, and

the chronicler of the history of his beloved School, admits,
" We were all, notwithstanding, extremely glad afterwards

of the improvements introduced by the Dean in our

diet." And he adds : " As a Queen's scholar I have a lively

recollection of the Dean's presence, and of his loving, hearty

way of speaking. I very vividly remember also his intro

ducing Dr. Liddell to us in the great schoolroom as our

new Head Master, the first who had not been educated at

Westminster. The Dean made a most earnest and affec

tionate speech to us, standing in front of the sixth form

by the side of Dr. Liddell. Though his figure and manner

are before my eyes at this moment, the words have vanished
save, ' I present to you -- Dr. Liddell-- a lexicographer of
European reputation.' "

   The Dean often gave lectures on " common subjects " to

the boys in their new sitting-room. Soon after Dr. Liddell's

appointment as Head Master, Buckland gave a conversazione

in the chamber recently constructed under the dormitory.

Invitations were issued to meet the lately consecrated Bishop

of Adelaide, an old Westminster scholar.  Mr. Marshall
thus describes the gathering: --

   " The dignified proportions and solidity of the room, the
crude white of the walls glaring in the light of the unshaded
234  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                      [ch. ix.

gas,1 the fresh and obtrusively level floor, and the unusual
sight of ladies in the boys' sitting-room, were all contrary
to ordinary experiences.

   "The Bishop proposed that some of the great public

schools of England should contribute a sum of money to
buy land, then naturally very cheap in the colony, and that
the land so acquired should be the endowment of scholar
ships in his college, to be named respectively after the
various schools. He paid his own school the compliment
of coming to it first. The proposal was received with
acclamation, and money afterwards subscribed to carry
out the object. The proceedings of the evening concluded
by the handing of some choice Lunel wine, to which no
one made any conscientious objections. I vividly recall
the geniality of the Dean's manner, and the kindness and
hospitality shown me by both the Dean and Mrs. Buckland

at the Deanery."

   There is a tablet, it is said, in the Hall of St. Peter's

College, Adelaide, which records the foundation of this

scholarship, which took place on St. Peter's Day, 1847.
   Dr. Short was consecrated Bishop of Adelaide with three

other colonial bishops, -- Dr. Gray, Bishop of Capetown ;
Dr. Perry, Bishop of Melbourne ; Dr. Tyrrell, Bishop of
Newcastle : the bishoprics of Adelaide and Capetown being
endowed by the munificence of Miss (now Baroness) Burdett-

Coutts. It was while this solemn ceremony, which lasted

four hours, was going on in the Abbey that a fight took
place in the " Green," the square enclosure within the

cloisters. Mr. Walter Severn, the son of the well-known

artist who soothed the dying hours of Keats, thus tells
this highly characteristic story of Westminster School life

     1 Then for the first time used in college.
FIGHTS AT WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.                          235.

" fifty years since." Fights, it may be added, have since

been discontinued, owing to the rule being made that they
must take place before early morning school : --

  " It was in 1847,   a few weeks before I left    Westminster,,
                     incident occurred :-- I was  rowing up the
that the following
river in one of the ' heavy fours ' which went out daily
during the rowing season, and as we were returning our
boat had a race with one of the other ' fours,' during which
a ' foul ' occurred. The two boats drifted close together,,
and our oars got mixed up. At this moment a tall youth
in the other boat snatched some of the jackets out of ours
and threw them into the water. On this, my crew at once
called on me, as the biggest boy in the boat, to knock him

over, which I promptly did, with an oar. Immediately on
landing at the ' barges,' he came up and challenged me
in the usual formal style to fight in the ' Green,' and the
news was quickly carried down College Street to Dean's
Yard that a fight would take place next day. With
thoughts of the morrow in my head, I wended my way
                                                       father
home to James Street, Buckingham Gate,  where     my
then lived. Should I inform my parents  about     it?  I had

often confided in my mother, who was quite a Spartan
mother, and not likely to interfere in a fair fight ; but my
father was essentially, as he called himself, a man of peace ;
and I decided that I must not let out a word at home.
He had already been extremely put out on the occasion
of a former fight I had with a boy called Stanton. I may
mention here that fights in those days were conducted
exactly like prize-fights, and were not interfered with by
the authorities. I have heard it said that about 1843 some
of the fights that took place in the Green actually appeared
in BelFs Life ; but this was too much even for Williamson,,
who interfered and stopped the reports. After partaking
of late dinner or supper at home, it suddenly occurred to
me that my braces were worn out and shabby, and I was

determined to get new ones, so as to make a good appear
ance when ' stripped ' for the coming fight. I had consider
236  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

able difficulty in persuading my mother to give me the
necessary money, as she could not understand my wishing

to get them at so late an hour. A shop in York Street

was still open, and I secured a pair of bright-red braces,
which were such a novelty that there was slight applause
from the ring on the morrow when my outer garments were
removed. I may as well mention for the uninitiated that
this ancient fighting-green is the quiet, peaceful-looking
grass-plot in the centre of the cloisters, under the shadow
of our grand and venerable Abbey. The Green presented
an animated appearance, with an unusually large ring,
which took up most of the space. At that time the
cloisters all round were very much out of repair, almost in
ruins, and on two sides the broken arches extended to the
ground, so that there were many exits to and from the

Green.

   " The day was one of the many ' saints' days ' which
-were kept as holidays. I think Dryden, who was an ' Old
Westminster,' alludes to the extraordinary number of these

holidays in his time.
   " There happened to be a grand consecration of four

colonial bishops in the Abbey, so that we were not with
out solemn music to give eclat to our little entertainment
outside. I distinctly remember that I went into this fight
with a cheerful heart and a perfectly clear conscience. My

antagonist was not a popular boy, and the fact that I was
going to fight him was very much approved of. He was

bigger and stronger than I was, but I was more active and
a better boxer, having practised the art with a prize
fighter who used to give lessons to some of the older

boy"sR. ound succeeded round for more than an hour, until we
were both becoming somewhat exhausted, when a sudden
interference took place which stopped the fight. Officials
from the Abbey had several times tried to put an end to
our noisy entertainment, but they had water of a very ruddy
colour thrown over them, and were so roughly used that
they had to beat a hasty retreat. As the fight drew to a
close the shouts increased, and the authorities, finding the
REPAIRS OF WESTMINSTER ABBEY.           237

noise intolerable, got one of the masters (Weare, second
master) to enter the Green and                                I
learnt afterwards, had lasted an  stop  the fight, which, as  I
                                  hour  and five minutes.

believe there is an account of this fight in the old ledgers
of the centre boarding-house in Little Dean's Yard. I

was put into a cab and sent home, where my mother and
sisters, somewhat dismayed, took charge of me, and I was
made to stay for a day or two in bed.

   " Within a month I got a clerkship in the Privy Council
Office, and had to appear with blackened eyes and a bruised
face. The Lord President, Lord Lansdowne, and two
senior clerks, Harry Chester and Charles Villiers Bayley,
were greatly interested in my fight, and I think helped me

in getting promoted afterwards.

   " More than twenty years after this event I was staying
with my father in Rome, and when dining at a very large
hotel dinner I recognised my old antagonist and spoke to
him. He was a clergyman in poor health, and died a few
years later. Some ten or twelve years later I was dining
at the house of our neighbours in Earl's Court, Mr. and
Mrs. Bliss, and met there Bishop Short of Adelaide, and
got introduced to him and asked him about his consecra
tion. Yes, he was consecrated with three other colonial
bishops in the Abbey in 1847. I asked him if he could

remember anything unusual that happened, and he at once
said, ' Oh yes, there was a fight of Westminster boys, and
the noise was so great that we had to complain.' He was
surprised and amused when I told him that I was one of

the combatants."

   Nor did Westminster School monopolise Buckland's

attention. It is almost needless to say that the Abbey

itself occupied much of his care. " He paid the greatest
attention," his son Frank writes, " to the keeping in repair of

the monuments, etc., inside the Abbey, and the reparations
of its external walls, applying his fund of general know

ledge to the minutest details."
238  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

   The Rev. W. H. Turle says :--

   " I can remember how thankful we all were when Dean

Buckland had the pavement in the cloister thoroughly
repaired, and the gas laid on ; also he had Great Dean's
Yard pavement renovated and a new gateway entrance
built. The whole place was in a shamefully dilapidated
condition ; the broken stonework of the bays in the
cloisters was merely held together with bits of wood."

   The Dean also restored all the pinnacles and buttresses on
the south side of the Abbey. The monks' burying-ground
-- the cloister garth, the " fighting-green " of Westminster
School -- was turned into a stonemason's yard for several

months, so great were the external repairs that were
needed. Buckland carefully superintended the mason's
work, whether external or internal, that was going on in
the Abbey or in any other collegiate buildings in which he
was interested ; he examined with his own critical and
experienced eye the various kinds of cement, the blocks of

building-stone, and the means adopted to repair and keep
in order the regal and other monuments ; and, above all,
he took special care that no faulty bits of stone were used,
and that no broken pieces of monuments were thrown

away.

    On one occasion he received a brown-paper parcel
carefully done up, containing a piece of black oak-wood

about the size of a match. A letter came with

stating that the writer, when boy, had cut this off the
coronation chair in the Abbey, and that, repenting in his
old age, he returned in the hope that might be refitted
to its old place. Buckland frequently told this story as

a warning to unscrupulous collectors. At another time he
     it
                         a

                                   it
                                                                it,
REVERENCE IN THE ABBEY.  239

received from America two small marble heads, which had

been taken as a relic from Major Andre's tomb by some
American, who, on his death-bed, had desired that they
might be returned to the Abbey. With his own hands
the Dean replaced these on this beautiful bas-relief.
Every Sunday afternoon Buckland took his children round

the Abbey, with the numerous guests who usually came
to luncheon. His sharp eyes would quickly discover
any fresh mutilation to any of the monuments, and he

insisted on its being looked after at once. A light feather-

brush which he carried in his hand served not only as a
pointer, but removed the dust which always settled on the

noses and outstretched fingers of the statues.
   In those days it was far less common than it now is

to display a reverent regard to public worship, and to
take care that everything in connection with the house of
God should be done with decency and order. The Dean
kept a strict eye over the manner in which the services were
performed, and corrected many abuses. Finding that the
Abbey choristers spent their time between the services in
sailing their toy boats in puddles made by the sinking of

the gravestones in St. Margaret's Churchyard, or, if it were

dry weather, in playing marbles on the flat slabs of the
altar-tombs, he looked about for a suitable place in the
precincts which could be used as a schoolroom. He found
his site, opened his school, appointed an old Oxford friend
to be master, and the behaviour of the choir-boys, both
in and out of the Abbey, quickly improved. He made
new arrangements for the greater convenience of visitors,
and himself instructed the vergers in the most interesting
240  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. ix.

contents of the side-chapels and other parts of the Abbey
which had not hitherto been shown to the public. To the
duties of the night watchman he attached great import
ance, and in Poets' Corner fixed a tell-tale clock, which

registered the punctuality with which the watchman every
quarter of an hour went his rounds. The cold was so
intense at times in the Abbey that, as he used to say, " the

fellow might go to sleep and the Abbey be burnt, as York

Minster had been, from an alarm not being given in time."
One of his first acts, on coming into residence, was to
overhaul the fire-engine, which he found in a very crippled,

useless condition. Great amusement was caused to the
dwellers in the precincts by the various trials of its effici

ency, and by the exercises through which the firemen were
put in Dean's Yard.

    In 1848 the interior of the Abbey choir was restored.
The stalls and sittings were entirely reconstructed, and,
in spite of numerous objections, the Dean removed the
heavy oak screens in the north and south transepts, thus
adding fifteen hundred sittings to the accommodation. He
took great pleasure in drawing attention to the woodwork
of the stalls, many of the bosses and finials of which were

carved from nature by Messrs. Ruddle, of Peterborough,
showing that the modern carvers can compete in skill with
their ancient brethren in the craft. The cost of these
restorations amounted to over ^7,000. The " marigold "

window in the south transept (Poets' Corner) was filled
with stained glass by Dean Buckland, as the " rose "
window of the north transept had been by Dean Atterbury.

   At the same time the Abbey organ was improved at the
RESTORATION OF THE ABBEY.  241

cost of nearly £1,000 by Messrs. Hill. It was the first

cathedral organ in England to be divided into two parts

and played in the middle of the screen gallery. Mr. Hill

very well recollects Buckland asking how a thirty-two feet
pipe could lie across the aisle, which was only thirty feet
wide-- a pertinent question, which Mr. Hill's father answered

by explaining that the modern sharp pitch is really a note
higher than that in vogue a hundred years ago, and reduced
the length of the pipe, so that it would just go into the

available space. It was in connection with this restoration

of the organ that Frank Buckland performed an experi
ment of fishing in Westminster Abbey. One of the great
open diapason pipes (wood) had become the coffin of a
deceased cat, for which the future Inspector of Fisheries set
to angle, through the top of the pipe, with a salmon hook.
In a short time he was successful and brought up " Master
Cat" in triumph.

   Miss C. Fox, in her journal, speaks in the following
words of a visit to the Abbey : --

   " Then to the Dean of Westminster (Dr. Buckland) in his
solemn habitation : he took us through the old Abbey, so
full of death and of life. There was solemn music going
on, in keeping with the serious Gothic architecture and the
quiet memory of the great dead. The Dean was full of
anecdote -- historical, architectural, artistic, and scientific.
We got a far grander and truer notion of Westminster,
both inside and out, than we ever had before."

   On Easter Day, April 23rd, 1848, the Abbey was re
opened, after complete restoration of the choir, the congre
gation sitting for the first time in the transepts. On the

Continent it was a year of revolutions, and the discontent

                                                                                                  16
242       LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                 [ch. ix.

at home gave serious ground for disquietude. The state
of public affairs was in the mind of Buckland, who preached
in the evening. In his sermon he went back to the church

" built on Thorney Island, once occupied by the pagan altars
of the Roman conquerors of Britain -- a site on which was
raised one of the first sanctuaries for preaching of the gospel
to our heathen forefathers, a site consecrated to God and
Christ by the piety of our Sebert, and our Offa, and our
Edgar, our Ethelred, our Alfred, and our Saxon Edward,
and nearly six centuries ago reconstructed in its actual
...state of unexampled ' beauty of holiness ' by our Henrys
and Edwards, in times coeval with the Crusades.  In this
most holy temple I and some of you have, within the last
ten months, enjoyed the privilege of witnessing the un
exampled ceremony of the simultaneous consecration of
a chosen band of colonial bishops, who have gone forth
under the national sanction of the Government of this

country to preach the gospel in many of the extreme
regions of the world. . . . Never before did the compass of
Christianity circumscribe so vast a circle.
   " Our modern schools of philosophy have changed their
moral phases within the present century. In the days of
our fathers and during the youth of many who are still
living, the study of philosophy was too often, and some
times too justly, suspected to be allied to infidelity : the
study of second causes halted short of arriving at the First.
Modern professors, in carrying their researches more closely
into God's laws, by which He regulates the movement of
the material world, have been permitted to gaze more
intensely on the great source of light and life, and in every
fresh discovery they find a further and another revelation
of the infinite wisdom and power and goodness of the

Creator.

                              ' Deum namque ire per omnes
     Terrasque tractusque maris ccelumque profundum.' . . .

     " In the last quarter of a century the renewed spirit of
               BUCKLANDS SERMON.                        243

piety has planted in our island more new churches and
schools than have been founded in any one or in all the
centuries since the Reformation of the English Church ;
and already we are reaping the fruits thereof in sweet and
holy experience, that ' the work of righteousness shall
be peace ; and the effect of righteousness quietness and
assurance for  ever' (Isa. xxxii. 17).
   " The God   of Nature has determined          that  moral and

physical inequalities shall not only be inseparable from our
humanity, but coextensive with His whole creation. He
has also given compensations co-ordinate with these
inequalities, working together for the conservation of all
orders and degrees in that graduated scale of being which
is the great law of God's providence on earth. From the
mammoth to the mouse, from the eagle to the humming
bird, from the minnow to the whale, from the monarch to

the man, the inhabitants of the earth and air and water

form but one vast series of infinite gradations in an endless
chain of inequalities of organic structure and of physical
perfections : ' There are also celestial bodies, and bodies

terrestrial . . . and one star differeth from another star in

glo"rSyo'  (1 Cor. xv.  40, 41).    and,  while  human  nature
           also there   never was,

remains the same, there never can be, a period in the
history of human society when inequalities of worldly
condition will not follow the unequal use of talents and

opportunities originally the same : industry and idleness,
virtue and vice, lead the same talents, with the same means

and opportunities, well used or abused, to most unequal
results. . . . Equality of mind or body, or of worldly condi
tion, is as inconsistent with the order of Nature as with the

moral laws of God. . . . There may be equality in poverty :,
equality of riches is impossible. Equality of poverty is the
condition of the negro, the bushman, and the Esquimaux.
Equality of wealth and property never has and never can
exist, except in the imagination of wild transcendental
theorists, so long as human nature shall continue to be that
imperfect thing which God has placed in this world in a
state of moral probation, and not of perfection. . . .
244  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [CH- IX-

   " One more last word of consolation and congratulation
before we part. In the years of peril and perturbation which
agitated Europe half a century ago, it was the personal

character of the king of this country (King George III.)

which, under Providence, was mainly instrumental to pre
serve us from the sanguinary revolutions which then overran

the fairest part of the Continent. It is the personal character
of his rightful heir and royal successor upon the throne of

her ancestors which, under God's blessing, will, we trust and
pray, preserve us also from the returning hurricanes of
European political revolution. We know that the fervent
prayer of the righteous availeth much ; and when the God
of heaven beholds our most religious and gracious Queen
practically affirming with the holy Joshua, ' As for me and
my house, we will serve the Lord,' on her bended knees
joining with her household in prayer and supplication to
the King of kings and Lord of lords, we may numbly trust
that the Majesty of heaven will accept the prayer of His
anointed servant and minister upon earth, and in His
mercy vouchsafe to hide her and the subjects of her
kingdom from ' the gathering together of the froward, and
from the insurrection of wicked doers.'

   " England, it has been truly said, has almost always
prospered under her queens. In the sacred person of our
most gracious Sovereign (who within these holy walls has
been anointed to rule over us), we are at this awful crisis
blessed with a queen who in every relation of domestic
life is a pattern of conjugal and maternal virtues, and
who in her most exalted public station is the honoured
exemplar of regal dignity, the object of the love and
faithful service and loyal obedience of her subjects, the
type and repository of mercy and clemency and supre
macy, in the rule of that great united kingdom and justly
balanced constitution at the head of which a gracious
Providence has placed her. Blessed with such a sovereign,

though the heathen may furiously rage together and the
people imagine a vain thing, the throne, we trust and pray,
will be exalted in righteousness and the blessing of God
descend on us and our posterity." . . .
THE " TENTH OF APRIL."  245

   The spring of 1848 was a memorable one in London.
On April 10th was the great Chartist meeting, and every

preparation was made to secure the Abbey and its precincts
from any rough treatment by the mob. Great alarm

prevailed all over London. A hundred and fifty thousand

volunteers from every walk and condition of life were
sworn in as special constables. Among those who were
thus sworn in was Louis Napoleon, afterwards President and
subsequently Emperor. In a caricature which appeared in
Paris he was represented in policemen's clothes, wielding a
truncheon, with this legend : " J'ai fait plus que mon oncle,
j'ai battu les Anglais dans les rues de Londres." Buckland

kept his stock of these truncheons stored in the outer
drawing-room for use by the Westminster specials. Every
precaution was taken, and a strong guard placed in the
Record Office, which then occupied the Chapter House,

and in other important places. It was a remarkable feature
of the day that, along the whole line of the procession,
from the City to Kennington Common, the appointed

rendezvous of the malcontents, scarcely a shout was raised,

and only a few feeble cheers were heard.
   As Feargus O'Connor was earnestly addressing the peti

tioners at Kennington, and entreating them not to damage
their cause by any acts of violence or disorder, an eagle

was seen to be soaring over their heads and flying towards
Westminster ! This naturally was hailed as an excellent
augury ! The bird was Frank Buckland's eagle, which had
escaped that morning from the little courtyard in which

it was kept. A chicken, tied by its leg to the end of a

high pole, caught its keen sight towards sundown. As an
246  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                  [ch. ix.

eagle never lets go its prey, the string was pulled directly

it had seized the bird, and down came the eagle. It was

easy then to throw a rug over it and cut the bird's wing.

Buckland had taken his children up to the top of the
Abbey tower in the morning to view the procession ; but

the streets were empty, and as deserted by traffic as if it were
Sunday. Tired of so dull a look-out, the children descended,
and it was not till after their third journey up the innumer

able stone steps leading to the tower roof that a cab was
seen driven into the Palace Yard, through a drizzling rain,

with the charter tied on to the top of it. It was, they
thought, a very poor sight after a whole day of anxious
expectation. No soldiers were to be seen ; and Buckland,

in common with the rest of London, praised the " good
tact " of the Duke of Wellington, who placed the troops in
the houses and gardens of Bridge Street and Parliament
Street, to be ready in case of emergency, but out of sight
of the mob. Mrs. Andrew Crosse tells of these troublous
times in an amusing story in the " Red-Letter Days of My
Life " :--

" Other visitors there were at Broomfield [Dr. Andrew
Crosse's home] in  --thDors.eBuycekarlas,ndno(tthaebltyhena   party of four
distinguished men                                            Dean of West
minster), Dr. Daubeny, Lord Playfair (then Dr. Playfair),
and Baron Liebig. These gentlemen had been inspecting
the cheese-making process of Cheddar, and, arriving at

Bridgewater, ordered a carriage and pair at the hotel,
requiring to be driven to Broomfield without loss of time.

It was the summer of 1848, the year of revolutions abroad
and Chartist alarms at home. The inn-keeper, hearing a
foreign language spoken, and learning their destination,
jumped to the conclusion that these strangers might be

                                                             1

                                                             \
" WESTMINSTER FEVER!'  247

plotting against Church and State, and forthwith communi
cated with the police, with the result that the suspicious
quartet were closely watched. When the Dean of West
minster, who dearly loved a joke, heard the story subse
quently, he was highly delighted with the impression they
had made on the quidnuncs of Bridgewater."

   In May 1848 Buckland and two of his daughters were
attacked with typhoid, or " Westminster fever," as it was
called, for it did not spread beyond the precincts. Every
one was taken ill on the same day. Some workmen, in
making alterations in Little Dean's Yard, accidentally
opened some old drainage, and neither Buckland, who was
superintending the work at the time and saw the mischief
done, nor any one who was conversant with the facts, had
any doubt as to the origin of the outbreak. Several deaths
occurred : the unusual sound of the tolling of the Abbey
bell drew attention to the fever, and caused great gloom
throughout the neighbourhood. As soon as Buckland was

restored to health, he lost no time in applying his scientific
knowledge to the thorough cleansing and making of sewers.
The system of pipe-drainage which he introduced was the

first of its kind ever laid down in London. It proved

completely successful. " This experiment," he says, " on
the drainage and sewage of about fifteen houses and an area
of about two acres affords a triumphant proof of the efficacy
of draining by pipes, and the facility of dispensing entirely
with cesspools and brick sewers throughout London."
The experiment --for such it then was -- succeeded most
triumphantly. He was, therefore, deeply wounded when
this outbreak of fever was ascribed to his sanitary reforms.
That the charge was most unfounded is proved by the
248  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                 [ch. ix.

report of the Commission employed to look into the health

of London. The Commissioners reported as follows :--

   " During the cleansing of the Westminster Abbey pre
cincts, in the autumn of 1848, four hundred cubic yards of
foul matter had been removed from the various branches of
the ancient sewers, which were obliterated and filled up
with earth. An entirely new system of drainage by pipes
alone was then substituted, and not a single case of failure
had been discovered by careful examinations made weekly
ever since the new pipe-drainage had been laid down."1

   As a member of the Institution of Civil Engineers Buck-
land exerted himself actively in the improvement of the
supply of pure water for the Metropolis, and examined the
projects for obtaining it from the Thames and from other
rivers, and from wells sunk in the chalk. Of all the various
plans an artesian well in the Isle of Dogs was at that time
found to yield the purest water. On the outbreak of the
cholera, in 1848, Buckland, anxious as ever to benefit his
fellow-creatures, collected a mass of information less on the
treatment of the disease than on its prevention by care in
sanitary arrangement of the houses both of rich and poor,
and on the properties of disinfectants, with the most effica
cious mode of applying them. He was far ahead of his
day in sanitary science, and, like sanitary reformers of the
present time, met with endless objections to his advice to
" clean up." In a sermon which he preached in the Abbey
on November 15th, 1849, the day of thanksgiving to God
for the removal of the cholera, he observed in allusion to

the Westminster fever, " A warning voice had not been

     1 " Report of the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers."
           " WASH AND BE CLEAN."                     249.

raised in vain, and in God's mercy we have been entirely
spared during the pestilence that has surrounded us."
This sermon on the prophet's words to Naaman, " Wash
and be clean," raised a great stir at the time. The Dean
showed how frequent and repeated were the purifications
and bodily washings " enjoined under the Mosaic Law,"
and how important the small details of cleanliness are
for us all.

   " The   greater  number of the   poor who perish," he said,.
           victims  of the avarice  and neglect of small land
" are the
lords and owners of the filthy, ill-ventilated habitations in
which the poorest and most ill-fed and helpless are compelled
to dwell. Fatal diseases are continually engendered from
lack of adequate supplies of water, withholden from the
dwellings of the poor by the negligence of the owners, or
by the jealousy of interference by public officers or public
Boards of Health with parochial or with city authorities, or
with privileges or corporations, or with places and per

quisites of individuals, or with established companies. It
will be the fault of man, of the selfishness, or the folly, or
avarice of the owners of poor houses, or of the jealousy
or pride of officers and interested individuals, and it will
be the fault of Parliament also, if we do not instantly
begin to remedy these crying evils, if in two or three years
our city is not duly supplied with water. Above all things,
cleanse your hearts, and not your garments only, and turn
unto the Lord your God."

   The offertory on this occasion was for the widows and
orphans of those who had died of the cholera in West

minster.                             felt a special  interest.

   In medical science Dean Buckland
His son Frank writes :--

" During my career at St. George's Hospital he took the:
250       LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                  [ch. ix.

most lively interest in all that was going on there, requir
ing me to tell him what I had learnt at the lectures as well
as the details of the more interesting cases under treat
ment in the wards. At the annual Hospital meeting at
St. George's Hospital in 1849, at the request of the
-Governors, he undertook the distribution of the prizes

to the students. It not unfrequently happens that these
prizes are given into the hands of the successful candidates,
accompanied merely by a few simple words of congratula
tion from the chairman ; but by those who were present on
      occasion of Dr. Buckland's giving away the            --it
the   be well remembered that upon almost every    prizes,
                                                  subject
will

Anatomy,  CPhheymsiisotlroyg,y,etcM. a--tehreia   Medica, Practice of Physic,
Surgery,                                         made such appropriate and
apt remarks from his vast fund of general information that
he seemed to throw a charm round subjects which other

wise would be dull and unentertaining to those not specially

engaged in their study. . . . Amongst his numerous titles
Dr. Buckland was Doctor of Medicine of the University of
Bonn, which honour was conferred upon him, probably,
under the idea that he was a Doctor of Medicine and not
-of Divinity. He was also Honorary Fellow of the Royal
Medical and Chirurgical Society ; and my friend and much
respected tutor in surgery, Mr. Caesar Hawkins, as
'"ItiPnrehsiisdeonbtituoafrythnaottiScoeci:e--ty, March 1857, thus writes of him
            is, I presume, the connection of geology with com
parative anatomy and physiology, and through them with
-our profession, which induced the Council in 1825 to
recommend Dr. Buckland as Honorary Fellow of this
Society. As a comparative anatomist, Dr. Buckland and
the late Mr. Clift were long consulted as the chief autho

rities in palaeontology, by whose decision the supposed
-examples of exhumed bones of deceased giants were
transformed into those of a modern ox or an antediluvian
ichthyosaurus. Of his sagacity and readiness of conjecture,
and the ingenuity with which he followed out to their
consequences the relation of one fact or discovery with

another in anatomy and physiology, many examples might
FRANK BUCKLAND'S REMINISCENCES.  251

be given : the magnificent skeleton of the Mylodon is a
beautiful instance in which his reasoning on the probable
use of the enormous air cells between the tables of the
skull in connection with the trees it uprooted was con
firmed by the safety of the real covering of the brain,
and the recovery of this large creature from enormous
fracture of the outer table, received we know not how
many thousand years ago. It was but the necessary
tribute to his eminence in these sciences that, on his
becoming a resident of the Deanery of Westminster, Dr.
Buckland should be appointed a trustee of the British
Museum ; and also one of the trustees of the Hunterian
Museum at my own college, where he was a frequent donor
and visitor. Among the principal of his gifts to the
museum of the Royal College of Surgeons may be

mentioned, besides numerous fossil bones, etc., the skeleton

of the now well-known gigantic bird the Dinornis or Moa,
the bones of which were sent to him by a gentleman
named Williams, whom Dr. Buckland had requested to
transmit to him any fossil bones he might find in his
missionary excursions in New Zealand ; the skeleton of
Billy the Hyena, that lived nearly a quarter of a century
under the care of the late Mr. Cross at Exeter Change,
and subsequently at the Surrey Zoological Gardens. The
skeleton of an enormous bull-trout caught near Drayton
Manor, and presented by the late Sir Robert Peel, was
rescued from the kitchen, at Dr. Buckland's suggestion, for
a more glorious fate.1

    " ' Whenever lectures on any interesting subject were
given in the theatre of this most valuable, noble, and
priceless institution, Dr. Buckland was ever present, note-

   ! " Since becoming Inspector of Salmon Fisheries I have examined
a painting of this fish in the possession of Professor Owen at his house
in Richmond Park. I believe it was an old salmon kelt very much out
of condition. Fancy a Prime Minister and his learned friends sitting
down to eat an old kelt at a dinner-party ! I fear none of the savants
present at Drayton knew much of the salmon or of the science of
salmon culture." -- See Note by Frank Buckland, Bridgewater, 4th ed.
252  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                         [ch. ix.

book in hand ; but on no occasion was he a more assi

duous attendant than when his friend Professor Owen gave
his admirable demonstrations on Comparative Anatomy.'

   " Dr. Buckland also applied his knowledge of human
anatomy to questions interesting to the antiquarian. He
was present at the opening of some Saxon barrows on
Breachdown, near Canterbury, when he found ' the thick
skull, apparently, of a peasant warrior bearing mark-s of
a fracture received during life.' He also describes the
flattened and polished surfaces of the warrior's molar teeth,
indicating that he had eaten hard food -- probably parched
peas and beans. This fact he had frequently observed in
the teeth from the graves of ancient Britons, and also in
the teeth of modern uncivilised races of men. On another
occasion Dr. Buckland described the claw of an e.igle and
the bones of other birds found by himself in the ruins of
a Roman villa near Weymouth, and conjectures that they
were sacred birds connected with augury, or votive sacri
fices to Esculapius ; of which we have an example in the
cock which Socrates in his dying moments commanded to
be sacrificed to that deity." '

The spiritual welfare of Westminster was not neglected

by the Dean. Partly through his exertions two addi Sqnal

churches were built, and, after he was himself incapacitateu

by his illness, Mrs. Buckland carried on his various plans

for the alleviation of the condition of the poor. One of

the new churches, dedicated to St. Matthew, was erected on
a site, and included a district, known as the " Devil's acre."

In Pye Street in this parish Mrs. Buckland set on footed

coffee house, to which Her  Majesty the   aQnudeeenmisnuebnstcrfimbeedn
£50, and in which many of   the nobility

of the day were interested. The Rev. R. Malonel the
first incumbent of St. Matthew's, writes :--
                                                    j

     1 F. Buckland, Memoir to Bridgewater, 4th ed.  /
THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL.  253

    " Mrs. Buckland permitted me to draw up rules and to
manage this novel institution. She got lecturers, and
among them Frank Buckland, to give weekly lectures, and

a good library was formed. It answered only too well for

nearly two years, but then the police informed me it was
made the meeting-place for thieves, and that they formed
there schemes of burglary. On one occasion in the middle
of the day I found it full of idle men, and the manager
told me that directly he suggested it was not meant for
a lounge for loafers, they ordered more food and kept him
continually at work. I then spoke to them, and said we
were anxious to make the house a comfortable and a quiet
club for working men ; but that our end would be defeated

if the idlers, loafers, and men who would not work crowded
the rooms all day long. This was the crisis of the club,

and from that day it ceased to pay, and before it failed
it was thought better to close the doors."

   The institution was then opened as an Industrial School
for street boys. On the Committee were several barristers,
among the most active of whom were the present Baron
Pollock and the late Judge Bristowe. Mrs. Buckland
took the greatest interest in the scheme, and helped with
a large subscription. The boys were taught to make

paper bags and to print ; and as they were fitted for
employment, they were drafted off, and many of them
became useful workmen. This coffee house was one of

the first to be started in London, and was modelled upon
a like refreshment place for working men in Edinburgh.
Nor was it the only philanthropic scheme in which the
Dean and his wife were interested.

   " Mrs. Buckland," writes Mr. Malone, " gave me a small
sum of money to lend out to the deserving poor, and this
sum lasted a considerable time and was the means of
254  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.           [ch. ix.

tiding over some of the strait places in which industrious
working men are sometimes placed. I well remember
what a loss to my poor parish the removal of Mrs. Buck-
land and her family from Westminster at the death of

the Dean was. It was not only her aid in money, but

her practical good-sense, her kind sympathy, and her
influential position, that sustained and supported."

   In these charitable labours Mrs.  Buckland received
                                      " Be thankful," he
excellent counsel from Dean Hook.
wrote, " for your successes, ignore  your failures, and

always be attempting something new."
               CHAPTER X

                    ISLIP.

I SLIP, which was regarded by the family as their country
      home, lies on the high road between Worcester and
London, seven miles from Oxford. Situated on what was

formerly a great thoroughfare, it was once an active,
bustling village, and is a place full of historical remini
scences. The first and most interesting of its associations
with history is that it was the birthplace of Edward the
Confessor, who endowed his newly founded Abbey at
Westminster with his mother's birthday gift. Mr. Parker,

in his " Early History of Oxford," says :--

" Eadward ' the Confessor,' elected King, was probably

in Normandy at the time, and the preparations were such
that he was not crowned till Easter in 1043, and then at
Winchester. No traces in any charter or in any of the
historians occur of his visiting Oxford. Yet one might
               for                           but a few miles across the
'have expected

                        it,
                                 it
                                              is
                                                it

                                                                                                                   :

                                                                     I
meadows on the north of Oxford to the place where he
was born. This fact we do not obtain from any chronicler,
but from the chance mention of in a charter respecting
a grant of land to this newly founded, or
abb"eyEaindwWareds,tmKiinnsgte, rg. reeItts  runs as follows   rather restored,
                                             Wlsy, Bishop,
                                                              --
                                                              and Gyrth, Earl,
and all my thanes in Oxnefordesyre kindly. And would

                                             255
256          LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                             [ch. x.

have you to  kWnoewstmthinast teI rhavtheatgiv"ecnottloif  C" hirnist   and to  I  Saint
Peter, unto                                                            which         was

born, by name Githslepe, and one hide at Mersce scot-free
and gafol-free, with all the things therein that thereto
belong in wood and in field, in meadow and in waters, with
church and with church-jurisdiction, as fully and as largely
and as free as it stood to myself in my hands : so also as
Elgiva Imma my mother
for a provision.' " '  at  my  first  birthday                         gave  it to me

    The font in which, according to tradition, Edward was

baptised, stood in the Rectory garden ; but Buckland, who
pronounced it to be fourteenth-century work, had it care
fully cleaned, and presented it to a church which was being
restored in the neighbourhood. The form of Islip is not
that of a village, but of a town ; and a " town " it is still
called, with streets branching out from an open centre
which might have been a market-place, and where a cross
once stood in front of the church. This cross was replaced
by a lofty elm tree, which Dean Ireland had supported by
large Stonesfield slates. The village stocks were here. The
Rectory was built by Dr. South, Prebend of Westminster,
the famous preacher and wit, who was for thirty-eight
years Rector of the parish. Although living occasionally
in the place, he never occupied the parsonage ; neither did
his successor, Sir R. Cope, Chaplain to the House of
Commons, who was Rector for forty years ; and it had
therefore to be restored, as, at the beginning of this century,
it was in a ruinous condition.

   The Rectory,2 and the garden, which had evidently been

   1 "The Early History of Oxford, 727 -- 1100," Parker, p. 176.

   * The roof slates are from the Stonesfield quarries, where Dr. Buck-

land often worked and which he frequently took his pupils to examine.
THE GARDEN AT ISLIP.  257

quarried out of solid limestone, stood on a rock elevated
nearly thirty feet above the level of the river Ray, and
looked upon the bridge on which Cromwell defeated the
Earl of Northumberland, Lord Wilmot, and Colonel Palmer.
The garden to the south was laid out in terraces, and was
surrounded on all sides by walls. In this sheltered, sunny
spot the Dean and Mrs. Buckland were able to cultivate
a great variety of plants : stonecrop and rock cistus throve
amazingly ; vines and peaches flourished ; the strawberry
beds, which can be seen in the foreground, were famed
far and wide ; and from some Alpine plants, brought from
Switzerland, would be often picked a dish of fruit quite
late in the autumn. "The roses," writes Mrs. Buckland
to Faraday, in July 1849, "are now blooming, and the
strawberries ripening. Our small garden is exquisitely
rich in perfume." Fruit and flowers were not often to be

seen in such profusion, growing side by side, as in that
old seventeenth-century garden. In 1807 the garden had
much good fruit planted in it by a tailor who rented the
house from Sir R. Cope. Dean Vincent added a great deal
more. " The best of all sorts, there is no finer fruit any
where, and the soil is favourable," writes old Dean Vincent
in a manuscript book of notes about Islip which was kept
in the Parish chest, and which the present Rector, the
Rev. T. Fowle, kindly lent the biographer. The village
school is of Dr. South's foundation ; he managed it himself
while living, and the first annual account bears date 17 17,
the year after his death.

   Twenty-one boys, chosen from Islip in preference, then

from the nearest parishes, are always to be in the school,

                                                                                                              17
258  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. x.

nominated, admitted, dismissed, or chosen apprentices by
the Rector or curate. Like the Rectory, which was often
called the " Isle of Roads," the school stood at the entrance
roads to the village, and was surrounded by roads. The
lads wore the usual blue-coat costume, and were admirably
taught the three R's by the schoolmaster, Mr. Chapman,
a very intelligent man, whom Buckland employed to
survey and measure out the allotments which he started,
and also to keep record of their respective yields. Mrs.
Buckland, in spite of serious remonstrances from neigh
bours and friends, gave the boys instruction in geography
and the use of the globes, which she had made of paper
and inflated, showing them at the same time on the map
the homes of foreign products, and supplying specimens of
the sugarcane, the tea tree, and other articles of daily use.
Many amusing letters did she receive, protesting against
such unnecessary teaching, which was only supposed to put
foolish notions into children's heads. However, the keen

interest which she awakened in their minds led ultimately
to the emigration of several labourers and other families to
Australia, where they have done well and have become

landed proprietors. One or two have revisited their native
town from time to time, but only to see their friends, and

soon returned to their new possessions. Outfits were
provided, and the Dean himself secured their passages,
and commended them to the care of the captain. He
also packed cuttings from gooseberry and currant trees in
tin boxes filled with honey and soldered down to exclude

the air--a mode of packing that answered well, and the
emigrants had the pleasure of seeing fruit trees from Islip
EXPERIMENTS AT ISLIP.  259

growing in their new gardens. All the details of their

journey were carefully planned and personally super
intended by the Dean. Vans met the emigrants at
Paddington, and they were driven to the Deanery and
hospitably entertained before going down to the docks
for embarkation. " Be um aloive ? " was the general
exclamation as Buckland's country friends passed the
Horse Guards sentries and saw London for the first

time.

   The family usually spent the summer and autumn
months at Islip ; and soon after taking up their residence
at this pretty Rectory, schemes were set on foot for the
good of the villagers. The Dean provided allotments
for the labourers and directed how to lay them out.
Many a summer evening was spent in chatting with

and advising the labourers about the cultivation of these

plots, and gaining from their practical experience much
useful agricultural information. He would show them the
result of the experiments he had made in a piece of
ground, adjoining the allotments, which he rented for the

purpose. Here, as formerly at Marsh Gibbon, experiments
of one kind or another were always being made. Even
the turf of Christ Church was, in former days, turned to

useful account by the enthusiastic and practical farmer.

Canon Jelf of Rochester, the son of Buckland's next-door

neighbour as Canon of Christ Church, remembers an
agricultural feat of the future Dean's. On the turf in Tom
Quad, he sowed the word " guano " in this material, which
had just begun to be imported from a Pacific island
frequented by birds, and in due course the brilliant
26o  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. x.

green grass of the letters amply testified to its efficacy

as a dressing.

   Some of the Westminster Prebends used to come on
progress every summer to Islip--an old custom now
obsolete. They met their tenants with the Dean at dinner
at the Old Red Lion Inn, in the yard of which was said

to have stood the Confessor's residence, with its adjoining
chapel, which had been converted into a barn. The barn
was still standing in the early part of this century. After
the dinner was finished, and the rents were paid, these
dignitaries would adjourn to the Rectory terrace for coffee,
fruit, and frolic, the fruit picked by the children just before
the guests arrived, " with the taste of the sun in it," as
Archdeacon Jennings would say. The frolic consisted

in being introduced to the various pets --the eagle,

monkey, and bear, and to the tadpoles, which were kept

in a pan on the terrace, and devoured one another, as

did the saurians of old. A game of thimblerig followed

on one occasion, played by these sedate old gentlemen

with empty flower-pots. Hosts and guests were indeed
a very merry company for an hour or so, after which
solemn state was resumed, and the progress continued
to Fencott and Mercote on Otmoor, where more Dean

and Chapter property was visited and tenants inter

viewed.

   The inhabitants of these low-lying villages suffered
greatly from ague ; but Islip fortunately stood just at
the edge of the flat swampy stretch of land known as
Otmoor. The traditional origin of the name is that a
charitable lady received a promise from a great landowner
DRAINAGE OF OTMOOR.  261

that he would give her, for the benefit of the poor, as
much land as she could ride round while a sheaf of oats

was burning. Otmoor was like a vast lake in winter ; but
in spite of its apparent uselessness and swampiness, very
serious riots occurred when the district was enclosed some
sixty years ago. There are to be seen the remains of a
fine Roman road across the moor, and the Dean would
point out to the way-wardens of the fen villages how the
Romans, the best road-makers in the world, made solid

foundations for their streets or ways, keeping them well

raised in the middle, with ditches on either side. These
open drains lasted for centuries, and slabs of stone can still
be plainly seen which lined the deep watercourses. After

much persuasion, he succeeded in getting the roads in
these marsh villages raised, the ditches kept dug out, freed

from vegetable growth, and properly levelled, so that the
water might flow away freely instead of becoming stag
nant. This simple plan soon made its advantages felt ;
ague disappeared, and the health of these low-lying villages

wonderfully improved. It must not be supposed that

this result was gained by a few casual visits. Buckland's
efforts for the health of the people were unwearied, and
he never ceased to impress on his children's minds that any

work undertaken, if it was to be of any value or success,

must be " taken trouble with." " Never spare yourself,"

he said.

   In 1846 the dark shadow of famine crept over the land.
Not only in Ireland was the potato crop a total failure,
but in England also the disease was universal. Wheat
was both scarce and costly ; but, till the time of scarcity
262  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. x.

came, the real importance of the potato crop had not
been recognised. Buckland met the difficulty in his usual
practical way. In his own household he set the example
of using maize as a substitute for flour, which he only used
for bread. He encouraged the villagers to make loaves of
barley grown on their allotments, but could not over

come their prejudice to black bread. Personally Buckland
enjoyed the reminiscence of his travels in Germany, when
for months he subsisted on little else but barley bread
and eggs. He supplied the village shops with sacks of
hominy and Indian meal, which were sold for a penny
or twopence a pound, and any of the " townsfolk " who

liked might come to the Rectory to be taught the various
ways of cooking it. Experiments were made in the
manufacture of arrowroot from those tubers which were
only partially affected with the disease. The whole family
was set to work to grate the potatoes into pans of water ;
the pulp gradually settled to the bottom, where it remained
till the next day. The water was then poured off, the
brown scum removed from the settlement, fresh water

poured on, and, after three washings, the starch would be
found snow white at the bottom of the pan. Excellent
food was thus obtained, which was stored in tin boxes for

the use of the poor people who had lost their winter supply
of potatoes. " No waste in Nature," Dean Buckland
would say.

    Among other good services rendered by the Dean to
Islip was the building of a cottage at the end of the large
old tithe barn, one room in which was fitted up as a
recreation room for the village lads. There also a night
WORK AT ISLIP.  263

 school, then a novel institution, was held three times
 a week, when some of the family were bound to be
 present to provide some recreation, which often con

sisted of a talk about a coal, salt, or other mine --always
accompanied, if possible, by pictures or specimens, both for
illustration and " making them remember." If only a few

lads were there, the microscope was fetched. Interest was
at once keenly aroused ; and though Mr. Webb, the super
intendent and village saddler, did his utmost to impress
upon the youths his favourite adage, " Civility costs nothing,
and gains everything," the struggles of the boys to get
" a good look through un " became somewhat difficult

to manage. Especially vigorous were the pushing and
pummelling of the spectators, when the object on view was
the last snail's tongue mounted by the Dean's youngest
daughter, or a freshly collected specimen of blight, etc.
The elder lads and men Mrs. Buckland would have up to
the Rectory, and teach them how to write letters and direct

the envelopes.
    Dean Buckland always took his share of Sunday duty

with the resident curate. He left a large collection of

manuscript sermons, which for the most part are earnest,
eloquent exhortations on thoroughly practical matters.
He had, moreover, in a marked degree the faculty of
adapting his discourse to the members of his congrega
tion, whether the learned magnates of Oxford, the simple
labourers of Islip, or the mixed audience of Westminster

Abbey.
   The poor who were receiving parish relief were regu

larly visited ; and when bread supplied by the rates was
264  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.  [ch. x.

bad, as it often was in those days of dear wheat, the
Dean would cut off a piece of the loaf, and send it to
the guardians that they might themselves judge of its
quality. The parish doctor was a most kind old gentle
man, who took almost as great an interest in Frank
Buckland's hospital progress as his father himself. On

most Saturdays, when the young medical student came

down from town, the big old Rectory kitchen would be
filled with lame, halt, and blind, sent up by the doctor
for Frank to report upon and treat in the most approved
modern way. One of his sisters had to go round with
him, and take down his directions, which she would see

carried out during the week --a training, or rather experi
ence, that has proved of the greatest value to her during

a lifetime spent in a country parish.
   The cholera was very fatal in Oxford in 1849, and there

was a great panic in all the surrounding villages, especially
in those which, like Islip, supplied the Oxford market twice
a week with dairy produce, ducks, and crayfish. Islip was
no exception to the usual insanitary condition of country

parishes, and was worse than many, owing to the constant
floods from the river Ray, a small tributary of the Cherwell,
which brought down a considerable amount of detritus

from the neighbouring villages on Otmoor. At this crisis

the Dean took his children with him, and visited every
cottage in his cheery, genial way, assuring the poor folk

that, if they would only keep their premises clean and

follow the advice he gave them, they need not be afraid
of cholera. Again and again he would go round the

village and see that his advice had been carried out. " If
THE CHOLERA.                                                           265

you want a thing done well, do it yourself," he would

say ; and, indeed, it was no easy matter to overcome

the prejudices or lazy customs indigenous in a village
community. The instinct of self-preservation, however, is

as strong in the poor man as in the rich, and people can
soon be brought to see the importance of keeping the well
free from soakage and impurities of any kind, if only
sufficient trouble and personal interest are taken to explain
to less educated brethren the importance of cleanliness.
" Us have never give they things a thought," was often
remarked to the Dean, " but we'll clean up now a'wever "
(however), " as you have showed us all about it." Happily
no cholera came ; but it was very striking to find how
these practical suggestions and home-to-home visits allayed
the panic, which is all the more terrible when circum
stances prevent people leaving a district in which an

outbreak of disease has occurred. It may be added here

that Buckland was the last Dean of Westminster who held

the living of Islip.
    In his conspicuous position as Dean of Westminster, as

well as in the active administration of his retired country

parish, Buckland threw his best energies into the work

before him. Public honours showed the esteem which he

won by his laborious and useful life.

Fra" nPkerBhaupckslaonfdallwtrhiteesv, ar"iewdhimcharkwseroef  honour  and respect,"
                                                               heaped  upon him at
various times by the learned societies in all parts of the
world, none yielded him higher gratification than the
reception, on February 12th, 1848, from the hands of Sir
H. de la Beche, of the Wollaston Medal. This is the

highest mark of honour known in geological science, and
266  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                            [ch. x.

would doubtless long before have been paid to him
but for the frequency of his election to office in that

society."

   In his reply to the address of the President, the Dean
used expressions such as could only be uttered by a
geologist convinced of the grand destiny of his science,
and conscious of his own right to be remembered among
the authors of discoveries whose names are inscribed on

the annals of the physical history of the globe.

" How vast are the requirements of                    this our own     m" assateidr
sthceienDceea, ng. eol"oWgyh,atwitah   such manifold  subordinates
                                      mighty miracle                !

                                                      is the earth which it
is our province and privilege to investigate ! How highly
calculated is the study of its structure to awaken many

of the most exalted feelings of our spiritual nature-
feelings kindred to those of which original first discoverers
of the laws and principles that       --gofveeerlningtsheofmagtreartieaflulwoarnldd
must occasionally be conscious
humble admiration of the Great Author of all created
things, which exalt us in the scale of beings, and which I
once experienced when, standing on the highest summit
of the Mendip Hills, at the close of an elaborate investi
gation of the structure of the surrounding country, I
recollected that I was the first individual of the human

race to whom it had been permitted to unravel the
structure and record the history of that portion of the
works of God that lay within the horizon then around

me.

  "It has been the high privilege of our time which our
successors cannot enjoy to be the pioneers of a great and

comprehensive master science ; and wherever we have
pushed forward our original discoveries, these discoveries
will have indelibly inscribed our names on the annals of
the physical history of the globe. We have established
landmarks and fixed physical and chronological horizons,

                                      \
           THE WOLLASTON MEDAL.                               267

which must endure so long as men regard the structure,
and contents, and physical history of the earth which God
       given to the children of
has    Geological knowledge,     men.      knowledge  of the  rich
    "                            i.e. the

ingredients with which God has stored the earth beforehand,
when He created it for the then future use and comfort
of man, must fill the mind of every one who acquires this
knowledge, with feelings of the highest admiration, the
deepest gratitude, and the most profound humility. The
more our knowledge increases, of the infinity of the wisdom
and goodness of the Creator, greater and greater becomes
the consciousness of our own comparative ignorance and
insignificance. The sciolist alone is proud ; the philo
sopher is humble, and duly conscious of the comparative
littleness of his most extended knowledge. We may be
gratified by our discoveries, and by the recognition of the
value of our labours by our fellow-men. We may and

ought to be gratified, but we are not made proud ; we feel
that pride was not made for man ; we learn the lesson of

humility ; increasing more and more continually, as our
knowledge of the works of God becomes more and more
expanded ; and to those who have laboured diligently and
successfully in their calling as investigators of the wonders
of creation, it is permitted to hope that they have done
good in their generation, and that their labour has not been
in vain."

   The presentation of the medal was almost the last

important occasion on which Buckland appeared in public.

The words already quoted from his speech --which, as Sir
Roderick Murchison writes of his old friend, "embody
a humble confession of the comparative littleness and
incompleteness of all human knowledge " -- were but " too
prophetic of the approaching close of his own valuable

and honourable career."

   The first few months of the Dean's mysterious illness
268  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                                                                     [ch. x.

were spent at the Deanery. The best medical opinions
were consulted in vain. The cause of the illness baffled
the highest skill, but to the last it was hoped that the
malady might disappear as mysteriously as it had come.
Acting on the advice of the first doctors of the day,
Buckland continued to hold his Deanery, the duties of
the office being discharged by the Sub-Dean, Lord John
Thynne. " Lord John," writes Mrs. Buckland to Faraday,
" has carried on the business of the Chapter for my poor
husband. You may judge how deeply I feel indebted to
him." But science proved unavailing. Nothing relieved
the apathetic gloom and depression which gradually settled
down upon this gifted man. As the symptoms became
worse, his doctors recommended the quiet and fresh air of

Islip, since medical remedies proved of no avail against
the peculiar and apparently unprecedented malady of
which he was the victim.1 The sight of the garden and
his favourite allotments seemed to cheer him for a time,
but the terrible weakness, torpor, and loss of flesh rapidly

1 Frank Buckland writes: "In a medical point of view Dr. Buck-

land's illness is at once most interesting and important. The best

medical opinions could decide only as to the symptoms and treatment

of the malady ; the real cause of the cerebral disturbance, and

consequent mental suffering, was never suspected, and was ascer

tained only after death. No symptom of strange to say, was ever
                             if

                                 it
                                                           it,

                                                                                             ;
exhibited in life, and even  had been, medical aid would have been

unavailing. Those who made the examination ascertained that the

brain itself was perfectly healthy in every respect but the portion

of the base of the skull upon which the brain rested, together with the

two upper vertebrae of the neck, were found to be in an advanced state

of caries, or decay. The irritation, therefore, communicated by this

diseased state of the bones above was quite sufficient cause to give
   THE DEAN'S ILLNESS.                                                                                  ify

increased. Sir Roderick Murchison would often visit his

well-beloved friend, and endeavour to interest him in
his old pursuits ; but nothing roused him. The " Leisure

Hour" Frank Buckland says, " was the only publication

my dear father would read during his illness, and the

volumes were always on the table ; he would look at

nothing else, save the Bible."

During the Dean's illness Mrs. Buckland and her

daughters lived chiefly at Islip, within reach of all the

old Oxford friends, and constantly visited by Murchison,

Owen, Harcourt, Conybeare, and others.                                                                  In a letter of

invitation to Faraday she writes :--

" This place has no fine scenery, but I think you and
Mrs. Faraday will like the village quiet and the sunny
terrace. I shall not attempt to lionise you, far less to
make lions of you ; but you shall have the sincere welcome
which I have so much pleasure in offering to my poor
uhhiunsshbfaaopnrpmdy'serwehvxeainlsuteelendfctefriine"npdes.rfectHereposea--sis,
                                                                                usual, well, and        not
                                                                                                     aa strange contrastto

   ;
        !
rise to all symptoms this irritation being considerably augmented

by continuous and severe exercise of the brain in thought.' My
                         a'
parents, when travelling to scientific meeting in Berlin, met with                                      a

severe accident the diligence was overturned, my father fell from
;

the top and was stunned, and unable to render any assistance to my

mother, who received  a  deep cut on her frontal bone. Professor

Ehrenberg, who fortunately was with them, attended to the injuries

they there received, which proved the ultimate cause of death in

both. Dr. Buckland's vertebrae were injured, and bony tumour was

discovered to have formed at the back of the cut on Mrs. Buckland's

frontal bone, which, for the last two years of her life, occasioned

attacks of unconsciousness, in one of which she died."
270                 LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.                     [ch. x.

   Sir Roderick Murchison was constantly with the
Bucklands --ever ready with sympathy and advice, the
very beau !d/al of a friend. The following letter is an

evidence of the regard he had for both the Dean and
his wife : --

                                  " 16, Belgrave Square,

                                                             "July ith, 1854.

" My dear Mrs. Buckland, -- If you had been in town,
it was my intention to have begged your acceptance of my
' Siluria ' ; and if you are now at I slip, will you tell me
whether and how to send it to you ?

   " You will be the only lady to whom a copy is sent, and
I make this special exception out of sincere regard for
yourself and gratitude to your husband, who helped on the
old soldier to make his way as a geologist. I have in a
prelude to the work explained how Dr. Buckland was the
first person who incited me to examine the very tract in
which I opened out the mine that proved so rich and
instructive.
   " I well recollect our pleasant visit to you in 1831 on

our way to Wales, and when I was looking out for some
entirely fresh pastures and exercises for my restless mind.
Alas ! what changes since ; among these none grieved me
more than the visitation with which you and your family

were afflicted.

   " My book necessarily deals little with the subjects in
which my eminent friend most distinguished himself, but the

two or three allusions made to him will, I trust, gratify you.
Lyell, albeit my last chapter pokes him very hard, has
complimented me much on the work, and particularly for
the manner in which I have handled the Cambrian shadows
which have melted away before the labours of so many
good men : none of them certainly were paid or bribed

by"  me.  case  is  simply  that  of truth,  as old  Lonsdale  writes,

     My
and I cannot be put aside.

                                                               V
DEATH OF DEAN BUCKUIND.  271

   " My preface and the three lines of dedication to De la

Beche, with a map literally made from the Government
surveys, prevent all further dispute.

                              " Ever your sincere friend,

                                    " Roderick Murchison."

   Dean Buckland died August 14th, 1856, at the advanced

age of seventy-three. He was buried at the west end of
the churchyard at Islip. The spot, which was selected by
himself, lay beside the terrace gravel walk with its row of

elms. From it he had often taken his children to gaze on
the beautiful sunsets lighting up the wide stretch of low,
level landscape, with Kidlington spire " pointing up to
heaven like a needle," he would say, in the golden haze
which melted into the purple of the Witham Hills on
the distant horizon. Curiously enough, his grave had to
be hewn out of the solid limestone, and blasting powder

was used in considerable quantities to excavate the

rock. Mrs. Buckland restored the chancel, at the cost of

£500, in memory of the Dean, and replaced Dr. South's

very ugly east window by new stone tracery, which, after

her death at St. Leonards in the following year, November

1857, her children filled with stained glass, to the memory
of both their parents.

   With the permission of the Dean and Chapter his children
placed a monumental bust in the south aisle of Westminster
Abbey, near the door leading to the cloisters. The follow

ing is the inscription on the plinth, written by the Rev. the
Sub-Dean, Lord John Thynne :--
272  LIFE OF DEAN BUCKLAND.             [ch. x.

                                In Memory of
   THE VERY REV. WILLIAM BUCKLAND, D.D., F.R.S.,

                          Dean of Westminster,

    And of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath,
        Formerly Canon of Christ Church, Oxford ;

                  Trustee of the British Museum ;
        First Professor of Geology and Mineralogy

                    In the University of Oxford ;
Founder of the Museum of Geology which he bequeathed

                         To that University.

     Endued with superior Intellect,
     He applied the Powers of His Mind
     To the Honour and Glory of God,

     The advancement of Science,
     And the welfare of Mankind.

Born March 12, 1784: Died August 14, 1856. Aged                      73.
                                                                     and
   " For the Lord giveth wisdom : out of His mouth cometh knowledge
understanding." -- Proverbs ii. 6.

     Erected by his Children.

   After Buckland's death his widow and children went to
Brighton for a few months, to look for a new home, which
was found at East Ascent, St. Leonards. Although in
feeble health, Mrs. Buckland continued to work at the
microscope, with her daughter Caroline, upon marine
zoophytes and sponges, as she had done at Islip on fresh
water animalculae and plants. Dr. Bowerbank, F.R.S.,
her valued friend, in a letter to Mr. Henry Lee, thus
kindly expresses his appreciation of Mrs. Buckland :--

   " I can assure you I feel in no small degree indebted to

my late kind frfend Mrs. Buckland, who assisted me with
CONCLUSION.      273

rare specimens of sponges collected by her at Guernsey
and Sark, which I certainly should not have had to
describe in my work on those subjects without her aid.
During her residence at St. Leonards I spent many very

pleasant hours in her society, and she was an earnest and
acute observer to the last. On November 29th, 1857,

the day preceding her decease, I spent the morning with

her in microscopical investigations, and when I took leave
of her at two o'clock she made me promise to come on
the Monday following to renew our observations ; but on
the evening of the day following our meeting she was no
more, to the deep regret of all who knew and appreciated

her talents and her amiability."

   Mrs. Buckland is buried in the same grave with her
husband ; and their son Frank, in his fourth edition of

the Bridgewater Treatise, published in 1869, writes: --

  "A simple but lasting monument of polished Aberdeen

granite records the last resting-place of as good a man
and wife as ever did their duty towards God and towards
their fellow-creatures."

THE END.

             IS
\
                 APPENDIX.

A LIST OF DR. BUCKLAND'S APPOINTMENTS
               AND LITERARY TITLES.

Dean of Westminster, 1845.                      in the  University  of
Canon of Christ Church, Oxford, 1825.
Professor of Geology and Mineralogy

Oxford, 18 1 8.

Fellow of the Royal Society, 1818 : Copley Medal, 1822 ; Member

of the Council from 1827 to 1849 ; Vice-president, 1832 ---33.

Trustee of the British Museum, 1847.

Fellow of the Geological    Society  : (twice)  President,  1824--25,
                            Medal,    1848.
      1840 --41; Wollaston

President of British Association, 1832.

Fellow of the Linnsean Society, 182 1.

Hon. Fellow of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, London, 1836.
Fellow of the Geographical Society.
Royal Institute of British Architects, Hon. Member, 1846.
Fellow of the Zoological Society.

British Archaeological Society, Member.
The Naval and Military Library and Museum, Whitehall, Hon.

Member.

The Institution of Civil Engineers, Hon. Member, 1842.
Royal Agricultural Society of Great Britain, Member.

Ashmolean Society, Oxford, Member.

Shropshire and North Wales Natural History and Antiquarian

       Society, Hon. Member, 1823.
The Philosophical Society of Bristol, Hon. Member, 1823.

                            275
276 APPENDIX.

The Worcestershire Natural History Society, Hon. Member.
The Cambrian Society of Geology, etc., Swansea, Hon. Member,

        1824.

The Northern Institution of Science and Literature of Inverness,
       Hon. Member, 1825.

The Natural History Society of the Counties of Northumberland,
       Durham, and Newcastle, Hon. Member, 1829.

The Whitby Literary and Philosophical Society, Hon. Member,

         1831.

The Bedford Natural History Society, Member, 1832.
The Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, Hon. Member, 1835.
The Warwickshire Natural History and Archseological Society,

       Hon. Member, 1837.
The Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of

       Yorkshire, Hon. Member, 1838.
The Birmingham Philosophical Society, Hon. Member, 1838.
The Literary and Philosophical Society of St. Andrews, Hon.

        Member, 1838.
The Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, Hon.

        Member, 1843.
Member of Dr. Johnson's Club, 1829.
 Hon. Member of Tasmanian Society.

                                       American.

American Geological Society, at New Haven, Connecticut, Hon.
        Member, 1822.

The American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Massachusetts,
        Fellow, 1825.

The New York Lyceum of Natural History, Hon. Member, 1828.
The Literary and Historical Society of Quebec, Fellow, 1834.
The Geological Society of Pennsylvania, Corresponding Member,

          1834.

 The Boston Society of Natural History, Hon. Member, 1837.
 The National Institute for the Promotion of Science, Washington,

        Corresponding Member, 1844.
APPENDIX.  277

                                        Foreign.

The Imperial Societies of Mineralogy and Natural History at
       St. Petersburg and Moscow, Member, 1818.

Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, au Jardin du Roi, Corresponding
        Member, 1821.

Societe Geologique de France, Member, 1821.
Socidta Reale Borbonica Accademia delle Scienze, Naples,

       Corresponding Member, 182 1.

Csesare Leopoldino Carolinae Academiae Naturae Curiosarum
        Bonense, Fellow, 1822.

Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle, Corresponding
        Member, 1823.

Gesellschaft des Vaterlandeschen Museum in Bohmen, Diploma,

         1824.
Academia Scientiarum Instituti Bonaniensis, Fellow, 1833.
Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Frankfurt-am-Main, Corre

        sponding Member, 1833.
L'Accademia delle Scienze di Bologna, Diploma, 1833.
The Asiatic Society, Bengal, Hon. Member, 1834.
Physiographiska Sallskapet I. Lund (Sweden), Corresponding

        Member, 1837.
University of Bonn, Diploma Doctoris, 1838.
Institut de France, Academie Royale des Sciences, Corresponding

        Member, 1839.
Societe Frangaise de Statistique Universelle de Paris, Member,

         1839.

Societe d' Agriculture et des Arts de Boulogne-sur-Mer, Hon.
        Member, 1839.

Institut des Provinces de France, Corresponding Member, 1841.
Societas Artium et Doctrinarum apud Theno Trajectinos, Di

         ploma, 1842.

Die Naturevissenschaftliche Gesellschaft in Dresden, Diploma,

           1845.

L'Accademia Valdarno, Corresponding Member, 1846.
University of Prague, Diploma Doctoris, 1848.
278 APPENDIX.

PUBLISHED WRITINGS OF PROFESSOR WILLIAM
                             BUCKLAND.

i. --Description of an Insulated Group of Rocks of Slate and

              Greenstone in Cumberland and Westmoreland. Geo

            logical Society Transactions, IV., 1817.
2. --Description of a Series of Specimens from the Plastic Clay

               near Reading, Berks. Geol.  Soc. Trans., 181 7.   that  is
                                           singular fossil body
3. -- Description of the Paramoudra, a

found in the chalk of the North of Ireland. Geol.

              Soc. Trans., 181 7.
4. -- Notice on the Geological Structure of a Part of the Island

               of Madagascar. Geol. Soc. Trans., V., 182 r, and Journ.

           de Physique, XCIIL, 182 1.
5. -- Description of the Quartz Rock of the Lickey Hill in

               Worcester, etc. Geol. Soc. Trans., V., 1821.
6. -- Instructions for Conducting Geological Investigations and

           Collecting Specimens. Sillimans' Journal, III., 1821.

7. -- On the Structure of the Alps, and their Relation to the
               Secondary and Transition Rocks of England. Thomson,

             Ann. Phil. T., 1821.
8. -- Account of an Assemblage of Fossil Teeth and Bones of

elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, bear, tiger, hyena,

and sixteen other animals, discovered in a cave at

Kirkdale, Yorkshire, in the year 1821. Phil. Trans.,

               1822, and various other Journals in 1822 and 1823.
9. -- On the Excavation of Valleys by Diluvial Action, as illustrated

              by a succession of valleys which intersect the South

              Coast of Dorset and Devon. Geol. Soc. Trans., 1824.

10. --Observations on the South-Western Coal District of England.

Geol. Soc. Trans., I., 1824.
                        APPENDIX.                                                                   279

11. -- Notice on the Megalosaurus, or Great Fossil Lizard of

             Stonesfield. Geol. Soc. Trans., I., 1824.
12. -- Reply to some Observations in Dr. Fitton's Remarks on

             the Distribution of the British Animals. Edinb. Phil.

           Jour., XII., 1825.

13. -- On the Discovery of the Anoplotheriurn Commune in the
             Isle of Wight. Thomson, Ann. Phil., X., 1825.

14. -- Relation d'une decouverte recente d'os fossiles faite dans
             la partie orientale de la France. Ann. Sci. Nat., X.,

                1827.

15. -- On the Interior of the Dens of Living Hyenas. Edinb.
            New. Phil. Journal, XIV., 1827.

16. -- Observations on the Bones of Hyenas and other Animals

              in the    Cavern of Lunel. Edinb. Journal                                 Sci., VI.,  1827.
                         les traces de Tortues observers                                             Gres
17. --Notes sur                                                                           dans le
                          Ann. Sci. Nat., XIII., 1828.
                rouge.
18. --On the Formation of the Valley of Kingsclere and other

         Valleys by the Elevation of the Strata that enclose

19.             them,   etc. Geol. Soc.   Trans., 1829.                                 and    Vegetable
                         Account of a    Series of Animal
     -- Geological

         Remains and of Rock collected by J. Crawfurd, Esq.,
         on a Voyage up the Irawadi to Ava in 1826 -- 27. Geol.
         Soc. Trans., 1829; Ann. Sci. Nat, XIV., 1828.
20.--On the Cycadeoideag, a Family of Fossil Plants found in the
21.--SuppOleomliteicntaQruyarRrieems oafrkPsavoilanndt.heGeSoulp. pSoocs.edTraPnosw.,eIrI.,of18t2h9e.

         Waters of the Irawadi to convert Wood to Stone. Geol.

22.  --       Soc. Trans., II., 1829.    of  Coprolites                             in  North  America.

         Letter on the Discovery
         Phil. Mag., VIII., 1830.
23. -- On the Fossil Remains of the Megatherium recently

         imported into England from South America. Brit.

         Assoc. Rep.,   1832.I.,
                                         I.,

                                                                                 '
24. -- Appendix to Mr. de la Beche's paper                                          on the   Geology  of

         Nice. Geol. Soc. Proa,              1834.
28o APPEXDIX.

25. --On the Discovery of a New Species of Pterodactyle, and
             also of Faeces of the Ichthyosaurus and of a Black

           Substance resembling Sepia, in the Lias at Lyme Regis.

26. --On   Geol. Soc. Proc, I., 1834.         in Stone and Wood.
           the Vitality of Toads enclosed
           Zool. Jour., V., 1832 --34.
27. -- On                                in Dolomitic   Strata  of the
           the Occurrence of Agates

           New Red Sandstone Formation in the Mendip Hills.

28. -- On  Geol. Soc. Proc, I., 1834.     of  the  Iguanodon    in the
           the Discovery of Fossil Bones

           Iron Sand of the Wealden Formation in the Isle of

           Wight, and in the Isle of Purbeck. Geol. Soc. Proc,
                            Geol. Soc. Trans., III., 1835.
             I., 1834, and                                      Nice
29. --Observations on       the Secondary Formations between
                                                                III.,
           and the Col di Tende. Geol. Soc. Trans.,

                 1835-

30. -- Uber den Bau und die mechanische Kraft des Unterkiefers

               des Dinotherium. Leonard   u. Breun, N.  Jahrb., 1835.
                                         wirkung des     Sephons bei
31. --Notiz uber die hydraulische

           den Nautilear Ammoniter, u. anderen Polythalamien.

               Leonard u. Breun, N. Jahrb., 1835.
32. -- On the Fossil Beaks of four Extinct Species of Fishes,

           referable to the genus Chimsera, that occur in the

           Oolitic and Cretaceous Formations of England. Phil.
             Mag., VIII., 1836.
33.  --                          genus  Belemnosepia    und uber den
         Bernerkungen uber das

           fossilen Dinten-sack in dem vorderen Kegel der Belem-

              niten. Leonard u. Breun, N. Jahrb., 1836.
34. -- On the Adaptation of the Sloths to their peculiar Mode of

           Life. Linn. Soc. Trans., XVII., 1837.

35.-- Account of the Fossil Footsteps of the Cheirotherium, etc.,
           in the stone quarries of Storeton Hill, near Liverpool.
           Brit. Assoc. Rep., VII., 1838.
36. --Notice of a Newly Discovered Gigantic Reptile.    Geol. Soc

           Proc, II., 1838.
                        APPENDIX.                                  281

37. --On the Occurrence of Silicified Trunks of Trees in the New
           Red Sandstone at Allesley. Geol. Soc. Proc., II., 1838.
38.-- On the Discovery of Fossil Fishes in the Bagshot Sands.
           Geol. Soc. Proc., II., 1838.
39. --On                                    of a  Neuropterous  Insect
           the Discovery of a Fossil Wing
                                   Geol. Soc. Proa, II., 1838.
40.-- On   in Stonesfield Slate.
           the Fossil Fishes in    the Bagshot Sand at Goldworth
           Hill, four miles north of Guildford. Phil. Mag., XIII.,

                 1838.

41. --On the Action of Acidulated Waters on the Surface of the

42. -- On  Chalk near Gravesend. Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1839.       Lime
           the Agency of Animalcules in the Formation of
           stone. Ashmolean Soc. Proc., XVII., 1840.
43. --On Modes of Locomotion in Fishes. Ashmolean Soc.
           Proc., II., 1843--52.
44. --On                                    Cavities caused     by air-
           Recent and Fossil Semicircular

           bubbles in the surface of the soft clay, and resembling

45 .--On   impressions  of rain-drops. Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1842.    the
           the Former   Existence of Glaciers in Scotland and" in

           North of England. Edinb. New Phil. Journ., XXX.,
           1841 ; Geol. Soc. Proc., III., 1842.
46. -- On the Agency of Land-Snails in corroding and making

           deep excavations in compact Limestone Rocks. Geol.
           Soc. Proa, III., 1842.
47. --On
           the Glacio-diluvial Phenomena    in Snowdonia and the
           adjacent parts of North Wales.
                                            Geol. Soc. Proc., III.,

                 1842.

48.-- On Artesian Wells. Edinb. New Phil. Journ., XXXVII.,

                 1844.

49. -- On the Mechanical Action of Animals on hard and soft

           Substances during the Process of Stratification. Brit.

50. -- On  Assoc. Rep., 1845.    Petrified  Trackways  of  Ambulatory
           Ichthyopatolites, or

           Fishes upon Sandstone of the Coal Formation. Geol.

           Soc. Proa, IV., 1843.

                                                           19
282 APPENDIX.

51. -- On the Occurrence of Nodules (called Petrified Potatoes)
               found on the shores of Lough Neagh, Ireland. Geol.
            Soc. Journ., II., 1846.

52. -- On the causes of the general presence of Phosphates in the
              strata of the earth, and in all fertile soils ; with observa

             tions on Pseudo-coprolites, and on the possibility of

             converting the contents of Sewers and Cesspools into
             Manure. Agric. Soc. Journ., X., 1849.

                      Buckland, William, and Conybeare.   Geol.

Observations on the South-West Coal District of England.
      Soc. Trans., I., 1824.

Buckland, William, and de la Beche.

On the Geology of Weymouth and the Adjacent Parts of the

Coast of Dorsetshire. Geol. Soc. Proc,
: is                                    1834.

       ;;

                                          I.,
                                                                           it
                          Buckland, William, and Milne.

Report of the Committee appointed in 1842 for registering the
       Shocks of Earthquakes, andi making such Meteorological
       Observations as may to them appear desirable. Brit. Assoc.
       Rep., 1843.

   The above list condensed from the Royal Society's " Catalogue
of Scientific Papers published between 1800 and 1863," but
does not include --

Reliquiae Diluvianse or, Observations on Organic Remains Attest
       ing the Action of an Universal Deluge. London, 1823.

Vindiciae Geologicae or, the Connection of Geology with Religion
       explained in an Inaugural Lecture delivered before the
APPENDIX.  283

       University of Oxford, May 15th, 1819, on the Endowment

      of a Readership in Geology by H.R.H. the Prince Regent.

       Oxford, 1820.

On Geology and Mineralogy considered with reference to Natural
      Theology. Two Vols. London, 1836.

Addresses to the British Association, 1832 and 1833.
Addresses to the Geological Society, 1840 and 1841.
r
                                 INDEX.

Acland, Sir Henry, 30, 31, 157              Broderip, Mr., 6
Agassiz, Professor, 137-143                 Browne, Mr. Murray, 144
                                            Buckland, Frank, 34, 53, 193, 203,
Agricultural Society, 157, 158   116
                                                    249-252, 268, 269
Albert, Prince, 147-149                     Buckland, Rev. Charles, 1
Anning, Mary Ann, 113, 115,
            1,                              Buckland, Rev.
Arago, M. Francois, 92, 933,                Buckland, William                         J.,
Ashmolean Society, 162
                             7,                     agricultural experiments, 158-       64
Atterbury, Dean, 224, 228, 229, 230
                                                            164
Axminster,  21
                                                   appointed Dean of Westmin
Axmouth, landslip at, 173-176                            ster and Rector of Islip, 219

Bampton Lectures, 136            116,               appointments and literary
Banks, Sir Joseph, 40, 41                                 titles, 275-277

Barrington, Bishop, 74                              B.A. degree,
Bathurst, Lord, 43
Beche, Sir H. de la, 16, 114,                        Bridgewater Treatise pub
                                                          lished, 193
          158, 265                                                                           7
                                                   Canon of Christ Church, 87
Beechey, Captain, 47-501                            elected Fellow,
Bellamy, Rev. Dr., 148                             elected F.R.S., 55
Bonney, Professor, 143                              epitaph intended for, 41          1
Bowerbank, Dr., 272                                 experiments on toads, 89
Brefiner, Count, 18                                 foreign tour, 92-96
                                                    geological tours at home and
Brewster, Sir David, 20
                                                          abroad, 11-22
Bridgewater Treatise, 28, 193-218
British Association, 120-136, 183                   his ancestry,
Brockhaus, Professor, 22
                                                    his Geological Collection, 51-53

                                       2S5
286 INDEX.

Buckland, William, Holy Orders, 7         Crosse, Mrs. Andrew, 246
                                          Cuvier, Baron, 37, 93, 124, 125, 197,
        home life, 99-1 12
        illness and death, 267-272                204, 211
       list of published writings, 278-

283                                       Daubeny, Dr., 9
                                          Davy, Sir Humphry,
marriage, 90-92                           Dawkins, Professor  59, 86   53,  55,
" Noctes Geologicse," 84, 85                                  Boyd,

Oxford, 5      his taste for,                 56, 192
Pisciculture,
                                          Dinornis, the, 180, 181
        186
                                          Dream Lead Mine, 69, 70
Professor of Geology, 22                  Dudley Caverns, 78-83
                                          Duncan, Philip, Mr., 8
         inaugural lecture, 26
projects a School of Mines,               Egerton, Sir Philip de
                                                 Grey, Bart., 36, 121
183, 184                                                               Malpas
                                          Egerton, Rev. W., 120
Reader of Mineralogy, 22

receives degree of D.D., 87
" Reliqute Diluvianae,'
                                    53.   Faraday, Professor, 269
                                          Forshall, F. H., 231
      75-77                         265-  Fowle, Rev. T., 257
sanitary reform, 247-249                  Fox, Miss G, 27, 28, 91, 135, 241
school life, 4, 5                         Franklin, Sir John, 48-50
the Wollaston Medal,
                                          Gailenreuth Cavern, 72-74
267                                       Gaisford, Dean, no

        vacations, 7         in,    193,  Gell, Philip, 69
Buckland, Mrs., 90-92, 107,               Gilbert, Dr., 157
                                          Goddard, Dr., 5
        219, 252-254, 269 272, 273
Bunsen, Baron, 136                        Goethe, J. W. von, 19

Carpenter, Mary, 135                      Gray, W., 12
                                          Greenough, Mr., 14, 18
Chartists, the, 245                       Grenville, Lord, 24
Cheirotherium, the, 217
                                          Hakewell, Henry, 77
Civil Engineers, Society of, 185
Clifford, Lord, 78                        Harcourt, Vernon, Archbishop,
Cole, Lady Mary, 16, 19, 43, 51
                                                    145- 146
Cole, Viscount, 36
Collie, Mr., 49                            Hawkins, Waterhouse, 198, 206
Conybeare, W. D., Dean of Llandaff,        Heathcote, Rev. Gilbert, 85, 190,

        2-4, 12, 15. 37. 62                          191
Copleston, Dr., 77
Cross, Mr., 57
INDEX.                                                                    287

Holmes, Rev. Edward, 159              Palmer, Archdeacon, 89
Humboldt, Baron von, 37, 38           Parker, Mr., 255
                                      Paviland Cave, 63-68
Inglefield, Admiral, 50               Peel, Sir Robert, 161, 162, 165, 219
                                      Phillips, Professor, 51, 193
Ingram, Dr., 191                      Playfair, Lord, 104, 168-172
Islip, 163, 219, 255-265, 268, 269,   Pocock, Edward, Professor, 108
                                      Portlock, Colonel, 33, 34
         271                          Pusey, Dr., 105

Jelf, Canon, 259                      Richardson, Sir B. W., 182
                                      Ross, Captain, 44-46
Kidd, Dr., 22                         Ruskin, John, 34, 35, 100
Kirkdale, 56, 57, 60-62

Liddell, Dr., 233                     Sanderson, Professor Burdon, 220

Liebig, Baron, 164, 169               Sedgwick, Professor, 105, 121,
Lunel, Cavern of, 96, 97
Lyell, Sir Charles, 59, 126-128       122
Lyme Regis, 7, 113
                                      Severn, Walter, 234
Maclure, William, 42
                                      Shuttleworth, Dr., 12, 32, 33, 196
Malone, Rev. R., 252, 253             Smith, William, 124, 136
Mant, Mr., 13.
Marshall, Rev. E., 231, 233           Somerville, Mrs., 123
Maskelyne, Storey, Professor, 35
M'Clintock, Sir Leopold, 50           Sopwith, Thomas       6       100, 145, 182
Megalosaurus, the, 203-206                                     I.,
Megatherium, the, 126-133             Sowerby, James, 36
Miller, Mr., 51
Mosasaurus, the, 21 1-2 15            Stanley, Dean, 226
Murchison, Sir Roderick, 10, 84, 85,
                                      Stephenson, George, 166, 167
        165, 267, 270, 271            Strangways, Mr., 43

Nicholl, Sir John, 37                 Talbot, Mr. C. M., 63

Owen, Sir Richard, 126, 181, 192              Miss Jane, 16
Oxford, Royal visit, 146-148          Tankerville, Lord, 23
                                      Townsend, Mr.,

                                      Trollope, Anthony, 101
                                      Turle, Rev. W. H., 238

                                      UXBRIDGE, 30

                                      Vincent, Dean, 257
INDEX.

" Vindiciae Geologicae," 26            Westminster, the School, 227-237
                                       Whately, Archbishop, 41
Westminster, the Deanery, 220-         Williams, William, 180

                224                    Williamson, Professor, 150
        the Abbey, 225, 237-241, 271,  Winchester, 5

                272

Printed by Hazell, Waison, & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.
                                                                          Albemarle Street,

                                                                                                                              October, 1894.

      Mb. MURRAY'S

                                   LIST OF

FORTHCOMING WORKS.

   THE ODES OF HORACE AND THE
                CARMEN S^CULARE.

            TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH VERSE.

              By the Right Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P.

                                               Large Crown $vo.

       THE LIFE OF RICHARD OWEN.

 BASED ON HIS CORRESPONDENCE, HIS DIARIES, AND
                            THOSE OF HIS WIFE.

              By his Grandson, The Rev. RICHARD OWEN.
        Assisted in the Revision of the Scientific Portions

                           by C. DAVIES SHERBORN.
  With an Essay on Owen's Position in Anatomical Science by the

                             Right Hon. T. H. HUXLEY.

                    With Portraits and Illustrations. 2 Vols. Crown 8vo.
Mr, Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.

ROMAN GOSSIP.

Pio Nono.                          Th"e   Roman  Buonapartes,
Countess Spaur.                          Madame  Mere," Queen

IlCardinal Antonelli.              Hortense, Princess Pau
    Re Galantuomo.                 line, &c.

                       Garibaldi.

                  By Mrs. MINTO ELLIOT,

Author of "An Idle Woman in Sicily," " Old Court Life in France," &c.

                       Crown Svo.

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF
    WILLIAM BUCKLAND, D.D., F.R.S.

  Sometime Dean of Westminster, Twice President of the
                             Geological Society, and

          First President of the British Association.

By his Daughter, Mrs. GORDON.

With Fortraits and Illustrations. Crown Svo.                           [Now ready..

    THE LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM PETTY.

                                     1623 -- 1687.
      ONE OF THE FIRST FELLOWS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY;

                SOMETIME SECRETARY to HENRY CROMWELL;
MAKER AND AUTHOR OF THE "DOWN SURVEY" OF IRELAND..

          Derived from Private Documents Hitherto Unpublished.

                          By Lord EDMUND FITZMAURICE.

                                          With Map and Portraits. Svo.
Mr. Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.                                    3

   THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF
SIR BARTLE FRERE, Bart., g.c.b., F.R.S., &o.

 DERIVED FROM HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED DOCUMENTS.
                               By JOHN MARTINEAU.

                          Portraits, Illustrations, and Maps. 2 Vols. Svo.

TALLEYRAND.

By Lady BLENNERHASSETT.

Author   (Countess      Leyden.)   Stael."
        of " A Life of  Madame de

Translated from the German by FREDERICK CLARKE,

                      Late Taylorian Scholar in the University of Oxford.

        2 Vols. Crovm Svo.

AN UNRECORDED CHAPTER OF THE
                INDIAN MUTINY.

BEING THE PERSONAL REMINISCENCES OF

                             REGINALD G. WILBERFORCE,

                                                      Late 52nd Light Infantry.

COMPILED FROM A DIARY AND LETTERS WRITTEN ON THE SPOT.

Illustrations.          Crown 8vo.

              SUNSHINE AND HA'AR.

SOME FURTHER GLIMPSES INTO LIFE AT BARNCRAIG.

                                By GABRIEL SETOUN.

                                                     Crcwn Svo.
4 Mr. Murray's List of FortJicoming Works.

                  THE EVIL EYE.

AN ACCOUNT OF THIS ANCIENT AND WIDESPREAD
                                 SUPERSTITION.

               By FREDERICK THOMAS ELWORTHY.

                                          With many Illustrations . Svo.

        SIR WILLIAM GREGORY, K.C.M.G.

     FORMERLY M.P., AND SOMETIME GOVERNOR OF CEYLON.

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
                      Edited by LADY GREGORY.

                                                With a Portrait. 8vo.

                 PRIMOGENITURE.

 A SHORT HISTORY OF ITS DEVELOPMENT IN VARIOUS
             COUNTRIES, AND ITS PRACTICAL EFFECT.
                                  By EVELYN CECIL, M.A.,

                                            Of the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law.
                                                                      Sro.

         JOSIAH WEDGWOOD, F.R.S.

                         HIS PERSONAL HISTORY.
                             By SAMUEL SMILES, LL.D.,

               Author of the "Lives of the Engineers," of " Self Help," " Character," &c.
                                            With Portrait. Crown $vo.
   Mr. Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.

           OLD ENGLISH PLATE.

ECCLESIASTICAL, DECORATIVE, and DOMESTIC.
                By WILFRED J. CRIPPS, C.B.

             New Edition (Fifth), Enlarged and Revised.

                                              Medium Svo. 2ls.

SPEECHES ON THE EASTERN QUESTION.

           By the late LORD STRATHEDEN AND CAMPBELL.

                                                                              Svo.

    EDWARD HAROLD BROWNE, D.D.

Lord Bishop of Ely and subsequently of Winchester and
              Prelate of the Order of the Garter.

A MEMOIR.

By the Very Rev. GEO. WM. KITCHIN,                  D.D.,

                                   Dean of Durham.

                         With Portraits, Svo.

       EARLY ADVENTURES IN PERSIA,
                       BABYLONIA, &C.

 INCLUDING A RESIDENCE AMONG THE WILD TRIBES
            OF THE ZAGROS MOUNTAINS BEFORE THE
                          DISCOVERY OF NINEVEH.

By the late Right Hon. Sir A. HENRY LAYARD, G.C.B., D.C.L.
    Condensed from his larger Work, and Revised by the Author.

 With an Introductory Notice of the Author by LORD ABERDARE.

                                            With Portrait. Crown Svo.
6 Mr. Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.

THE  LIFE AND TIMES OF WILLIAM LAUD,

                   ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY.

             By the Rev. C. H. SIMPKINSON,                       M.A.,

                                     Rector of Farnham, Surrey,

     And Examining Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Winchester.

             With Portrait. Crown Svo.

THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND ADDRESSES

                                           OF

             WERNER VON SIEMENS.

     VOLUME II. Including the following subjects: --

Induction Writing Telegraph.-- Magneto-Electric                         QEuxipcklodeTyr.pe--
    writer.-- Electric Water-Level Indicator. -- Mine
Alcohol Meter. --The Universal Galvanometer.-- Automati
cally-steered Torpedoes. --Automatic Electric                     Lamp. -- Electric
Plough. -- Electric Elevator. -- Electricity
Meter, etc.                                                      Meter. -- Energy

             With Illustrations. &vo.

HANDBOOK OF ANCIENT ROMAN MARBLES.

                                                            CONSISTING OF

 A HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION OF ALL ANCIENT COLUMNS
      AND SURFACE MARBLES STILL EXISTING IN ROME,

WITH A LIST OF THE BUILDINGS IN WHICH THEY ARE FOUND.

                            By the Rev. H. W. PULLEN, M.A.

                            (Formerly Chaplain of H. M. Arctic Ship "Alert"),

                  Author of " The Fight at Dame Europa's School," &c.

             Fcap. 8vo.                                                 \Ready.
Mr. Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.        7

SIR VICTOR BROOKE, BART.,

SPORTSMAN AND NATURALIST.

A Memoir of his Life, and Extracts from his Letters and Journals.

   With a Chapter on his Researches in Natural History, by
                       Sir William H. Flower, K.C.B.,

                                Director of the Natural History Branch of the British Museum.

Edited by O. LESLIE STEPHEN.

With Portraits and Illustrations.  Crown 8vo.

  THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF
             THOMAS VALPY FRENCH.

 SCHOLAR AND MISSIONARY. FIRST BISHOP OF LAHORE.

                                                               1825-1891.

                        By the Rev. HERBERT BIRKS, M.A.

                                                                       2 Vols. 8vo.

                       VOL. I.--THE MISSIONARY SCHOLAR.
                     VOL. II.-- THE MISSIONARY BISHOP.

                                                                        »»»

            A POCKET DICTIONARY OF THE

 MODERN GREEK AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES

             AS ACTUALLY WRITTEN AND SPOKEN.
Being a Copious Vocabulary of all Words and Expressions Current in

     Ordinary Reading and in Everyday Talk, with Especial Illustration,
     by means of distinctive slgns, of the colloquial and popular greek
     Language, for the Guidance of Students and Travellers through
     Greece and the East.

                      By A. N. JANNARIS, Ph.D. (Germany.)

     Assistant Professor of Greek Literatituurree in the National 1University of Greece, and Author of the
latest Ancient and Modem Greek .Lexiccoon (the only one appnroved by thp Greek Government), and of
various other Dictionaries and other Literraarryy Works.

                                                          Square Fcap. 8vo.
8 Mr. Murray's List of Forthcoming Works.

    MURRAY'S HANDBOOKS.
Handbook -- Rome. Re-arranged, brought thoroughly up
    to date, and in a great measure re-written by the Rev. H. W. Pullen.
    The Classical Archaeology by Professor Rodolfo Lanciani. The
    Sculpture Galleries described by A. S. Murray, L.L.D., Keeper of the
    Greek and Roman Antiquities
    Galleries revised by the Right                 at the     British  HMeunsreyumL.ayaTrhde,  Picture
                                                             Sir A.                            G.C.B.,
                                                   Hon.
    D.C.L. With numerous Maps and Plans. Post Svo.

Handbook --Turkey in Asia. An entirely New Work.

      Edited by General Sir Charles Wilson, R.E., G.C.B.

Handbook -- Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, and Hun

      tingdonshire. An entirely New Work, with Maps and Plans.

                                                                                   [Just ready.

    UNIVERSITY EXTENSION MANUALS.

    THE FOLLOWING ARE IN PROGRESS .--

COMPARATIVE RELIGION.                                                    in the University     of
       By Allan Menzies, Professor of Biblical Criticism

           St. Andrews.

PROBLEMS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY.                                           Oxford,   Secretary to the

        By M. E. Sadler, Senior Student of Christ Church,

          Oxford University Extension Delegacy.

AN  INTRODUCTION TO PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

    PBhyysJiocsh, nMCcoGxi,ll  Fellow of Trinity   College,  Cambridge,  Professor of Experimental
                               College, Montreal.

THE ENGLISH POETS, FROM BLAKE TO TENNYSON.

         By Rev. Stopford A. Brooke, Trinity College, Dublin.

THE HISTORY OF ASTRONOMY.                                              Cambridge,  Secretary to the
       By Arthur Berry, Fellow of King's College,

           Cambridge University Extension Syndicate.

SHAKESPEARE AND HIS PREDECESSORS                                                   IN THE
           ENGLISH DRAMA.

          By F. S. Boas, Balliol College, Oxford.

LATIN LITERATURE.

        By J. W. Mackail, Balliol College, Oxford.

A HISTORY OF EDUCATION.                                                  of the University of

         By James Donaldson, Principal and Vice-Chancellor

           St. Andrews.
                                                                           Albemarle Street,

                                                                                                                                     October, 1894.

         MR. MURRAY'S

                                      LIST OF

NEW AND RECENT WORKS.

                       A SELECTION FROM

            The Writings of Dean Stanley.

            Edited by the Venerable A. S. AGLEN,

                                     Archdeacon of St. Andrews.

                       With Portrait.           Croxvn Svo. Js. 61I.  [Just oat.

                                                -- 

            Songs, Poems and Verses.

                     By HELEN, LADY DTJFFERIN.

                                                                       (COUNTESS OF GITFORD.)

Edited, with a Memoir, and some Account of the Sheridan Family,
                                            by her Son

             The MARQUESS OF DUFFERIN AND AVA.

                                         Third Edition.

                       With. Portrait. Crown Svo. 12s.

"There are none of Lady Dufferin's Poems in this volume that will not be read with
                       We do not remember ever to have read a more touching and
pleasure and sympathy
more beautiful account of the relations of a son with his mother than is here given." -- Daily
Chronicle.
io Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

            The English Novel.

FROM ITS ORIGIN TO THE PUBLICATION OF WAVERLEY.

By Professor RALEIGH, University College, Liverpool.

            Crown Svo. y. 6d.                            \.Just out.

[Also published as one of the Universitv Extension Series, Edited by
                Professor Knight, of St. Andrew's University.]

            Handbook for Scotland.

Thoroughly                A New Edition. Crown Svo. gs.  for Pedestrians,
            Revised, with Special Detailed Information

                            and entirely New Maps.

                                   Printed on specially thin and light paper.

    " In spite of the enterprise devoted to the production of guide-books in the past fifteen
years, Murray's handbooks still maintain their place as facile princeps, and of all, this guide

to Scotland is the high-water mark of guide-book excellence for tourists of intelligence."--
Observer.

Dr. Dollinger's Addresses on Historical

            and Literary Subjects.

Translated, in accordance with the wish of the late Author,
                       By MARGARET WARRE.

            A New Scries. Svo. 14*.                      [Just out.

                                        CONTENTS.
     I. -- Universities, Past and Present.

   II. -- Founders of Religions.
 III.--The Empire of Charles the Great and his Successors.

  IV. -- Anagni.
   V. --The Destruction of the Order of Knights Templars.
  VI. -- The History of Religious Freedom.

 VII. --Various Estimates of the French Revolution.
VIII. --The Literature of the United States of America.
          Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. II

          A Peasant State.

      AN ACCOUNT OF BULGARIA IN 1894, DERIVED FROM
                  A RECENT VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.

                           By EDWARD DICEY, C.B.

                                                                          Svo. 12s.  view of the

    " A careful reading of Mr. Dicey's book will give any Englishman an accurate

present and a fair estimate of the future of the Bulgarian State." -- Athtnieum.

          The Rise and Expansion of the

               British Dominion in India.

FROM THE EARLY DAYS OF THE EAST INDIA COMPANY
                            TO THE MUTINY.

                 By Sir ALFRED LYALL, K.C.B.

       A New Library Edition, with Considerable Additions.

          With Coloured Map. Svo. 12s. net.

The favourable reception given to this work on its first publication as a Volume of the

University Extension Series, edited by Prof. Knight, has induced the author to expand it
                                      continued to the time of the Mutiny.
and"  to  bring out a larger edition  its appearance as an independent work." -- Times.
          cordial welcome is due to
      A

          A Policy of Free Exchange.

ESSAYS BY VARIOUS WRITERS ON THE ECONOMICAL
      AND SOCIAL ASPECTS OF FREE EXCHANGE
                       AND KINDRED SUBJECTS.

                     Edited by THOMAS MACKAY,

       Author of " A History of the English Poor ; " Editor of " A Plea for Liberty," &c.

                                                                          8vo. 12s.  and cloudy sentiment
                                                         »

   "A powerful exposure of the vapid talk, inconclusive reasoning,

which enter so largely into the Socialistic contentions." -- Standard.
1 2 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

         The Christian Ethic.

                     By WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

                             Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St. Andrews,

                                         Crown Svo. y. 6d.
    " In a very interesting little book by Professor Knight, of St. Andrews, we find an admir

able description of the virtues and the sins on which Christ's teaching lays most stress. . . .
Professor Knight sketches briefly and vigorously the characteristics of the human ethics which
hmaaddeevCehr rmisot'usldteeadchhinugmanthecovnerdyucflto."w--erSapnecdtactoorm. pletion of all the earlier ethical teaching which

The Life and Correspondence                                               of
      Arthur Penrhyn Stanley,

                             LATE DEAN OF WESTMINSTER.

         By ROWLAND E. PROTHERO, M.A.,

            Barrister-at-Law, late Fellow of All Souls' College, Oxford.

           With the Co-operation and Sanction of the
                   Very Rev. O. G. BRADLEY,

                                        DEAN OF WESTMINSTER.

Third EDITION. With Portraits and Illustrations. 2 Vols. Svo. 32s.

        Glimpses of Four Continents.

LETTERS WRITTEN DURING A TOUR IN AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALANL>
                           AND NORTH AMERICA, IN 1893.

        By the DUCHESS OE BUCKINGHAM AND CHANDOS.

                 With Portraits and Illustrations from the Author's Sketches, &c.
                                                        Crown Svo. gs. net.

    " There is not a dull page in the book, and the Duchess has made the most of her oppor

tunities and has taken her fellow citizens and citizenesses into her confidence." -- Westminster
Gazette.
        Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. 13

                The Burdens of Belief.

                    AND OTHER POEMS.

                                   By the DUKE OF ARGYLL.

                                                 Crozvn Svo. 6s.

     ... ..." The Duke differs in one important respect from most of the new poets which every day
brings forth      he has           always  Asomdeevthoiuntg  to say, and that something which definitely touches
human life and  interests.                                   naturalist, as well as a lover of poetry, the Duke
                                                                   a first-hand and loving observation                        of all her
treats  N"--atuGruearwdiitahnt.he  power  which comes        from
works.

        Alone with the Hairy Ainu :

        OR, 3,800 MILES ON A PACK SADDLE IN YEZO AND
                  A CRUISE TO THE KURILE ISLANDS.

                                   By A. H. SAVAGE LANDOE.

        With Map and numerous Illustrations by the Author. Medium Svo. iSs.

   "A thrilling narrative,         which    as   a story of perseverance                       and pluck, has not many equals
                                   travel.  "--  Morning Post.
in all the pages of modern

                                                             -*+-

                                          The Pamirs :

     BEING A NARRATIVE OF A YEAR'S EXPEDITION ON
          HORSEBACK AND ON FOOT THROUGH KASHMIR,
              WESTERN TIBET, CHINESE TARTARY, AND

                           RUSSIAN CENTRAL ASIA

                                   By the EARL OF DUNMORE.

     Second Edition.               With Maps and many Illustrations, chiefly from the Author's
                                    Sketches. 2 Vols. Crown Svo. 24s.

thro"ugLohordut,Daunndmoisrev'esryacwcoeullntilluostfrahtiseda.d"v--enMtuorerns inign   those  far-off  lands  is  excellent  reading
                                                                                       Post.

     ' ' For sportsmen there is much to          read  in these two                    volumes   of grand      hunting  days  after
     ' ovis poli,' the Tibetan antelopes         and   wild horses."                             Telegraph,
the                                                                                    -- Daily
14 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

A First Introduction to the Study of

           the Greek Testament.

COMPRISING A CONNECTED NARRATIVE OF OUR LORD'S LIFE,
   FROM THE SYNOPTIC GOSPELS, IN THE ORIGINAL GREEK.
     WITH CONCISE GRAMMAR, NOTES, AND VOCABULARY.

                     By THEOPHILU3 D. HALL, M.A.

                                         Crown &vo. y. 6J.

This volume is intended to aid those who desire to study the New Testament in the

original Greek Text. The student, without any previous knowledge of the language, and
with only a moderate amount of labour, may, by the assistance of this book, gain an insight

into the Gospel Narrative text which he could not otherwise acquire.
" This little work contains a large amount of true scholarship, with the topics arranged in
a most intelligible form, and condensed into the smallest possible space. To those who have
made any beginning with Greek, and desire to continue that study so far as to make use of the
New Testament in the original, this handbook will bring most welcome assistance. For any
who have no knowledge of the language, but are anxious to read the Greek Testament, we
know no work so likely to further their wishes as this. . . . We hope that many may be in
duced to   taevaachilertsh.e"m--seMlveesthoodfistthTisimveasl.uable  introduction to a study
Christian                                                                                     so indispensable  to all

       The Epistles of St. Paul to the

  Thessalonians, Galatians and Romans.

                WITH NOTES AND DISSERTATIONS.

    Including an Essay on the Interpretation of Scripture, originally
                          Published in " Essays and Reviews."

      By the late B. JOWETT, M.A., Master of Balliol College.
              Edited by LEWIS CAMPBELL, M.A., LL.D.,

                                  Emeritus Professor of Greek in the University of St. Andrew's.

                              2 Vols. Crown Svo. Js. 6d. net, each volume.
    This work was first published in 1855, a second and thoroughly Revised Edition appeared
in 1859, and was rapidly exhausted, but the author did not re-issue the work during his life

time.

    The present Edition is so divided that the text of the Epistles, together with the Notes
and Introductions, form the First Volume, whilst the Essays and Dissertations are contained
in the Second Volume.

    "The Commentary and the Essays and Dissertations are of permanent value, alike for
--theTismuebstl.ety of their thought, their ethical elevation, and the inimitable grace of their style."
        Mr. Murray s List of New and Recent Works. 15

                             Life in Parliament.

                       A RECORD OF THE DAILY EXPERIENCES OF

        A MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

                                    From 1 886 to 1892 inclusive.

By Sir RICHARD TEMPLE, Bart., M.P., G.C.S.I., D.C.L., LL.D., &c

                                      Crown Svo. Js. 6d.

"An interesting series of reminiscences of a striking epoch of parliamentary history, that
         fail to be  exceedingly attractive,                                        mpearleelyoftoPatrhloiasme ewnhtaorywelriefe.t"h--emSste. lvJaems eisn's
cannot  fight, but   equally to those outside  not                                                                                                            the thick
                                                 the                                                                                                            Gazette.
of the

Correspondence of Mr. Joseph Jekyll

                             WITH HIS SISTER-IN-LAW,

            LADY GERTRUDE SLOANE STANLEY.

                                              1818-- 1838.

Edited, with a Brief Memoir, by the Hon. ALGERNON BOURKS.

                                                                                    8vo. 16s.

" A very slight inspection of these letters will convince any one that they well deserved to
be disinterred and given to the world, not only as portraying a notable figure in the society of
--theT"ipmeAerlsito.odg, etbhuet r,asJeakvyalll'usablelett,ersintmeraeksetingth, e  and sprightly   addition to contemporary  memoirs."
                                                                                    most excellent   reading." --Atheneeum.

                     The Conversion of India.

FROM PANT^NUS TO THE PRESENT TIME, 193--1893.

                             By GEORGE SMITH, C.I.E., LL.D.,

        Author       of the  Lives of William Carey, of Henry Martyn,                               of John Wilson,  F.R.S.,
                                                  and of Alexander Duff.

                             With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Qs.

"To those who remember Dr. George Smith's admirable Life of William Carey, which
...without fear of challenge we reckon among the choicest of Missionary Biographies, the book
before us will need no recommendation.                                              A statesmanlike account of seventeen centuries
of mission work." -- Literary World.
1 6 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

                 Barncraig.

     EPISODES IN THE LIFE OF A SCOTTISH VILLAGE.
                               By GABRIEL SETOUN.

                                                           Crown Svo. $s.

    " It is with real pleasure that we welcome a new writer in the person of Gabriel Setoun.
It is very rarely that a first book is of such excellence. It not only contains promise, but

fulfilment." -- Queen.

                                                                             - 

 RECENT VOLUMES OF THE UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERIES.
                      Edited by Professor Knight, of St. Andrew's.

Greece in the Age of Pericles.

                      By A. J. GRANT,

King's College, Cambridge, and Staff Lecturer in History to the University of Cambridge.

                                        Crown Zvo. y. 6d.                                    written with exceptional
   "A very interesting and useful essay in historical representation,

freshness and lucidity. "--Newcastle Daily Leader.

Chapters in Modern Botan)\

                   By PATRICK GEDDES,

                           Professor of Botany, University College, Dundee.

                                 With Illustrations.  Crown Svo. y. 6d.

life.""--ADmaoislyt  charmingly  written  account  of some of the more striking phenomena    of plant
                     Chronicle.

                     The Jacobean Poets.

                                 By EDMUND GOSSE.

f Crown Sve. y. 6d.
" None can read this brief but comprehensive treatise on a brilliant episode in English
letters without increasing       atnhdeirresoewanrchk. n"o--wlDeadgiley  of the period  and  their appreciation  of
exponent's critical acumen                                                                                           its
                                                                         Telegraph.
      Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. 1 7

             The Psalter of 1539.

           A LANDMARK OF ENGLISH LITERATURE.
                   Comprising the Text, in Black Letter Type.

              Edited, with Notes, by JOHN SABLE, M.A.,

                                   Professor of Anglo-Saxon in the University of Oxford.

                                                                          Sv0. 16s.

     ' ' Alike in the introduction and in the notes, students of the Psalter, whether theological,
philological, literary, or devotional, will derive abundant guidance, instruction, and edification
from Mr. Earle's comments." -- Times.

                   SIR WILLIAM SMITH'S

        Classical Dictionary

     OF MYTHOLOGY, BIOGRAPHY AND GEOGRAPHY.

A New, Enlarged, and Revised Edition, with many New Plans and Illustrations.

                    Edited by G. E. MABINDIN, M.A.,

                                        Formerly Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.

                                   With over 800 Illustrations. Svo. lSs.

The Diary of an Idle Woman in

Constantinople.

            By Mrs. MINTO ELLIOT,

Author of " The Diary of an Idle Woman in Italy,"--" in Sicily," &c

With Map and Illustrations. Crown Svo. 14*.

    " The volume is an historical   and social guide     bdoroakm, aitnicwshceicnhes.th"e--pSicattuurerdsqauye    and realistic
                                    series of brilliant                                                         Review.
description is interspersed with a
1 8 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

         Kirkes Handbook of Physiology.

                  By W. MOKRANT BAEEB, F.R.C.S.,

Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Examiner in Surgery at the Royal College of Surgeons ; and

             VINCENT DORMER HARRIS, M.D. Lond.,
                                 Demonstrator of Physiology at St. Bartholomew's Hospital.
                    Thirteenth Edition Thoroughly Revised.

         With over 500 Illustrations and Coloured Plates.  Crown $vo.             ids.

                                                 --»-  --

         WORKS BY THE REV. CHARLES GORE.

 The Mission of the                               The      Incarnation            of the

            Church.                              |

FOUR LECTURES DELIVERED                                    Son of God.
   IN THE CATHEDRAL OF
                ST.' ASAPH.                            THE BAMPTON LECTURES

              Crown Svo. 2s. Cxi.                                     FOR 1891.

                                                         Sixth Thousand. 8vo. Js. 6d.

The Student's History of the Roman

         Empire.

FROM THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EMPIRE TO THE
                ACCESSION OF COMMODUS, a.d. 180.

         Forming one of the Series of Murray's Student's Manuals.

                           By J. B. BURY,

                         Professor of Modern History, Trinity College, Dublin.

         With Coloured Maps and many Illustrations. Post Svo. Is. 6d.

' ' Professor Bury's History of the Roman Empire, a new volume in Mr. Murray's well-
known series of 'Student's Manuals,' takes up the story of Rome at the foundation of the
Empire,   and carries it down to the death   of Marcus Aurelius. The       book   thus forms a con
necting  link -- one the want of which has  been seriously felt-- between   'The   Student's Rome   '

...and ' the Student's Gibbon.' The work, for the rest, is admirably written on the same lines
as the other histories in the Student's Series.  It has a full equipment of maps and illustra
atiponpse,arasn."d--iSscointsmevaenr.y way worthy of its place in the admirable series of books in which it
         Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. 19

         TWO DISTINGUISHED LADIES.

         The Letters of Lady Burghersh

         (Afierwards Countess of Westmorland)

FROM     GERMANY AND FRANCE DURING THE CAMPAIGN

                                       OF 1813-14.

         Edited by her Daughter, Lady ROSE WEIGALL.

                     Second Edition. With Portraits. Crown Svo. 6s.

   "A readable and pleasant little volume for the great public . . . full of charm from the

first to the last line."-- Athenaum.

 A Sketch of the Life of Georgiana,

                    Lady de Ros.

WITH SOME REMINISCENCES OF HER FAMILY AND FRIENDS,
             INCLUDING THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

                  By her Daughter the Hon. Mrs. SWINTON.

                   Second Edition. With Portraits. Crown 8vo. Js. 6d.

A Memoir of H.R.H. the late Duke

                      of Clarence.

WRITTEN with the SANCTION of H.R.H. THE PRINCE of WALES.
                       By JAMES EDMUND VINCENT.

         Second Edition. With Portraits and Illustrations. Crown Zvo. gs.

" The narrative is straightforward and plain. Full justice is done to the Prince's extreme
amiability of disposition, to his unswerving regard for duty, and to his power of making
         and of keeping their affections. There is no attempt to make    him out
friends  to represent his literary and oratorical powers as exceptional  among    aPsrianbcleesr ."th--anThhee
was or

Times.
20 Mr. Mttrray's List of New and Recent Works.

                         Italian Painters.

           CRITICAL STUDIES OF THEIR WORKS.

             By GIOVANNI MORELLI (Ivan Lermolieff).

                              Translated from the German

                By CONSTANCE JOCELYN FFOULKES.

i-- THE BORGHESE AND DORIA PAMFILI GALLERIES
                                  IN ROME.

With an Introductory Notice by Sir A. HENRY LAYARD, G.C.B.

                                          With Illustrations. Sve. l$s.                            No
    " It does not need an enthusiastic sentiment for art to find this book interesting.
student of painting can afford to do without it." -- St. James's Gazette.

ii--THE  GALLERIES OF MUNICH AND                                 DRESDEN.

                            With Illustrations, ivo. 1 5 s.

                                            -**-

         A Manual of Naval Architecture.

   FOR THE USE OF OFFICERS OF THE NAVY, THE
MERCANTILE MARINE, SHIP-OWNERS, SHIP-BUILDERS,

                              AND YACHTSMEN.

                     By W. H. WHITE, C.B., F.R.S.,

       Assistant-Controller and Director of Naval Construction, Royal Navy ; Fellow of the Royal Societies
of London and Edinburgh; Vice-President of the Institution of Naval Architects; Member of the
Institutions of Civil Engineers and Mechanical Engineers ; Honorary Member of the North-East Coast
Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders ; Fellow of the Royal School of Naval Architecture.

         Third Edition, thoroughly Revised and in great part Re-written,

         With 176 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 24s.

" Mr. White's manner is excellent, and as his work embraces in a concise and clear form

all that is at present known of naval science, it can conscientiously be recommended as a
                         All who take an
trustworthy preceptor.   yachts, will find  interest  in ships,   whether they be war, merchant,   "  or
pleasure ships, such as                     in the '  Manual '   all that science can teach them.     --

1'ield.
Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. 2 1

       The Baronage and the Senate.

 OR THE HOUSE OF LORDS IN THE PAST, THE PRESENT,
                              AND THE FUTURE.

                   By WM. CHARTERIS MACPHERSON.

                                                    Svo. i6j.

Contents: -- The Origin and Constitution of the House of Lords. -- The Radical Case
           against the House of Lords. -- Radical Remedies. -- Conservative Reforms.

    " A most sound, interesting and informing book ; and very few men who have not made a

careful study of constitutional history will close it without feeling that they are better informed
about the history of the House of Lords, its uses and its position in the constitution, than
they were when they began. " --St. James's Budget.

          -

A Revised, Enlarged and Cheaper Edition of

      SIR WILLIAM SMITH'S

The Dictionary of the Bible.

                             BY VARIOUS WRITERS.

                 Edited by Sir WILLIAM SMITH, D.C.L., LL.D.,
                     and the Rev. Professor J. M. FULLER, M.A.

With a Large Number of New Illustrations and Maps of Special Districts.

3 Vols.  Medium 8vo. £4 4s.

REDUCTION IN PRICE.

     This work has hitherto been sold at £5 5s. Although the revised First Volume ex
tends to nearly double its former dimensions, the PRICE OF THE WHOLE WORK IS NOW
REDUCED TO FOUR GUINEAS. The New First Volume (in 2 Parts, 1853 pp.) is sold sepa
rately for TWO GUINEAS, and Volumes II. and III. (1862 pp.) TWO GUINEAS TOGETHER.

     The object of the new edition is to bring the first volume abreast of the requirements of

the present day, and to make it conform in fulness and scholarship with Volumes 11. and III.

With this end in view the volume has been revised, many of the more important articles have

been re-written, and those included in the Appendix (added to Volume III. some years ago)

have been inserted in their proper place.

    Among the writers of new articles in the present edition are the late B'shop Lightfoot,
Dr. Westcott the present Bishop of Durham, Professor Driver, Dr. Ebers, Professor
Kirkpatrick, Professor LUMBY, M. NAViLLE the Egyptologist, Professor Ryle, Dr.
Salmon, Professor Sanday, Dr. Sandys, Professor Sayce, Professor Stanton, Canon
Tristram, Archdeacon Watkins, Major-General Sir Charles Wilson, and others.
!2 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

               TWO WORKS BY THE DUKE OF ARGYLL.

        Irish Nationalism.

                   AN APPEAL TO HISTORY.

                By the DUKE OF ABGYLL, K.G., K.T.

                                         Crown Svo. y. 6d.

 The Unseen Foundations of Society ;

AN EXAMINATION OF THE FALLACIES AND FAILURES OF
    ECONOMIC SCIENCE DUE TO NEGLECTED ELEMENTS.
                 By the DUKE OF ABGYLL, KG., K.T.

                                  Second Edition. Svo. \Ss.

NEW EDITION OF THE WORKS OF
          HERMAN MELVILLE.

With a Memoir of the Author by H. S. SALT,

and New Illustrations taken on the spot.

         Typee :                                o moo

       OR, THE MARQUESAS                 A NARRATIVE OF ADVENTURE
               ISLANDERS.                        IN THE SOUTH SEAS.

With Maps and Illustrations. Crown ivo.  With Maps and Illustrations. Crown Svo.

                     y. 6d.                                   y. 6d.

     -· We cordially welcome a new edition of this once well-known and justly appreciated
' Typee,' with its sequel, ' Omoo.' " -- Times.

    " More delightful reading no man of any age need wish for." --Speaker.
      Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works. 23

         Old French Plate.

                      ITS MAKERS AND MARKS.

                  By WILFRED J. CBIPP3, C.B.

    A New and Revised Edition, with Tables of Makers' Marks, in Addition to the
                                           Plate Marks. Svo. los. 6d.

                        ST. JOHN'S

Wild Sports and Natural History of the

              Highlands of Scotland.

A NEW AND CHEAPER EDITION, THOROUGHLY REVISED, WITH
          HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED NOTES BY THE AUTHOR.
                      Edited, with a Memoir of the Author,
                         By the Bev. M. G. WATKINS.

   With Portrait of Mr. St. John, and several New Illustrations. Medium Svo. 12s.

       A Dictionary of Hymnology,

       ORIGIN                        SETTING FORTH THE                                      HYMNS

               AND HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN
                  OF ALL AGES AND NATIONS,

WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THOSE CONTAINED IN THE
        HYMN-BOOKS OF ENGLISH-SPEAKING COUNTRIES,
                         AND NOW IN COMMON USE.

                Edited by JOHN JULIAN, M.A.,

                                                     Vicar of Wincobank, Sheffield.

               1616//. Medium 8vo. £2 2S.

    "  One of the most remarkable    books which  h--asDeavileyr  issued  from  the press.  It is a com
       guide to the hymnology of   Christendom."                  News.
plete
24 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

   The Chronology of Medieval and

             Renaissance Architecture.

A DATE BOOK OF ARCHITECTURAL ART, FROM THE FOUNDING
    OF THE BASILICA OF ST. PETER, ROME, BY CONSTANTINE,
           TO THE DEDICATION OF THE NEW BUILDING BY
                                   POPE URBAN VIII.
   Forming a Companion Volume to Fergusson's "History of Architecture."

                       By J. TAVENOR PERRY.

                                           With Illustrations. Svo. i6s.

     The work comprises several thousand well-authenticated dates of building operations
in Europe and the East during the period of the Romanesque, Gothic, and Renaissance
styles, together with copious indexes to the names of Places, Buildings, Architects,
Founders, &c, and a Synoptical Table shewing by examples the gradual development
of the styles.

                  NEW AND REVISED EDITION OF

    Fergusson's History of Architecture

                     in all Countries.

     In Four Volumes, medium 8vo, with upwards of 1700 Illustrations.

Vols. I. & n.-ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL ARCHITECTURE.

                   Edited by R. PHENE SPIERS, E.S.A.

                            With iooo Illustrations. 2 Vols. £$ y.

Vol. iii.-INDIAN AND EASTERN ARCHITECTURE. 3"- 6d.

vol. 1v.-MODERN STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE. 3". 6d.

     " Mr. Fergusson's beautiful and most popular books have superseded all other HISTORIES
 OF Architecture. It is not only that the extraordinary abundance of his illustrations gives

 him a special advantage over all his rivals or predecessors, but no other writer has ever had
 so firm a grasp of his subject, or has been so well qualif1ed to deal with it in all its branches."
 -- Saturday Review.

    "A considerably improved, but still perfectly recognisable issue of what is certainly, as far

 as we know, the most remarkable attempt at a continuous history of the whole of architecture
 wlithericahtureh.as" --evBeurildbeere.n produced, and which is a lasting honour to English architectural
         Mr. Murray's List of New ana Recent Works. 25

                        Jenny Lind the Artist.

A NEW AND ABRIDGED EDITION OF THE MEMOIR OF

         MADAME JENNY LIND-GOLDSCHMIDT.
                            1820 -- 1851.

         FROM MSS. AND DOCUMENTS COLLECTED BY
                                 MR. GOLDSCHMIDT.

By H. SCOTT HOLLAND,                    and W. S. ROCKSTRO,

       Canon of St. Paul's Cathedral ;        Author of " The Life of Mendelssohn."

                        With Portraits. Crown 8vo. gs.

  Handbook of Greek Archaeology,

SCULPTURE, VASES, BRONZES, GEMS, TERRA-COTTAS,
          ARCHITECTURE, MURAL PAINTINGS, &c.
                      By A. S. MURRAY, LL.D.,

                      Keeper of the Greek and Roman Antiquities, British Museum.

           With 21 Engraved Plates and 130 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 18s.

                                By the Same Author.

       A History of Greek Sculpture.

  Revised Edition. With 140 Illustrations. 2 Vols. Medium 8va. 36*.

                        Ivar the Viking.

A ROMANTIC HISTORY, BASED UPON AUTHENTIC                                                               FACTS
          OF THE THIRD AND FOURTH CENTURIES.

                        By PAUL B. DU CHAILLU,

                                         Author of " The Viking Age," &c.

                        Crown 8vo. 6s.

"There are passages in plenty of an admirable and vivid simplicity in its pages, calling up
picture  after picture  noamf tehsatstoirldthVeikbinlogodl.i"fe--wWhoesestmcionlsotuerr  and movement  appeal so much
to-day,  whose very                                                                      Gazette.                      to us
26 Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

          MR. EDWARD WHYMPER'S WORKS.

Scrambles amongst the Alps in the

                 Years 1860-69,

INCLUDING  THE HISTORY OF THE FIRST ASCENT
            OF THE MATTERHORN.

            By EDWARD WHYMPER.

An Edition de Luxe {Fourth Edition). With 5 Maps and 136 Illustrations.
                                   Price £2 12s. 6d. net.

           %* This Edition will not be reprinted.

Travels amongst the Great Andes

           of the Equator.

           By EDWARD WHYMPER.

BARNARD,                    With Illustrations by                   SKELTON

          CORBOULD, DADD, LAPWORTH, OVEREND,
              WAGNER, WILSON, WOLF, and Others.

          With 4 Maps and 140 Illustrations. Medium Svo. 21s. net.

SUPPLEMENTARY APPENDIX TO                   HOW tO Use the
                                           Aneroid Barometer.
  Travels amongst the
         Great Andes                       By EDWARD WHYMPER

      of the Equator.                      With numerous Tables.

   Illustrated with Figures of new Genera  Medium Svo.  2s. 6d. net.
and Species.

    With 60 Illustrations. Medium Svo.
                  liaised to 21s. net.

           The above thiee Works are sold separately.
Mr. Mttrrays List of New and Recent Works. 2 7

               MURRAY'S HANDBOOKS.

        NEW VOLUMES AND RECENT EDITIONS.

                                                                        New Zealand.

AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, THE HOT LAKES DISTRICT, WAN-
     GANUI, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, THE WEST COAST
             ROAD, THE COLD LAKES, THE SOUNDS, etc.

Maps and Plans. Post Svo. ys. 6d.

Emp"""irWAIen.eb"eo--hvoeakSrvypewewcnhtaoiacyuthogrwh.isot rnbtohuwyt  praise  for Murray's Handbook." -- Athenceum.                                            of the Colonies of the
                                                                        easily  first as a trustworthy guide to the finest                                       It is a guide-book,

                                                                        of the  ipnuobnliesh."e--rs  and  the country concerned.
                                                                                                     The  British Australasian.
history, scientific manual, rolled

Handbook for Oxfordshire.

                                                                                A NEW EDITION.

With numerous Maps and Plans and a Full Description of Oxford and its Colleges.

                                                                                Crown Svo. 6s.

hseapnad""rbaAEtoenvoekgn.e"uxi--cdtehelosSlespenettoctwathcthoeoorm.ctpohuilianntktiioentsh.,"ey--anSkdnatoauwrbdoatohyneiRrteoOvixterfwaovr.edllewrsellwhcaon  appreciate the  advantages    of
                                                                                                                                                                  learn a great  deal from   this.

  Handbook for Worcestershire and
                     Herefordshire.

                                   A NEW EDITION.
With Maps of the Counties and of the River Wye, and Plans of the Cathedrals, &c.

                                                       Crown Svo. 5s.

                  Japan.

                                    THIRD EDITION.

  By BASIL HALL CHAMBERLAIN and W. B. MASON.

                                     With Maps and Plans. l$s. net.
2S Mr. Murray's List of New and Recent Works.

                   MURRAY'S
University Extension Manuals.
Edited by Professor KNIGHT, of St. Andrew's University.
THE FOLLOWING WORKS ARE NOW READY:
The Study of Animal Life. By J. Arthur Thomson, Lecturer
on Zoology, School of Medicine, Edinburgh, Joint Author of the Evolution of Sex,
AAuthor of Outlines of Zoology. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5*.
The Realm of Nature :                Manual of Physiography.
By Dr. Hugh Robert Mill, Librarian to the Royal Geographical Society. With
      19 Coloured Maps and 68 Illustrations. (380 pp.) Crown 8vo. 5*.

An Introduction to Modern Geology. By R. D. Roberts.
      With Coloured Maps and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5*.

The Elements of Ethics. By John H. Muirhead, Balliol College,
Oxford, Lecturer on Moral Science,   Royal Holloway College,
sophy to the University of Glasgow.                           Examiner  in Philo
                                     Crown 8vo. y.

Logic, Inductive and Deductive. By William Minto, late
      Professor of Logic and Literature, University of Aberdeen. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.

The Fine Arts. By Prof. Baldwin Brown, University of Edin
      burgh. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

The French Revolution. By C. E. Mallet, Balliol College,
      Oxford. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

The Rise of the British Dominion in India. By Sir Alfred

     Lyall, K.C.B. With Coloured Maps. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.
English Colonization and Empire. By A. Caldecott, Fellow

     of St. John's College, Cambridge. Coloured Maps and Plans. Cr. 8vo. y. 6d.

The Use and Abuse of Money. By W. Cunningham, D.D.,
Fellow of Trin. Coll., Cambridge,  Professor of Economic
                                                          Science, King's College,
London. Crown 8vo. y.
The Philosophy of the Beautiful. Parts I. and II. By Pro
fessor Knight, University of St. Andrews. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d. (each Part).
The Physiology of the Senses. By John McKendrick, Professor
of Physiology in the University of Glasgow ; and Dr. Snodgrass, Physiological
Laboratory, Glasgow. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.

Outlines of English Literature. By William Renton. With
Illustrative Diagrams. Crown 8vo. y. 6d.

French Literature. By H. G. Keene, Wadham College, Oxford :

     Fellow of the University of Calcutta. Crown 8vo. y.

Greece in the Age of Pericles. By A. J. Grant, King's College,
      Cambridge, and Staff Lecturer in History to the University of Cambridge. With
       Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

Chapters in Modern Botany. By Patrick Geddes, Professor of

      Botany, University College, Dundee. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

The Jacobean Poets. By Edmund Gosse. Crown 8vo. $s. 6d.
The English Novel. By Professor Raleigh, University College,

Liverpool. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, WHITBPRIARS.
:''"'>$-

                 --m

