Memoir of Sir Andrew Crombie Ramsay / by Sir Archibald Geikie.

Geikie, Archibald, Sir, 1835-1924.
London : Macmillan and Co., 1895.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044107216376

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
oSifrMCARGCAARrrraanneecoommddhmimkirrbsseebbioaaaewwiiliyyeedr,
           MEMOIR

                                             OF

SIR A. C. RAMSAY
             Memoir

                                                                  OF

)ir Andrew Crombie Ramsay

                                                          BY

       SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE, F.R.S.

                       DIRECTOR -GENERAL OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OP
                                           GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND

                                   WITH PORTRAITS

                                      ILontJon

                MACMILLAN AND CO.

                                         AND NEW YORK

                                        1895

                                            All rights reserved
                  PREFACE

The life of a professional man of science seldom offers
such variety of incident and interest as to justify more
than a brief record. In most cases a summary of his
work and an estimate of its value in the onward march
of knowledge form for such a man the most fitting
memorial. Now and then, however, a leader has ap
peared, who, by the fascination of his personality, or
by the extent and importance of his individual achieve

ments, has exercised so marked an influence on his
contemporary fellow-workers, or on the general ad
vancement of science, that the desire naturally arises
to know something more of him and of his surround
ings, than the mere list of his labours. One would
fain learn how he came to be drawn into the ranks of
the soldiers of science, and by what process of training
or what stages of evolution he rose to be a captain in
those ranks. The story of his discoveries may some
times have had a vivid personal interest, and those
who can best appreciate the value of these discoveries
would gladly know how they were made.

     The subject of the present memoir stood in the
vi PREFACE

forefront of the Geology of his time, and by the charm
of his genial nature, as well as by the enthusiasm of
his devotion to science, exercised a wide influence

among his contemporaries.

    To that large circle of friends who knew him in his

prime, and to that yet wider public which recognises
how much it has profited by his labours, some brief
record of the life of Andrew Crombie Ramsay will
be welcome. He was almost my earliest geological
friend, and for many years we were bound together by
the closest ties of scientific work and of unbroken

friendship. It has been, therefore, a true labour of
love to put together this little memorial of him. As
far as the materials at my disposal would permit, I

have allowed his personal experiences to be told in his
own words. I have tried to trace the gradual progress
of his development as a geologist, and to offer a short
summary of what seem to me to have been the
essential features of his contributions to his favourite

science. And I have sought, though I fear with but
imperfect success, to show something of that bright,

sunny spirit which endeared him to all who came
within its influence.

     Sir Andrew Ramsay joined the Geological Survey
when it was still in its infancy, and he remained on its
staff during the whole of his active scientific career --a
period of forty years. So entirely did he identify
himself with the aims and work of the Survey, and so
PREFACE  vii

largely was he instrumental in their development, that
the chronicle of his life is in great measure the record

also of the progress of that branch of the public

service. Recognising this intimate relation, I have
woven into my narrative such additional detail as

might perhaps serve to make the volume not only a

personal biography, but an outline of the history of the
Geological Survey of the United Kingdom.

     Among those who have kindly supplied me with
letters or information I would especially express
my indebtedness to Lady Ramsay and Sir Andrew
Ramsay's nephew, Professor William Ramsay, F.R.S.,

who have furnished many family and personal details ;
and to Mrs. Johnes and Lady Hills-Johnes of Dolau-
cothy, who have lent a large collection of letters. Old

 colleagues on the Geological Survey have likewise

been helpful, especially Lord Play fair, Mr. W. T. Ave-
 line, Mr. A. R. C. Selwyn, Professor T. M 'Kenny
 Hughes, Professor A. H. Green, Mr. H. H. Howell,
 Mr. W. Whitaker, Mr. F. W. Rudler, Mr. A. Strahan,
 and the late Mr. W. Topley. Mr. M. J. Salter has
 lent a number of letters addressed to his father. To
 some of Sir Andrew's foreign correspondents I am

 likewise under obligation, particularly to Professor
 Zirkel, Professor Daubree, Professor Riitimeyer, Pro
 fessor Capellini, and the family of Signor Sella.

     It has seemed to me that additional interest would

 be given to the biography by the insertion not only of
viii PREFACE

a likeness of its subject, but of portraits of some of
his more notable comrades. I have accordingly added
likenesses of a dozen of his geological associates
whose names and work are well known. These have
been taken as far as possible from early photographs,
so as to picture the men as they looked when they
were actively engaged with Ramsay in geological
work. But in some cases when no early likeness
was available, or where the photographs had become
too faded for reproduction, later portraits have been

chosen.

Geolog1cal Survey Off1ce, Jermyn Street,

                 LONDON, 1 2th September 1 894.
...........L1st of Portra1tsCONTENTS

                                                           PAGE

                                                              xi

                     CHAPTER I

Parentage and Youth                                        1

                     CHAPTER II                  .34

The Ordnance Geolog1cal Survey   .

                        CHAPTER III                        65
                                                           98
The Geolog1cal Survey under the Off1ce of Works .

                           CHAPTER IV

......The Professorsh1p of Geology at Un1vers1ty College,
       London

                            CHAPTER V

The Survey of the Snowdon Reg1on . . .132

                           CHAPTER VI                      182

The School of M1nes and Museum, Jermyn Street .
X CONTENTS

                          CHAPTER VII

                                                                                                                                                          PAGE

The Geolog1cal Survey 1n Scotland . . . 209

                        CHAPTER VIII
.251Fore1gn Travel . . . . .

                           CHAPTER IX                276

The Pres1dency of the Geolog1cal Soc1ety -- Reorgan
      1sat1on of the Geolog1cal Survey . . .

                            CHAPTER X        . 314

D1rector-General of the Geolog1cal Survey .

                           CHAPTER XI     .          351

Ret1rement -- Summary of Career

APPENDIX ; LIST OF WORKS BY A. C. RAMSAY             367
INDEX                                                381
             LIST OF PORTRAITS                                 Frontispiece

.....4 Andrew C. Ramsay, from a Photograph by D. Mains (1882)
v Henry T. De la Bkche                                         To face page 28
               (1894)                                                    11 44

"^Alfred R. C. Selwyn, from a Photograph                                 u 66

 ......Melbourne                                                        11 80
"W1ll1am E. Logan, from a Photograph by Kilburn
                                                                        11 98
^W1ll1am T. Avel1ne, from a Photograph by Elliot and Fry                11 136
                                                                        11 168
^Henry W. Br1stow,      by Perry,
             Beadell

................JR1chard G1bbs
.'Thomas Oldhamfrom a Photographby Wilson and

* War1ngton W. Smyth                                           11 186
Joseph Beete Jukes, from a Photograph by Cranfield, Dublin     11 216
'Edward Forbes, from the Portrait in his Memoir                11 224
^Roder1ck I. Murch1son, from a Photograph by Whitlock,
                                                               11 280
 ......Birmingham

.....'jOHN W. Salter, from a Photograph by the London
Stereoscopic Company                                           ' > 324
                   CHAPTER I

                            PARENTAGE AND YOUTH

In the little town of Haddington during last century
several generations of Ramsays carried on the craft of
dyers. At length one of the family, William by name,
the son and grandson of previous Williams who had

been content to pursue their calling by the banks
of the East Lothian Tyne, determined to push his
fortune in a wider sphere. He appears to have been
a man of high principle and great energy, wide-minded
and good - tempered, with a strong bent towards
chemical pursuits, and not a little originality as an
investigator. About the year 1 785 he went to
Glasgow, and became there junior partner in the
firm of Arthur and Turnbull, manufacturers of wood-

spirit and pyroligneous acid. Besides making dyers'
chemicals and a variety of Prussian blue still known
as ' Turnbull's Blue,' this firm was the first to manu
facture ' chloride of magnesia ' as a bleaching liquor,
and also 'bichrome.' Had William Ramsay patented
some of his processes, it was generally believed among
his friends that he might have become one of the
richest men in the west of Scotland. But he did not
consider himself entitled to retain for his own behoof

a discovery which, if made widely known, would
2  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                     CHAP. I

benefit the general industry of the country, and he

was content to remain comparatively poor.

   The requirements of his business made him an

excellent practical chemist, but his interest in chemistry

reached far beyond these limits. In 1800 he founded
the ' Chemical Society of Glasgow,' into which, by the

energy of his example and the kindly courtesy of his

manner, he brought those of his fellow-citizens who

were interested in the progress of theoretical as well

as practical chemistry. He was chosen first President,

and among his associates were the well-remembered

chemist and mineralogist, Thomas Thomson, Professor

of Chemistry in the Glasgow University, and Walter

Crum, of Thornliebank.  Two years later, on the

foundation of a wider brotherhood of science by the

establishment of the ' Philosophical Society of Glas

gow,' the Chemical Society was voluntarily dissolved

in favour of the new organisation, which thus received,

we may believe, not a little of the vigour which has
enabled it to flourish till now as a centre of scientific

life in the midst of the mercantile atmosphere of

Glasgow. William Ramsay's reputation as a chemist
spread outside his own country. His house was one

of the attractions to foreign chemists who came to

Glasgow ; and even long after his death his widow

received visits from such men as Liebig, who re

membered her husband's meritorious work.

     In the year 1809 William Ramsay married
Elizabeth Crombie, a second cousin of his own,

daughter of Mr. Andrew Crombie, writer in Edin

burgh. The Crombies, like the Ramsays, had for
many generations been connected with the trade of

dyers. There is a tradition that during the famous

Porteous Riot in Edinburgh in 1736, so graphically
18 14- 1840         PARENTAGE                           3

described in Scott's Heart of Midlothian, the mob,
coming down the West Bow with their wretched victim,

stopped at the shop of Crombie, the dyer, with the

object of hanging Porteous from the pole above the

door, when a shout arose that it would be a shame to

do the deed at the door of so worthy a man. The

crowd, determined as it was on vengeance, recognised

the justice of this protest, and passed down into the
Grassmarket, where they made use of the pole of

another dyer not so popular among his townsmen.

The last representative of the family who still carried

on the trade of dyer in Edinburgh was a not less
worthy citizen -- John Crombie, who, firm in the ancient
ways, went about in a tail-coat and ' stock ' up to the
end of his life, in 1874. He was a cousin of Sir
Andrew C. Ramsay, who often stayed in his hospi

table house during visits to Edinburgh.

Mrs. Ramsay was a woman of strongly-marked

character, uniting a firmness of purpose with a gentle

ness and sweetness of nature that gave her remarkable

influence over all who came in contact with her.

Clever and wise, she had had her natural powers

quickened and trained by an excellent education. She

was beloved by the young, for whom her face used

to light up with a cordial welcome. In the esteem

and affections of her sons she ever held the foremost

place. Her husband died in 1827, and her circum

stances became thereafter somewhat straitened, but her

cheery spirit and unruffled temper enabled her to keep

a happy, though modest home for her children. She

survived     until  the year    1858.    The children of this
marriage     were   four in   number   -- Eliza, born in 18 10,

William in 181 1, Andrew Crombie in 1814, and John

in 18 16.
4              PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                 CHAP. I

   In this well-ordered household, where both the

father and mother had read widely, much was done to

foster a love of literature among the younger members.
It was one of the practices of the family that on at

least one morning of the week French should be the

language of the breakfast-table. On other mornings a

paper from the Spectator would be read, or a passage
from some standard English author. And doubtless

the achievements of science, as far as they could be

made intelligible and interesting, were often subjects of

conversation.

   Such was the household in which Andrew Crombie

Ramsay was born on the 31st January 18 14. Of his
early years little record has been preserved. From

his mother's letters we learn that when five years old,

during a painful operation on one of his fingers, he

showed such self-possession as to earn from the

surgeon the encomium of being ' the most determined

little fellow he had ever seen.' In a letter written to

his wife in 1854, when his eldest daughter was a child,

he says : ' I fancy I see Ella in the hayfield. These
early days are never lost. I recollect them on rare
occasions. I remember the first time I saw cowslips in

a field ; how amazed and charmed I was ! The mind

drinks in beauty in early life that never leaves                   of
                     is
                                                              it,

                                                       if
good quality. Happy  the child whose first im

pressions are not of smoke, bricks, and gutters.'

   For some time his health appears to have been deli

cate. At nine or ten years of age he was removed from

Glasgow, and sent to the Parish School at Saltcoats, a
little village on the coast of Ayrshire, where the sea-air

might enable him to gain strength, and throw off his
ailments. An observant boy could hardly have been

placed in a position better fitted to stimulate his
1814-1840   THE AYRSHIRE COAST                          5

faculties.  A sea - beach strewn with pebbles and

shells lay in front of him, with rocks over which he

could climb, and pools wherein he might bathe,

or watch the movements of the creatures left by

the tide. To the south a range of sand-dunes

stretched for miles along the coast, mounting into

ridges and sinking into hollows, which a young

imagination could easily transfigure into ranges of

mountains and lines of valley, interspersed with bare

sandy plains and recesses that might typify trackless

deserts --a lonely region, and a very paradise of boy

hood. Then, in the interior, a long sweep of upland

rose northward from the shore, commanding from its

breezy heights a wide expanse of the Firth of Clyde,
with the blue hills of Cantyre and Arran, sometimes even

those of the north of Ireland, closing in the distance.
On the lower grounds many a dell and ravine served

as channels for streams which, haunted by trout and

minnow, wandered through woodlands where many a

bird built its nest, and where with the changing seasons

came the successive attractions of blackthorn, may-

blossom, blackberries, wild cherries, and hazel-nuts.

There were likewise not a few ruined castles and

crumbling peels, which an adventurous boy might

climb, and where a contemplative one could find

material for many a pleasant reverie. We can hardly

doubt that surroundings such as these must have quick

ened in young Ramsay that love of nature, that delight

in antiquities, and that devotion to out-of-door pursuits

which formed such strong features in his character.

From Saltcoats he was eventually brought back to

Glasgow, to continue his education at the Grammar

School there. Mr. James King, probably his only
surviving schoolmate, has kindly supplied the
6                 PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                 CHAP. I

following notes about his school-days : ' Andrew was

always cheerful and full of fun, so much so that he
was nicknamed " Appybe " (happy bee).
                                               He was

our leader in the stone-fights with the Camlachie

boys. He attended Mr. Dymock's class at the

Grammar School. When he was a child, a lady who

had called was telling Mrs. Ramsay what a good child

her lost son was, when Andrew, looking up to his
mother, said, " Mother, I would not like to be a good

bairn ; good bairns aye die." He was very fond of

dogs. I remember his great grief at being obliged to

drown Puck for biting the postman.'

     He lost his father in the summer of 1827. Twenty
years afterwards, on the anniversary of this sad event

in his life, he wrote as follows : ' My father died this

day twenty years at Roseneath. I was then between

thirteen and fourteen, and recollect it well. We had

been there about a week. He was very           a      on the
                                                 ill
way down in the steamboat, having had an additional

slight shock the very night before we started. Willie

was sent up from Roseneath a day or two before his

death.  I      accompanied him as far as Ardincaple

Ferry, and watched him across.      I It  was a fine day,

but blew hard. On the way back recollect playing

with flowers, so strange  is        believe with all men)
                              it

                                (I

that even in great distress the mind occupies itself

with trifles.     also recollect during this week of
             it
severe illness my mother told me to take book and
                I
amuse myself.       It  was Shakespeare.   II   read Julius
Ccesar --the first play of Shakespeare
                                        I    ever read, and

even then highly interested me. Willie brought

down Drs. Coldstream and Buchanan with him. My

father died, think, shortly after they arrived, having
               I

been speechless for some time before.          did not see
1814-1840  A MERCANTILE CAREER                             7

him die, having, if I recollect right, left the room in
great distress some half-hour before. My mother

prayed aloud soon after, most passionately and fer

vently ; so did Dr. Coldstream. Curiously enough,

none of our relations came to aid the widow and her

children up to town, but Mr. Napier, the engineer,

came down of his own accord in one of his own

steamboats, and took on himself most kindly all the

arrangements. My uncles arrived the day of the

funeral. My mother threw herself into her brother
Andrew's arms, and said, " Oh Andrew ! "

'The funeral was large and imposing. He was

carried "shoulder-high" to the Ramshorn Church

yard, and buried in the Walkinshaw ground.

' By and by, shortly after, my troubles in life

began.     Willie was apprenticed to Napier, the

engineer, and I was sent to Mr.  's counting-house.'

The boy's education was thus prematurely cut

short, for in the straitened circumstances in which

the widow found herself after her husband's death,

she deemed it necessary that she should take boarders,

and that her sons should, as early as possible,

begin the active business of life. Andrew was

intended for a mercantile career, and went when a

mere boy into the office to which he refers in the pre

ceding extract. After being some time there he

removed to the warehouse of a firm of linen merchants
in Glasgow --a situation in which he seems to have

been specially unhappy, for mention of the misery he

there endured occurs in his diaries and in his family

correspondence long years after he had become a

successful man of science. He once came upon one

of these old masters of his in a little inn in Wales, and

the following entry occurs in his journal of that day :
8  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                       CHAP. I

' After dinner an old man, whom I had observed

promenading the road before the inn, came into the

room and took off his hat ; his hair was bleached. In

an instant a recollection flashed upon me. I started
up and stretched out my hand, crying, " Mr.
                                                      ,

I am delighted to see you," for my heart warmed

towards him, in spite of all his want of consideration

and kindness when long ago I sat, a boy, at a desk in

his office. How changed care and anxiety have made
him ! He is an old, old man, though only sixty-one,

and has been very ill.'

   There never appears to have been any question in

the family but that Andrew was to devote himself to

mercantile pursuits. Yet, from the very outset, he

kept his interests broad, and made amends for his

curtailed education by cultivating his mind with wide

reading. His natural tastes led him to continue the

literary pursuits that had from his early years been so

well fostered at home. He was an omnivorous reader,

and acquired a facility in expressing himself in clear,

vigorous language.

    An interesting relic of this period of his life has

survived in the shape of a few numbers of a manu

script periodical, written by him and a few young men
of similar tastes. He acted as editor, and the paper

circulated among the families and friends of the con
tributors during the years 1835 and 1836. It bore
the name of ' Ramsay's Miscellaneous Journal,' and

upon the wrapper of each number, in the handwriting
of the editor, some appropriate motto appeared from a
play of Shakespeare or a poem of Pope. The articles

contributed by him included some nightmare hallu
cinations and sketches of character, with occasional

sonnets and odes, more or less grotesque in subject
1814-1840            EARLY STRUGGLES                   9

and treatment. The concluding number closes with

an editorial farewell : ' May our journal rest quietly

in its grave ; and if ever its pages should be used to

light  your  pipes,  peace  be  with  its  ashes    '
                                                  !

Though he had not himself matriculated at the

University of Glasgow, he came into close personal

relations with some of its professors and many of its
students. Chief among his academical friends and

advisers was Dr. J. P. Nichol, the well-known and
accomplished Professor of Practical Astronomy. To

this sympathetic associate he owed more than to any

other for the guidance and encouragement which
eventually led him into the career of a man of science.

Among the young men then attending the University
his closest friend was Lyon Playfair, now Lord Play-

fair, who was one of the boarders in Mrs. Ramsay's

house.

In pursuance of the intention that he should follow

a mercantile profession, Ramsay, about the year 1837,
entered into partnership with a Mr. Anderson as
dealers in cloth and calico. The firm took an office

in the Candleriggs of Glasgow, and carried on

business for some three years. But the venture

was not successful, and the copartnery was dis

solved, leaving Ramsay poorer in purse, some

what enfeebled in health, and rather depressed in

spirits.

     It was natural that these successive disappoint

ments should create a strong revulsion in his mind

against an occupation which had never had great
attraction for him. In a letter to his brother William,

written in 1846, when he had thoroughly established

his position in the Geological Survey, he refers to

these early and bitter experiences of his life : ' You
10          PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

must bear in mind how unhappily I was placed --

first with  , when a system of miserable petty

tyranny was carried on from beginning to end, with
other disagreeables going much against the grain ;

then with   , a falling, low concern from the

beginning, and then something still worse behind.'
     The island of Arran has been for the last two or

three generations one of the chief centres of attrac

tion in the west of Scotland. To the inhabitants of

Glasgow it has offered a much-prized retreat, where

pure air and charming scenery can be reached after a

journey of only a few hours. It was the custom of the

Ramsay family, and of many families of their acquaint

ance, to spend as much of the summer as possible

in this delightful island. In those days the accommo

dation to be had in Arran was of a far more primitive

kind than it is generally now. Almost the only

available lodging was to be found in the little thatched

cots of the peasantry, and the unpretending farm

houses, where the rooms were few and small, and the

furnishing generally scanty. Yet into one of these

lowly dwellings a large family would contrive to

squeeze itself, laughing at the discomfort with the

light-heartedness of holiday-makers who were pre

pared to enjoy everything. The conventionalities of

town life were left behind. Except for the hours of

meals and of sleep, and the intervals of bad weather,

the time of the visitors was spent entirely out of

doors. Bathing, boating, climbing, and walking or

driving to different parts of the island filled up each

day, and the evenings brought pleasant interchanges

of hospitality, with music and dance and endless merri

ment. If at the end of the week the heads of families

brought down with them more guests than the capa
1814-1840  ISLE OF ARRAN  11

cities of the cottages --elastic as these were-- could

accommodate, there was always the homely and com
fortable hostelry of Mrs. Jameson to fall back upon,
with the calm bay in front, the Castle woods behind,
and the noble cone of Goatfell towering into the sky

beyond them.1

     Sixty years have passed away since the time to
which I am now referring ; and though in this in
terval Arran has altered far less than other places
on the Firth of Clyde, it has, nevertheless, undergone
some marked changes. The old village of Brodick,
for instance, with its long row of thatched cottages,
has been removed. The old inn no longer ' invites
each passing traveller that can pay,' though the build-

    1 Among the reminiscences of this pleasant Highland inn I recall the eccen

tricities of a half-witted but pawky attendant, who used to be employed in
miscellaneous errands, and had a specially pronounced love of brandy. On

one occasion he was pushing his boat down the beach, when two visitors came up
and asked where he was bound for. He answered that he was going across the
bay to the Corriegills shore for a bag or two of potatoes. The gentlemen asked to
be allowed to accompany him ; a request with which Sandy willingly complied,

the more especially as they volunteered to do the rowing if he would steer.
Having crossed the bay, they were coasting quietly past the huge boulder of

granite which, lying on the red sandstones, forms so notable a landmark on
that part of the shore. Directing the attention of his crew to this object, Sandy

remarked : ' Maybe ye'll no believe me, but if anybody climbs to the tap o' that
stane and cries as loud as he likes, there's naebody can hear him.' This state
ment, as he expected, was received with a smile of derision, whereupon he
insisted that he would wager them a bottle of brandy that it was true. So they

drew to land, and Sandy, jumping ashore, was speedily on the top of the

boulder, where he proceeded to open his mouth and swing his body as if he
were roaring with the strength of ten bulls of Bashan, but without emitting a

sound. ' Very extraordinary,' said his friends, and they resolved to try the ex

periment themselves. So when Sandy had descended, they proceeded, with
rather less agility, to clamber up the stone. When they were both on the top
they proceeded to shout with such vehemence that they might have been heard
on the other side of the bay. Sandy, however, stood on the shore below,

putting his hand behind each ear in turn to catch any sound that might come
from the boulder. They shouted to him until they were nearly hoarse, without
evoking one sign of recognition from him. At last coming down they demanded

if he meant to say that he had never heard them. Sandy had a remarkable power
of expressing astonishment by his mere looks, and availing himself of this power,

he loudly protested that he had never heard one single sound from them, and,
with a face of childlike innocence, asked if they really had called out. He was
allowed to pull the boat back himself, but he had his bottle of brandy that

evening.
12  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

ing still stands as part of the offices of the Castle.
The deserted pump-well remains to mark the centre

of the life of the vanished hamlet. A large hotel,

with waiters and other products of modern civili

sation, has since risen at Invercloy, on the south
side of the bay, together with many slated houses ;
while the inns all over the island, as well as the

farm-houses and cottages, have been much enlarged
and improved. The young visitors of to-day would
probably look with disdain on the humble cots where

their mothers and grandmothers were contented and
happy. But it may be doubted whether the charms
of this most delightful of islands are more appreciated
than they were in old days when the enjoyment of
them was coupled with discomforts now happily

removed.

     Since the early decades of this century Arran has

enjoyed a special reputation as a field for geological
study. Its mountainous northern half has been held
to represent the main structural features of the Scottish

Highlands, while its southern half has been regarded
as affording examples of the younger formations, and
especially of the igneous rocks, which form a con
spicuous feature in the geology as well as the scenery

of the southern part of the opposite mainland. It has
been described as affording an epitome of the geology
of Scotland, with all the salient points of structure

comprised within such narrow compass, and so clearly
displayed as to afford exceptional facilities for practical
investigation. Its coast-line supplies an almost con
tinuous section of the rocks, with admirable exposures
of their various structures and relations to each other.

Its streams, too, coursing for ages from the watershed

to the sea, have trenched their channels into the solid
1814-184°  IEARL Y NFL UENCES  13

rock. All over the island, crags and rugged knolls
reveal the nature of what lies beneath the surface,

while the peaks and crests of the northern mountain
group form the background of the finest landscapes.
Nowhere can the influence of geological structure

upon scenery be more clearly seen, and nowhere is
that influence displayed in forms that more em

phatically appeal to the imagination. It is a region
where a slumbering love of geological inquiry can

hardly fail to be stimulated into activity, and where

a latent aptitude for such inquiry may easily be

quickened into life.
      Such were the surroundings amid which Ramsay

spent the holidays of his boyhood and youth. I have

not been able to trace definitely the beginning and
earliest development of his enthusiasm for geology.
There can be little doubt, however, that, over and
above the effect of his environment, he owed much of

the impulse which led him into the geological field to
the influence of two early friends. When still a boy

at Saltcoats, he had come into close contact with

 David Landsborough, with whom he then began a
life-long friendship. This genial man and enthusiastic
 naturalist, born in 1779, became in 181 1 minister of

 the parish of Stevenston, in which part of the village
 of Saltcoats lies. He had from an early period of his
 life devoted himself to the study of the botany and
 natural history, not only of his own parish, but of the
 neighbouring region of Ayrshire and of Arran. So
 ardent was his devotion to these pursuits, and so
 successful his cultivation of them, that he was known
 as the Gilbert White of the west of Scotland. He is

 said to have added nearly seventy species to the pre

 viously known flora and fauna of Scotland. His
14  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

personal influence in communicating the contagion of
his love of nature is vividly remembered by those who
knew him. As Ramsay came under this influence

when a mere boy, we can hardly doubt that it helped

in giving the bent to his future life-work.
     The other friend, who contributed still more to

the determination of Ramsay's geological career,
was Professor Nichol, already referred to. Besides

guiding the young man's reading, this helpful mentor
incited him to the undertaking of definite pieces of
geological field-work. Nichol, though not a professed

geologist, had himself read widely and critically in

geological literature ; he was therefore well qualified
to suggest lines of inquiry, to appreciate the signifi
cance of new observations, and to share in the plea
sures and excitements of geological rambles. He, too,
used to spend his summer holidays in Arran, and while

there enjoyed long walks and talks with his young

friend. If any stimulus to sustained geological effort

had been needed on Ramsay's part, it was amply
supplied by 'the Professor.' When the two friends
were separated, long letters of suggestion and advice
would come from Nichol. The kindly and helpful

interest thus taken in him was always gratefully

remembered by Ramsay, who never ceased to look
back upon the Professor of Astronomy as his true

father in science, to whose wise counsel and assistance

he owed the happy change from a merchant's office to
the life of a professional man of science.

     The fame of Arran as a happy hunting-ground
for the geologist drew many men of note to visit
it. Of one of these visits Lord Playfair has

been so good as to communicate the following recol

lections :--
1814-1840  EARL Y GEOLOGICAL RAMBLES  '5

     At the latter end of April 1836, or beginning of May in that

year, I was going down to Arran, and was reading Lyell's Geology,
which I had got as a prize at Graham's Class of Chemistry. Sitting

Ibeside me in the steamboat was a charming lady, who entered into
conversation with me, and  showed her my book. I expressed

great admiration for the author, and she smiled, and then called a
gentleman from the other side of the steamer, to whom she intro

Iduced his young admirer. This was my first introduction to the

Lyells. At Arran used to help Mrs. Lyell in collecting shells, for

Iat that time knew something of conchology, while Lyell geologised

in the interior of the island. Ramsay joined me in Arran after a

Ifew days, and told Mr. Lyell that my friend would like to help

him in his excursions, which thereafter they used to make

together.

     In the letter to Lyell, given at p. 92 of this
Memoir, Ramsay himself dates the beginning of his
serious study of geology from about the year 1 836, and

acknowledges his great indebtedness to the illustrious

author of the Principles of Geology.
     It is not possible now to recover traces of the

successive tours and excursions by which the young
geologist gradually filled up the geological map of
Arran. He had been preceded by several able ob
servers, who had published accounts of the structure of

the island, notably by Macculloch, Jameson, Sedgwick,

Murchison, and Necker de Saussure. But their descrip
tions could not be regarded as more than outlines of a
wide subject, which would require years of patient

research before its details could be mastered. It was
with no idea of testing, still less of criticising, their

labours that Ramsay followed in their footsteps along
the shores and up the glens. He had not originally
proposed to himself to publish any of his observations,
which were made entirely for the pleasure they
brought in their train, as they led him year after year
over hill and dale. Gradually he found that various

facts met with by him in the course of his rambles had
16  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

not been noticed by others before him. Thus, as far
back as the summer of 1837, he had observed the
mass of granite of ' Ploverfield,' of which the first

published account was given three years later by
Necker de Saussure.1 These discoveries were duly

communicated to his friend Nichol, who doubtless

made good use of them as an encouragement to

continued investigation.
     The meeting of the British Association for the

Advancement of Science was held in Glasgow in

September 1840. Among the preparations for that
meeting a committee was started for the purpose of
gathering together a collection of specimens, maps,
and sections illustrative of the geology of the west of
Scotland. In order to expedite the task, various
sub-committees were formed, to each of which a special
branch of the work was assigned. One of these was
organised to prepare a model of the island of Arran,
together with specimens of its geological formations.
The convener of this sub-committee was Professor
Nichol, who, as one of the local secretaries of the

Association, undertook a large amount of labour and
responsibility, and contributed much to the success of
the Glasgow meeting. Ramsay was the secretary of

the sub-committee, and, single-handed, did almost the
whole of its work. In reporting to the general

Museum Committee what they had done, Professor

Nichol, who drew up the statement, remarked that
' Arran had previously been surveyed by several

geologists ; but although these eminent men had given
valuable accounts of their observations, many blanks
remained to be filled up, and several important ques

tions, having reference to the particular modes and

                           1 Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. xiv. (1840), p. 667.
1814-1840 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW               17

epochs of the elevatory movements, and other phe
nomena of which this remarkable island is a memorial,

do not appear to have been stirred at all. The Com

mittee cannot presume that all deficiencies are now
supplied, but they are certain that many points formerly

obscure have been illustrated by their labours, and

that a foundation at least is laid for a very complete
and singular geological monograph. Their specimens,
amounting probably to 700 or 800, have been selected
with much care,1 many sections have been drawn, a

large map is in progress, and they have every hope
that the model will, when finished, answer the purpose
of rendering a great class of phenomena more palpable
than could be done by any other mode of representa

tion. It is necessary to mention that a new survey of

the island in every locality has been executed, and that

nearly all these labours have been gratuitously per
formed by their secretary, Mr. Andrew Ramsay, to

whose talent and untiring energy their success is

wholly owing.'

    By the time the Association met, these active pre
parations had been completed. The specimens from
Arran, after much anxious consultation over them on

the part of Professor Nichol and his young associate,

were duly displayed, the large map and sections were
hung up, and the model, on the scale of two inches to
a mile, was exhibited, with all the geological formations
of the island clearly depicted on it in distinct colours.

    A notable gathering of geologists assembled in

Glasgow in September 1840. They included Lyell,2

1 These specimens became the property of the British Association, and were
handed over to the Andersonian University of Glasgow.
                                                       But many years

afterwards (1876) the Andersonian authorities, having no longer room for them,
returned them, and they are now in the British Museum.
     s Charles Lyell, born 1797, died 1875 ; author of the immortal Principles of

Geology.

          C
IS                    PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                                                             CHAP. I

Greenough,1 Buckland,2 Phillips,3 Murchison,4 De la

Beche,5 Smith of Jordanhill,6 Agassiz,7 Strickland,8

Edward Forbes,9 and Griffith.10 It was before this

audience that Ramsay read his first scientific paper,

' Notes taken during the Surveys for the Construction

of the Geological Model, Maps, and Sections of the
Island of Arran.' 11 In this communication he gave a

brief sketch of his work. How he was guided in the

conception of and in the further elaboration of his
                      it,

                                                                 :
                                                                 '

                                                                                                   a
results, will appear from the following sentences in

letter to him from Nichol                                      In writing out your

memoir never omit to draw attention as you go along

to points yet requiring elucidation, and which present

hopes of something very interesting. You must make

this memoir short, chiefly in the way of scientific notes.

        George Bellas Greenough, born 1778, died 1855 one of the founders21
and the first President of the Geological Society of London.

        William Buckland, born 784, died 1856; author of Reliquice Diluviana,
also of one of the most celebrated Bridgewater Treatises, and of numerous geological
memoirs Dean of Westminster, and Reader in Geology in the University of
                                  1
                                                                                       ;

    3
             ;
Oxford.
        John Fhillips, born 1800, died 1874 one of the founders and for many

years General Secretary of the British Association was for some years attached
                                                         ;
                                                           ;

                                                                       ;
                                                                                  ;
to the Geological Survey under De la Beche an able writer and clear lecturer9 87 6 64
on geology succeeded Dr. Buckland in the geological readership at Oxford.;

        Roderick Impey Murchison, born 1792, died 1871 author of The Silurian
System, etc., and Director-General of the Geological Survey from 1855 to 1871.

        Henry Thomas De la Beche, born 1796, died 1855; founder and first
Director-General of the Geological Survey of Great Britain author of some
                                                         ;
valuable papers and treatises.                                                   a

                                                                                                   ;
       James Smith, born 1782, died 1867 author of remarkable work on The
Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul, and some of the earliest papers on the shelly
deposits of the Glacial Drift.

        Louis Agassiz, born 1807, died 1873 famous as writer on fossil fishes,
and for his contributions to glacial geology.            1, ,       a
                                                                           a
        Hugh Edwin Strickland, born 181 died 1853;                                   a    geologist of great
ability and promise killed by passenger train when examining cutting on the
                      ;
                              ;

                                           1a
                                                     5,
Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway.
        Edward Forbes, born 81 died 1854 one of the foremost British
                                                               ;

naturalists of his time attached to the Geological Survey, and shortly before
his early death appointed Professor of Natural History in the University of

Edinburgh.                                                          the most illustrious geologist
     10 Richard Griffith, born 1784, died 1878
                                                         p.
IrelaInI d    has produced.       1840, Sections,                ;
            Report, Brit. Assoc.                               92.
1814-184o BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW  19

The popular descriptive part must be kept for your
book. I have been thinking of a speculation with
Griffin in regard of your model and book, which I
think might be very advantageous to you ; of which,
when we meet.' We shall see immediately what came
of the ' speculation ' here referred to.

      Ramsay was heartily welcomed at Glasgow into

the brotherhood of geologists. He formed there some
of the most lasting and influential friendships of his
life. It was there that he first came in contact with

De la Beche, under whom, though at that time un
dreamt of by either of them, he was within a few
months to enter upon the career of a professional
geologist. It was there that he first met Murchison,

who was from the very first deeply impressed with

his capacity and geological ardour. It was there, too,
that he made acquaintance with Edward Forbes, and

began that intimacy which linked the two men together
by the closest ties of friendship in the prosecution of

scientific work.

     It was arranged that on the Saturday of the

Association week an excursion should be made to

Arran, and the young geologist who had explored the

island so well was invited by Lyell, who was President
of Section C (Geology), to read his communication the

day before, in order that those who intended to take part
in the excursion might be put in possession of the neces
sary information. The excursionists divided themselves

into two parties, one proceeding direct by steamer,

the other by railway to Ardrossan, and thence by
steamer to Arran. Ramsay was to conduct the

party united at Brodick, and give them a general
exposition of Arran geology. But he had worked

hard in making all the preliminary preparations, and
20             PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                 CHAP. I

for some days before had been up early and late.

Hence, when the morning came, he unluckily overslept

himself, and was too late for both steamboat and train.

This untoward accident he never ceased to regret.

    The excitement of the Glasgow meeting, the first

entry into the company of renowned geologists with

whose names he had so long been familiar, the first

public exhibition of his own work as a geologist, the

first plunge into the sea of active scientific discussion,

and the cordial welcome extended to him by men

whose achievements he had followed from afar, left

Ramsay with many regrets when he came back again

to the consideration of his own prospects in life. How
gladly would he have taken to science as a calling if

only any opening had offered itself. Nine years after

wards, when he had found his place in the active

brotherhood of men of science, chancing to meet

Professor Johnston of Durham, whose acquaintance
he had made at the British Association in Glasgow,

he recalled to him an incident of that meeting,

which he thus describes : ' On the Sunday of the

Association week I chanced to overtake Johnston in
Ingram Street, and, talking about geological matters,

I told him how I was busy with mercantile affairs, and

longed for an opportunity to engage in geological

pursuits, after the happy taste I had had of it in
working before the coming of the Association. " Stick

to your work," quoth he, "and don't forget your
                                       "
geology,  and  something  may  arise      He spoke truly.'
                                      !

    The British Association meeting, while it had

stimulated his bent towards geological work, threw no

light upon the dark outlook before the young man.
From a letter of his mother's, it appears that there was

at one time some prospect of his going out to Tasmania,
1814-1840  HIS FIRST PUBLICATION  21

and with her maternal desire to keep all the family

around her if that might be, she gladly welcomed any
proposal that would prevent such a breaking up of
her home-circle. As one disappointment succeeded

another in his efforts to obtain a solid footing in

business, he employed himself in completing his
account of Arran. The ' speculation ' referred to by
Nichol took formal shape in an agreement between
the Glasgow publishing firm of Richard Griffin and Co.,
and Andrew Ramsay, ' Merchant in Glasgow,' dated
2nd November 1840, by which, in consideration of the
payment of a sum of twenty-one pounds, the latter

undertook to prepare within three months a work on
the geology of the island of Arran, together with the

necessary views, sections, and maps.
     In pursuance of this agreement, the work was duly

written, and appeared the following spring as a thin
octavo volume of seventy-eight pages, with a little map,
a page of sections, and upwards of two dozen wood

cuts, chiefly from drawings by the author. It was
entitled The Geology of the Island of Arran from

Original Survey, by A ndrew Crombie Ramsay, and was

appropriately dedicated to Nichol. This essay has long
since taken its place among the classics of Scottish
geology. As a broad outline of the structure of an

exceedingly interesting geological region it was a most

meritorious production. It gave sufficient detail to

show how carefully its author had gone over the

ground, how accurate and acute he was as an observer,

and how clearly he saw the relation between scattered or

isolated facts and the broad principles that connected

them. While his chapters did not by any means
exhaust Arran, they correctly described its general
geological structure. In particular, the existence of
22     PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                      CHAP. I

a 'New Red Sandstone ' series, first proposed by

Sedgwick and Murchison, was clearly recognised by

him. Other observers have since disputed this

assertion, but its truth has recently been confirmed

by the Geological Survey. The history of the igneous

is
             it
                                                  it

                                                                                      it,
                                                                                              is
phenomena remains very much as Ramsay left and

    not likely to be much advanced until the still com

paratively unknown southern part of the island

mapped in minute detail.

    Apart from the excellence of his essay as a geological

treatise, had no little merit as a piece of descriptive
prose. A few passages from
                                                may be quoted here

to show that, besides cultivating habits of geological

observation, the author entered thoroughly into the

spirit of the scenery amid which he was working, and

could depict in graphic words the aspects of the land
scapes. Let us accompany him to the top of Goatfell,

the highest summit in Arran, and listen to his account

of The eye of the geologist suddenly rests on
    it                                          ;

         :                                             a
            '

                  if
scene which, he be true lover of nature, cannot
                      a

fail to inspire him with astonishment and delight.

The jagged and spiry peaks of the surrounding moun

tains the dark hollows and deep shady corries, into
    ;

which the rays of the sun scarce ever penetrate the

open swelling hills beyond, the winding shores of Loch

Fyne, and the broad Firth of Clyde, studded with its

peaceful and fertile islands the rugged mountains of
    a

                                    it ;
                                            is
Argyllshire, and the gentle curves of the hills of the

Western Isles, their outlines softened in the distance,

form scene of surpassing grandeur and loveliness.

In all its varying aspects,                     a scene, the memory of

which can be dwelt on with pleasure whether
                                                :

                                                                     it

be seen in the early morning, when the white mists,

drawn upward from the glens, float along the hills, and
1814-1840  SCENES IN ARRAN  -3

half conceal their giant peaks ; or in the gloom of an
autumn evening, when the descending clouds, urged

onwards by the blast, flit swiftly across the mountain

sides, while ever and anon their gloomy shoulders

loom largely through the rolling masses, and seem to

the beholder to double their vast proportions ; or in
the mellow light of a summer sunset, when the shadows
of the hills fall far athwart the landscape, and the
distant Atlantic gleams brightly in the slanting rays of
the setting sun ; while, as he sinks below the horizon,
it is difficult to distinguish the lofty summits of Jura
and the Isles from the gorgeous masses of clouds
among which he disappears.'

     In the midst of these impressive scenes, while

enjoying to the full their picturesque beauty, Ramsay's
eye was ever keenly sensitive to the geological lessons

so vividly taught by them. Lingering among the
granite precipices, and ' surrounded by the grey peaks
of the solemn hills,' the observer reflects that these

colossal features in the scenery, notwithstanding 'all
their appearance of majesty and power, are day by day
slowly crumbling into dust. Even now the landscape

on which he mutely gazes is imperceptibly yielding to
the never-dying principle of change ; and the time will
come when, with all its varied features, it shall have

passed away, and left no trace behind.'
     The young geologist had an eye, too, for the little

touches of human pathos which so often lighten up the
sombreness of a Highland scene. As he comes down
North Glen Sannox, once a populous valley, but in
his day, as it is still, almost uninhabited, he contrasts
its very different conditions. He marks how 'green

spots, clothed with a close-cropped herbage, and still

bearing witness to the marks of the plough, surround
24           PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

each ruined clachan. The hazel and the fragrant

birch, the ash and the charmed rowan, fringe the

banks of the stream, or mark the remains of the little

garden -enclosures ; and mingled with these may be

seen the white blossoms of the gnarled elder, famed
of old for its irresistible power in scaring the midnight

witches from the neighbourhood of lonely dwellings,

and counteracting the malicious pranks of the fairies,

who, it is well known, still inhabit these desert

wastes    '
        !

    The author avoids letting his own personality be

seen in the course of his narrative, but in the following

passage we seem to meet him coming back somewhat

jaded from a long tramp to his welcome resting-place

for the night in the snug homely inn of Loch Ranza.

' Tired and hungry though the traveller be, and with

the very smoke of the little inn curling before his

eyes, let him pause for a moment at the entrance of

the loch, and seating himself on a granitic boulder,

quietly contemplate the placid scene before him.

Trees there are few to boast of, and what is pleasanter,

there are still fewer strangers, for to the traveller in

such a scene, all strangers seem out of place but
himself. The sinking sun shines bright on the
gleaming peaks of Caistael Abhael and Ceum na

Cailleach, where the shadows of the rugged scars

and deep hollows of the winter torrents, mingled with

the lights brightly reflected from the projecting rocks,

form a hazy radiance which more obscures than

illuminates the shady recesses of the rugged corries.

The tide is at its full, and the lazy sails of many

a lagging fishing-boat, the image of the ruined tower

and of the green hills around, lie calmly reflected in
the unruffled waters :--
1814-1840  SCENES IN ARRAN  25

                           The lake returned in chastened gleam
                           The purple cloud, the golden beam ;
                              Reflected in the crystal pool,
                              Headland and bank lay fair and cool ;
                          The weather-tinted rock and tower,
                              Each drooping tree, each fairy flower,
                              So true, so soft, the mirror gave,
                        As if there lay beneath the wave,
                              Secure from trouble, toil, and care,
                        A world than earthly world more fair.

     ' But it is in a cold February evening that the
pleasant solitude of the place will be most esteemed.
There, seated at a blazing peat-fire, as the geologist
extends his notes or arranges his specimens after his
day's work, he will hear the piercing wind whistling
down Glen Chalmadael and the narrow pass of Glen
Eisnabearradh, then dying away as it reaches a wider
expanse of the loch, to be again renewed by a louder
and a shriller blast. And as he loiters to the door
to speculate on the probabilities of the morrow's
weather, he may chance to see the burning heath,
like the beacons of old, blazing on the hills around,
and faintly gleaming on the far-distant headlands of
Argyllshire.' 1

     It was while Ramsay was engaged in the pre
paration of these chapters for the printer that the
long-looked-for prospect of congenial employment at

last opened out to him, in a form as unexpected as
it was welcome. Among those who, from what they
had seen of him and his work at the British Associa
tion, had formed a high opinion of his geological
capacity was Murchison. This illustrious geologist,
then in the full tide of his work among the older
formations of the north and east of Europe, had
entertained the idea of possibly extending his labours

                    1 Geology of the Island of Arran, pp. 7, 27, 36, 40.
26  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH                      CHAP. I

to North America, though he ultimately went to

Russia instead.  The young geologist who had

done such excellent work in Arran would, he thought,

make an admirable companion and assistant in his

foreign expeditions ; and in the autumn he wrote to

propose such an employment to his young friend.

No letter appears to have survived from Ramsay

himself in reference to this sudden lifting of the clouds

that had darkened his path. But we get a glimpse

into the family circle in a letter written at the time by

his mother to his brother William. ' Dr. Nichol,' she

says, 'seems to think Andrew will have to go to

London about the beginning of February. Andrew

is in high spirits himself with the prospect. I hope

it may turn out as much for his good as he expects.

For my own part, I think there should be some

written agreement about money matters ; it is far

more agreeable to claim as a right than to get as a

favour, although the very travelling at Murchison's

expense is a matter of consequence, and you may

say although he were to get nothing he will see the

world. At the same time, as he cannot afford to be

without a salary, I hope it will be given.'

    After some delay all the preparations were made,

and Ramsay left home for his new career on Monday,

15th March 1841. A large band of his old friends

and associates assembled on the Broomielaw to see

him start, for he had arranged to take steamboat to

Liverpool, and pay a visit there on his way to London.

His journey and subsequent doings are best told in his
own words :--
                 L1verpool, Wednesday
                                             March 1841).

    My dearest Mother -- You have by this time

got over the first violence of your sorrow at parting
1814-1840 OPENING OF A SCIENTIFIC CAREER                                         27

with me, and however painful the separation is to all

of us, you will find that time will gradually accustom

you to my temporary absence ; and you will look on

a letter from me in the same light as you do one
of Johnie's, with this difference, that you have the

absolute certainty of seeing             the second      Jsoohnni(eth--e          go-
between --the link between                                                       who
                                         Willie and

has part of the features and part of the character oi

both) in less than a year, and probably in six or eight
months. Won't I rush home to Glasgow ? brimful of

London and Russia --of sights, wonders, and travels,

a perfect Munchausen, telling most incredible stories

about bearded Muscovites, horrible escapes from bears

and wolves, burning suns and mountains of snow,

expatriated Poles and Siberian mines. How I was

introduced to the Emperor, how he smiled and bowed,

and by a smile and a bow secured a deathless immor
tality, and honourable mention in the 2 vols, royal

8vo which are to hand down to future times the

results of Mr. Hosie's 1 observations on men and

manners in Russia ; for a bow from a prince to a

geologist excuses the depopulation of Poland, and a

smile renders him amiable and attractive in the bosom

of his family and in all his private capacities.

                                               London, 25M March 1841.

My dear W1ll1e -- You will have heard all about

1 ' Andrew Hosie ' was a nickname by which he was familiarly known among
his friends and associates. In another manuscript journal named ' The Renfield
Rocket,' of later date than the ' Miscellaneous Journal ' already referred to, the
scientific doings of this personage are made the subject of jocular description.
A Scots
runs --  song  also  appears  there  to  celebrate  his  virtues, of which  the  refrain

                     My Hosie O ! my Hosie O !

                     He's neither thin nor brosy O !

                     There's no a lad in Scotland broad

                     Can ever match wi' Hosie O !
28  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH            CHAP. I

me ere this from our folks at home, but perhaps I

may as well give you a synopsis of the whole of my

...proceedings. I left Glasgow on Monday, and arrived
in Liverpool on Tuesday at three.  I left Liver

pool at half-past ten on Thursday morning, and arrived

in London at half-past nine at night, and being at a

loss what to do with myself, went to the nearest hotel,

viz. the Victoria, Euston Square, from whence I imme

diately wrote to Murchison announcing my arrival.

I did not hear from him till next day (Friday) at five

o'clock, and in the meantime went and saw St. Paul's

and the outsides of some of the streets, for you see

I had always to be running home to look for a letter.

He asked me to breakfast with him on Saturday

morning. This I did. His house is a splendid one.

They are quite people of fashion, but, notwithstanding,

Mrs. M. is a kindly body, and made me quite at
ease at once. I should previously have informed

you that Mr. M. told me in his note that he had

given up the idea of taking me to Russia with him,

but said he was almost certain he had procured me

a much better place, viz. that of Assistant Geologist

to De la Beche, who is at present making the
Ordnance Geological Survey for Government. To

cut the matter short, I may here tell you that on

that day he again wrote to De la B. that the matter

might be finally settled, and on Tuesday last had a

most satisfactory letter from De la B., enclosing

one for me, officially appointing me to the situation

of Assistant Geologist, with pay of 9s. a day. ' Here's
a start.' On Monday first I leave this for Bristol

Great Western Railway, and on Tuesday I shall be

at Tenby, Pembrokeshire, South Wales, there to join

De la B. Tenby lies, I think, at the mouth of
HENRY T. DE LA BECHE
1814-184°  FIRST DA YS IN LONDON  29

Mil ford Haven, a place celebrated by Shakespeare

in Cymbeline}

      Before leaving, Murchison asked me to dine with
him next day at seven. Mrs. M. also asked me to

breakfast, and to go to church with her afterwards.
The remainder of Saturday I spent getting into my

lodgings, going through the Geological Museum at
Somerset House, calling on Lyell and Graham,2 and
seeing the Polytechnic. Lyell and Graham both

received me very kindly, indeed Lyell as much so
as Graham. He was very glad to hear of my success,

and told me to be sure and let him know when my

Geology of Arran came out, as he wished to notice

some of my remarks in a new edition of his Elements

of Geology. Here's another start. I went to Co vent

Garden on Saturday night, and was delighted with
The Critic. On Sunday I went with Mrs. M. in her
carriage to St. Luke's, Chelsea, and having keeked
through the rails and seen the Duke of Wellington,

I went to Westminster at three. At seven I went to

Murchison's to dinner, and there met Mr. Feather-

stonhaugh, the American plenipotentiary, his lady,

and two gentlemen -- a Captain Pringle and Mr.

Munro. Featherstonhaugh is a lively man, but takes
no wine for his stomach's sake.

     Monday I spent in the National Gallery and the
British Museum, and in the evening called on Dr.
Stanger, with whom I was acquainted at the meeting.
I found him out by the merest chance. He took me

      1 The writer's literary memory was here better than his geography. Tenby
lies about 18 miles due east from the entrance to Milford Haven.

      2 Thomas Graham, born 1805, died 1869, one of the most distinguished
chemists of our time, was for some years Lecturer on Chemistry in Glasgow, and
in 1837 became professor of the science at University College, London, an
appointment which he held until 1855, when he was made Master of the Mint.
 He had known Ramsay and his father in Glasgow, and was one of the first men
of science to welcome him to London.
30  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. 1

with him to a Philosophical soiree at Mr. Bowerbank's,
and we had a good deal of interesting discussion. On
Tuesday, after writing to Nichol and home, I went to

Belgrave Square, and there got my official appoint
ment. De la B.'s letter is a very kind one. In his
note to Murchison he speaks of my pay rising. I am
thoroughly convinced that this is a much better thing

than going to Russia. If I behave, and am found

worthy, I am sure to rise in the service.
     By and by the Survey will go to Scotland. Prob

ably I may get the neighbourhood of Glasgow to do,
including my own island. After leaving Murchison
I went through Westminster, and saw Dr. Johnson's
and Garrick's gravestones side by side, and all the

others. 'O rare Ben Jonson ! ' 'The cloud- capt

towers ! ' I afterwards met Murchison at Somerset

House.
     Yesterday I spent in the Zoological Gardens,

Regent's Park, and also visited the Colosseum. At
six I dined with the Geological Club1 at the Crown and
Anchor, Strand. It has a most shabby outside, but
is one of those old-fashioned splendid inns inside,
which, I suppose, are not to be found out of London.
It was here that Fox and the great Whigs of that

great day used to meet and enjoy themselves. Lyell

and Featherstonhaugh were there, and Captain Pringle ;
Murchison in the chair. There were about twenty-
five gentlemen present. I was introduced to Dr. Buck-
land and some others. Murchison introduced me also

to Mr. Taylor, the croupier and treasurer of the
Society, and asked him to take me beside him. I
heard him say to Buckland : ' You remember young
Ramsay, who made the model of Arran ? I shall intro-

                                                    1 See postca, p. 121.
1814-1840 APPOINTED TO GEOLOGICAL SURVEY  31

duce him to you.' ' Oh yes,' quoth the Doctor.
So I was introduced, and the Doctor gave me two
of his digits to shake. There were a lot of big-wigs
there whose names I do not know -- members of Par
liament and others. Mr. Taylor, whom I sat next,
knows, or knew, Dr. Thomson of Glasgow, Dr. Ure,
Charles Mackintosh, C. Tennant, and others, who
were old friends of my father's, and we had a great
deal of conversation together. After dinner we went
to Somerset House to hear Murchison on Russia.
The Marquis of Northampton was there. The dis

cussion broke up about eleven, when we all went

upstairs to tea.
     I must now close, as I have to go to Belgrave

Square and elsewhere, to get my equipment before

leaving for Wales.

From De la Beche's letter, containing the formal

offer of the appointment, a few sentences may be
quoted. It is dated from Cardiff, 22nd March 1841 :

     ' My friend, Mr. Murchison, having recommended

you to me as well qualified to assist on the Ordnance

Geological Survey, as I have little doubt, judging

from your labours in the Isle of Arran, is the case ;

and Mr. Murchison having also stated that you were

desirous of joining the service as Assistant Geologist,

I have now to offer you the situation of Assistant

Geologist on this Survey, with a rate of pay, for the

present, of 9s. per day for the six working days of the

week   is (it  being the somewhat singular rule that the

Sundays are unprovided with pay), payable quarterly,

which          at the rate of ^140 :8s. per annum. Inde

pendently of this salary, your travelling expenses from

station to station would be paid, and all necessary
32  PARENTAGE AND YOUTH  CHAP. I

instruments, drawing materials, etc. etc., are found by

Government.

      ' Should you feel disposed to join the Survey on
these terms, I would thank you to write to me to that

effect, directing your letter to me, Tenby, South
Wales, to which place I intend to remove my head
quarters to-morrow. In that event, it would be desir

able that you should report yourself at Tenby on the
1 st of April, the commencement of one of our official

quarters. A steamer leaves Bristol for Tenby on

Tuesday, the 29th instant, so that you would only
remain a day or two at Tenby without your pay.'

     Though Murchison's strong recommendation may
have had some influence in determining the offer of
this appointment to the young geologist, it must be
remembered that De la Beche had attended the

Glasgow meeting of the British Association, where,
as one of the vice-presidents of Section C, he had

met Ramsay, seen his map and model, and been able

to form an independent judgment as to his capacity
for the work of the Geological Survey.

     The pecuniary prospects set forth in the Director-
General's letter could not be regarded as specially

inviting. They were much canvassed in Glasgow,
where the news that Ramsay was not to go to Russia
after all, but had been offered, and had accepted, a
post in the Geological Survey of this country, fell like
a thunderbolt in the family a few days after he had
left home. Mrs. Ramsay's first feeling was one of
bitter disappointment, and it needed all Professor
Nichol's powers of persuasion to convince her that

the situation now offered to her son might really open
the way to his future distinction.

     At length, having completed his outfit in London,
1814-1840 APPOINTED TO GEOLOGICAL SURVEY  33

he started on the last day of March, and arrived at
Tenby at one o'clock in the morning of the 2nd of
April by the Phcenix, from Bristol, there to begin

a career in the Geological Survey which was to last
until he had risen to be the head of the service, and

one of the foremost geologists of his day.

D
                   CHAPTER II

                THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

In the Geological Survey of Great Britain, to which

Ramsay was now appointed, he spent more than forty
years. The work of his life was so intimately bound
up with the progress of the Survey that it cannot be
intelligently followed unless this relationship is clearly

understood. At the outset, therefore, it will be desir
able to trace the origin and development of the organ
isation of which he now became a member, and of

which for many years he was the guiding spirit.
     The Geological Survey owes its existence to the

sagacity and energy of Henry Thomas De la Beche.
This distinguished man -- the last male representative
of a family of Norman barons who came to England
with the Conqueror -- was born in 1796. From his
father, who was in the army, he inherited some landed
estate in Jamaica. But the halcyon days of this island
had fled, and left him by no means wealthy. It was at
first intended that he should follow the profession of
his father, and with that end in view he was sent to
the Military College of Great Marlow, where he had
been preceded some five years earlier by his future
friend Murchison. But the close of the great war
seeming to shut out any hope of distinction in the
career of an active soldier, he turned his thoughts in
H. T. DE LA BECHE  35

another direction. From early years he had been
fond of natural history pursuits, and especially of
geology, for the prosecution of which he had found
admirable opportunities along the southern coast of
England. When only twenty-one years of age he
entered the Geological Society, and two years later
was admitted into the Royal Society. He did not
confine his attention, however, merely to English

geology, but extended his acquaintance with the
principles and illustrations of the science by foreign

travel. At one time he might be seen sounding and
charting the Lake of Geneva, at another he was at

work among the rocks on the Riviera, or studying the
fossil plants of the Col de Balme. He even carried

his science across the Atlantic, and while visiting his
paternal domain in Jamaica, lost no opportunity of
studying the geology of that island, of which the first

account was published by him.
     De la Beche had a singularly wide and firm grasp

of geological science. A master of stratigraphy, he

likewise made himself familiar with minerals and

rocks, at a time when the study of petrography can

hardly be said to have existed in this country. Having

read much and critically in chemistry, he was able
to apply the results of chemical research to the prob

lems presented by his geological work. Though

not a professed palaeontologist, he had such keen

sympathy with natural history inquiries, and knew so
much of the natural history of his own country, that
he recognised from an early period the necessity of a
knowledge of organic remains in geological research,
and did all in his power to foster the study and applica
tions of palaeontology. Moreover, he wrote a number
of papers and books. Among his most important and
36 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

successful works were an excellent Geological Manual ;
a practical treatise, The Geological Observer, full of the
experience of many years of field-observation ; and a

striking little volume, Researches in Theoretical Geology,
which for sagacious insight and breadth of view was far
in advance of its time.

     To his scientific qualities were added those of the
artist and the keen lover of nature, combined with a
strength of frame which, in his prime, made him a bold
swimmer and an active pedestrian. Over and above

all shone his bright cheery nature, his irrepressible
merriment, his helpful sympathy, and that inexhaust
ible enthusiasm which not only supported his own
untiring efforts, but, like a contagion, affected and
stimulated all who were associated with him. In his

later days he was sometimes thought by his officers to
be too scheming and to subordinate their interests to
the advancement of the Survey and of the large
Museum and School of Mines which grew out of it.
But we must remember that he had to create the

whole establishment, to gain the goodwill of suc

cessive governments and ministers, not always pre
disposed to spend money in the cause of science,
and to keep the organisation effective with as little

outlay as possible.
     After various more or less desultory geological

studies at home and abroad, De la Beche at last

settled down seriously to the detailed investigation of
the geological structure of the south-west of England.
He began to map that region on the Ordnance maps
which had then been published on the scale of one
inch to a mile. He soon saw of how much practical
utility carefully-prepared geological maps would be in
aiding the development of the mineral resources of
EARLY HISTORY OF SURVEY                                               37

the country, and that the work which he was himself

voluntarily undertaking at his own charges would be

more efficiently performed in connection with the
general Trigonometrical Survey of the country. Ac
cordingly, having laid his views before the authorities,
he was in 1832 appointed by the Board of Ordnance
' to affix geological colours to the maps of Devonshire

and portions of Somerset, Dorset, and Cornwall.' 1 His

work thus obtained official recognition.
     By the beginning of 1834 De la Beche, acting

under the direction of the Board of Ordnance, had

produced a geological map of the county of Devon
which, as remarked at the time by Greenough, ' for
extent and minuteness of information and beauty of
execution has a very high claim to regard.'2 He
worked with such rapidity that by the end of that year,
of the eight sheets of the Ordnance map on which he

had been engaged, four had been published, three were
complete, and the eighth nearly complete, while the

explanatory memoir and sections were far advanced.8
     Next year (1835) an important step was taken in

the official recognition and assistance of De la Beche's

labours. Owing, no doubt, to his own representations

on the subject, the Ordnance authorities were led to
consider the question of the geological work which he
had been carrying on under their sanction, and to take
the advice of distinguished experts in regard to
Their action and its results cannot be better told than

in the following quotation from the address of Lyell as
President of the Geological Society in February 1836.
1
                                i.
                                                    3

                                                                                              2

                                                                                               it.
      Early in the spring of last year an application was made by
the Master-General and Board of Ordnance to Dr. Buckland and

Proc. Geol. Soc.  p. 447.                        Op. cit. ii. p. 51.
                               Op. cit. p. 154.
38 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

Mr. Sedgwick, as Professors of Geology in the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge, and to myself, as President of this Society,
to offer our opinion as to the expediency of combining a geological
examination of the English counties with the geographical survey
now in progress. In compliance with this requisition we drew up a
joint report, in which we endeavoured to state fully our opinion as
to the great advantages which must accrue from such an undertaking,
not only as calculated to promote geological science, which would
alone be a sufficient object, but also as a work of great practical
utility, bearing on agriculture, mining, road-making, the formation of
canals and railroads, and other branches of national industry. The
enlightened views of the Board of Ordnance were warmly seconded
by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. T. Spring Rice),
and a grant was obtained from the Treasury to defray the additional
expenses which will be incurred in colouring geologically the Ord
nance county maps. This arrangement may be justly regarded as
an economical one, as those surveyors who have cultivated geology
can with small increase of labour, when exploring the minute topo
graphy of the ground, trace out the boundaries of the principal
mineral groups. This end, however, could only be fully accom
plished by securing the co-operation of an experienced and able

geologist, who might organise and direct the operations ; and I con

gratulate the Society that our Foreign Secretary, Mr. De la Beche,
has been chosen to discharge an office for which he is so eminently
qualified.1

     The amount granted by the Treasury was only
^300 a year, so that most of the expense of the
surveying still fell upon De la Beche himself. He
obtained, indeed, occasional assistance from two officers

of the Ordnance Survey2 who possessed some geo
logical knowledge, and who more especially helped

him in the mining districts.

     At last by the year 1839 all the maps of the south
west of England had appeared ; likewise an admirable
octavo volume, giving a description of the geology of
this interesting and important region.3 How these

      1 Proc. Geol. Soc. vol. ii. p. 358.
      2 H. M'Lauchlan and H. Still, who were both Fellows of the Geological
Society.
     3 Report on the Geology of Cornwall, Devon, and West Somerset, by Henry
T. De la Beche, F.R.S. and Director of the Ordnance Geological Survey, 1839.
The Survey maps are sheets 20-33.
1841 EARLY PROGRESS OF SURVEY  39

publications were regarded at the time by English

geologists may be gathered from the encomium pro
nounced on them by Buckland as President of the
Geological Society in the spring of 1840.

    The first map which I shall mention affords another example of

the recognition by Government of the importance of our subject
by their having attached a geological department to the Ordnance
Survey of England and Wales. The first-fruits of this appointment
are the splendid maps of Devon and Cornwall and a part of
Somerset, coloured after the surveys of Mr. De la Beche; and it
may truly be said of them that they are more beautiful in their
execution, more accurate in their details, and more instructive in the
economical and scientific information they give respecting mines
than any maps yet published by any Government in the world ;
affording documents to which we can at length with pride appeal,
in reply to the reproach that has so long, with too much truth, been
cast upon us, that England alone, of all the civilised nations, has
abandoned to gratuitous individual exertions, and the liberality of
amateurs in science, the great work of exploring and delineating the
mineral structure of the country, and ascertaining the nature and
extent of the subterranean produce which lies at the foundation of
the industry of its manufacturing population, and to which the nation
owes no small portion of its wealth.1

     The rapidity with which these maps were prepared

by so small a staff would have been impossible had

the ground been surveyed in the same minute detail
as is now practised. In fact, admirable as they were
in many ways, and far as they were in advance of any
thing of the kind previously attempted, they can be

regarded as little more than sketch-maps, giving a
first general outline of the geological structure of the
ground. They ought not to be judged by the higher
standard of intricate detail subsequently developed in
the work of the Survey. In later years, had Ramsay
been free to act as he pleased in the matter, he would

have had all these early maps resurveyed.
     Having so successfully launched his scheme for a

                                            1 Proc. Geol. Soc. iii. p. 221.
40 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, 11

geological survey of the kingdom, De la Beche pro
ceeded to point out to the Chancellor of the Exchequer
that for the adequate development of the great mineral
industries of the country it was not enough to make
accurate maps of geological structure, but that it was
further needful to collect and exhibit specimens of

rocks and minerals which were used, or might seem
capable of application, in the industrial arts. He had
already, during his work in Devon and Cornwall,
made an extensive collection of specimens from the
great mining region of the south-west. Another large
series of samples of British building-stones was ac
cumulated by the Commission appointed to inquire

into the most suitable materials for constructing the
new Palace of Westminster, after the burning of the
old Houses of Parliament in 1834.1

      There was thus a large amount of material ready
for display, and through the labours of the Ordnance
Geological Survey, as well as from donations, it was
 continually increasing in extent and in value. De
 la Beche's representations were so obviously well
 founded, that they soon obtained official approba
 tion. Apartments were allotted for the accommoda
 tion of the Survey collections, and in February 1837
 the Office of Woods and Forests formally took the
 scheme under its charge, and asked De la Beche to
carry out his proposals. His design was to establish
 a Museum of Economic Geology, wherein the

      1 This Commission consisted of Mr. --afterwards Sir Charles -- Barry, William
 Smith, the father of English Geology, De la Beche, and Mr. C. H. Smith, a
 practical sculptor. De la Beche probably took the main part of the labour of
 collecting the specimens and preparing the Report. The work was done before
 the days of railroads, and the Commissioners drove about the country in an old
 carriage and pair, visiting quarry after quarry, procuring rough samples of the
 different stones, which were sent up to Mr. C. H. Smith's yard to be dressed into
 six-inch cubes. These blocks are now in the Museum of Practical Geology,
 Jermyn Street.
184 1 MUSE UM OF ECONOMIC GEOLOG Y  41

various practical applications of the science might be

thoroughly illustrated by specimens, models, maps,

sections, and as much information as possible, not only
for the general public, but especially for the guidance
of all persons practically interested in mineral sub

stances and their applications.
      The premises assigned to him for the housing of

his collections were in a plain building of moderate
size, with no front to the street, and situated in the

retired space known as Craig's Court, Charing Cross.
The Museum of Economic Geology, thus started, was
in fair working order by 1839, though not ready to be

opened to the public for two years later. It was under
the control of the Office of Woods, but the Geological
Survey remained as a branch of the Ordnance Survey,
and De la Beche directed the Museum gratuitously. So

vigorously did he set to work that, besides the speci
mens of rocks, minerals, and fossils, he soon gathered
together, arranged, and displayed models of mines,
samples and models of mining machinery and appara
tus, with illustrations of metallurgical processes and of
the various industries which arise from the manipula
tion of mineral substances.

     He further secured sanction to fit up a laboratory,
and to appoint as Curator of the Museum one of

the best analytical chemists of his day, Richard
Phillips, who had taken part in the foundation of
the Geological Society. At this laboratory it was
arranged that the public might obtain analyses of

rocks, minerals, and soils.

     There was yet another important department which
De la Beche now organised. The British Association
had in 1838 memorialised Government to collect and

preserve documents recording the mining operations
42 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, 11

of the United Kingdom, on the ground that, for want
of the proper preservation of such records, great loss
of life and destruction of property had taken place.
This petition having been favourably received, De la
Beche was authorised to form a Mining Record Office
as part of the Craig's Court establishment. Plans and
sections of mines were obtained from various mining
districts, steps were taken to procure statistics of
mineral industry, and in 1840 the Mining Record
Office thus started was committed to the charge of
T. B. Jordan, a man of remarkable ingenuity, who had
been Secretary of the Royal Polytechnic Society of
Cornwall. It was further arranged that lectures should
be given on the subjects illustrated by the Museum.1

     When he had completed, with so little aid, the
survey of the south-western counties, and had roused
the Government of the day to some appreciation of at
least the industrial value of his work, De la Beche
resolved to transfer his field - operations to South
Wales, where an important coal-field awaited examina
tion. Still under the Board of Ordnance, he obtained

increased parliamentary grants, and was allowed the

services of a few assistants -- young men with no geo

logical experience, whom he had to train in all the
details of geological mapping.

     The field-work had been a year or two in progress
in South Wales when Andrew C. Ramsay joined the
staff. Referring to this period of his life at a much
later time, he remarked: ' In the year 1841 I had the
good fortune to be appointed one of the few assistant
geologists. The Survey had then progressed west-

      1 For the early history of the Museum of Economic Geology and Mining
Record Office see IheAccountol them by T. Sopwith (see p. 78), published by Murray
in 1840. See also Buckland, Proc. Geo/. Soc. iii. (1840), pp. 211, 221. The
Mining Record Office was transferred to the Home Office in 1883.
DUTIES OF GEOLOGISTS  43

wards into Pembrokeshire, and was at work at Tenby,
and St. David's, and the neighbourhood. There

were then four assistants besides myself.'1
     Over and above the ordinary assistants, however,

the Survey was aided in the palaeontological depart

ment by Professor John Phillips-- a name affectionately

remembered by those who knew him, and honoured
by all to whom the history of British geology is

familiar.2 Phillips had previously been employed to
examine, figure, and describe the organic remains in
the older rocks met with in the course of the survey of
Cornwall, Devon, and West Somerset, and an im
portant monograph giving the results of his labours
appeared in 1 841 as a sequel to the Report of De la
Beche.3 Before the publication of this work, however,
the field-operations of the Survey had extended into
South Wales, and Phillips in 1840 received an
appointment to extend his task into East Somerset,
Gloucester, Monmouth, and South Wales. He was

in Pembrokeshire when Ramsay joined the staff, and

they had some excursions together.
     The duties of the geologists in the Geological

Survey were to trace on the one-inch maps of the
Ordnance Survey the boundaries, structure, and
relations of the various geological formations, to
collect as much information as possible regarding the
nature of the rocks and minerals, to mark where any
substances of economic value might be found, to follow

     1 ' On the Origin and Progress of the Geological Survey of the British Isles '
in Conferences held in connection with the Special Loan Collection of Scientific
Apparatus, South Kensington Museum, 1876, p. 364. The four assistants
referred to above were W. T. Aveline, who joined the service the year before
Ramsay, retired from it the year after him, and now lives in Somerset ; Trevor

E. James, D. H. Williams, and J. Rees.

      2 See ante, footnote, p. 18.
     8 Figures and Descriptions of the Palccozoic Rocks of Cornwall, Devon, and
West Somerset. By John Phillips, 1841.
44 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

out the crops of lodes and mineral seams, as well as of
the more important dislocations in the crust of the
earth, to note where fossils occurred, and to take such
specimens of minerals, rocks, and fossils as might be
required for the preparation of the maps for the
engraver, and the compilation of material for the sub
sequent explanatory Memoirs. There were likewise
levellings to be executed for the purpose of constructing
horizontal sections, which were drawn on the scale of

six inches to a mile. These sections formed as novel a
feature as the detailed maps in the progress of geo
logical surveying. They had been constructed by Logan
in Wales, in order to represent accurately the structure
of the great South Welsh coal-field. The same scale
was adopted by De la Beche, who, with his artistic eye
and deft hand, introduced into his horizontal sections
a system of representation of geological structure such
as had never before been attempted. The sections
were on a true scale, vertical as well as horizontal.
By carefully chaining and levelling, the topography of
the ground was represented correctly, and for the first
time the relations between surface-features and under

ground structure were clearly brought out.
      In carrying out the various field-operations of the

Survey De la Beche took an active personal interest.
 He spent the greater part of the year with his officers,
and kept himself in touch with the details of their
work, besides continuing for some years to carry on
independent mapping of his own. As the staff in
creased in number, and Ireland came under his

jurisdiction, he was necessarily prevented from doing
 much himself in actual mapping, and he gradually left
 more and more to the judgment of his subordinates.

       Being under a military organisation, the surveyors
WILLIAM E. LOGAN
I
                LIFE IN THE SURVEY  45

wore a dark blue uniform. A tight - fitting, well-

buttoned frock-coat, however, was not a very com

fortable garment for the rough scrambling and climb
ing work of the survey life. The geologists were

therefore by no means sorry when, on their trans

ference in 1845 from the Ordnance Department, they
were at liberty to choose their own civilian apparel.
But as a souvenir of their military connection they

retained the gilt buttons embossed with the crown

and crossed hammers, which for many years after

wards were worn on festive occasions. Even those

members of the service who joined in later years
used to provide themselves with a set of the ' Survey

buttons,' and wore them on their waistcoats at the

annual dinner.

     The life of a member of the Geological Survey
in many respects, an enviable one. He starts soon
;
     ;

                        is
                                            is

                                                 is is
                                                 it

                                                                  a
                                                                                     is,
after breakfast, lightly accoutred, and spends the day,

map in hand, over the ground assigned to him for
survey. Every exposure of rock noted by him on
his map or in his note-book, with all the needful

details. Each stream  followed step by step up to

its source each hill-side and ravine traversed from

end to end each quarry, sometimes each ditch, and

even the very furrows and turned-up soil of ploughed

field are scrutinised in turn. He   thus led into

every nook and corner of the ground, until he
acquires a more intimate knowledge of than many

of the natives who have been living there all their

lives. Out early and late, and in all kinds of

weather, he witnesses changing atmospheric effects
such as few others have opportunities of enjoying.

He brought into every variety of scenery, and
is
                                                                                      is

compelled by his very duties to study these varieties,
46 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

and make use of them in his daily work. If he has a

love of nature, and this, to be a good geologist, he must

possess, he is afforded ample scope for its gratification.

Flowers, insects, birds, and living things of every

kind meet his eye at each turn of the way. If he has

any antiquarian instincts, his rambles enable him to

visit every antiquity for miles around him. If, lastly,

he is of a social temperament, and cares to mix with

his fellowmen, there is often pleasant society in the

neighbourhood, where a stranger of good address is

generally welcomed.  Sometimes he must content

himself with the kindly gossip of the little farm or way

side-inn ; at other times he finds himself discussing

rural politics with the village doctor, or undergoing a

process of examination in the tendencies of modern

science at the parsonage, or joining in a pleasant

dinner-party at the squire's.

That such a life has its trials, however, may readily

be believed. The mere physical endurance which it

often requires is enough to tax the strength of a

strong man. Not unfrequently, indeed, it involves

personal danger as well as discomfort. Few members

of the staff but can give instances of narrow escapes
from fatal accident. Now it is a mass of cliff or crag

which, without warning, falls with a crash close to

where the surveyor is standing, or a single loosened

block from the rocks above shoots past his head with

a whizz like a cannon-ball. At another time it is a

treacherous bog which, firm apparently on the surface,

suddenly gives way under his feet, and out of the mire

of which he with difficulty drags himself. Streams

which in the morning could be jumped across may

by nightfall, after heavy rain, be so swollen as to be

unfordable without peril. Snow - storms sometimes
LIFE IN THE SURVEY  47

surprise the geologist among the hills, and as the

snow rapidly gathers, roads, walls, and fences may
be entirely buried before he can struggle through the
blinding drift back to his quarters. Among the
mountains he is apt to be overtaken by mists so

dense that much skill may be needed to steer a right
course through them. And in thunderstorms he is
sometimes startled by the lightning flash which strikes
a tree or a house, or kills a cow, quite close to him.

      But apart from occasional personal risk, the con
stant exposure to the vicissitudes of a changeable
climate, the necessity of sometimes enduring serious

discomfort and privation in districts where quarters
are hardly to be had, where the food is of the sorriest
kind, and yet where the geological work may be most
difficult and prolonged ; the isolation and loneliness at
stations where no congenial society of any kind is
to be found, the necessity of frequently moving camp

to begin all the domestic experiences and discomforts
over again, and the poor pay for which all this

drudgery has to be undergone -- these and other hard

ships which may be easily imagined test the scientific
enthusiasm of a geologist. By a young man who is
fired with an ardent love of his science they are lightly
regarded and soon forgotten. It is only as he grows
older, and his enthusiasm somewhat wanes, that he

begins to find them a serious impediment to the
settled home which he then, not unnaturally, longs

to establish.

     It may easily be imagined that when a member of

the Survey plants himself in a country village his
occupation becomes at once a source of the utmost
curiosity to his neighbours. He carries his accoutre
ments about his person in such a manner that they do
 48 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, h

 not attract notice. Compass, clinometer, map, note
 book, lens, pencils, and so forth, are easily stowed
 away in his pockets ; the hammer can be disposed in a
 belt under the tails of his coat, so that he presents no
 outward marks of his profession. His movements are
 consequently mysterious in the extreme to the villagers
 and farm-people, and the most amusing mistakes are
made in endeavouring to guess his calling in life. He
 finds himself set down now for a postman, now for a
doctor, for a farmer, a cattle-dealer, a travelling show
man, a country gentleman, a gamekeeper, a poacher,
an itinerant lecturer, a gauger, a clergyman, a play
actor, and often as a generally suspicious character.

A former distinguished member of the staff, who now

holds a University professorship, has received and duly
posted many a letter entrusted to him in the belief that
he was the authorised bearer of Her Majesty's mails.
Another well-known colleague, who is now also a
University Professor, tells how on one occasion he
was taken for a policeman in plain clothes, and could
not for some time make out why a poor woman poured
into his ears a long story about her son, who had been
taken up for doing something that he had not done,
and did quite unintentionally, and was quite justified in

doing. Gamekeepers are sorely puzzled sometimes
what to make of the Geological Survey trespasser ;
they are afraid to challenge him lest he prove to be a
friend of their master, and afraid to let him go his way
for fear he be on poaching thoughts intent. One
member of the staff who had taken up his quarters in
a village was watched for some days by the police on
suspicion of having been concerned in a recent burglary.
Another was stalked as a suspect who had been setting

fire to farm-buildings. A third was watched hammer-
SURVEY EXPERIENCES  49

ing by himself in the bed of a stream, and as he gave

vent to some strong expression when the obstinate

boulder refused to part with a splinter, the onlooker on
the other side of the hedge fled in terror to the neigh

bouring village and reported that this strange man
who had come among them was stark mad, and should

not be left to go by himself. Sometimes the laugh
goes distinctly against the geologist, as in the case of
one of the staff who, poking about to see the rocks
exposed on the outskirts of a village in Cumberland,
was greeted by an old woman as the ' sanitary
'spector.' He modestly disclaimed the honour, but

noticing that the place was very filthy, ventured to

hint that such an official would find something to do
there. And he thereupon began to enlarge on the
evils of accumulating filth, resulting, among other

things, in an unhealthy and stunted population. His

auditor heard him out, and then, calmly surveying him
from head to foot, remarked, ' Well, young man, all I

have to tell ye is that the men o' this place are a deal

bigger and stronger and handsomer nor you.' She
bore no malice, for she offered him a cup of tea, but

he was too cowed to face her any longer.
     When Andrew Ramsay entered upon this roving

Survey life in the spring of 1 841, he was twenty-seven
years of age, active and athletic in body, with bound

less enthusiasm for geology, and an ardent desire to
devote himself to practical geological work. Long
afterwards, looking back on this period of his life, he

used to tell how at first the change from a Glasgow

counting-house to daily occupation among the hills
and along the shores of South Wales seemed like
a dream. He could hardly realise for some time

that the pursuit, formerly followed only during brief
                                               E
50 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

but coveted intervals of holiday, was now to be the
constant business of his life. Day after day, as he
went out with map and hammer, it seemed to him
still holiday work. He brought the same insight and
ardour to the study of the Welsh region as he had
shown in that of Arran. And before long the
Director recognised that in his new recruit he had
obtained by far the ablest member of his staff.

     For upwards of four years the Survey continued
to advance across South Wales. During this period

Ramsay gradually worked his way northwards from
the southern coast-line of Pembrokeshire across the
counties of Caermarthen, Brecknock, and Cardigan,
into those of Montgomery and Radnor. Professor
John Phillips was with him for a short time along the
Pembrokeshire coast before establishing himself among

the Malvern Hills, which he mapped in detail. H. W.

Bristow was at work in Gloucestershire, where Ramsay
joined him (p. 235), and afterwards, under Phillips, took

a share in mapping the Oolites of the Cotteswold Hills
and of the Cheltenham, Wotton-under-Edge, and Bath

district.1 But in these early years his time was almost
wholly devoted to the older rocks in Wales.

     The geological structure of the Welsh region in
which he was called upon to labour proved to be exces
sively complicated. It had been only cursorily examined
by previous observers. De la Beche and Phillips were
content to map its southern outskirts in a somewhat
sketchy manner. Its real difficulties remained to be
discovered and grappled with. After his first year's
experience Ramsay drew up a draft report of his
operations. Unfortunately this report was never
printed, nor do its conclusions appear to have been

  1 See Prefatory Notice to ' Geology of East Somerset,' Mem. Geol. Surv. 1876.
1841 GEOLOGICAL WORK IN SOUTH WALES  51

published even in abstract. It is entitled ' Report on
the work entrusted to A. C. Ramsay in North Pem
brokeshire, and part of Cardiganshire and Caermar-
thenshire.' The MS., which is in his handwriting,
remains in the archives of the Geological Survey. In

this document he gave special prominence to the

igneous rocks, which he separated into intrusive and

contemporaneous, showing that the latter cover by far
the greater area. Among the rocks of St. David's
he clearly recognised the presence of volcanic ash, and
saw in these rocks the records of prolonged volcanic
activity. Other geologists, notably Sedgwick, Mur-
chison, and De la Beche, had described the proofs of

contemporaneous volcanic eruptions among stratified
formations of old geological date. But Ramsay was

the first to trace out in detail the structure of a

volcanic series of such high antiquity, and to separate

from each other the outflowing lavas, the ejected
ashes, and the deep-seated intrusive sills. When we

remember, too, that this was practically his first piece
of detailed mapping, we cannot fail to acknowledge
the earnest which was thus given of the future
geological accomplishment of the surveyor.

     It fell to Murchison's lot as President of the

Geological Society in 1843 to give some account of
the recent proceedings of the Geological Survey in his
address at the Anniversary of the Society in February.

He referred to the increasing evidence brought for
ward by the officers of the Survey that the interior of
South Wales, which had been vaguely referred by him
to Sedgwick's ' Cambrian ' system, consisted largely
of Lower Silurian rocks. He spoke of the Survey's

' results, obtained among strata so obscured by change,
as among the very highest triumphs of geological
52 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, 11

field-work.' ' I therefore wish,' he added, 'to be fore
most in recognising the deserts of the labourers who
have obtained them, among whom the Director par
ticularly cites Mr. Ramsay, already so favourably
known to us by his geological map and model of the
 Isle of Arran.' 1

      The St. David's map was published in 1845, and
after its appearance a sheet of horizontal sections was
prepared and issued, showing what was believed to be
the general structure of the ground. Unfortunately,
twelve years afterwards, in second editions of these
publications, while great improvements were made in
the general stratigraphy, the views originally formed
by Ramsay as to the nature of the St. David's rocks
were so modified, though confessedly with his own con
sent and co-operation, that the essentially accurate inter
pretation at first adopted disappeared. In later years
the truly volcanic nature of much of the fragmental
rocks in that district, which in the second edition of
the map became ' altered Cambrian,' was re-discovered,
and the merit of the first observations was for a time

obscured.2

     There was yet another feature in which Ramsay
improved the mapping of the Survey. He traced out,
where practicable, lithological subdivisions among the
older Palaeozoic rocks, which had not previously been
subdivided, and was thus able to detect their sequence
and the general structure of the ground over which
they extended. In particular, even in his first year's
work, he drew a line between the black and purple
slates which, though not put on the published map at

      1 Proc. Geol. Soc. iv. (1843), p. 76.

    2 The details of this question will be found narrated in the Quarterly Journal
of the Geological Society, vol. xxxix. (1883), p. 263.
1841 GEOLOGICAL WORK IN SOUTH WALES  53

 the time, was afterwards adopted as the boundary

 between the Cambrian and Silurian systems. It was
 in those days the belief of the great body of geologists
that the older rocks of South Wales belonged to Sedg

 wick's Cambrian formations, and as such they were

 coloured on the large map accompanying Murchison's

Silurian System, published in 1839. A few fossils had

indeed been found in them which were of Lower

 Silurian species, but the evidence supplied by these

fossils does not seem to have been considered strong
enough to change the general current of opinion.
When in 1841 the Survey began to map the region
about Haverfordwest, neither De la Beche nor his

officers could find any base to the series which, by
common consent, was acknowledged to be Lower
Silurian. And when in that and the following year
Ramsay and others obtained Lower Silurian fossils at
various points across the whole breadth of South

Wales, they could come to no other conclusion than
that this wide region consisted of Lower Silurian

rocks repeated in endless undulations.
     Much more detailed work would now be possible

in South Wales than is shown upon the maps of the
Geological Survey. But those who may in future

carry out this re-survey will doubtless be the first to
admit the value of the work of the pioneers who pro
duced the first geological map of that difficult tract of
country. Ramsay himself was well aware of the
imperfection of the early work in South Wales, as will
be apparent in later pages of this volume.

     Of the actual daily life of these first years

of his Survey experience in Wales little record
seems to have been preserved. He used to tell in

later life how, when stationed at St. David's during
54 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, 11

the summer of 1 841, he sang in the Cathedral choir,
for he had an ardent love of music, could with facility

read music at sight, and possessed a good voice.
One of his early experiences he used sometimes to
recount : how, having been benighted among the hills,
he found his way in the dark to a stream-course, and
in descending it came to a cottage where he was
known. The shepherd brought him in out of the
darkness, and his wife, seeing the famished look of the
wanderer, set a large dish of food before him. Eating
with all the ' passion of a twelve hours' fast,' Ramsay
soon emptied the dish, and then to his dismay dis
covered that he had eaten up the supper of the family.
From his pocket diary for 1842, which has survived,
we get a few further glimpses into his proceedings.
Instead of going up to London he remained at his
field-quarters all winter, and went out among the hills
when the weather permitted. He continued his active
pedestrianism, sometimes covering 30 miles in a day.
When the distances from his station got too far to be
easily reached on foot, he would ride out to his
ground, put up his horse at a farm, spend all day in
mapping, and ride back to his quarters in the evening.

      On wet days and in the evenings he had always
plenty of occupation indoors. He was a regular corre
spondent with his family in the north, and with many
of his old Glasgow companions, now scattered over the
world. In the brief jottings of his memorandum books
he always inserted the names of those to whom he had
written. Hardly any of these early letters have been
recovered. Besides writing to his mother and sister,
who were now all that remained in the old home, from
the very beginning of his Survey life he remitted
money out of his income to them, and he continued
1842 SURVEY LIFE IN SOUTH WALES  55

this pious duty as long as his mother lived and his sister

remained unmarried.

     Of an eminently social temperament, he made

acquaintances easily wherever he went, and these

chance acquaintanceships sometimes ripened into life
long friendships. In one family circle we find him
reading aloud Shakespeare, or Scottish ballads, or a
good novel ; in another he takes part, heart and soul,

in singing glees and madrigals ; in a third he joins in
dancing and all kinds of merriment. After being some
little time at a station he knew everybody worth know

ing all round him, and sometimes had difficulty in
satisfying the demands for his company. The appear
ance of a pleasant, conversational, and merry-hearted

stranger was sometimes an extraordinary boon to a

country district in the days before railways. His

doings and sayings, his goings-out and comings-in,
were a source of the deepest interest to gossips who

longed for some new event in their little world. If he

dined at a house noted for its conviviality, there would
be solemn head-shakings and expressions of regret
that one so young should have been led into such

courses. If he spent an evening now and then in a

family where there were two or three daughters, it was

supposed that he could have but one object there.
Curiosity was at once aroused to discover which of the

ladies he had chosen, and curiosity soon gave way to
certainty as the report of an engagement was rapidly
circulated through the parish.

      In South Wales Ramsay had early experience of
these manifestations of public interest in his affairs.
He was naturally fond of female society. His conver

sational powers, his literary taste, and his lively
humour found there a congenial stimulus. And while
56 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

                                             his presence brought
he thoroughly enjoyed                        it,                 in
                                                              a                a
brightness which gave general pleasure                                     return.

This mutual reaction continued to mark his social

intercourse up to the end. In his younger days in

Wales, when the tittle-tattle of countryside was

beginning to teach him greater circumspection, he

passes judgment rather severely on himself.                                '      3th
                                                                               1

February 1842. -- Am, on the whole, rather an ass to be

so serio-comic, sentimental, and universally captivato

flirtaceous!
     Although most of the time working alone, he had

occasionally visits from one or other of his colleagues,
or went to see them at their stations. De Beche,
                                                                 a
too, used to join him and spend a few days with him                    la

on his ground. The Director-General was knighted

in April 1842, and early next month paid visit to his

officers in South Wales. The following entries occur                              la
in the diary of 1842 '3rd May. -- Sir Henry De
                               '
Beche arrived at Caermarthen.         :      I                   called at night,

when we walked down to the stables to see his horse.
As jolly as ever.' ^th. -- Out all day with Sir Henry.'
'13^. -- Sir Henry left me to-day.' 'gth June. --
To-day we [A. C. R. and T. E. James] found lots of
fossils far to the north of Llandeilo; wrote to Sir H.
                                             10th. -- Had glorious find
to come and see them.'                   ''  in
                                                           a
of fossils, and played at cricket the evening.' uth.                       '
-- Sir Henry came down and saw our beautiful section

by Cwm Wern. We all bathed in pool. Fossilised
It                                           a

         y                                   14th. -- Rode to Llangadock

                            ;
a bit, and then home.'

to see Rees a delightful night; Sir H. very kind

about futurity.'

was one of De                            la  Beche's characteristic traits

that, having wide aims, and clear views as to how he

should endeavour to carry these aims to their fulfil
1844 EDWARD FORBES JOINS THE SURVEY                                     57

ment, he possessed a power of discerning the qualities
of the fellow-workers who would best serve his pur
pose, and of attracting and attaching them to his corps.
He was always moving about with his eyes open, on
the outlook for the best men to co-operate with him
in his great scheme for the national endowment of
geological inquiry. After many months of delay and
suspense he succeeded, in the autumn of 1844, in
inducing the Government of the day to authorise him
to appoint a palaeontologist to the staff of the Survey,

whose special duty it should be to determine the fossils
found by the surveyors and collectors, and to confer
with these officers in the field as to the classification

and boundary lines of the fossiliferous formations.
He selected for this important post perhaps the most
brilliant naturalist of his day-- Edward Forbes, who,

after returning from his researches in the yEgean Sea,
had been appointed Curator of the Geological Society.

Ramsay and Forbes had formed a friendship at the
Glasgow meeting of the British Association, and
their intimacy grew every year closer. The subjoined
letter is of interest here.1

                                                   22nd November 1844.

Dear Ramsay -- What on earth put it into your head that I

could possibly be offended at anything you have lately written and

done ? My dear fellow, I feel most grateful to you, and it is only

Ithe press of business engagements upon my change of office which
has prevented my writing.  can assure you I feel 10° happier
than I did last winter and spring, having now a fair promise of doing

something satisfactory for science, and getting rid of Geological
                    In a fortnight I shall be altogether clear of the
Society patchwork.
G. S. (as an officer, that's to say), as I suppose they will make their

election next meeting. Ansted [see p. 78] will probably be the man,
... Iand a better for their purpose they could not have. He'll keep up
the dignity of the office, and work like a brick.  look forward to

     1 The triangle at the end of Forbes's signature was characteristic of his early
days. See his Life, p. 195.
58 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

great things at C. C. [Craig's Court], and have the fullest faith in Sir

Henry.

      As to news    here, there isn't much stirring  yet.          It may be divided
       Scientific,
into                Literary, and Philosophical --
      1. Scientific. -- Mantell is giving a course of geological lectures
at the London Institution. A curious book called the Vestiges of
Creation, containing many speculations on Geology and Natural

History, said to be written by Sir Richard Vivian, is making great
stir in town. A first-rate synopsis and analysis of the Trilobites has

just come to hand from Germany with exquisite plates. It is written

by  the  Lgirteeartareyn.to--mPoluongcisht  Burmeister.
     2.                                     is published as usual
                                                                   every  week.       Two

new plays have just      come out, and the   theatres              are worth going    to.
      3. Philosophical.                      Francis,              Henry, etc. etc.,  and
                         -- Lankester, Day,

myself have succeeded in establishing a monthly meeting and feed

of Red Lions at the 'Cheshire Cheese' in Fleet Street [see p. 62]. We
look forward to your roaring in our company. Clara                        , the pretty

dancer, ran away with somebody the beginning of last week, and

came back at the end of it. Amen ! Ever, dear Ramsay,
                                                              Edward Forbes A.

     Ramsay and Forbes in the early part of this
year (1844) had been sounded as to the feasibility
of bringing out, with the sanction and co-operation
of W. D. Conybeare,1 a new edition of the classic
Outlines of the Geology of England and Wales, by
Conybeare and W. Phillips, of which the original
edition appeared in 1822. Conybeare himself had

made some progress with the task, but he seems
to have found the labour beyond the strength of

his advancing years, and through the intermediary
of De la Beche, entered into negotiations with the

two younger authors. These proposals took at last
definite shape in a formal legal agreement, dated

8th April 1844, between Conybeare, Forbes, Ram

say, and Messrs. Longmans and Co., publishers.

     1 William Daniel Conybeare, born 1787, died 1857, author of some im

portant geological memoirs, but best known for the Geology of England and
Wales, referred to above. This work was properly the second and much enlarged
edition of a volume by W. Phillips, which was published in 1818. It did not
include an account of the older Palaeozoic rocks.
THE CLIMATE OF BRITAIN  9)

The work was to be in three parts or volumes,
of which it was stipulated that the first should be

delivered complete by the 1st January 1845, the
second by the 1st October of the same year, and
the third by the 1st October 1846. In fulfilment
of this undertaking Ramsay made numerous notes,
and wrote out many pages of manuscript, but the press
of official and other engagements, which became, both
with him and with his colleague, increasingly severe,

prevented the task from ever being completed. Looking

back upon this enterprise, we can hardly doubt that
Ramsay felt his practical acquaintance with English

geology to be as yet too limited to enable him to per
form the task as he would have wished. It was only
three years since he had left Scotland, and those years,

actively spent in field-work as they were, had been
passed almost wholly in South Wales. He gained

eventually an unrivalled familiarity with English geo
logy, but many years had still to elapse before that

qualification was acquired.
     Much is said and written in dispraise of the climate

of the British Isles, but the field-geologist can find
few regions on the face of the globe where he may ply
his vocation more continuously from season to season
than there. The winters over much of the United

Kingdom are seldom so severe as seriously to inter
rupt out-of-door work for more than a week or two at
a time. The summers are not too warm to prevent

active exercise in the open air from early morning
until dusk, while the length of a summer's day in these

northern latitudes gives time for as much continuous

walking and climbing as the strongest frame can
endure. Even the rain, which is the geologist's chief
meteorological enemy, falls in such wise that the
6o THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

number of thoroughly wet days, when nothing can be
properly accomplished out of doors, is much less than
most people would be apt to believe. Hence, even
as far north as central Scotland, it is quite possible to
carry on geological surveying throughout the whole
year. And often the clear bracing air of December
allows nearly as much work to be done in a day as
can be accomplished in the warmer but more exhaust
ing weather of June. Accordingly, it was no hardship
to Ramsay that, for the first year or two of his Survey
life, he spent the winters in South Wales. Thereafter
he generally came up to winter quarters in London,
the building in Craig's Court serving as the head
office of the Survey.

     As occupation for the members of the Survey dur
ing the winter months there is generally a considerable
accumulation of indoor work which cannot be satis
factorily completed in country quarters. The lines
traced on the field-maps have to be drawn on fresh
copies, or what are called ' dry-proofs ' of the sheets,
and all the details must be inserted which are intended
to be published, preparatory to the engraving of the
work. The horizontal sections levelled in the country
have to be plotted to scale, and their geological details
to be inserted. There are likewise reports and descrip
tions which require to be extended from the field note
books. There is thus usually ample occupation to
keep the surveyors busy from the time when they drop
field-work towards Christmas till they resume it in

spring.
     In the early days of the Survey's history most

of the staff were young and unmarried. They took
lodgings in London, and generally dined two or three
or more together in some restaurant. Once a fort
1845 PROMOTION IN THE SERVICE                     61

night came the meeting of the Geological Society,

where they usually made their appearance, and, seated

on the back benches, looked down upon the veterans

on the front rows, and listened to the papers and

discussions, often lively enough in those early days of

geology. They had the entry also into various social

gatherings, with an occasional night at the theatre, so

that the time they could secure for quiet reading was

by no means great. How Ramsay passed his time in

the first seasons of his London life may be gathered

from a few extracts from his diary of the early months

of  1845 :--         -- Reached
     ' 3rd January.
                                 the  Paddington  Station

[from Wales] at five in the morning. Got down to the
" Golden Cross," slept on benches, and breakfasted at

eight. At ten met Sir H. at the Muzzy [Museum], and

had a most jolly reception. Minute from the Treasury

authorising the junction of the Survey and the Muzzy.

It is proposed also that I should be Sir H.'s first

lieutenant with ,£300 ! ! ! Thus one dream is in a fair

way of being realised. Playfair and I dined and

then danced at Smyth's till four.'

    The change in the official relations of the Survey

thus briefly alluded to was a momentous one in

the history of the service.      It was now arranged

that the Survey, hitherto conducted under the

Board of Ordnance, should be transferred to the

Office of Works, and that the Museum and Survey

should thus be united as part of one organisa

tion under the control of a single public depart
ment. It was further provided that the staff of sur

veyors should be increased ; that the Geological Survey

of Ireland, which had likewise been in charge of the

Board of Ordnance, should henceforth be placed under
62 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, h

the supervision of the Director of the Geological
Survey of Great Britain, who should assume the title
of Director-General, and that under this chief there

should be two Directors, one for England and Scot
land, with the title of Local Director for Great Britain,

and one for Ireland. It was the former of these two

posts which was now to be conferred on Ramsay.

     ' %th January. -- Playfair and I dined together.
Geological Society night. Paper on Fossil Crania
from South-Eastern Africa, by Owen. He, Forbes,
and I supped with Playfair after. Owen's genius

throws light on everything.

     ' 1 6th. -- Dined for the first time with the Metro
politan Red Lions in my capacity as a corresponding

member. Smyth and Falconer elected members.'
This fraternity took its rise at the Birmingham meet
ing of the British Association in 1839. Edward
Forbes and a few congenial spirits, finding the dull
conventionality of the ' ordinaries ' insupportable,
started simple dinners of their own, where beef and
beer were the chief viands, and where the mirth and

jollity were so great that admission to these gatherings
soon came to be eagerly sought after. The place of
meeting was a modest inn known as the ' Red Lion,'

and the company styled themselves therefrom ' Red
Lions.' They agreed to meet at every meeting of the

British Association --a custom which they and their
successors have kept up till the present time. Those
of them who lived in London, with Forbes at their

head, feeling that a year's interval made too wide a
gap between their festive gatherings, formed them
selves into a London company of the original brother
hood, and it was to the monthly dinner of this com

pany that Ramsay was now introduced.
HIS FIRST SURVEY MEMOIR  f>3

    ' 1gth January. -- Home to read [Hugh Miller's]
Old Red Sandstone.

     ' 1gth February. -- Drew [sections]. Phillips (John)
came, and we had a big talk. He is still to join us for
six months in the year. Went at night to B. and F. I.
soiree -- a most brilliant affair. Moscheles there, and

heaven knows all who besides in the musical line.

     '22nd. -- At work as usual. Dined, came home,

slept, dressed, took a cab to the Athenaeum ; met Sir

Henry, and went with him to a soiree at the Marquis
of Northampton's. Duke of Cambridge there, Lord
Brougham, and many others ; Hallam, Monckton
Milnes, Forbes, Graham, Gifford, Babbage, etc. etc.

     ' 2nd March, Sunday. -- Read and wrote. Walked

through St. James's Park to Hyde Park, up Hyde
Park along Oxford Street, and down Regent Street.
Dinner, and came home to roast chestnuts, and finish

the rough draft of a paper for our Memoirs.' This
paper is again referred to under date 5th June, where
the entry records : ' Writing at home at night. Finished
my paper for the Memoirs, that is the first writing of it
sans re-reading.' This was his famous essay on the
' Denudation of South Wales,' which eventually ap
peared in the first volume of the Memoirs of the
Geological Survey in 1846, and of which some further

account will be given in the following chapter.

     ' \th. -- Forbes's lecture. Dined with Falconer1 at

the Oriental Club ; capital turn-out. Refused the
 Geological Survey of India. Heigho ! Went to the
 Linnaean, and afterwards Forbes, Ibbetson, Henfrey,
 and I supped at Lankester's.' Further reference is

     1 Hugh Falconer, born 1808, died 1865 ; distinguished as a palaeontologist
and botanist, especially in regard to India, where he spent a large part of his life.
His great memoirs on the fossil vertebrates of the Sivalik Hills have been of the
highest importance in the history of paloeontological discovery.
64 THE ORDNANCE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY chap, n

made two days later to the host here mentioned.

' Falconer came, and Logan1 is the man for India.

Sir H. told me, like a daddy, he would advise me not

to go, but he would not stand in my way. Shan't takeit.

     At Captain Smyth's2 at night. Pleasant party.'
      12th. -- Reeks3 came home with me, and we had

tea and ham together. Then the Geological Society                                          ;;

scrimmage between Sedgwick and Greenough. Play-

fair and had long talk after about my Welsh affairs.'
a
                 :
           'I
                          a

                                         a
The animated discussions at this Society are merely

alluded to in the diary. Thus on 5th February he
notes Geological night. Fitton on Greensand
                                                    4
                                                       :

                                                            '
                                                                                 ;

                                                                                    '
                                                                                        6
tremendous row, and regular blow-up after between

Fitton and Forbes.' On 2nd April Went to the

Geological Society, where old Warburton5 frightened

me out of my wits by calling on me to speak                                                and

on the 6th of the same month: 'Jolly night at the
1
                 1
Geological. Buckland's glaciers smashed.'7

        William Edmond Logan, born 1798, died 1875 connected in early life
with the South Welsh coal-field, of which hemapped large part, afterwards handing
                                            a
                                                      ;

over his maps to the Geological Survey, which published them subsequently   ;
appointed Director of the Geological Survey of Canada one of the great
                                                         ;

pioneers of pre-Cambrian geology. He was a life-long cherished friend of
Ramsay. He retired from the Canadian Survey in 1869, and afterwards settled

in this country, and died here.
    Captain, afterwards Admiral William Henry Smyth, born 1788, died
2
   ;
1865 distinguished for his great survey of the Mediterranean, for his numerous
contributions on nautical and astronomical subjects, for his acquirements in numis

matics, and for his important services in founding the Royal Geographical Society.

         Trenham Reeks was appointed in 1839 to the Museum in Craig's Court,3
and was Curator of the Museum of Practical Geology in Jermyn Street from its

inauguration until his death in 1879.4              an able geologist, to whom
        William Henry Fitton, born 1780, died 1861
                                                    ;
we are largely indebted for the stratigraphical arrangement of the Cretaceous rocksa
of England. The paper read by him on the 5th February 1845 was 'On the
Atherfield Section of the Lower Greensand in the Isle of Wight.'

   Henry Warburton, born 1784, died 1858; President of the Geological
T 06
           '

                             '
Society 1843 to 1845.
        The subject on which Ramsay was called on to speak was paper by Captain
Bayfield, On the Junction of the Transition and Primary Rocks of Canada.'
        The writer of this curt record lived to be one of the foremost supporters of
the 'glaciers' which he here dismisses. The paper read at the Society was one by
A. F. Mackintosh, On the Supposed Evidences of the Former Existence of Glaciers

in North Wales,' controverting the conclusions previously published by Buckland.
           CHAPTER III

THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY UNDER THE OFFICE OF WORKS

On the 1st April 1845, the beginning of the Par

liamentary financial year, the Geological Survey was

formally taken over from the Master- General and

Board of Ordnance, and was placed ' under the direc

tion and supervision of the First Commissioner of Her

Majesty's Woods, Forests, Land Revenues, Works,

and Buildings.' The staff was partly reorganised and

somewhat augmented.  At the same time the geo

logical mapping of Ireland, which had been partially

done for some of the north-eastern counties by Captain

Portlock1 under the Ordnance department, was now

definitely undertaken upon the same lines as those

followed in the larger island. The Irish Survey was

made to form part of an organisation which embraced

the whole United Kingdom, and which now became

' The Geological Survey of Great Britain and

Ireland.'

The chief appointments of the staff thus enlarged

were arranged as follows : Sir Henry De la Beche had

charge of the whole organisation, with the title of

Director-General. The immediate supervision of the

    1 J. E. Portlock, born 1794, died 1864 ; best known to geologists for his

excellent memoir on the ' Geology of Londonderry, Tyrone, and Fermanagh,
with portions of the Adjacent Counties.' He was President of the Geological
Society in 1856-58.

                                                    F
66  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS    CHAP. Ill

work in England and Wales (and afterwards in Scot
land) was assigned to A. C. Ramsay as Local Director
for Great Britain. The Irish branch was entrusted to

the care of Captain James,1 R.E. A palaeontologist

was appointed, and the office was filled by Edward
Forbes. W. W. Smyth2 became Mining Geologist, and

Dr. (now Sir Joseph) Hooker was a year later made
Botanist to the Geological Survey of the United

Kingdom. Dr. Lyon Playfair (now Lord Playfair)
was appointed Chemist, while Richard Phillips still

remained in charge of the original  laboratory of the
Museum. Robert Hunt succeeded       T. B. Jordan as
Keeper of Mining Records.

     The staff of geological surveyors under Ramsay,
besides W. T. Aveline, Trevor E. James, D. H.

Williams, and H. W. Bristow,3 already members of

the Ordnance Geological Survey, was now augmented

by the appointment of W. H. Baily4 and of A. R. C.
Selwyn 6-- a name which will be frequently mentioned

in the course of this Memoir. Besides these officers,

the staff included a few assistants for special services.
R. Gibbs,8 one of the most admirable collectors the

     1 Captain (afterwards Sir) Henry James, born 1803, died 1877; resigned
the Directorship of the Geological Survey of Ireland in June 1846, and was suc
ceeded by Thomas Oldham. He afterwards held for many years the appointment
of Director of the Ordnance Survey of the United Kingdom.

     2 Warington W. Smyth, born 181 7, died 1890 ; son of Admiral W. H.
Smyth ; Lecturer on Mining and Mineralogy in the Royal School of Mines from
185 1 to the time of his death. Knighted in 1887.

     3 Henry William Bristow, born 181 7, died 1889; appointed to the Survey

in 1842 ; became Director for England and Wales in 1872 ; an able and accurate
surveyor of Secondary and Tertiary formations, and, from his genial and

courteous manners, a great favourite among his colleagues.
     4 William Hellier Baily, born 18 19, died 1888; transferred in 1856 to the

Irish staff, where he acted as Palaeontologist.
     6 Alfred R. C. Selwyn, after doing admirable work in the mapping of North

Wales, resigned, in July 1852, to accept the charge of the Geological Survey of
Victoria. On the resignation of Sir William Logan, he was appointed Director
of the Geological Survey of Canada, an office which he still worthily fills.

     6 Richard Gibbs, a native of Gloucestershire, was first employed by De la

Beche in running sections in the Mitcheldean district, and made himself so useful
WILLIAM TALBOT AVELINE
1845 REORGANISATION OF THE SERVICE  67

Survey ever possessed, had joined as far back as the
summer of 1843. Charles R. Bone was employed as
artist to draw fossils described by the palaeontologist.

     With this augmentation of the staff, other addi
tional duties were undertaken by the Survey. Of

these perhaps the most important was the preparation
and publication of Memoirs illustrative of various

districts that had been mapped, and containing a
discussion of subjects connected with general views

of geology and its applications. The first volume of
this series was soon planned. The Director-General
undertook to contribute an essay ' On the Formation
of the Rocks of South Wales and South -Western

England.' Edward Forbes supplied his famous and
classic paper ' On the connection between the dis
tribution of the existing fauna and flora of the
British Isles, and the geological changes which have
affected their area, especially during the epoch of the
Northern Drift.' Ramsay's contribution consisted of
his essay ' On the Denudation of South Wales and
the adjacent counties of England.' The volume con
taining these various papers appeared in 1846, and
the preparation of the material occupied much of the

time spent indoors in the previous year.
     The general bearing of the scientific organisation

planned by De la Beche upon the progress of geo
logical investigation was well expressed by Leonard
Horner1 in his address as President of the Geological
Society. ' With scarcely any exceptions,' he said,
' all geological inquiries have [hitherto] been the

that he was eventually attached to the staff of the Survey. A large part of the

fossil collections in the Museum of Practical Geology was originally collected by
him. His name will frequently occur in the subsequent pages of this Memoir.
He retired from the service on a pension in 1872, and died in 1878.

      1 See notice of Horner on p. 122.
68  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS  chap, 1n

fruits of individual research. But in the Geological
Survey of Great Britain there is a combination of

forces which we have never, in this country at least,
seen applied to the promotion of any one department
of science. No department perhaps requires so many
different descriptions of force to be brought to bear
upon it. The Ordnance Trigonometrical Survey led
the way by the preparation of that indispensable

requisite in geological inquiries, an accurate map on

a large scale. For the more general (geological)
Survey, we have geologists of great practical experi

ence, who have established a high reputation ; and
when the structure of each region is to be worked out
in detail, the special knowledge of the mineralogist,
the chemist, the natural philosopher, the zoologist,

the comparative anatomist, the botanist, and the
palaeontologist, will be brought to bear, as required,
by means of men of high authority in each branch,
and their labours will be illustrated by artists of great
skill, all attached to the Survey, forming together a
corps of scientific men, for the accomplishment of a
great work, not surpassed, I believe, by any similar

establishment in any other country.'1

     By these new arrangements additional duties
and responsibility were thrown upon Ramsay. The
Local Director was to have immediate supervision of
the field-work of the staff, which would necessitate

his frequent inspection of the surveys of his various
colleagues. He was to see that the whole mapping
was conducted on uniform methods, to confer with

the officers on their difficulties, to bring the experience
gained in one district to bear upon the elucidation of

another, and thus to ensure the harmony and steady

      1 Anniversary address, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. iii. (1847), p. 31.
THE QUARTERLY ACCOUNTS  69

progress of the field-work. To gain these important

objects it would no longer be possible for him to
spend his whole time in the field carrying out inde

pendent mapping on his own part. It would be

needful to keep himself in touch with the progress of
the mapping in every district, though he resolved
from the first that he would still devote a good part
of the working season to mapping by himself -- an
employment for which he was so admirably qualified,
and in which he took such a keen pleasure.

      But besides superintending the surveys in the
field, the Director was charged with the task of seeing
the maps prepared for the engraver, of arranging the
lines of horizontal section, and of editing these sections

before they were sent to be engraved. These indoor

duties were sometimes exceedingly onerous, involving
as they did much correspondence and frequent visits
to the ground before all discrepancies, omissions,
or mistakes were finally rectified. From this time
forward letter-writing on official business claimed an
ever-increasing share of Ramsay's time.

     The most irksome part, however, in the routine
of these duties was the supervision of the accounts
of the staff. Incredible as it may now seem,
each member of the corps was required to procure a

receipt for all travelling expenses. Continual and

vexatious were the disputes with railway-clerks, coach-

proprietors, hotel-keepers, and others who refused to
be at the trouble of granting receipts, or declined even
to sign their names at the foot of official receipts
already prepared for them. Moreover, each officer
was further bound to furnish at the end of every
quarter a detailed statement of his disbursements, with
vouchers for his travelling fares and other payments.
70  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS          chap, h1

All these documents required to be checked and made

conformable to the regulations, and the operation some

times took several days, even if it was not further pro

longed by correspondence as to inaccuracies in the

charges, or in the method of stating them. But the

crowning vexation came after the whole accounts

had been examined and passed. In those days it

was officially required that before sending in his

accounts the Director should appear before a

magistrate, and swear to their accuracy.  In a

country place, as may easily be imagined, this regu

lation often led to great loss of time, as well as

additional expense. It would sometimes happen that

no qualified official was to be found within a distance
of several miles from the Director's station. And now

and then, when found, the worthy justice had some
difficulty in comprehending the nature of the unusual

request that was made to him.

     Ramsay chronicles a number of instances of his
experience of this serious infliction in country places.
Thus in the beginning of the October quarter of 1847,
while at Bishop's Castle, he records : ' Got the
accounts sworn to before Squire O. -- a jolly, gentle

manly red-faced man, who did not seem clearly to

understand the difference between an affidavit and an

oath. Accordingly, as the surest method, he made me

kiss the book.' On another occasion, while stationed

at Llanberis in 1849, he had the experience recorded

in the following entry : ' Having received the amended

accounts, started for Mr. Hughes' of St. Ann's, the
magistrate, ten miles off or so. He was away at

Llanfairfechan. No help for it but to walk to Bangor.
Every magistrate in the town was away to Llanfair

fechan, for it seems they are one and all parsons, the
1845 RUNNING A MAGISTRATE TO EARTH                                                    71

magistrates of Bangor, and there was a chapel to be

consecrated there to-day. Took a car, and in despair

drove to Penrhyn Castle. Colonel Pennant also
                             '
gone  to  Llanfairfechan   !    Next day he proceeded to

Caernarvon, ' expecting Mr. Morgan to do my magis

trate's business for me, but lo ! he was gone to Bangor,

and no other was to be found in the town. I was

disgusted beyond measure. Then took steamer and

crossed to Anglesey to the Rev. Wynne Williams of

Menai fron, and as good luck would have he was

at home. At last we had run a magistrate to earth
in
                 aafter a two days' hunt. He was very civil and made
                           la
                                                                              in it,us take a glass of wine.'

The duties of the Local Director for Great Britain

were at that time confined to England and Wales, the

field-work not being extended to Scotland for some

nine years later. The Irish branch of the service was

entirely excluded from his supervision, but Ramsay

was kept fully aware of all that was going on in the

sister island, not only by conference and correspond

ence with De  Beche, but also by frequent com

munications from the successive directors of the Irish

Survey. His tact and good sense were often of

service in smoothing difficulties which threatened to

break up the discipline and effectiveness of the Irish

staff. Having the confidence both of the Director-

General and his subordinates, he was appealed to

frankly by both, so that over and above the cor

respondence naturally entailed on him by his own

proper duties, he frequently was involved in much

letter-writing on the affairs of his colleagues                                     Ireland.

We get glimpse into the life of the Irish Survey

the following unpublished letter from Edward

Forbes.
              SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS                                  chap, h1

                                                  Fethard, County Wexford,

                                                            14M September 1845.

    Dear Ramsay --When I arrived                  in  London from       Imy Zetland
voyage I found you were in Glasgow.
                                                      Had I known       it before,
Imight have given you a ten minutes' call on the way.
                                                                            got your
note at Oban. On arriving in town I found half a dozen orders

from Sir Henry to be off to join him in Ireland ; so after three days
Iin London, cut away to Waterford via Bristol. . . .
    I am  here in a little village near Hook
            Limestone fossils, examining their              Point, in the midst of
Mountain
                                                             distribution -- all very

interesting. The Captain, a very nice fellow named Willson, who is

of his staff, and that thorough Welshman, little                J., peppery, uncom

                                                                   I
fortable, and marvellously stupid and uninformed (as find on close
                                             We make
quarters), are my companions.              absurdities  a   very merry      mess, how
                                                        --                   misery in
ever, and the       Welsh squire's                          for he  is  in
                     us laugh. Sir
Ireland -- make                     Henry was with us till two days ago,

working like trooper, and when not at work telling funny stories.
a

          Ia
                           I
In few days         leave this and go with the Captain (who sports                                      it it I a

ferocious pair of egg-brown moustaches) to look at the Pleistocene
beds in Wexford. Thence go with Sir Henry to Dublin, after

which, route as yet undetermined.                 When in Zetland       I   got most

important data respecting the history of the animals found fossil

in the Pleistocene beds. This makes me very anxious to see the

Irish, and should like much to go with you to Moel Trefaen and
I
thereabouts.I

                it
have been talking to Sir Henry about Longman's book.1

don't see how the Devil   it       to be done. One gets no time to do
                              is

it. Unless can be done as Survey work, and in Survey time,

seems to me to be quite out of the question, and                       we find that
                                                            a

                                                                   if
cannot so be done, would be better to write joint letter to Long
                    a it
man submitting such to be the case, and requesting to be freed from

the engagement. As        it  is,  it, it  is  an unpleasant fiction. What say

you have not finished my great work yet from utter want of
?

  I
            I
time, nor when think over                  do see how can be done, unless
                                               I            it

Sir Henry grants          few weeks' respite.           Ever, dear Ramsay, most
sincerely yours,                                          Edward Forbes A.

     With all the immediate and prospective additions
to his duties arising from the reorganisation of the
Survey, and happily ignorant as yet of the trouble and

worry which they might involve, Ramsay got through
the office work of the winter of 1844-45, and soon

        This was the new edition of Conybeare and Phillips's Geology                                  England
and Wales, referred to on p. 58.
1

                                                                                                    of
                 LEOPOLD VON BUCH                                    73

after the middle of April took again to the field. He

first joined H. W. Bristow in the Ludlow and New

Radnor district, 'turning Old Red Sandstone into

Silurian ' during the day, and spending the evenings

right merrily with musical friends.

     The great Leopold von Buch, one of the oddest

and ablest of the German geologists of his day, came

to London early this summer. On the 27th May

Ramsay notes : ' Adjourned to Dr. Fitton's, where

were all the big-wigs of science to meet Von Buch.'

A few weeks later he accompanied the German

philosopher to Cambridge to attend the meeting of the

British Association, which was held there in June of
this year. Of this journey down from London he

afterwards wrote: 'At Murchison's request I took

Von Buch to Cambridge on the outside of the mail-

coach from the head of the Haymarket. His luggage

always consisted only of a small baize bag, which held

a clean shirt and clean silk stockings. He wore knee-

breeches and shoes. ' 1

     At this meeting Ramsay read a paper before

Section C ' On the Denudation of South Wales and

the adjacent Counties.' His jotting in reference to

this event runs thus : ' Read my paper, or rather

spokeIt          Felt no difficulty. Much discussion.

Dined with the Reds. Evening meeting in our hallit.                  '

[Jesus College]. Edward Forbes formed one of the

merry party that was lodged in the College.

       was past the middle of July before he had

resumed his field-work in Cardiganshire, working

along the coast and into the interior from Aberporth,

Aberaeron, Aberystwith, and other stations. This was

to be season of hard work in the field, clearing off
       a

                1

                          of
                                   I.
                 Life Sir R. Murchison, vol. ii.  p.  76, footnote.
74 SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, m

outstanding unfinished tracts of ground, and joining

up lines so as to carry the mapping well to the north.

It was only interrupted by a few weeks spent in a visit

to his mother and friends in Scotland, during which

he passed an evening on the top of Goatfell, renewed

his acquaintance with the Glasgow circle, and saw his

relatives in Edinburgh and Haddington.

Back again in Wales, he writes to his mother from

Aberaeron on the 29th September : ' Stress of weather

has delayed my work, two successive bad days having

driven me to the verge of despair, and, had I good

opportunity, there is no saying but I might run away

to sea. I have been wandering after dinner on the

shingly sea-shore. The wind was low, but a heavy

smooth swell played the dickens with the pebbles,

rattling and rolling them, and grind, grind, grinding

them into rounded surfaces as polished as a smooth

teapot. Then such piles of watery clouds in the west,

full of portentous caverns, through which the upward

rays of the sun (himself deep down in the sea) shone
with a strange unearthly light, the whilk it was diffi

cult to say whether it most resembled a reflected glow

from the gates of Heaven or a lurid glare from the

portals of Infernality     '
                        !

The Welsh ground that had to be mapped at this

time included tracts that lay far from his stations, and

necessitated long tramps on foot. Writing to his

brother William from Aberystwith on 25th Sep
tember, he asks, ' Will no Christian make me a present

of a thousand pounds ? and then I might buy a horse

and gig and save my bones. When a man is wearied

his brain is barren. That's my case. I could sleep,

too, if it weren't that the tea keeps me wakeful. . . .

I wish I had four legs and a man's head. I wish I
                               BUYS A PONY                                             75

were a centaur, and then I could go right across the

country, taking all the hedges and ditches just as they

come.' On 6th October he tells the same corre

spondent, ' I have been obligated to buy a pony, for

this is too wild a country and the distances too great

for my legs to stand           The day before                                       reached
         a                                                                 is
           I                                                                  I

                                           :                                              I

                                 it.

                                  I it
Aberaeron was fairly knocked up long before

reached home. Ten miles to one's work rather too

much of good joke, for makes twenty without

£jincluding the work at all.                have got great bargain,
                                                                           a
                                                                                is
having only paid               1os. for her. She at present

well worth £12 or ^13, and in six months shall                                      I
make her worth more than double what paid. She
                                                                           I

chestnut, with silver mane and tail, and five years
is
   a

                      :

              I'
                            a
old last May.' Four days later he writes to his

brother  get deuce of a drenching every day just

now, even to the very sark. However, does me no                            a
                                                                             it
harm. My new pony turns out well -- little skittish

sometimes, but that makes one feel alive in the saddle.'

The short November days would sometimes close

in upon him while still far from his quarters, as on

one occasion, of which he notes, Walked up the road
I

              :

                      a is

                                                                        '
to Llanidloes, and so over the shoulder of Plyn-

limmon. Benighted on the hills, sans road, and so

dark could not see two yards. By dint of shouting,

a man came and found me.' At last, on the 14th

November, he                   able to chronicle at Pont-rhyd-

fendigaid 'Had most successful day's work, and

finished South Wales, perfectly understanding the

same.' Before the end of the year he joined Selwyn

at Machynlleth, and the two comrades made some

traverses into the rugged country of Cader Idris,

from which in later years they were to work out the

complicated volcanic geology of North Wales.
76  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS                chap, h1

    While stationed at Pumpsaint, near Llandovery, in

1842, Ramsay had received much kindness from Mr.

Johnes of Dolaucothi and his family. The friendship
then begun was one of the most cherished of his life,
and lasted undimmed to the time of his death. He

was always a welcome guest at the house and a

constant correspondent of the family. Not infre

quently his epistles took the form of verse, and on his
visits he sometimes wrote rhymes in the albums of the

ladies. The earliest of these effusions dates back to

the summer of 1842, and its character  may  be  gathered
from the following lines in it :--

    And when 'mid other scenes I ride,
    With good Sir Henry by my side,
    Oft will I tell of merry staves,

    Sung in Gogofau's ancient caves ;
    And how his ' geologic son 1
    At Dolaucothi had ' such fun ' ;

    Fenced with his host upon the green,

    And came off second best, I ween ;

    Ran races on the lawn, good lack !
    And tumbled down upon his back ;
    Or shouted loud among the train,

    Till woodland echoes rang again ;
    When I (with all the mirthful crew,
    Yourself, and B, C, F, and Stue),
    A stranger from the ' Land o' Cakes,'

    On Cothi's banks made ducks and drakes ;
    Or how, 'mid arbor-vitas bowers,
    We plucked our ante-dinner flowers;
    And lofty Fanny chose to wear,

    Entwined amid her raven hair,

    Of cabbages a garland fair,
    While Charlotte, less ambitious, weaves
    A simple wreath of carrot leaves.

     While the Geological Survey was in progress in
Wales it was not difficult for him to pay an occasional
visit to Dolaucothi, where he was always certain of
a cordial welcome. And even after the field-work

had been finished in the Principality he was able from
1846 WINTER LIFE IN LONDON  77

time to time to return to this hospitable home.1 From

his voluminous correspondence with the Dolaucothi

household we shall glean some interesting reminis
cences of his life and work in later years.

     From the brief entries in his memorandum book

of 1846 a few quotations may be taken, giving
glimpses into his London doings during three months
in the early part of the year.

    '21st January. -- Went to Putney with Playfair.

Lecture on chemical affinity. Came up to hear
Sedgwick's paper on Wales, Cumberland, etc. Made
a speech about South Wales. The old man horribly
wrong-headed.' This meeting is referred to in a letter

of the 31st January to W. T. Aveline : ' Sedgwick is at

work attempting to show that we are all wrong, and
that all North Wales (!), I think, and all South Wales

-- Cardigan and Caermarthenshire -- is Upper Silurian.2
He vows that Aberystwith is Ludlow. I flared up

the other night, after his paper at the Geological,

when he said that that was now the case, and thus we

must not leave him the shadow of a leg to stand on.
He is not content with the Cambrian, and so, gulping
it down, he wheels about ten times, and turns it all in

Upper Silurian.'
     ' 29M. -- At the Museum as usual. Had a scramble

with Sir H. among the old book-shops after four.
Bought an old Beaumont and Fletcher, and a Walton
and Cotton. Evening at home. Wrote Eliza.

     1\th February. -- At home at night reading the fifth
edition of the Vestiges [of Creation]. Saw in it things

      1 Among his papers he preserved a clever and amusing sketch of a road map
of Wales by Edward Forbes, which showed Dolaucothi in the centre, with roads
leading directly to it from every quarter, even the most remote, where Ramsay
was stationed.

     2 Yet Sedgwick was partly right. See W. Keeping, Quart. Journ. Geo!. Soc.

xxxvii. (1881), p. 141.
78  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS  chap, h1

I had told Chambers in Edinburgh after the publication

of the fourth edition. He is the author [see p. 137].
     20th. -- Anniversary of the Geological Society.

Heard some of it. Went to the dinner afterwards ; sat
beside Sir H. and Henry,1 Ansted,2 Strickland,

Sopwith,3 Austen,4 and others of our party. Good

fun. Murchison awfully grand.

     215/. -- At work as usual. Lord Northampton's

first soiree. Prince Albert, Sir Robert [Peel], and

Lord John [Russell] there among the crowd. Left at
half-past eleven. Dined with Reeks and Baily.

    2$th. -- Went to hear paper [by J. Prestwich5] on

the Tertiaries of the Isle of Wight at the Geological ;

excellent. The   made an ass of himself. Sir

H. spoke admirably.
    12th March. -- Sir H. criticised the first part of

my paper [on the Denudation of South Wales] to-day

most flatteringly.

     1 7th. -- Dr. Smith dined with us. Afterwards we

went to the Haymarket, and died of laughter. Oysters

with Playfair.'

      1 Thomas Hetherington Henry, at one time head brewer in the brewery of

Messrs. Trueman, Hanbury, and Buxton, afterwards practised as an analytical
chemist. He was a contemporary and friend of Edward Forbes, a member of
the Red Lion Club, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.

      3 David Thomas Ansted, born 1814, died 1880; Professor of Geology at
King's College, London ; Assistant-Secretary of the Geological Society from
1844 to 1847 ; author of numerous popular works on geology. During the last
thirty years of his life he was largely consulted in regard to the practical applica
tions of geology, and was much employed as a professional witness.

       3 Thomas Sopwith, born 1803, died 1879 ; an ingenious mechanician, who
devised many excellent geological models ; devoted much time to the study of
mining districts ; became Commissioner for the Crown under the Dean-Forest
Mining Act, and ultimately manager of the Allendale Mines.

     4 R. A. C. Godwin- Austen, born 1808, died 1884 ; a geologist of the keenest
insight, who, though he wrote little, was acknowledged by his contemporaries to
be one of the greatest of their number. His paper on the Possible Existence of
Coal under the South-East of England is a remarkable example of his skill. He
specially delighted in reconstructing the geography of former geological periods.

     * Joseph Prestwich, the living Nestor of English geologists, specially distin
guished for his researches in Tertiary and Post-Tertiary geology, succeeded Phillips
in 1874 as Professor of Geology at Oxford, and retired from that office in 1888.
1846 FIELD-WORK IN WALES  79

     Ramsay remained in London until the 25th April,
and passed the whole of the rest of the year in the
field, partly inspecting work already done, and partly
joining several of his colleagues in the tracing of fresh
lines and in the attack of new ground. The staff had
been recruited at the beginning of that month by the
addition of another palaeontologist in the person of J.
W. Salter,1 who was to play a brilliant part in working
out the fossils of the Cambrian and Silurian forma

tions of Britain, and who from time to time gave his

services to the working parties in the field.
     After a brief period of inspection with Bristow

around Yeovil, in Somerset, Ramsay turned his face
once more to North Wales, and remained there until

the middle of December. The problems which the
Survey was attacking in that region were of absorbing
interest. Besides the question of the relative bound
aries of the Cambrian and Silurian systems, then
beginning to be agitated between Murchison and
Sedgwick, there was the marvellous display of
volcanic phenomena presented by the older Palaeo

zoic rocks. Ramsay had already helped to map the
igneous masses north of Builth, in the Shelve and
Chirbury district, and among the Breidden Hills.
But it was a new experience to see volcanic sheets
developed on the magnificent scale which they pre
sent in the noble range of mountains extending from
the ridge of Cader Idris northwards through the chain
of the Arans and the Arenigs. Selwyn was at work
from Dolgelli. Aveline was tracing the boundaries
of the Silurian series from Llanbrynmair eastwards to

      1 John William Salter, born 1820, died 1869 ; appointed to the Geological
Survey in 1846, and for many years engaged both in the Museum and in the field
in determining fossils for the Survey. His knowledge of Paleozoic forms of life
was unrivalled. He retired from the Survey in 1863.
8o SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, h1

Church Stretton and the Longmynd. At the beginning
of October J. B. Jukes (see p. 82), joined the staff, and

began to work out the ground around Bala. Between
these three centres of field-work Ramsay spent some

busy months, keeping himself in continual touch with
the progress of the mapping, and taking also an active

part in personally tracing geological lines. A few

excerpts from his memorandum book will bring his

life at this time before the reader.

     ' 14M May. -- Out with Selwyn along the front of

the Cader cliffs. Glorious day and glorious scenery.

     1 6th. -- Out with Selwyn over the top of Cader
Idris ; a long day's work. We had a splendid

scramble.

     20th. -- Wrote Sir H. and Smyth with traps ; also

Gibbs, Playfair, and my mother. Out by Ty-gwyn

and all that country. Selwyn's work good. We

wandered all day by mighty pleasant brooks and

rivers.
2\sntdJ.u--neA.v--eliLneeft
                              for  Mallwyd  ; met Aveline there.
                             and   I began  to work. Work ex

cellent, so far as I saw, especially the traps ; awfully

hot day.

    gth. -- Out seeing the unconformable Caradocs on

the Longmynd ; splendid old coast. Never more

charmed.

     23rd. --Wrote Eliza, and Survey letters to Trimmer,1
Henfrey, Selwyn, Hunt. Walked up to Abergwailas

with Aveline, working all the way. Dined there.

Started again after dinner, and wrought till nine at

night ; then back to tea.

     1 Joshua Trimmer, born 1795, died 1857. He was the first to recognise the
importance of mapping the drifts and other superficial formations. He was for
some time attached to the Geological Survey.
ALFRED R. C. SELWYN
1846 FIELD-WORK IN WALES                  81

     2\th. -- No sleep at Abergwailas owing to green
tea and fleas. Everything dirty. Started at ten,
Aveline and I taking different routes. We met at five,
having each traced some ten miles of winding boundary
and meeting to a nicety. We got home to Pen y bont

at nine, having walked thirty- five miles and fasted

twelve hours. Mutton chops and bottled porter.

     August 2nd. -- Left [Dolaucothi] after lunch. Got

awfully drenched on Lampeter Mountain ; stayed at

Lampeter two hours. Rode to Aberaeron ; flood so

great I was obliged to stay two hours there. Rode
on ; bridges all gone ; forded the foaming torrents with
difficulty ; so late when I got to Llanrhystyd that I

stayed at Lewis.

     3rd. -- Rode on at half-past six to Aberystwith.
Breakfasted at the ' Lion.' Called and spent half the
day with Fosset and the Downies. Rode on to Dol-

gelli, and got there at half-past twelve at night. Slept

 at the inn.

      1gth. -- Out by Llyn bach and along the range of

 hills to the Dinas road. Splendid day.

     25M. -- Out on Rhobell fawr.1 Excellent day's

work.

     26th. -- Out above Llanfachreth. Home to dinner

at six. Found Sir Henry dining in the coffee-room.
 Dined with the cricketers, and had a chat with Sir H.

 after.

      27th. -- Out with Sir H. over Cader ; got many
 wrinkles. Met a car at Tal-y-llyn ; home to dinner
at seven. Selwyn and I dined with Sir Henry. Sir H.

1 This interesting but difficult piece of geology was the subject of much care
ful exploration in later years both by Ramsay and Selwyn. When the survey of
INorth Wales                           Ramsay wrote to Aveline (28th June 1853),
              was almost  completed,    Rhobell as probably one of the centres of
' have often  been prone  to consider

eruption.'

                                       G
82        SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS                                          chap, 1n

breakfasted with us.' With reference to the ' wrinkles '

which the Director-General was able to furnish to his

younger colleagues, the following extract from a letter

written four days afterwards to W. T. Aveline is not

without geological interest : ' There are a number of

bands of strata here, which I at first took for altered

rocks, but which Sir Henry declared to be volcanic

ash, and which, though doubtless often deposited in

water, he declares must be mapped in green.1 His

reason is that they are volcanic products ; and I

see he is right. Some of them in structure are as

fine as porcelain - slates, being mostly or entirely

composed of felspar.'          Over Aran Benllyn
     ' -- Car to Drws y nant.

and Aran Mowddwy to Dinas Mowddwy. Came

home in a car to Dolgelli, well tired ; Sir H. the

freshest of us. Dined, slept, awoke, and went to bed.
    Atth September. -- Started. Walked down to the

castle [Harlech] after breakfast. Splendid ruin. From
thence along the coast, where we bathed. Thence to

Llanbedr, and across the sandstone hills through Bwlch

Ardudwy to Pont dol gefeiliau, where we met a car

and drove home by eight. Among the hills Sir H. and

I had lunch in a hut, where we met a Welshwoman,

who gave us bread, butter, and milk, and a hearty

welcome.

     22nd.-- Went with Selwyn, Oldham [see p. 84], and
Salter to Barmouth, etc. ; walked back across the sand

stone hills over Llawllech. Jolly day. O. dined with us.
     $th October. -- Came up from Bala in a car with

Jukes2 [who arrived at Bala on the 3rd to join the

      1 Green was the  ceoxlopurer ssad' ogpreteednstaotnetsha'tantdimoethoenr  the published maps  of  the
Geological Survey to                                                            igneous masses.
    s Joseph Beete Jukes, born 181 1, died 1869; after carrying on geological

explorations in Newfoundland and Torres Straits, returned to England and
1846 FIELD-WORK IN WALES                      83

staff of the Survey] to Ffestiniog, and found Sir H.

there with erysipelas in the leg. Jolly !
     10th. -- Came down to Bala with Sir H. and Jukes

in an eternal rain. Jukes and I dined with Sir H.

Pleasant evening, very.

     2 jth. -- Jukes and Forbes rode to the foot of the
Arenig ; Aveline, Williams, Gibbs, and I walked.
Foggy on the top. Ash, ash, ash everywhere.' By

this time Ramsay's eyes were fully opened to the

great importance of recognising the detrital material

of old volcanic explosions among the Palaeozoic

systems. Writing to W. T. Aveline on the 23rd Sep
tember, he says : ' On the whole, my experience here

makes me much more sceptical of altered rocks,

generally speaking, than I used to be, there being
many beds here that I would once have considered

altered rocks, which are in reality nothing but hard
consolidated ashes. The word " ashes " does not
imply " cinders," but often rather volcanic dust, which

may be as fine as you like.'    Out among the traps ;

    ' 1 8t/« November.-- Bala.

had a glorious find of fossils.

    1gth. --Wrote Forbes with a trilobite. Away up

far among the traps. Got an excellent day's work

done.                                         It got wet

     21st. -- Out with Aveline to the traps.

and turned us just when we had begun to work.

Nevertheless, we got a goodish day's work done on

the way home by the river, into which, a branch giving

way, I tumbled considerably over the boots.'

One of the most important events in the progress

joined the Geological Survey in 1846. He was appointed Director of the
Geological Survey of Ireland in 1850, and held that post till his death. Much
information about the Survey work in Wales will be found in Jukes's Letters ( 187 1),
many of which were written to A. C. Ramsay.
84 SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, h1

of the Survey, and also in the career of its Local
Director, during the year 1846 was the appearance of
the first volume of the Survey Memoirs already re

ferred to. Allusion to the coming volume was not

infrequent during the summer in the correspondence
of the Survey officials. Thus Sir Henry, who had

gone over to Ireland to inspect the field-work there

under the new Director, T. Oldham,1 wrote :

                                           Newtown Bray, Co. Wexford,

                                                  26th July 1846.

    IMy dear Ramsay -- Oldham and self continue to get on

famously, and am right well contented with him. . . . Oldham

appears to have a philosophical mind, quite ready to go ahead

Iin the school we have been forming. In about ten or twelve days
   hope to be on the start for the other (your) side of the Irish Sea,

running up to London to see what progress we are making towards

a house.

    IOur tome of Memoirs is described as a handsome one;
believe it to be a good one. The Longmans say it is too cheap,
                £1
but somehow         :  1s.  seems  a fair  price  for any work of the kind.

-- Ever yours,                                       H. T. De la Beche.

     We are here concerned with only Ramsay's con
tribution to the volume. His essay on the Denuda
tion of South Wales was a remarkably original and
suggestive addition to the literature of geology. It
was the first attempt to reduce the phenomena of

denudation to actual measurement by constructing
horizontal sections on a true scale, and showing what
thickness of rock had actually been stripped off the
face of the country.

     The following correspondence will show how this
essay was regarded by two of the ablest reasoners in
geological science :--

      1 Thomas Oldham, born 1816, died 1878 ; appointed to the directorship
of the Geological Survey of Ireland in 1846 on the retirement of Captain James,
and held it until 1850, when he became Superintendent of the Geological Survey
of India. He retired from that office in 1876.
1846 LETTER FROM DARWIN                                        85

             C. Darw1n to A. C. Ramsay.

                           Down, Farnborough,

                                        10M October (1846).

     Dear S1r -- Having just read your excellent Memoir on De

Inudation, have taken the liberty to send you a copy of my volume

on South America, finding that we have discussed some related
Iquestions. I wish had profited by your Memoir before publishing
Imy volume.
             see that we entirely agree on the sea's great power

compared with ordinary alluvial action, and likewise on the fre

If Iquency of grand oscillations of level, and on several other points.

    you had time to read parts of my volume, should much like

to discuss with you many cases, such as my notion of subsidence

being necessary for the formation of high sea-cliffs, as inferred from
the nature of the sea's bottom off them; likewise the horizontal
elevation of the Cordillera as inferred from the sloping gravel

Ifringes in the valleys ; the non-horizontality of lines of escarpments
round old bays, etc. etc.  grieve to see how diametrically

opposite our views are (I being a follower of Lyell) on the prob

Iability of great and sudden elevations of mountain - chains ;

cannot but think that you would have estimated existing forces

as more than 'petty,' and entertained some doubt about their

being 'conflicting,' had you inspected with your own eyes the

wide area of recently elevated and similarly affected districts in
South America. There is much which I could say on this head,
Ibut I will not intrude on you.
                                        Mr.  Hopkins's  views  of
      May ask whether you do not admit

mountain-chains being the subordinate effects of fractures con

sequent on changes of level in the surrounding areas ; and does
not all the evidence which we possess tend to show that widely-

extended elevations are slow, and may we not infer from this that
Ithe formation of mountain-chains is likewise probably slow ?
                                                               can

not see any difficulty, after a line of fracture has been once formed,
in fluidified rock being pumped in by as many strokes, as it is

I Ipumped out in a common volcano, and yet producing a sym

metrical effect. But much fear that have cause to apologise

for having written at such unreasonable length ; the interest excited

I Iin me by your Memoir must plead my excuse, and trusting that

you will forgive the liberty have taken, remain, dear sir, yours
                                             C. Darw1n.
faithfully,

                      C. Lyell to A. C. Ramsay.

    IMy dear S1r-- have just been reading with great pleasure

your admirable and well-written essay on the Denudation of South
86           SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS    chap, h1

Wales, the illustrations of which are most beautiful, and with nine-

tenths of which, in regard to the conclusion and reasonings, I agree.

I shall have to cite it in a seventh edition of my Principles, which
I am now printing, and I wish to guard myself against misunder
Istanding the only point on which shall have to differ from you.
I Iam anxious to have a speedy answer, as the sheet in which shall

allude to your paper will soon go to press.

     In that part of your section, plate 4, which relates to the Mendip

Iregion, one which have gone over sufficiently to take more interest
I Iin it than otherwise should do, you mean to say, if mistake not,
that between 4000 and 5000 feet of strata have been removed by
denudation, between C and 4a ; in other words, that between the

deposition of certain Carboniferous strata and certain newer beds,
4a, two events occurred : first, the disturbance of the beds of the

Palaeozoic rocks ; second, the denudation of several thousand feet of

the same beds. Yet it seems to me, on reading other passages of your

paper, that you cannot mean this ; for your ideas of denudation

Iacting contemporaneously with subterranean movements, whether

of upheaval or depression, agree with those which published in

1 83 1 in my Principles (and, by the way, before that time it was
thought a triumphant argument against what were called 'modern

causes' to prove that a river could not denude the rocks); the
gradual action of the ocean acting concurrently with movements

Iof the land, as exemplified in my denudation of the Wealden, had

not, so far as know, been fully set forth in any geological work,

with due allowance also for the resistance of the harder and yield

ing of the softer rocks.

    Now as you adopt these views, and have applied them with all

Ithe modern lights to your sound and philosophical speculations in
this essay,  cannot comprehend how you can dispense with in
definite geological time for your denudation in the case I allude
to. But if so, what becomes of your argument at p. 317 in favour
of grand catastrophic and intense disturbing power between the
Iclose of the Coal Measure Period and the deposition of the un

conformable beds, 4a ? You must be well prepared, from what
have said of the amount of denudation, especially in my Elements,

for my willingness to admit as much of or more than you want,
    it
          it

                                                                         it,

                                                                    I,

                                                                        I if

                                                                                                                     a
as must have exceeded all the sedimentary strata which are

measure of its quantity, and of the gradual manner or slow rate at

which took place. You will also expect that at least, shall feel

no difficulty in granting an indefinite lapse of geological time

between the deposition of the last of the Coal Measures in the

Mendip region and the oldest of the overlying conglomerates of

that country. The entire flora and fauna were changed once, not

more, during that interval of unknown extent, and therefore have

no objection to as much elevation, disturbance, and denudation as
1846 LETTER FROM LYELL                                           S7

Iyou represent. But as interpret your paper, you think the period

so short that you have only time for one gigantic effort to cause
all the faults, fissures, and curvatures of the older strata. You may

say, perhaps, that the greater time taken for the denudation the

less remains for the upheaval ; but that argument is then against

Ithe two operations having been contemporaneous.   That you do
                                                  conclude from
not suppose them to have gone on simultaneously

the suddenness which you attribute to the action of the disturbing
forces. You also seem to assume (p. 317) that the action of forces
working at successive times could be conflicting. This seems to be
so contrary to the analogy of volcanic action, whether breaking out

at the surface or exhibited in the upheaval or depression of con

tinents, or in convulsions which rend for several thousand years

lines of country, recurring so marvellously in the same tracts, and

in the same direction, that some facts or some references to con

trary analogies should have been given. The conformity of the
Palaeozoic strata can in no wise circumscribe the lapse of time of

which I have defined the limits as above.
    I do not think that any geologist who has lived, as we have

done, in a period when a single earthquake can rend a large district

like Chili, and permanently uplift a portion of the earth's crust,

which may possibly be miles in depth, will quarrel with you for any

intensity which you ascribe to the disturbing power ; but I shall be

surprised if you do not live to see the day when few will think it

consistent either with the ancient Plutonic or Trappean phenomena,

or with our acquaintance with actual igneous action, to suppose that

so mighty a change in the interior of the earth occurred at once, as is

implied by the sudden uplifting and contortion of thousands of feet

of strata. That no relief should have been obtained by intermittent

action, as now by the rending of the crust as soon as the expansive

power of the melted matter requires more room, but that it should

have all been kept under till it could be accommodated during one grand

convulsion  suspect, an hypothesis unnecessary on mechanical
It

    is,I
             is,I

                                  a

                                 I
                                      I

                                       I
                                              ; iIf
                                                     I
                                                                       Ia
grounds, and especially undesirable by one who adopts our views of

denudation, which are so naturally aided by taking not only un

limited time for the development of igneous action, but equally so

as regards the upward and downward movements, and the rending

and bending of the beds. But do not write this to make a con

vert of you, but that you may explain  have misconstrued your

meaning, and you will better see how interpret you by my entering

into this line of objection.  do not quite follow you on the argu

ment founded on the missing members but am sure you cannot

assume that, in region suffering denudation, deposits of such

nature as to last must be found in the immediate neighbourhood.

believe, quite the exception to the rule, and in this view

am not singular. Hoping to hear from you soon, and with many
88  SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS         chap, h1

Ithanks for one of the very best papers  ever read, believe me,

very truly yours,                        Cha. Lvell.
    11 Harley Street, %th October 1846.

    IWhen inferred that the denuded dome of the Wealden had
Ilost some 2000 [feet] and upwards of thickness of strata removed,

   also assumed that it was shaved off by the ocean when rising, and

Ihad never constituted hills 4000 to 5000 feet high. So think of

your denuded tracts. They were never suffered to attain an Alpine
elevation.

     To the foregoing letter Ramsay sent the following
reply :--

                                                         Bala, 19/A October 1846.

     My dear S1r-- We have been so busy in the field

(Sir Henry only having left us to-day) that I have not
previously had time fully to consider your letter.

     In the beginning you refer to what I have written
about the Mendip Hills as a type of certain denudations
in the following words : ' First, the disturbance of the
beds of the Palaeozoic rocks ; second, the denudation
of several thousand feet of the same beds. Yet it seems

to me, on reading other passages of your paper, that
you cannot mean this ; for your ideas of denudation

acting contemporaneously with subterranean move
ments, whether of upheaval or depression, agree with

those which I published in 1831 in my Principles; the
gradual action of the ocean acting concurrently with
movements of the land, etc. etc. Now, as you adopt
these views, I cannot comprehend how you can dis

pense with indefinite geological time for your denuda

tion in the case I allude to, etc. etc.'

     In this argument I think you have partially mis

understood me, partly because, in my anxiety to be
concise, I have not sufficiently entered into detail ; and

again perhaps from not bearing in mind that my

reasonings are not intended for universal generalisa
1846 LETTER TO LYELL  89

tion, but simply refer to the phenomena exhibited in a

given district which came during the progress of the

Survey under my especial notice.
     First, With regard to the disturbance and upheaval

of rocks. You will observe that in different parts of
this essay I recognise two distinct species of pheno
mena, one that of violent and extensive disturbance

on a gigantic scale, and another that of slow upheaval
and depression, such as we now have experience of on
the shores of the Baltic and elsewhere. With regard
to the latter, I grant that any possible height may be
attained by an unlimited succession of comparatively

small elevating disturbances. But in reference to the
former I cannot conceive that the early forces that

affected the Palaeozoic strata in the district treated of,

and which I believe then elevated these strata, were at

all of the same intensity as those that in later periods
occurred in the same tracts. You may raise to a
given height a certain bar of iron with your finger, but

no succession of the same forces, however numerous,

could crush that bar laterally like a plaited frill. A

more sudden and powerful effort is requisite. Such I
believe to have been the case with the Mendip Hills,
viewing them solely as part of a much wider area.

But even granting this to be the case, it does not
follow that I therefore restrict the period required for
denudation. In the case referred to (the Mendips)

you will observe that I state, p. 320, that 'a mass of
limestone, etc., once existing above part of the Mendip
Hills, to an extent of at least 6000 feet high, had been
removed by the denuding agency of the New Red sea,
or possibly by that sea and the earliest Liassic waters,
since we find the lower beds of the Lias resting
horizontally on the upturned water-worn edges of the
90 SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, h1

rocks that now form the flattened summit of the range.'

Denudation, I uphold, though materially affected by

the nature (suddenness and intensity) of disturbances,
yet as an independent agency acts in a measure inde

pendently of them. Thus the sea has greater facilities

afforded it for acting on a coast subjected to frequent

and gradual submergence and emergence ; but the sea
ifwould still act, and might,
                                time were allowed         I it,

utterly destroy a tract of land of any given height, with
little or no oscillation of level. In the instance of the

     Mendip Hills, there were doubtless many minor oscilla

tions after the great catastrophe, and you will observe
from the foregoing quotation that allow great part of
                     I
the New Red and part of the Liassic epochs for theI

sea to effect this denudation.

     This surely was a period of time fully equal in

extent to those comparatively latter days to which

refer the greater part of the South Wales denudations.

     think in the paper have given physical reasons to
I
    Ishow that in South Wales and the neighbourhood the
     greatest denudation of great part of these tracts did

not take place during the first elevation (pp. 317, 323).
         shall by and by have occasion in subsequent

papers on the same subject to prove that in other

     countries such long-continued denudations did take

place during series of disturbances that affected the
       a
                                   is
                                                      a
     Palaeozoic strata during the very period of their forma

tion. The whole matter          merely                   question of

degree, denudation in both cases being produced by

changes of level.

     Respecting the forces that produced the earlier

great disturbances,'    have perhaps used the words

                     I
'    conflicting forces somewhat hastily. My object was

to show that the remarkable and intense curvatures
1846 LETTER TO LYELL  91

with which that country abounds were not produced
by any efforts of melted matter to escape, these efforts
being attended with the curved upheaval of different

parts of the strata where the efforts were made. I

wished to show that the curvatures were due to a more

universal action and a different power (see De la
Beche's Theoretical Researches ; I have not a copy
by me), viz. an effort of contraction in a solid crust to
accommodate itself by the force of gravitation to a
cooling and lessening internal mass. I never dreamed
of doubting that relief was obtained from the very
beginning of geological time by intermittent outpour
ings of melted matter. On the contrary, I have got a
quantity of data together for future use respecting

remarkable periods when visible volcanic action more

or less obtained, and the efforts produced by this
action on the strata of the day ; but I shall also be

able to show that all these volcanoes were subsequently

affected equally with their associated strata by a power

stronger than they or than that which produced them.
You must not suppose that by such efforts I under
stand a universal general crumpling at one time of
the whole earth's surface. There is perfect evidence

that the contrary was the case. It is not the accom
modation of the melted matter I contend for, but the

accommodation of the solid circular external crust,
attempting to fit itself through the influence of gravita
tion to a cooling and diminishing area within.

     Respecting the missing members of the New Red
Sandstone, I believe that they may exist, though
concealed by the Upper Series, it being remembered
that the New Red Sandstone lies as it were in a basin,

since we find that proceeding from north to south the
higher marls gradually encroach on and cover up the
9* SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, h1

lower beds. These lower beds may also cover up

members still lower in the series so completely that

they are nowhere exposed.

    When I wrote this paper I was buried in the

country without the means of reference to a single
book, and if I have omitted to refer to what has been

done by you and others in the same walk, it entirely

arises from forgetfulness or ignorance. The papers
referred to in notes were quoted from memory, and the

notes in the manuscript left with blanks for more

accurate detail when I got to town. Nothing could

be further from my wish than to assume as my own

any idea started by another, especially by one whose

Principles of Geology strongly tended to make my

geological mind such as it is by first directing its

inquiries into proper channels, when, now some ten

years ago, I first began to dip into geology as a relief
from the irksome drudgery of mercantile concerns.
Had I no higher motive than my affection for the mere

book, that of itself would be sufficient to deter me

from such an attempt.

Believe me, the opinion you express of my paper

has been to me a source of no ordinary gratification,

feeling as I do the value of approbation from so dis
tinguished an author. -- I remain, dear sir, ever yours

sincerely,             Andw. C. Ramsay.

     The following three letters of the same period
afford an indication of the relation of the Geo

logical Survey to the dispute regarding Cambrian and

Silurian which was arising between Sedgwick and

Murchison :--

                       Museum,  December 1846.

My dear Ramsay -- I put you in possession of notes which

have passed between Murchison and self touching Silurians, so that
1846 DE LA BECHE AND MURCHISON                                       93

you may know how to treat things if any discussion arises at the

next meeting of the G. S. The lower rocks should be mapped as

we have proposed.

Sedgwick at last meeting spoke highly of our sections.

We have to keep a straight honest course, thinking only of truth,

and aiding the advance   of  knowledge.       -- Ever  yours,
                         or  so for Swansea.  H. T. De la Beche.
    I am off in an hour

                             Nursted House, Petersf1eld,

                                                                              29M December 1846.

IMy dear De la Beche -- Your note of the 24th followed me.
   cannot for a moment suppose after all you have said and
done, and after your fair and public recognition of my ' Lower
Silurian ' types, that you can in any way intend to swamp them.

The case is indeed so palpable that I believe every geologist is
Idesirous of sustaining the names of the person who first worked out

the succession from a known base line. All expected, and do
you is-- that it be proven that

geologically synonymous, you will
ifexpect from                                 Cambrian          and  naLmoew--er
                                              adhere to        my
Silurian are
Ithe only one worked out on a fossil basis. Now all beg your
 to do in my little ' apology ' for the
                                              Silurian System
even been apologised for !) is that              may say ' by
the rocks be defined, it must be one
Ipermission                                                            (the
                                                                     what
Bible has                                     name ; for that the
ever name

inquiries of the Government geologists (which are yet, however,
not completed) go to prove that there is but one natural series or

system of organic life in North Wales.'

     Is there any objection to this, which leaves you by your subsequent
inquiries to make any statement you please ? At all events, the

question between Sedgwick and myself is decided by his own

evidence of the existence of some of the commonest Caradoc fossils

in some of his very lowest beds. -- Ever yours most sincerely,
                                                               Rod. I. Murch1son.

                                         Geolog1cal Survey Off1ce,

                                                                                           29M December 1846.

    IAnd now, my dear Murchison, a word for you before start for
ISouth Wales, and that in about two hours. To tell you the truth,

was a bit inclined to look queer at the preamble of your last missive,

seeing that you spoke a possible thought on my part of swamping
Iyour ' Lower Silurian types,' and this at the very time
Idoing my best to show how much                                had been

                                 appreciated your labours, and
I Iso did not say so much about the matter as
                                                       might. The said

Iqueerishness having duly evaporated, it is but fair that as you are

going to write, and you have broached the matter to me, should
94              SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS                                                              chap, h1

Iput you in possession of things as know them, since, as matters

stand, you will not get them elsewhere.                                                           If the older
      First to clear the ground as to classification.
rocks be classed, as they are, according to the remains of life found

in them, it follows that any given mass of them containing the same

kind of life, really and truly, should have but one name. Whatever
the Bala beds may turn out to be, as to equivalent deposits in

geological time, they present, so Forbes says, the same kind of life

as that      contained in the Silurian system,                            according to your published
works.         The consequence of general                                 name follows-- that
                                                                                                          I is,         one

name for the whole.

--thNeesext   come the beds, which have been termed the                                            Lingula       beds
             underlie the others. Whatever other fossils                                          may be       found

among them in Wales, our collection will ultimately show. In the

meantime, rocks in Ireland which may be equivalent both to these

and the Bala beds contain Silurian fossils. Supposing further

researches to confirm these views -- the same kind of life still, with

its consequences about one name.

       Beneath these come rocks which you know well at the Long-

mynd, and of which you showed me an old section, at least one

showing your views at the time respecting them.

      Without aid of any kind Ramsay this year made out their story.
Of the equivalents near St. David's you have often heard me speak,

and touching the Irish rocks of the same date you know what said
                                               exhibitions of them
--the  other night. Of                all the                             the Irish               is  the best
                                       Now       has been supposed         that these                 beds are
        great thickness.              is
     a                                     it
not fossiliferous. This not true in Ireland. Two or three yearsa

since Oldham got some things that were clearly organic, though in
such condition that nothing could be made of them. But this

year one of our lynx-eyed collectors has been turning out good

specimens. What they are                       is  not clear anyhow they are more
                                                                          a
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                              is
diffused than at first thought. Now with this group of rocks

classification                   not clear. We have abundant evidence, capital in
I
       is I

                          is
                                a
Ireland, of their slow deposit through long lapse of time. These

things       tell you in confidence, because the affair                                           tinhceomm--pleaten,d  and
there                                                                                              la Beche.            now
              much               yiet.t--toEbveerdosninec,erbeluyt,  you  should know
   must      run for                                                           H. T. De

      Griffith, in document he has sent in to us of about year's                                  a
date, has got there older rocks, though not correctly mapped. He
calls them Cambrian, and whenever he publishes his new edition of

map, so they will, suppose, be called.
                                   I

     Before the end of the season for field-work in the
year 1846 Ramsay received an invitation which
1846 CHRISTMAS AT HOME                                                        95

gratified him not a little, as it offered to him a wider
opening into the society of men of science and their
associates. He was asked to give a Friday evening

discourse at the Royal Institution, and on communi
cating to De la Beche that he had accepted this offer,

he received from his chief the following characteristic

note in reply : --

[Conf1dent1al.]                           London, 24/A November 1846.

     My dear     Ramsay -- In the matter  woef lla--n tehvoeungihng   at the  Royal
Institution you                                                               by no
                 have, I think, decided                              I have

means the view of any great good to arise therefrom which some

folk have. The thing is over-rated.
     All appliances shall be at your command -- all aid that can be

Igiven, and have little doubt of your coming out of the matter in

good style.

                                            Continue to think me a
                                          better shall be pleased.

                                          H. T. De la Beche.
IkindTaokf edasdodmye--gothoed

-- Ever sincerely,
                  commanding  subject.
                 more you do  that the

All advancing famously.

     The field-work of this year was prolonged by
Ramsay until late in the season. About the middle of
December snow fell thickly over the Welsh hills,

making further field-work for the time impossible.
He accordingly took advantage of the opportunity to
spend Christmas and New Year at his old home in
the north. He announced his advent to his mother in
the following effusion :--

My dear Mother --             Bala, 12th December 1846.

                 Plunge the poker in the fire,
                        Stir the blaze ;

                 Rouse it high, and rouse it higher,

                 Till your very eyes it daze,
                        Brightly glowing,

                 And the puny candle's rays

                         Pale are growing.
96 SURVEY UNDER OFFICE OF WORKS chap, h1

                          Hark the kettle's cheerful songs,
                                  Shrilly crying

                        To the dull recumbent tongs,

                              On the clean-swept hearthstone lying,
                                      Cheerily singing !

                           ' Blithe I be because I'm trying,
                                  By my ringing,

                         ' To announce a merry meeting ;
                                       I am humming

                        To arouse a jolly greeting.
                           Hear me on the hob a-bumming ;

                                       Let me threep o't.

                        Even now I hear him coming ;
                               Fill the tea-pot 1

                       1 Fill the tea-pot ! By the fire
                                   While you're basking

                           You shall have your heart's desire.
                        I will tell you without asking

                                       One is hasting
                           Even while the tea is masking,

                                   No time wasting.'

                      Mother, mother !--yes, I'm hasting,

                                       Hasting home, too ;
                               Posting, steaming, no time wasting,
                           Till, O happy day ! I come to

                                   Your own ingle,
                            For a while no more to roam to

                                   Dell and dingle.

                            Yes, I'm coming ! Rouse the fire ;
                                        Make it roar there ;

                               Rouse it high, and rouse it higher ;
                               Soon you'll hear me to the door there

                                   Madly bounding,
                            Then rushing in athwart the floor there

                                   With laugh astounding.

      It's a fact, though I did not know it till too late for

 the post. If the weather be good I shall remain here,
 as in duty bound, till the 15th or 16th. If the snow

 continue I shall leave to-morrow and be home, I sup
 pose, on Tuesday to dinner, for the steamer leaves
1846 CHRISTMAS AT HOME  97

Liverpool at seven at night. Therefore air the sheets
and clear out that chest of drawers for a fortnight, for
that's my allowance. What's the use of writing more
when we shall have a fortnight to haver ? With

hurrahs to all, yours affectionately,
                                                 Andw. C. Ramsay.

     These pleasant glimpses of the old home had
always in prospect the inevitable pang of parting at
their close. He had to leave upon his return on the

2nd January. Under that date he records that his
mother and sister ' kept up well by dint of talking of
all sorts of things till starting time came, when all at

once they gave way. I did so also almost. I wish

their hearts were a trifle harder. It almost makes

going home painful, the dread of the leaving day.'

H
                   CHAPTER IV

     THE PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY AT UNIVERSITY

                                 COLLEGE, LONDON

The year 1847 was to be a memorable one in the life
of the subject of this biography. The early months
of the year were passed in the usual official and social
engagements, into all of which Ramsay entered with

much zest. Perhaps the most important event in his
London life during the season was his introduction
to the general scientific society of London on the 1 2 th
March, when he gave the Friday evening discourse
at the Royal Institution referred to in the foregoing

chapter. He chose as his subject one which his
Survey work in Wales had now made familiar to

him, and on which he had much fresh information to

convey -- 'The Causes and Amount of Geological
Denudations.' In later years he not infrequently dis

coursed in the same theatre, and usually with some
trepidation beforehand. The success of his lecture
always depended upon the mood he happened to be
in at the time, and he never could tell how he was
succeeding until his task was half done. ' The

Royal Institution,' he once wrote to me, 'is the most

ticklish audience in Britain to lecture before, because
the most critical and refined, and possessing also, in
large and equal shares, so much knowledge and so
HENRY WILLIAM BRISTOW
1847 FIELD - WORK IN WALES  99

much ignorance.' We shall find in the course of this

biography that the impression made by the young

lecturer's exposition upon the present occasion had
its influence in securing for him the goodwill of the
authorities at University College.

     By the beginning of April he had finished all the
indoor work of the winter, and was ready to take the
field. From that time, with the exception of the brief
interval required to attend the meeting of the British
Association at Oxford, where he acted as Secretary of

Section C, he remained all the summer and autumn

in the field.

    A few weeks of inspection duty were first spent
with H. W. Bristow among the Jurassic rocks of

Dorsetshire, and a visit was paid to Aveline and his

family near Wrington, in Somerset. By the first week
in May he was once more back in Wales, running

boundary-lines that still needed completion to the
north of Brecon, and revising the volcanic geology

to the north of Builth. His growing experience of

ancient volcanic rocks now enabled him to separate
the ' ashes ' from the ordinary sediments, which in the

earlier surveys had been grouped together, and to

introduce much more precision and detail into the
mapping of these rocks. W. W. Smyth, who had
previously mapped part of the district, joined him at
 Builth, and the two colleagues re-examined the dis
trict together. On the 21st May Ramsay chronicles:
' Out with Smyth over the Carneddau, and on the
traps farther north. Found them so egregiously
wrong, that they will not stand an hour's investiga
tion in the new style of mapping. Great part of
the work to-day was revising his old work, so that
we are all more or less in the same mess. The day
IOO  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

was lovely, and a splendid full-flavoured Havannah

we did enjoy, where the two brooks meet to the
east of Maes gwyn, reclining on the grass in the
sun with all the trees growing green under our very
eyes. That was a smoke. Continued the lines from
thence all down to Tan y graig, and got home to
two cold legs of lamb at six ; Smyth finished the one,
and I the other. Wrote letters at night.' The com
missariat of these Survey parties was sometimes apt

to vary a good deal both in quantity and in quality.

A few days after the disappearance of the two legs of

lamb, Aveline joined the party at Builth, bringing with

him a pig's cheek as a contribution to the common
larder. Ramsay records the consternation and dis
tress of their worthy landlady on discovering that a
dog had got into the house, broken the dish, and made

off with the pig's cheek.

     ' 3rd June. -- Out with Aveline at the traps to the
north to show him my system of working them, that
there might be a unity in the work of the Survey.
Got some capital work done to the north of Llwyn

Madock.

     ' ^th. -- Wrote my mother on hearing of the death
of Dr. Chalmers.1 He died suddenly in his bed, of
apoplexy, through the night on Sunday, the 30th. He
was the greatest and the best man I ever knew. I

am glad I saw him twice within the last two years,
and shall often think of his cheerfulness at the family
breakfasts, when, after the meal, his daughters, he, and
I used to " form the segment of a circle round the fire,"

      1 Thomas Chalmers, born 1780, died 1847 ; the most distinguished preacher
of his day in the Church of Scotland. He was for some years minister of the
Tron parish in Glasgow, became Professor of Theology in the University of
Edinburgh from 1828 to 1843, and was the leading spirit in the secession that
founded the Free Church, of which he was the first Moderator. He was on
friendly terms with Mrs. Ramsay and her family.
1847 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON        101

when he described his Sunday congregation in the
Cowgate "sitting in all the glory of their rags," and

when, speaking of the Survey, he said, " I hope they

endow you liberally, and do not engraft upon you the

scurvy economics of a Joseph Hume."

    'nth. -- Heard from Sir Henry asking me if I

would accept the Chair of Geology at University Col
lege, London, if it were offered me. Wrote favourably,

but said I would not accept if the trouble were to be

infinite and the emoluments nothing but the honour.
I would accept on the grounds that the position of
professor in one of the chartered Universities is a

good addition to my present honourable position ;
that it would do me good in London scientific society,

besides that a tag is a useful thing to a man's name

anywhere. This is the second time it has been

offered ; the last was before Joyce was appointed.'
     Two days afterwards he heard that the number of

students attending the class of geology at University

College had, during the previous five years, ranged

from eight to seventeen, and the emoluments from

^14: 1 os. to ^48. The prospect which these figures
opened out to him could not be regarded as inviting.

Nevertheless he determined to accept the appointment

if the season and hour of lecture could be made to fit

in with his duties in the Survey. Edward Forbes

wrote to him urging him to make his conditions

definite, and particularly that the lectures should be

given in one continued course in January, February,
and March, and he added that ' remuneration can

hardly be expected from but the position and title
it,

                        I
                                it
are worth having, and might under various circum

stances be of much importance to you.  think, too,

you might make a class in the end, and make worth
102               PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY                                                              chap, 1v

while. Such a continuous course of lectures would,
at any rate, be excellent exercise. I fancy the dis
posers of the chair and the advisers of the Senate on
such an occasion would be Greenough, Warburton,
Hutton, and perhaps Fitton, so that you might be
sure of just judges at least.'

     As a mere matter of form he was asked to send in

an application for the appointment, together with any
testimonials he might wish to submit. Among his

papers he has preserved the recommendation he

received from Lyell, with the memorandum written
on Not used, appointment being completed before

   came.' The letter as follows --
it
      it,

              '

                                       is

                                                                                                     :

     Dear S1r-- My residence at                  K1nnordy, K1rr1emu1r, N.B.,
                               I I I of a                   7th July 1847.

                                           distance from London will explain

the delay in my answer.  I  am glad to learn that you are a candidate

for the Chair of Geology now vacant in University College, especially

as hear there are from sixty to seventy students at King's College.
Several weeks ago one of the U. Coll. Council asked me my
'
opinion in regard to your qualifications for such an office, and
  II                                                                                                    I
mentioned your publications, so far as
                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                        knew them, from that
                                               I
on The Geology of Arran (the excellence of which could test by
                                                   of
my own knowledge of that island) to your last elaborate paper on
 Denudation in the Memoirs the Survey Great Britain.
      a
      also alluded to your experience in field-work and the applica'

tion of geology to the arts.I            was naturally questioned on your

powers as lecturer, of which was able to speak as having heard

you at the Royal Institution.            said you were able to express your

self freely on subjects with which you were familiar without reference

to MS., and that thought with practice you would make good
                                                                                                        I
oral instructor.                                                                                               a

     You may make any use you please           of this letter, and shall be
                                                                                                        -- Believe me, ever
happy to answer any further queries        if  required.                                                     Cha. Lyell.
truly yours,

     A. C. Ramsay, Esq.

     De Beche warmly supported the claims of hisla

colleague, and readily arranged that the duties of the
professorship and those of Local Director of the
1847 BRITISH ASSOCIATION, OXFORD  103

Geological Survey should not interfere with each

other. It was agreed that the lectures should be
given during the first three months of the year, and

in the afternoon, so that he could complete his work

at Craig's Court before going up to University
College. In due course he was appointed to the
chair, and now became ' Professor Ramsay,' the name

by which he is best known, and which he continued to

use for thirty-four years, until knighthood was conferred
upon him at the end of his official career.

     The British Association assembled this year for

the second time at Oxford. Ramsay made a hurried

journey to the meeting, and returned to his field-work

in Wales. To him one of the pleasantest features of
the week was the presence of his old friend Professor
Nichol of Glasgow, whose early kindness he was

enabled in some measure to repay by introducing him
to a number of men of science whom the astronomer
had not before met. From his notes of the meeting a

few quotations may here be inserted.

     ' 24M June. -- At eleven the business began with
Chambers's paper on Raised Beaches. He certainly

pushed his conclusions to a most unwarrantable length,
and got roughly handled on account of it by Buckland,
De la Beche, Sedgwick, Murchison, and Lyell. The

last told me afterwards that he did so purposely that
C. might see that reasonings in the style of the author
of the Vestiges would not be tolerated among scientific

men.

     ' 2%th. -- Prince Albert, the Crown Prince of Saxe-

Weimar, came to our Section while Count Rosen was

reading a paper, Murchison in the chair. This de
lighted Sir Roderick. Afterwards Dr. Buckland took
the chair. Among others I read a paper on the
''4          PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

Contour - lines of Cardiganshire, showing that the

hill-tops in the west formed a regular inclined plane

to the sea. I did not read, but spoke it. It was well

received by all but the Dean.                       I

     ' 2gth. -- Sir Henry was in the chair to-day.

spoke twice, and one time for Salter's benefit, showing
how far he was wrong in his conclusions touching

early life.'

    As it was now the end of the June quarter, and

the accounts had to be gone through, Ramsay came
up from Oxford to London, and spent two or three

days there, contriving as usual to crowd a good deal
both of work and of amusement into the time.

Let me cite in illustration the diary of only one

day.         Jufy. -- Wrought among the accounts, etc., all

          '

day, and wrote Willie. At three went to Lady Shelley's

breakfast party. There was a most brilliant assem

blage. I, however, only knew Lady Shelley, Barlow,

and Sir Philip Egerton. I was especially delighted

with the children. There were about fifty of them.

They looked so lovely, and were so elegantly dressed.

A harp and piano were brought out to the green,

and the children danced so gracefully. I left at five

to join the Red Lion dinner. We entertained the

Prince of Canino and several others, Dutch, Russian,

and Danish, making no difference in our ordinary fare

of beefsteaks, kidneys, toasted cheese, etc. We had
two jolly bowls of punch brought in after. Cooke
Taylor was in the chair, Forbes vice. Sir Henry De

la Beche sat opposite the Prince, on Taylor's left

hand. The foreigners of northern nations entered

into the fun with heart and soul, and though the
nephew of the Emperor Napoleon was wondrously
1847 /. BEETE JUKES  105

good-natured and seemed highly amused, I question
if he perfectly understood the humour of the thing.'

      By the 8th of the month Ramsay had joined a
large Survey party assembled at Cerrig y druidion,

from which centre they were working out the structure
of the country to the north and east of Bala. On the

9th he makes the following entry :--
     ' Held a consultation over some trappy specimens

in the morning. After that went out with Smyth,
Jukes, Selwyn, Gibbs, and the dogs, to look at
Jukes's ash-beds. We had a goodish day's work on
bits of detail. Jukes should have showed me some
thing larger, but detail seems his forte. He is ever in

doubt, even when nearly convinced, about little things,

and yet grasps the subject so well notwithstanding,

that he produces better work and understands it better
than any man on the Survey.' 1 Next day one of the
canine companions of the party, 'Jukes's dog Governor,
amused himself by slaying a sheep, which cost his
master 7s. 6d. In the course of a long walk we got
well drenched going, dried again coming back, and

were re-wet before we got home.'
     De la Beche was at this time in North Wales with

his daughter, taking a share in the field-work by
tracing some of the boundary-lines of the igneous
rocks of Caernarvonshire. He asked Ramsay to join

him at Beddgelert, and to accompany him in a kind
of prospecting excursion through the country around
Snowdon, and thence into Anglesey. This was the
first introduction of the younger geologist to that
intricate piece of geology, in thejultimate unravelling

     1 The reader, as already mentioned, will find an interesting record of the
friendship between Ramsay and Jukes in the Letters of the latter, likewise
glimpses into the life of the Survey men in North Wales.
1o6  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

of which he was to achieve one of the great successes
of his career. He probably never spent three happier
weeks than these. The beauty of the scenery entranced

him, he became more familiar with his worthy chief,

and what he always counted a great additional pleasure,

he passed the time in cultivated and agreeable female
society. On the first day, as they were driving over
to Llanberis, which was to be their chief headquarters,

he notes : ' To my great surprise and delight, Sir
Henry proposed that I should occupy the same
quarters with them -- have a bedroom, and all mess
together. Wasn't I satisfied ? The thing was so

unusual, no one having ever penetrated before into

the sanctum of the family.' A few reminiscences of

the tour may be quoted.

     ' \\th July. -- After breakfast we all started for the
top of Snowdon, the girls walking by the road, and
Sir Henry and I cutting a parallel section of the Bar

mouth sandstones, etc., on the neighbouring ridge,

and every now and then coming within sight and

hailing them. By and by we joined them. It was
a glorious day. First, all the country was partially
enveloped in white fog, which, clearing off here and
there, showed peeps of the country, as if set in a

superhuman frame. By and by it all rolled away,
and from Cader Idris and Plynlimmon to the Long-

mynd all was clear and distinct. Confound the

Cockney tourists, though, that one meets a-top, and

confound the huts and coffee-pots, visitors' books and

guides.

     ' 15M. -- We all started after breakfast for the lake,
and got into our landlord's boat, Sir Henry and I

pulling, and the ladies laughing and chatting in the
stern-sheets. I never enjoyed a day more all my life.
1847 A SPRAINED FOOT  107

We paddled along and admired the glorious scenery
of the lakes, and the Pass of Llanberis, with Snowdon
in the clouds, and that old grey tower below. Then,
ever and anon, Sir H. and I landed to tap the rocks,

chaining the boat with its fair freight to the banks till
our return. We pulled to the bottom of the lake, and
walked a mile farther, picking the ladies up on our
return, as well as a lot of cockles Sir H. had bought.
We loitered to gather a hundred or two of white and
yellow water-lilies. We then tied a shawl to an oar

for a sail and crept up the lake, dragged the boat into

the other lake, and so home at half-past six.'
     In descending from an excursion to the top of

Glydyr fawr he sprained his foot -- an accident which,
though he made light of it at the time, proved serious

enough in its effects to prevent him from further field-
work for some weeks. Much of the subsequent occu
pation of the party was done by driving from point to
point, so that the disabled geologist had an opportunity
of taking a general survey of the whole region. In
this way they visited Caernarvon, struck the southern
coast at Pwllheli, crossed to the west side of the
peninsula, drove to the promontory of Aberdaron,
and thence back by Tremadoc to Llanberis. In these

preliminary traverses, favoured by good weather,
Ramsay was enabled in some degree to grasp the
physical features and broad geological structure of a
region into the detailed study of which the Geological
Survey was now about to enter. There is an additional

interest in these excursions, for one of them included

a visit to Anglesey, where Ramsay now saw for the
first time the island about which in after years he was
to think and write so much, where he was to find his

wife, where, wearied with the turmoil of official life, he
  1o8  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

  was to retire and spend his closing years, and where,
  at last, he was to be laid at rest for ever. The party
  drove to Beaumaris in an open barouche. The diary
  records how they waited half an hour to see ' that
  glorious work, the Menai Bridge. Its beauty, sim
  plicity, and grandeur are wonderful. Dined at the
  Bulkley Arms, Beaumaris, and after dinner removed to

  our new lodgings in Menai Place, which are very nice,

  and have a splendid view across the straits.'

       This happy time came to an end on the 6th August,
  when the De la Beche party left by steamer for Liver

  pool, and Ramsay, still lame, made his way by carriage
  to join Selwyn at Ffestiniog. With the help of a pony,

  he was able to accompany Selwyn, Playfair, Jukes, and
  Gibbs over a good deal of ground, and discuss with
  them some of the problems that had been met with
  in the course of the mapping. But as the sprain con
  tinued to give a good deal of trouble, he at last went
  over to Dolaucothi, and remained six weeks there, to

  rest and work at the preparation of his lectures for

  University College. Forbes joined him, and the two

  friends had long consultations over the general plan
  of these lectures. Thus, under date the 25th August,
  Ramsay records : ' Arranged with Forbes a plan of
  my introductory lecture. By his advice I simplified
  and condensed my plan, but I much fear it will be
  more than I can well do to make a good job of con

  sidering the little time shall have in London to pre
  pare good philosophical account of how folks arrived
  at their geological conclusions from the time of Strabo

  down to our own date.'

       The month of September, and nearly all October,
  were spent in taking Forbes over some of the sections
  that best showed the characters and relations of the
       a
                                   I
                                                                                    it,


1847 EDWARD FORBES  109

various members of the Silurian series. From Dolau-

cothi the two geologists made their way by Llangadoc
and Llandovery to Builth, where they saw the Car-
neddau, with its unconformability, then by Pen y bont,
Kington, Ludlow, Church Stretton, Bishop's Castle,
and Chirbury to Welshpool. In this tour Ramsay,
still unable to use his foot, was compelled to ride,
while Forbes walked at his side. Being familiar with
the ground, however, he was able to point out all the
salient features of geological structure. ' I explained,'
he says in his diary, ' and Forbes believed in all the
geology.' As Forbes had not had any opportunity of
making himself familiar with the older Palaeozoic rocks,
it was of great benefit to him, and of much ultimate

advantage to the Survey, that he should learn his
lesson in such a typical region, and under the guidance
of the best stratigrapher on the staff.

     There was not, however, always perfect agreement

between the two travellers. So long as only the facts
of geological structure were concerned, Forbes was
quite content to take them from Ramsay, but when
it came to the interpretation of these facts, and to

theoretical deductions from them, he claimed to use

his own judgment. Notwithstanding the experience
gained in mapping the Cader Idris country, and in
traversing the Arenig chain, Ramsay still retained,
and indeed maintained to the last, his belief in the

conversion of stratified rocks, through the contact
metamorphism induced by intrusive masses of igneous
material, into substances that could not be distin
guished from true igneous rocks. He supposed that

the sedimentary strata had been actually melted, and

that from this molten condition a gradation could be
traced, on the one hand, into the ordinary character of
no  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  CHAP. IV

sediments, and, on the other, into undoubted eruptive
material. After spending some time on Caer Caradoc
and Hope Bowdler he went to Bishop's Castle, and
on the first day of the stay there makes the following

entry : ' \st October. -- Went out to take a turn on the
traps and altered rocks at Upper Hublast (sic). Found

that they had been injected into and highly baked the
Wenlock shales, and in one place, as I thought, fairly
melted them, so that part of this must be mapped trap.
Forbes and I had a tough argument on this head, for

I fancied I could trace a gradual change from the
genuine baked Wenlocks into melted beds. This he
would not allow, so we both became hot, and neither

gave in. We were doubtless partly both right.'
     Edward Forbes was an excellent artist. He could

with great rapidity catch the likeness of any one whom

he wished to portray, while his poetical temperament,
his vivid imagination, and his keen sense of humour

enabled him to convert his likenesses into idealised

portraits or comical caricatures, as the impulse moved

him. At Dolaucothi he made pictorial contributions
to the ladies' albums, in which the various members of
the household figured. His landscape sketches were
likewise often admirable. His artistic eye enabled

him to seize and delineate accurately the general effect
of a scene, while his geological knowledge helped to
guide him in expressing its dominant features. Ramsay,
though not so gifted in this respect, was not without a

measure of artistic capacity. His early drawings of
Arran scenery were remarkably good, and his note

books contain many characteristic sepia -sketches of

the landscapes through which his official duties led
him to wander. On this tour with Forbes, not being
able to walk, he seems to have consoled himself by
EDWARD FORBES  111

sitting down to sketch. He makes reference in his
journal to these pictorial efforts, but it is generally
in some such form as, ' Forbes made some excellent

water-colour drawings ; I spoiled some paper.'

     Among the tastes which these two comrades had
in common was a love of antiquities. Ramsay up to the

last was always willing to go a long way round for the
purpose of visiting a ruined tower or crumbling abbey.
He would become enthusiastic as he reconstructed in

imagination the design and details of the architecture,
and traversed every nook and corner of the ruin, while
sometimes the proofs of ruthless destruction would fill

him with sadness. Referring to another part of the

country, he enters in his journal : ' Revisited all the
ruins, got to the top of the square tower, and half
broke my heart with the contemplation of such glorious
structures utterly destroyed.' On one of the excur

sions from Church Stretton his antiquarian soul was

stirred within him as they traversed the old Roman
road, Watling Street, and found it ' now so overgrown
that it is a mere grass walk between hedges and
briars.'

      On the 26th October, after a pleasant tour of

five weeks, Forbes went back to London, and Ramsay
started for some weeks of hard field-work in Mont

gomeryshire. A good deal of that country had

already been mapped, but there were some parts of it

 which, from his more recent experience among the
 volcanic rocks, needed revision before publication of

 the maps. Accordingly, he devoted himself to the
 task of re-examining and completing the geological

 lines, taking long expeditions, getting over a large
 tract of ground, and definitely fixing some important
 points in the geological structure of the region.
112  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

      On the 6th November he writes : ' Out on the hill

south-east of Llandegle Rhos. Could not make a

start without much scenting about and doubling back

and forward. But during this process I lighted on a

glorious sight, proving beyond a doubt all my asser
tions about the geology of the country. Sir H. and

Smyth ought to have inferred the same when they
mapped these traps. I found Wenlock shale con
taining rounded pebbles of trap and slate resting
unconformably on Llandeilos on the east side of the

Builth traps. It ravished my soul with joy, and far

more than atoned for the little that was done before.'

    'nth December. -- A tremendous day's work down

the middle of the traps to the ground above Llanilwidd,
near Builth. Found in Sir H.'s mass of greenstone on

the east lots of fossils / Ran across the country as far as

Pencerrig, and walked back what is called eleven miles
in two hours and a quarter.' In this traverse he 'put

the finishing touch to the Builth section.'

    All the daylight, and sometimes part of the dusk,

in these autumnal days were spent in this active

pedestrianism. But this work represents only a part
of the Director's industry at that time. He kept up

with singular regularity and promptitude a corre
spondence which, both with his colleagues and with

friends at a distance, was every year growing more

voluminous. He had made some progress in Welsh,
and he used to employ himself in translating Welsh
songs into English rhyme. Nor did he content
himself with mere metrical translation. He had
always been rather fond of turning his thoughts into

verse, and he occasionally penned an ode or sonnet,

or a rhyming epistle. To his good friends at Dolau-

cothi he often chose a metrical way of expressing him
1847 SECTION-RUNNING                    113

self. Thus, on one occasion, with the music of the
Spenserian stanza in his ear, he wrote :--

       Or if mayhap, with radiance clear and bright,
           The mom give token of a goodlie day

       To lure the luckless geologic wight
             Once more o'er dale and breezy down to stray ;

        Then let him walk and work, while work he may,
               Forthy eftsoons, though much against the grain,

        He by and by, slow wending on his way,
           Ah, hapless wretch ! returneth home again
             Bemired above the knees, and drenched with pelting rain.

    At another time, after section-running in very bad

weather, and getting back ' drenched with pelting rain,'
he found consolation in making fun of the discomfort,

and with recollections of Marmion and the Lady of
the Lake, penned the following account of it :--

                              Dear Emily, two years ago
                          Methinks I promised to send

                                 Some sunny day a line or so
                          To you, my trusty friend.

Loud howls the wind across the waste

    Sharp falls the pattering rain,
And yet I don my togs in haste,

   And take to the hills again.
With compass and clinometer,

   And hammer, stout ally,
I tramp away from Rhaiadr,

    Adown the winding Wye.
What reck my fellows of the rain,

   William and Thomas hight,
Who bear the lengthy legs, the chain,

   And the theodolite ?

Stout Thomas was a Builth man bold,
   William was reared to wait

On John ap John ; his sire doth hold
    His post beside the gate.

But when we came to Rhos-saith-maen
   And set to work, I wist,

Our merry toil we scarce began

    When the white and curling mist

Came downwards like a mighty shroud,
And wrapt the hills in one vast cloud,

                      I
"4  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY                    chap, 1v

    So thick and close, you scarce could see
       Within that villain fog,

    I vow to good St. Jeremy,
       A chain's length o'er the bog.

    But hark ! upon the bleak Drum-ddu
    The roaring winds rush fast and free,
    And the damp mists that hide the day
    Upon their wings they bear away,
    And up against the cold blue sky
    Stands Cefn-y-gamrhiw sharp and high.
    ' Now to't, my merry men, like fun,
    And make your hay while shines the sun ;
    You, Thomas, cut along like wind,
    And, William, follow up behind :
    Run like old Scratch, my lads,' quoth I,
    And off we go right merrily
    By stock and stone, nor stayed to breathe

    Till o'er the hill and o'er the heath
    We reached the vale at set of sun
    Where wild Cwm Elan's waters run.

    Remote Cwm Elan ! well I ween

    I never saw a fairer scene.

    Thy sparkling waters winding stray
    By meadow green and mountain grey,

        Beneath whose shaggy crest,
    In many a wild romantic nook,

    By mossy stone and mountain brook,
        Image of quiet rest,

    In many a lone and shady spot,

    Curls the blue smoke from lowly cot.

    Next morning we were boun' to climb
    Black Craig-y-foel's cliffs sublime ;

        So steep this hill, so tight and tough
    To speel, it cost a whole hour long ;

       And ere we reached the summit rough
    It cracked my wind and stopped my song.

    Then, O kind-hearted Emily,
    Most fervently I beg of thee,
    Remember in thy nightly prayer

       Thy broken-winded A. C. R.

     For some of    his  ofoldlloGwliansggopwiecferieonfddsoghgeercehlo:s--e  a
                    the
ruder verse, as in
LECTURE PREPARATIONS                                     "5

I am a geologic tramp
    (Beef and greens make very good cheer),

Over the country I rove and ramp
    (And a pewter quart is the dish for beer).

I run and I ride, I ride and I drive
    (Capon and sausage are good i' the mouth),

Come home to dinner at half-past five
    (And a glass of stiff grog will quench the drouth).

I live in an inn by the turnpike road
    (Ginger and pepper will tickle the chops),

In rainy weather a queer abode
   (When ye brew, i' the brewst put plenty of hops).

You've got a wife and I've got a hammer
    (Brose and butter and porridge and ale) ;

Both at a time can kick up a clamour
   (And a joke's a joke, though never so stale).

A wife is better in palace or hovel

    (O but a blushing maid looks winsome !)
Than a poke in the eye with a dirty shovel

   (But a maid looks best when her pocket is tinsome).

I'm unco vexed that I canna gang down
   (Up frae the Broomilaw up in a noddy),

But I maun prepare for the U.C. gown
    (Breakfasts and dinner, and O ! the toddy).

      But besides an increasing, though often amusing and

interesting correspondence, there were now looming
grimly in front of him the lectures which in a few

brief weeks he would have to begin in London. It is
not easy after eight or ten hours of active pedes-

trianism, followed by a good dinner, to sit down

calmly to serious literary exertion. Ramsay records

now and then with remorse that sleep got the better
of him, and he made no progress with those lectures.

Nevertheless he set himself resolutely to face the
task, and seems to have finished a number of lectures,

or at least the detailed notes from which they would
I16  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

be delivered, before he returned to London. For the

main part of the course he knew he would be com
pelled, in a kind of hand-to-mouth way, to work up

on one day the lecture that he was to deliver the next.
     Not only were the lecture notes to be prepared,

but the diagrams to illustrate them all required to be
designed and drawn, for there were no appliances of
this kind at University College. Ramsay always
showed much skill, and even what might be called
artistic feeling, in the drawing of geological sections.
He now made drafts of what he would need for his

course, and sent them up to his colleague, W. H.

Baily, at Craig's Court, to be enlarged into proper
lecture diagrams. The occasional wet days that

interrupted mapping allowed more steady progress
to be made with these preparations for the professor
ship, and once in the full swing of work he would
continue until long after midnight, when sleep, which
overtook him when uncalled for, would not come

when desired, even although he ' read Count Gram-
mont for an hour to get rid of the geology on the
brain.'

     By the 20th December Ramsay was once more
back in London. Survey duty kept him busy all day
at the Museum, and his lectures still occupied him all

evening, and sometimes far into the night. A few of

his jottings regarding the preparation of these lectures
in town may be given here. ' Made a complete ab
stract of Steno's Prodromus before going to bed.'
' Stuck at Hutton's Theory of the Earth and Playfair's
Illustrations all day (Sunday), and before night read
all, and made a complete abstract of the latter.'
' Wrote a bit of lecture, read The Fortunes of Nigel,
and went to bed at one.' 'Wrote a good bit of
1847 LECTURE PREPARA TIONS  1 17

my lecture at night. Hutton every day strikes me
with astonishment. Lyell does not do him half
justice.' He had never had any practice in public

speaking, and was uncertain how far he could trust

to notes, or how much he ought to write fully out.
But he possessed the best qualification for a successful

lecturer : he was full of his subject. To wide reading
in it he could bring the priceless advantage of that
personal acquaintance and vivid perception which
years of practical work in the field could alone have

given him.

   A professor's first course of lectures is always

the most arduous. The preliminary gathering and
arranging of notes, and the planning and execution
of diagrams and other illustrations, leave him generally

prepared for, at least, the first few lectures, perhaps
for the larger proportion of the series. But he is
probably seldom able to get all his material in hand
for the completed course before he actually begins
to lecture. Most usually he comes to the end of

his arranged notes when there is still a formidable
part of the term in front of him, and when, therefore,

he has to sit late and rise early to get ready for the
prelection of each day as it comes. Then there is
the feeling of uncertainty which arises in his mind
as to his facility of expression, when, for perhaps the

first time in his life, he finds himself addressing that

exacting audience -- an assemblage of lads, many of

them much readier to seek amusement than instruction,

careless yet critical, who have to be attracted and

interested before they can be instructed.
     With but little knowledge of students and student-

life, with scarcely any previous practice in public

speaking, and with no experience in teaching, Ramsay
n8  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

looked forward with some misgiving to the fateful

14th January 1848, when he was to enter upon
his new educational duties. He chose as the subject
of his Inaugural lecture a sketch of the progress of
geological science, selecting a few of the greater
names in the bead - roll of geology, and dwelling
more particularly upon the labours of the illustrious
Hutton.1 It was a wide theme for a single lecture,

but the author succeeded in giving prominence to
some of the main historical facts in the evolution of

geology, and he reserved for his opening lecture next
year a continuation of the story in its progress from
the time of Hutton to that of William Smith.

      On the opening day of his course the new
Professor made the following entry in his diary :--

    ' 1^th January. -- Got up betimes and worked at

my lecture till half-past ten. Took a cab to University
College, reading as I went the ill -written passages
of my lecture. By and by Sharpey and Dr. Grant
came in. We then went to the Professor's room,

where Graham and Sharpey introduced me into a
silk gown, and then Dr. Grant introduced me to the
audience, which numbered about a hundred. I was

pleased to see so many. Dr. Fitton was there and

sundry others, Forbes and Oldham grinning at me
from the back rows. I felt a little nervous, but got
through very well, as they told me, in an hour and

a quarter.'
     After a month's experience of lecturing he writes :

' I suspect the listeners are better pleased with my
matter than I am, and more than that, I daresay

    1 Passages in the History of Geology, being an Inaugural Lecture at University
College, London, by Andrew C. Ramsay, F.G.S., Professor of Geology, University
College, and Director of the Geological Survey of Great Britain. London,
1848.
1848 FIRST COURSE OF LECTURES  119

I learn more than they do.' The course came to an
end on the last day of March, on which date the
following memorandum was made. 'Got the com

posing steam well up and finished the lecture by eleven.
Got through it unusually well, and had a round of

applause when it was over.'
     We may be sure that in this first course of lectures

the young professor touched on many questions about

which he was able to lay fresh views and original

illustrations before his hearers, drawn not from books,

but from long observation of nature. His treatment of

denudation and the results achieved by it would be

specially full and instructive. His account of igneous

rocks and the manner in which volcanic phenomena are

chronicled among the older geological systems would
be such as at the time could be found in no published

book or memoir. His description of the structures of

the older sedimentary masses would be marked by

graphic detail, arising from minute practical study of
the subject in Wales. Those who remember Ramsay's

lectures in later years may well believe that these

earliest prelections would not be wanting in that sug-

gestiveness and foresight which were so characteristic
of his style of treatment. In one of his letters to

J. W. Salter (2nd October 1848) he remarks: 'Last

winter I confidently lectured that these [Welsh] rocks
were Silurian, and also that the Grampian clay-slates,
etc., would turn out to be ditto, more or less altered.'

     During the winter of 1847-48 in London, besides
his lectures, there were various incidents that helped to
enliven the daily routine of the Local Director's official
duty. Sir Henry De la Beche had been elected
President of the Geological Society, and as he now

took the chair at the meetings, the fortnightly reunions
120  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

had an added interest for the members of the Geo

logical Survey.
     In his anniversary address on the 18th February Sir

Henry took the opportunity of gracefully acknowledg
ing the cheerful co-operation of the fellows of the
Society in the work of the Geological Survey. The

Society and the Survey were not rival organisations,
but were united in the one paramount object of pro

moting the cause of geological science. It was a
former president of the Society who had been con
sulted by the Government as to the propriety of
definitely establishing a geological survey of the
United Kingdom, and had urged the formation of
such a department of the public service, while many of

the members of the Society had cheerfully assisted and
encouraged the efforts of the Director. De la Beche,

on the other hand, had been for years Foreign

Secretary, and was now elected President of the
Society. He was thus enabled to give it the benefit

of his wide experience and his excellent business

habits. The members of his staff, too, took a share in

the affairs of the Society, acting on its council, reading

papers before  it,  entering into the discussions, and

contributing material to its Quarterly Journal. This
feeling of mutual sympathy and co-operation has con

tinued to mark the relations of the Society and the

Survey down to the present day. The Society has

freely bestowed its offices and its honours upon the
members of the Survey, who, on their part, have

looked with pride upon their connection with the
oldest and most distinguished of the geological
societies of the world.

     On the present occasion Sir Henry was able to
announce the satisfactory progress of the Survey, both
1848 ERECTION OF JERMYN STREET MUSEUM  121

as regards its field-work and the issue of its maps.
He stated that the maps completing South Wales and
extending into North Wales would soon be published,
and that considerable progress had been made in the
Survey and publication of the maps of Herefordshire,
Shropshire, Somerset, Dorset, and Wiltshire. He
spoke also of the satisfactory advance of the field-work
in North Wales and Derbyshire, and referred to the
commencement of the publication of the maps of the
Irish branch of the Survey now under his direction.

But perhaps the most important announcement made

by him was that in which he stated that the collections
in the Museum of Practical Geology having so greatly
increased, ' the Government is now erecting the con
siderable building, which the members of this Society

may have observed extending from Piccadilly to
Jermyn Street, where these collections, illustrating
both the science and applications of geology, can be

made properly accessible to the public.'1
     The planning and erecting of this new edifice

occupied much of De la Beche's time and thoughts for

several years, and many were the consultations which
he had with the various members of his staff on the

subject. His scheme gradually enlarged as he found

he could carry the Government authorities with him,
until, in 185 1 , he saw the new Museum completed, and
with it the realisation of the bold idea to found a great

educational establishment which he had aimed at so

many years before.

      Besides the fact that his chief was now president,

Ramsay had the additional reason for attending the
meetings of the Geological Society, that he had been

elected a member of the Geological Club. This was

       1 Anniversary address, Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc. vol. iv. 1848, p. 81.
123  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

the dining fraternity to which, as already described, he
had been introduced by Murchison on his first coming
to London. Founded in 1824, it consists of Fellows

of the Geological Society, limited in number to thirty-
six, who are wont to dine on the evenings of the

Society's meetings, and to adjourn from the dinner to
the meeting. The Club thus serves a double purpose ;

it brings its members into closer and more social con
tact with each other than is possible in the Society's
rooms, and it secures the nucleus of an audience at the

evening meeting afterwards. The Society's apart
ments were at this time in Somerset House, and the

Club met in some restaurant in the near neighbour

hood. At first the dinners took place at the 'Crown
and Anchor Tavern ' until that noted establishment

was closed in 1847. The Club then moved to Clunn's
Hotel, Covent Garden.

     Since the removal of the Society's apartments, in

the year 1873, to Burlington House, the old-fashioned
dining-houses in the region of the Strand have been

forsaken for others nearer the place of meeting--a

change still regretted by some who remember affec

tionately the dingy but cosy dens where they used to

dine a generation ago.

    A few memoranda regarding the Society and the

Club occur in Ramsay's diary of this winter. Thus
on the 5th January 1848 he notes : ' Dined at the Geo
logical Club, Clunn's Hotel, Covent Garden, for the first

time since becoming a member. Selwyn accompanied

Sir Henry, who was in the chair ; all the rest were
Horner1 and Prevost, so we were but five. The

     1 Leonard Horner, born 1785, died 1864; one of the early fellows of the
Geological Society, and twice elected its President. One of his daughters

became the wife of Sir Charles Lyell.
1848 GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY                                123

dinner was splendid and the wine not bad. At the

Geological afterwards we had a paper by Nicol,1 the
new Secretary, which he read in a monotonous, drawl
ing, school-boy voice, like some of the old scholars I

remember at the Parish School at Saltcoats twenty-four
years ago. The paper was good enough-- on the
Silurian and part of the Old Red Sandstone of the
south of Scotland. Lyell, Salter, Greenough, and I

spoke. I rose a little afraid, but got on famously
before I had said a dozen words, and, as I was told

afterwards, gave great satisfaction to Greenough and
some others, who liked the Survey style of treating

such subjects. I took good care to clench two things ;

first, that on analogous subjects some papers would be

read by the Survey ; and, second, giving Selwyn a bit
of laudation to the cheering of his heart.' Next day
Sir Henry told him at the Museum that he had been
' much pleased with the Geol. Soc. last evening, but

said he was afraid I would speak again and remove

the good impression made by my first.'

     ' 1%th February. -- Anniversary of Geol. Soc. Did
not get down from my lecture till after the [Wollaston]
medal had been given to, and acknowledged by, Dr.
Buckland. Sir Henry's address passed off very well.
I sat mostly next Darwin. I was elected a member
of council. Anniversary dinner afterwards. Sir Henry

did most admirably in the chair, turning off all his

speeches excellently. Sedgwick made the best speech
of the evening. I was called on to return thanks for

the Survey ; Playfair for the Museum. I got on well,

1 James Nicol, born 18 10, died 1879, was appointed Assistant Secretary of
the Geological Society in 1847, Professor of Geology, Queen's College, Cork, in
1849, and Professor of Natural  History in the University of Aberdeen in 1853.
His best-known papers are on    the structure of the North-West Highlands of

Scotland, the great value of which is now universally recognised.
     124  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY                              chap, 1v

all save one short hesitation, caused by my being so

intent on my first paragraph that I quite forgot the

     second. We broke up about eleven, and in the long-
     run Smyth, Reeks, Bristow, and I had some supper.

     Got home at half-past three.

          ' 22nd March. -- Geological Society night. Dined
     at the Club. Sir H. gone, and Moon in the chair.

     I sat next Prestwich and Austen, and opposite Forbes

     and Lord Selkirk -- all pleasant men. The last seems

     most agreeable and unaffected.
           ' Good night at the Society. Buckland made a

     most witty speech. It was about crinoids ; and he

     began by saying that the debate seemed to him to
     have " more of a gastronomic than a palsontological

     character ; for all that had been said bore upon the

     relation of the plates to the mouth and the mouth to the

     plates." Forbes spoke well, and to the purpose; so

     did Charlesworth and Carpenter. I was glad of this,

     for Emerson, the American, was there.

          ' $th April. --Jukes and I read papers to-night at
     the Geological on N. Wales and S. Wales. Sir H.

     was in great alarm beforehand. Jukes read first.

     Sedgwick was present, and most agreeable and con

     ciliatory. He made a most complimentary speech

after. Lyell ditto. Buckland was all in favour, but

     in attempting to quote Scripture made a great mull of

' it,     and broke down, greatly to the amusement of all,

     especially the Bishop of Oxford.    lectured rather
                                         I

                                                             a
     much, they told me -- the natural effect of three

     months' first course of lectures.'

          Of the two communications from Survey officers

     read at this meeting of the Geological Society, one

     was by Ramsay and Aveline, and was entitled                a

     Sketch of the Structure of Parts of North and
1848 PAPERS AT GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY  125

South Wales.' It dealt chiefly with the succession of

the stratified rocks which had been worked out in the

country to the south and south-east of the Dolgelli
and Bala district, and pointed out the clear evidence
of the great unconformability and overlap of the Upper
Silurian formations. The other paper, entitled ' Sketch
of the Structure of the Country extending from Cader
Idris to Moel Siabod, North Wales,' was by Jukes
and Selwyn, and showed the relative positions of the

various great stratified groups and their intercalated
volcanic masses.

     These papers are interesting in the history of
British geology, inasmuch as they gave the first pub
lished outline of the results up to that time obtained
by the Geological Survey in North Wales. As their

titles expressed, they were merely sketches ; and even
in that form they were printed only in abstract. The
Director-General, as told in the last extract from

Ramsay's diary, was in a state of alarm as to what
might happen as a consequence of the reading of these
papers. This fear arose from a certain timidity of
nature which, with all his energy and determination,
characterised De la Beche. So anxious was he for the

ultimate success of all his wide scheme for a great
national institute of applied science, that though he

could show fight when occasion demanded, he shrank
from taking himself, or encouraging on the part of
his subordinates, any action which seemed likely to
stimulate opposition. He did not greatly favour the
communication of papers by his staff to scientific

societies giving the results arrived at during the opera

tions of the Survey. He contended, and with some
show of reason, that these results were obtained by
public servants at the cost of the State, and were the
126  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY                                                                                                       chap, 1v

property of the country, and not of the individuals who

made them. Some of the staff, however, angrily

resented any restraint of their liberty in this respect ;

and there seemed at one time the possibility of a serious

rupture on the subject. In the angry correspondence
which took place between one of the malcontents and
Sir Henry, it was asserted that by the course which

had been followed Ramsay had been prevented from

taking the position as a geologist to which the amount
and quality of his work entitled him. This was a

charge which gave special pain to Ramsay himself
                           This too bad,' he wrote in
when he heard of
     in
         ;
             '
                             it.
                                             '
                                              is
                                                                       I
his diary for though by reading more papers

might have stood higher at the Geological Society,

yet, all all, Sir H. has been my best friend in every

way, private and public.'

     The mutiny had been in progress during the

autumn, but as soon as Ramsay got back to London

his tact and sound common sense succeeded in not

only keeping the peace, but in effecting an arrange

ment which, while preserved the due discipline of
It

                   a

                   I
                         I
                                it

                                    if

                                                           a
                                                                                                                                 :
                                                                    I'
the service, provided for the officers of the Survey

the possibility of making known their observations in

anticipation of the subsequent publication of an official

account of them. He wrote to Aveline                                                                                                have

achieved great point, and got permission for the

Survey to read papers at the Geological Society, on

the approval of the Director-General, when submitted

to him by me.     wish, therefore, you would think

over some of the particulars of your present trappy

country, as wish much,     you have no objections,

to associate you with myself in joint paper on the

Stretton, Bishop's Castle, Kington, and Builth land.

     must not deal with details, but be general, and yet
1848 DE LA BECHE'S OFFICIALISM                                    127

precise in its conclusions. We must not give sections,

but diagrams, such as other folk call sections, showing

the general run of things ; also only a sketch of the

map. The reason      is,

                         It

                                is
                                            in

                                               is
                       that as yet the country un
                                                                  is
published, and matters handed                                  to the Geologicalla

Society belong to it.  a great point, however,

to have gained this, for the Survey not half enough

before the public.'

    This was by no means the only occasion on which

the Local Director was able to avert such threatened

ruptures between the officialism of the Director-
          '
                        '

                                  '
                                                            '
General and the licence of the geologists. De

Beche was by instinct an official, and he had lived so

long  in  intimate contact with ministers and depart

ments that his natural bent of mind was intensified.

If there were two ways of getting a thing done, he

chose the more official and roundabout rather than

the more simple and direct. Probably he was gener

ally right in his choice, but to those who looked on
from outside, and were not cognisant of all the facts,

he seemed often to be raising needless difficulties and

guarding against objections that were never likely to

be made. Always courteous and pleasant
                       a                                          manner,
                                              in
he seemed unwilling to give blunt negative to a

request, and thus sometimes, unwittingly, encouraged
hopes that he did not mean to fulfil.

     Ramsay seems to have formed tolerably just                a
estimate of the character of his chief, whose weak

points he recognised, while he thoroughly appreciated

his excellences. At the time of the outbreak above

referred to he wrote in his diary that                            has used
                                                               '
                                                                                                           ,
harsh and even unjust terms to Sir Henry, and

too, not fair to him. Sir Henry's devotion to theis

Museum and Survey sometimes blinds him to other
128  PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY  chap, 1v

matters. People must make allowance. With all his
little failings, I wish I knew more men I love as

much.'

     There can hardly be any doubt that the very
' officialism,' which seemed to some of De la Beche's

critics a defect, powerfully contributed to his success
in gaining from the Government of the country sup
port to his scheme for the national endowment of
applied geology. He knew how to measure and
influence the official mind. He began by trifling

requests, and gradually educated the various depart
ments to adopt his views and give their assistance

to carry them out, until it became as much a point
of honour and credit with his official superiors as it
was a heartfelt desire of his own that his successive

demands should be favourably considered at the
Treasury. Moreover, he cultivated personal relations

with the ministers of the day. He was on specially
friendly terms with Sir Robert Peel, whom he led to
take interest in the erection of the new Museum and
in the progress of the Survey. He even sounded him
as to his acceptance of the Presidency of the Royal
Society. On the 9th February of this year De la

Beche told Ramsay that he had been on this errand,
and that ' Sir Robert refused on the ground that it

ought to be a scientific man. He (Sir R.) highly
approved of the plan of holding the soirees at the
Society's rooms ; " and then," said he, " if a poor

man, as it might, and often ought to be, held the
Presidency, we could go and pay our respects to

  1m.

      But the Director-General and his staff at Craig's
Court had other duties to discharge this winter than
had ever before fallen to their share. The proposal
THE CHARTIST SCARE                          129

of the Chartists to assemble 200,000 men on Kennington

Common and march to Westminster on the 10th April

led to the taking of ample precautions for the security

of public buildings in London. Though the establish

ment at Craig's Court might have been supposed to

lie almost hidden away from the ken of any rioters, its

officials prepared themselves most manfully to resist

the invasion of their premises. These preparations,

and the eventful day, are thus chronicled in Ramsay's

diary :--
     ' %th April. -- Got sworn-in to-day a special con

stable ; got a baton at Scotland Yard. Forbes refused ;

his usual policy. He says there is no cause for alarm,

and yet commends people for taking precautions ! Yet

he takes none. Sir H. also organises, yet does not
swear -in himself. Playfair, Hunt, Baily, Reeks,

J. A. Phillips,1 etc. etc., plucky.
     ' gth. --Wilson is also sworn-in, and quite ready to

do the needful. Quiet enough to-night ; doubtful to

morrow.                                     Forbes

     ' l0th. -- Grand row expected to-day.

called, and we went down to the Museum before ten ;

met Playfair. Sir Henry at the Museum very active

and mysterious, passing through holes into the back

stables of the Scotland Yard Police Office, and bring

ing out armfuls of cutlasses. Streets full of special

constables. Chartists afraid, and cowed ; all passing

off quietly. No procession took place. However, we

had a jolly dinner in Sir Henry's room for fourteen,

and cigars and coffee in the laboratory afterwards.

     1 John Arthur Phillips, born 1822, died 1887 ; received his training at the
ficole des Mines, Paris. At the time referred to in the text he was assistant to

Professor Playfair in an investigation ordered by the Admiralty into the steam
coals best adapted for the Navy. He afterwards became a consulting engineer
in mining and metallurgical matters, and travelled much abroad professionally.

                                          K
130           PROFESSORSHIP OF GEOLOGY             chap, 1v

This was the hardest duty we had to perform. On

public grounds, our men were well pleased that things

went off quietly ; but as private individuals, many

seemed rather disappointed that there was no scrim

mage, especially Bone and J. A. Phillips, who were very

bloodily inclined. Salter was evidently in a funk, and

kept up his spirits all day by whistling psalm tunes.'

     One of the pleasantest interludes of Ramsay's life

this winter in London was a visit paid by him to

Darwin's hospitable home in Kent, when Lyell and
his wife, Owen and Forbes were likewise guests. It

was a brief sojourn from Saturday to Monday, of

which he records :--
                         Sunday. -- Rose betimes,
     '        February,                            had  a

       1T)th

walk in the gardens, and came in to breakfast. Set

to work after, and read and thought over Hopkins's

views as shown in Jameson's Journal, and when found
made a note. After lunch Forbes, Owen, Lyell, and

I had a walk in Sir John Lubbock's park, and saw a
number of things pleasant to look upon, in spite of a

tendency to drizzling. Nice cosy chat, too, before and
after dinner. Darwin is an enviable man -- a pleasant

place, a nice wife, a nice family, station neither too

high nor too low, a good moderate fortune, and the

command of his own time. After tea Mrs. Darwin

and one of her sisters played some of Mendelssohn's

duets, etc. etc., all very charming. I never enjoyed

myself more. Forbes came to my room before going

to bed, and gave me a sketch of his coming lecture on

generic centres. Lyell is a much more amusing man

than I gave him credit for. Mrs. Lyell is a charming
person --pretty, lively, and full of faith in, and admira

tion of, her husband.

     ' Mr. and Mrs. Lyell told some capital stories about
1848 LYELL ON NEW ENGLAND                           131

America, but on the whole all tending to the honour

of America. He is quite enthusiastic about especi
                                           it,
ally in all that relates to the liberal spirit of the Newis

Englanders. Boston seems in all the world his

favourite city. The worst party in America          the

party that emigrates from Great Britain.'
CHAPTER V

THE SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION

We have now to enter upon the records of three of

the most active years of Sir Andrew Ramsay's life,

during which he achieved his chief geological triumph

-- the unravelling of the complicated history of the

ancient volcanic region of which Snowdon forms the

centre. Though the details of one working season

were closely similar to those of another, the story has

so much interest in the progress of the geological

investigation of the British Isles, that even at the risk

of a certain amount of repetition it will be most appro

priate to keep the doings of each year distinct.  of the
     By the middle of April 1848 the work         It had

previous winter was at last happily at an end.

been an exceedingly onerous time for Ramsay, and he

confessed now and then that he had nearly reached

the limits of his powers of endurance. Before the

season closed he was fain sometimes to shirk an even

ing reception or discourse and take refuge in the

reading of Boswell's Life of Johnson, or some other
favourite. It was, therefore, with no little alacrity

that he packed his portmanteau and started for the

field again on the 18th April. From that time till
the middle of December, with the exception of a little

break to attend the British Association meeting, and
1848 A CANTANKEROUS FARMER  133

a few weeks spent in Scotland, he remained in Wales,
working out the geological structure of Caernarvon

shire.

      Beginning his campaign with a tour of inspection
along the south coast, he made his first visit to the
Isle of Wight, and spent some pleasant days with
Forbes and Bristow rambling along the base of the

Dorsetshire cliffs. They had among the incidents
of this excursion an experience of one of the difficulties
in the life of a geological surveyor in the more bucolic
parts of England. They were crossing a farm when
the farmer rushed on them with angry execrations and
violent flourishings of a large spade, with which he
threatened to make an end of them if they did not
instantly move off his land. In vain they endeavoured
to expostulate and to explain their object. The infuri
ated tenant only became the more defiant. Next day
he had not cooled down, but now swung round a still

more lethal weapon, would listen to no remonstrance,

and had at last to be brought to his senses by a sum

mons before a magistrate.1

     After brief visits to Aveline and Jukes in the
Breidden district, and tracing some new lines there
himself, he passed on to Selwyn at Port Madoc and

Dolgelli. Room may be found here for his memor
andum of one day in this visit of inspection.

     ' 8th June.-- Up again to the hills south-west of
Craig y Cae. Got in some faults and a lot of strange
dykes and spots of squirted traps. Selwyn and I separ

ated and took different ground, and often met again to

compare and compile. A lovely day, and the effects

      1 By the Act 8 and 9 Victoria cap. lxiii. power was given to enter lands for
the purposes of the Geological Survey, and to prosecute any one interfering with
the work.
r34  SURVEY OF THE SNO WD ON REGION  CHAP. V

over the valley of Dolgellaw and the towering range
of Cader Idris most strange and glorious. At last all

the lower clouds (which long hung like a half-fallen

curtain in the foreground, behind which the sun glori

ously illumined the distant glens and precipices)

cleared away, and all along the ridge of Cader and the

giant slopes of Aran Mowddy the shadows of scattered

clouds flitted by like the images of huge flying dragons.

I like this plan of separation and meeting. It is

pleasant to get alone among the shattered rocks, where

one can soliloquise, sing, and shout at will without any

man to think you a fool. Home to dinner at six.'

     On the 14th of the same month he took up his

quarters at Llanberis, for the purpose of himself attack

ing Snowdon and the surrounding region. The year

before, during the preliminary traverses with the

Director-General, he had been able to take a general

or bird's-eye view of this picturesque district, and had

seen enough of its geology to recognise the extra

ordinary interest as well as the extreme complexity of

its problems. He had determined to devote himself

heart and soul to their solution, and now at the earliest

opportunity, in full vigour of body and mind, he had
come back to carry his resolve into effect. His life

and work at Llanberis may be best pictured in a few

extracts from his diary.

     ' 21st June. -- Out north to Marchllyn Mawr. De
scended to the lake. While minutely examining this

section, and hammering along, out jumped a trilobite

and a lingula, some  600 or 700    feet down in these
" Cambrians," as we  called them.    So here at a blow

vanishes the idea, which we all believed, that the rocks

are unfossiliferous beneath the trappy series. There

fore Barmouth, Longmynd, and Llanberis purple lower
1848 BRITISH ASSOCIA TION AT S WANS EA

ground, if one, still do not present the beginning of

life, unless a lingula and trilobite were first called into

existence where now reposes Marchllyn Mawr.

     ' $0th. -- Out after breakfast to touch up part of the
sandstones and make out part of the Snowdon section

on the ridge above the Pass of Llanberis. What with

the interminglings of ash and slate, I see it will be a

matter of extreme difficulty, especially as the rocks are

much rolled.                                                                              Up the Pass of

    ' 1st July. -- Stormy and cold.

Llanberis. Set to work to trace the steep ridge of
Llechog. Up and down twice, and half up and down

several times. Steep work, consequently not much to

show for  climbed up and down places that
          it.

              I

                                       a
from the road seemed impracticable.'

     These labours were for brief interval suspended

while Ramsay went to Swansea to attend the meeting

of the British Association. Under the hospitable roof

of Mr. Dillwyn (whose son had married one of De                                           a la
Beche's daughters), and with Sir Henry himself as

          the house, he spent a memorably pleasant
guest'

           in
                                          a

                                                                                       '

                                                         y
week. He acted again as one of the secretaries of

Section C, and read paper On some Points con

nected with the Physical Geology of the Silurian

District between Builth and Pen bont, Radnorshire.'

     nth October. -- Splendid morning. Started at half-

past nine for the hills at the top of the Pass, and sent
Gibbs to search the ridge of Snowdon. Sir H. and

Forbes [who had recently joined him at Llanberis] fol
lowed about half-past ten for the top. While at work

on the side of Crib goch heard Selwyn's well-known
          I

shrill shout, and soon discovered him on the top of                                       a

crag on Crib goch. So we joined and compared notes,

and soon put matters straight at Glas lyn. We then
136       SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION        chap, v

passed on to the top, often standing to discuss, and

just as we got to the bottom of the peak descried our

party coming down. We stayed nearly an hour up,

and then followed. Forbes was making a bad sketch

where the path turns down to Pen y gwryd ; Sir H.

and Gibbs fossilising.

     ' 20th. -- Gibbs and I started at half- past nine up

Snowdon. Went down to the copper mine at Llyn-du-

r'Arddu. We climbed up the face of the cliff there,
just by the great fault -- a fearful place. It was frozen
over in many places with ice and snow. It took us a

whole hour to climb and we were frequently obliged
     I
                                   it it,
to stop when in a secure position to beat our hands

to warm them. We had often to cut steps in the rock

and ice. Gibbs never for a moment lost his coolness,

but got a little nervous for two or three minutes.

Once up half-way was impossible to return; we

were obliged to go up. Had foot or hand given
                                           a

way one or both of us would have been smashed.

Parted on the other side of the ridge.        walked
                                              I
across Snowdon to Beddgelert. The top was covered
with snow fine view. Got to Beddgelert by six, justy
a                                                             it

          '
                               ;
before Selwyn's dinner.

      2nd November. -- Out on the ridge on the north-east

end of Crib goch. Sometimes misty, but on the whole

   good day. Finished all that side as far up as the
upper end of the Pass, and to the brook that runs from

Llyn Llydaw. Excellent day's work, especially as

fairly finished all that side of the Pass.'
      15M. -- Up the Pass and up Glyder by the new
       I
path discovered yesterday opposite Pont grom-
lech. This mountain begins to be as familiar to me

as Charing Cross, and shows evident symptoms of at

length beginning to be licked into geological shape.
                          RICHARD GIBBS

\
1848 FIRST LESSONS IN GLACIAL GEOLOGY            137

Had a grand find of large OrthicUe to-day in the ashy

sandstones above the nodular trap. Gibbs and I

climbed to the summit of that huge tower-like precipice,

from which the masses of volcanic breccia have fallen,

misnamed a cromlech.  It is a fearful cliff to look

down, but wide and quite secure at the summit.'

     To geologists, and especially to those who are
familiar with Sir Andrew Ramsay's name as a writer

on glacial phenomena, and who remember his early

descriptions of the ice-work in the Pass of Llanberis,

it may be of interest to know that he seems to have

been at work for some months in that district before

his attention was arrested by its glaciation. We have

seen how he curtly dismissed Buckland's views when

these were criticised adversely at the Geological

Society. While he makes many notes about other

geological matters observed by him on ground which

he was examining for the first time, or mapping in

detail, he never alludes to the superficial phenomena

which a few years later so fascinated him. The first

reference to the subject in his diary occurs under date

3rd August 1848, on the occasion of a visit of Robert
Chambers 1 to him at Llanberis. It runs as follows :

' Selwyn, Reeks, and Smyth up Snowdon ; Chambers

and I out on glacial excursion up the Pass, etc. Very

instructive work.' Next day he remarks that the

party, including Chambers, 'started for Llyn Idwal,

      1 Robert Chambers, born 1809, died 1871, best known for his contributions
to general literature, took much interest in science, especially in geology. He is
now known to have been the author of the famous Vestiges of the Natural History
of Creation. He especially studied raised beaches (see his volume on Ancient
Sea-margins) and the traces of ancient glaciers, and in pursuit of his researches
in these subjects travelled not only over most of Britain, but into Switzerland,
Scandinavia, Faroe, and Iceland. He wrote numerous papers giving the results
of his observations, many of which appeared first in Chambers's Journal, and
were sometimes separately reprinted, as in the case of his Tracings of the North
of Europe.
138   SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

and walked across the hills to Llanberis. Splendid

examples of glacial action.' Chambers had come
purposely to see the evidence of glaciers in the Welsh

valleys, and to compare it with what he was now

familiar with in Scotland. It looks as if this visit of

his had really for the first time turned his companion's

eyes from the rocks themselves to the study of the

manner in which they have been worn and striated by

ice. Ramsay seems to have been still much in the

state of mind so well described by himself a few years

later. ' We recollect well the unbelief and ridicule

that greeted the announcements of Agassiz and Buck-

land in 1 840-4 1 , that glaciers once occupied the greater
valleys of the Highlands of Scotland and of Wales,

and how sceptics and shallow wits, whose geology

perhaps rarely extended beyond the precincts of turn
pike roads, attributed the grooving and striation of

the rocks to cart-wheels and hob-nailed boots, and the

ice-polished rock surfaces to the sliding of the caudal

corduroys of Welshmen on the rocks, to slickensides

and sea-waves, and to every cause, indeed, but the true

one.

     By the 15th November, however, he had been
led to recognise everywhere the peculiar smoothing

and polishing produced by moving ice ; for on that

date, with regard to the summit of the tower-like

precipice referred to in the citation above, he remarks

     1

                                  it is,
                                       is

                                                                                                                       of
that this summit ' as usual, well grooved with glacial

undulations.' Yet  noteworthy that these are the

only allusions to glaciation in the jottings of his first
year's work in North Wales. He had evidently not

yet realised the nature and force of the proofs of

        Review by A. C. R. of fifth edition of Lyell's Elementary Manual
Geology in the Edin. New Phil. Journ. April 1856, p. 317 (see postea, p. 238).
1848 GEOLOGICAL DELEGATES FROM ABROAD  139

former glaciers in this country. He had never been
abroad. The revelation which the first sight of a
living glacier flashes upon the mind of a geologist was
still to come to him. And thus we find him passing
day after day up and down the Pass of Llanberis,
heedless of the ice-worn knolls and perched boulders

which he was soon so enthusiastically to visit and

revisit, and so lovingly to sketch and map and describe.
     It has been the custom for foreign governments

from time to time to send delegates over to this
country for the purpose of personally seeing how the
work of the Geological Survey is carried on, with a
view to the initiation or improvement of geological

surveys in their own countries, or for other purposes
where a knowledge of detailed geological mapping

may be desirable. During Ramsay's long stay this
year at Llanberis he had two such foreign visits. In
June A. Sismonda, the well-known Tuscan geologist,
accompanied by a young French friend, was awaiting
him in his room one evening on his return, drenched
and weary, from a long tramp on the hills, and they

subsequently accompanied him to his work in the field.
' Sismonda not being much of a climber,' Ramsay
writes, ' preferred the road to the rocky sides of the

hills. He is still of the FJie de Beaumont school,

believes in prodigious terrestrial actions down to the
end of late Tertiary time, working with a force of

which we have now no experience -- earthquakes
shaking, traps heaving, and currents sweeping. At
night I got the Frenchman and him into a hot political

argument, the Frenchman being republican, the other
monarchical. Their animated countenances and rapid
gestures were most unlike anything one sees in an

English debate.'
>4rJ  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  CHAP. V

     In August the advent of two bearded Austrians,

with large slouched hats, made some sensation among
the peasants of Llanberis. One of these visitors was
the distinguished Franz Ritter von Hauer, so long
Director of the Geological Survey of Austria, and now
head of the great Museum of Vienna ; the other was
Dr. Moritz Homes, a well-known Austrian geologist
and palaeontologist. They accompanied Ramsay in
some of his tramps over Snowdon, and received much
Survey information from him for a report they were
making to their Government. The diary records the
ravenous appetites of the party at the evening meals

after long days in the keen mountain air, and speaks
of 'ogres devouring fish and legs of mutton.'

     Not the least pleasant episodes in the Llanberis
life were the occasional visits of members of the

Survey staff. Selwyn, who was stationed at Bedd-

gelert, would sometimes work over the hills and spend

the evening and night with Ramsay, who in turn

occasionally crossed the watershed, and landed in
time for dinner at Beddgelert. Edward Forbes, who
had recently married, brought his bride to Llanberis,
and Ramsay took a room in their cottage while they
remained there. But no colleague was so welcome
as his worthy chief. On an October evening a car
arrived at Llanberis with luggage, but no traveller.
Ramsay, however, recognised the old portmanteau,
and, sure enough, immediately after up came Sir Henry
' shouting and making as much noise as possible.'
They had long consultations together on Survey plans

and prospects, and one Sunday the Director-General

became specially communicative to his younger asso

ciate. The conversation is thus reported : ' A walk

in the light rain with Sir H., more than usually agree
1848 VIEWS OF DE LA BECHE                                                     141

able. He was very kind and confidential, speaking in

the strongest manner about his wish that I should

succeed him, and recommending me to write some

good   memoir     speedily for our work, to strengthen my
case.             not Phillips," he said, " nor any other
         " It is

man on the Survey you have to fear, but such as

Murchison and Lyell, who would make an effort.

Lyell has so often of late asked me how I did this and

that, that I begin to be suspicious." He further said

he would try to get an increase of pay for me, and that

independently of Oldham, on the ground of my larger
charge. I said I would fain see the others with
larger pay. He replied, " You must have it first." '

How cordial the relations were between the chief

and his lieutenant may be gathered from two notes of
De la Beche of this period :--

                                               London, 1%th November 1848.

     My dear Ramsay -- It is refreshing and a comfort to get

Iletters from your honest self, instead of some that I do receive,
and from those whom have laboured to benefit. I even got one

three or four days since, containing a passage which looked marvel

lous like a charge of impeding your fair fame. At least, I cannot

make anything else of it. But, mind you, this is strictly between

ourselves.

You give a capital account of yourself and your rocky parlia

Iments, making me long to be climbing the hills instead of wending
amid sooty streets. However, I believe am usefully here for the

good cause ; for the new building is getting on famously, and,

among other    things, the lecture-room  has   turned out famously        as  to
light, sound,  and accommodation-space.        Ever sincerely,
                                          --

                                               H. T. De la Beche.

                                               London, -jth December 1848.

My dear Ramsay-- Yours rejoiceth the cockles of my heart.
Those great ' dones ' of yours were right welcome, as is also the
                                               here. I have
intelligence that you   will   be shortly up                      much    to con
sult my geological     son                     proceedings, etc.    etc.
                              about -- fossil                             --. . .

Ever sincerely,                                H. T. De la Beche.
142  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  CHAP. V

     As reminiscences of the winter season of 1848-

49 in London, a few jottings from Ramsay's diary
may be inserted here. Besides the completion of

their official map-work and memoir-writing, the geolo
gists of the Survey were wont to signalise their
assembling in London by a dinner, where they wore

their official buttons and sang songs which were

written by them for the occasion. Of the earliest of

these annual gatherings no continuous record has been

preserved, but from the year 1850 onwards the

original songs have been entered in ' Ye Recorde

Boke off ye Royale Hammereres, off whyche Anciente

Ordere Tooballcane and Thorr were erlie Knyghtes.'
The subjects chosen for these metrical effusions
generally bore reference to some of the work that had

been in progress during the previous year, or to some

incidents in the life of some of the staff. For a

number of years Ramsay never failed to bring his
contribution to the hilarity of the after - dinner

minstrelsy, sometimes producing as many as four

original songs, and singing them with great vigour.
Some of these compositions will find a place in later
pages. The chronicle does not show that De la

Beche ever ventured into rhyme, though he figures
prominently in many of the songs. But his successor,
Murchison, used to write, and, to the best of his

ability, sing his song at the annual dinner; while
Forbes, Smyth, Jukes, Salter, Baily, and many of the
later members of the staff were frequent rhymesters.

     The dinner this year (1849) was held in Covent
Garden, and Ramsay records of it : ' We sat down

some twenty, Sir H. in the chair, Oldham vice. A

right jolly dinner ; some capital songs, all original ;
Salter's and Smyth's best.'
1849 GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY AND CLUB  143

     The meetings of the Geological Society are briefly
noticed in the diary. Thus under date the 3rd January
we get an amusing glimpse of the Council : ' Geo
logical Council to-day. Tough fighting about the
Museum Committees. Greenough at five began to

speak, and said he could not speak for less than an
hour. Dismay reigned. However, he was stopped,
and the debate adjourned. Club dinner after ; small
but pleasant party. I sat between Sir Charles Lyell
and Forbes. So-so night at the Society after. I
spoke a few words on the Ridgeway cutting. Sir
Roderick Murchison was there -- the first time I have
seen him for nearly two years. He has given up the
wig on the Continent, and looks much better in con

sequence.'

     Sir Henry's tenure of office as President of the

Society would terminate at the anniversary in
February, and Lyell had been nominated as his suc
cessor. The new President takes the chair at the
annual dinner which is held on the evening of the

anniversary, and it is his part to invite such official or

other guests as he may wish to be present. Lyell had

now this arduous and troublesome duty to discharge.
Ramsay writes under date the 10th February : ' Lyell
with us a long time, anxious and waiting. He is beating
up prodigiously for big-wigs to attend the Geological
dinner, and will be miserable unless Sir Robert Peel

be there. Sir R. ran over the new Museum this
 morning with Sir H. and Dr. Buckland. He was
(says Sir H.) "charmed." He said the building of it
 was an act performed in his administration on which

 he could always look back with pleasure.'
      The anniversary of the Geological Society took

 place on the 16th February, when De la Beche gave
144     SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION                       chap, v

his second and concluding annual address before
vacating the Presidency. In this discourse he

announced his expectation that the complicated dis
trict of North Wales would be completely surveyed
during that year. In this hope he made rather too

little allowance for the excessive and difficult detail

which the area contained, for it was not found possible
to finish the region until the summer of next year.
He referred to the publication of the maps of Cardi

ganshire and Montgomeryshire, and to the fact that
those of other parts of North Wales were in the hands
of the engraver. Dorsetshire and Derbyshire were
nearly completed, and the mapping of the Tertiary

deposits had advanced into Hampshire.
     Ramsay's account of this anniversary meeting was

as follows: 'Sir H.'s speechifying day -- the Geo

logical Anniversary. Prestwich was awarded the

Wollaston medal. In rising to present                      Sir H.
                                a
                                                      it,
upset two large oil-lamps that stood on the table

before him and made a prodigious smash. All the

house laughed, and poor P. was trifle discomposed.

He has a glorious head. Sir H.'s speech was said to

be excellent.        was obliged to run off to lecture.
        a
Went down from College to the dinner at thea

Thatched House Tavern.I     sat betwixt Playfair and
                          I
                             I
Captain James. Reeks, Bristow, Smyth, M'Coy,
Tylor, Austen, Forbes, and      were all in
                                                           lump.
                                           a
Lyell made poor speaker in the chair. Sedgwick a

                                                             a
made    magnificent speech, the Archbishop a

goodish one, Van der Weyer good one, Sir H.a

good one, Buckland a fair, Sir Robert Peel splendid

one, Murchison an indifferent one, from trying too

much.'

     Ramsay continued frequently to attend the Royal
1849 THE RED LIONS                                US

Institution Friday evening discourses.            He thus

chronicles the evening of the 9th February : ' Went to
the Royal Institution to hear Owen on Limbs. I

stood on the steps. The lecture seemed to be admir

able. Much of it I highly admired, and much of it

I did not understand. The theatre was quite full. I

saw many I knew : Dr. Fitton looking good-humoured,

Sir Roderick looking anxious to keep awake, Dr.

Mantell looking eager, Dr. Macdonald looking jolly

and anxious for a hole in Owen's coat, Sir Henry

looking attentive and queer when Owen came to the

orthodox peroration, Sir Charles and Lady Lyell

looking knightly, Lady S  looking vulgar, Nicol

looking Scotch, with a doubt in his eye, and Mrs.

F looking at her dress.'

The Red Lions kept up their London dinners,

which were sometimes specially mirthful. Thus on

the 1 9th April Ramsay writes : ' Walked over to
Anderton's with Reeks to dine with the Red Lions.

Capital party, Lankester in the chair. I sat between

him and Sheean, a barrister, and the great original of

the Mulligan of Ballymulligan. He seems a capital

fellow, though, and sang some excellent songs. Turn-

berry sang well, and put the whole table in a roar.

I scarcely recollect a better evening. Owen was

capital, and made a most humorous speech, contrasting

the pleasure of sitting in this snowy night, so cosy and

merry round the table, with the horrors of the Royal

Society then sitting, where the members, on cold

benches, in a room with newly-lighted smoke-belching

fires, sat listening to a dull paper, with the prospect of

one still duller before them. Percy enjoyed himself

in his usual hearty style.'                       room can be

    Of the dinner-parties and receptions,

                                               L
146  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  CHAP. V

found here for the mention of two only. ' 18///
February. -- Sir Roderick Murchison's dinner at
seven. When I walked into the drawing-room Lady
Murchison came running up to me with both her

hands out, and made me sit down beside her. . . .

Sedgwick was there, Pentland, and Lockhart, Sir
Walter's son-in-law. I was delighted to meet him.
We had a capital evening. Lockhart was most
amusing and interesting. He told a strange story of
Lord Brougham, who, it appears, never goes home

from any party without first going and taking tea with
Lola Montes ! I wish I could recollect half the things
he said. He is a thorough man of the world and of

society, and most gentlemanly, though a trifle abrupt
in manner. I did not altogether like the way he
spoke of my old friend Dr. Chalmers and his

posthumous works.

    ' 2T,rd March. -- Went to Barlow's. A crowd there ;

among others Dilke and his wife, Baden Powell and
his wife, Lady Shelley, Miss Grant, Captain and
Mrs. Smyth, Warington and Miss Smyth. Louis
Blanc ! Some ladies made a demi-lion of him. I

was ashamed of them, and wondered Barlow could

ask such a man to his house. I would be ashamed to
have so foolish and mischievous a fellow in mine. He

is a little pragmatical individual, insignificant in person,
and insignificant in any appearance of an enlarged

intellect. Petitesse is the word that expresses him

in all things.'

     In the prospect of soon taking the field again, he
wrote to Aveline from London on 27th March :--

    My dear Talbot-- My lectures will be over this

week. I shall examine the class on Tuesday, and as
     1849 ELECTION INTO ROYAL SOCIETY                  147

     soon after as possible, that is to say, when I have got

     rid of Gibbs and the fossils, I shall
                 ?                           to the country.

                     a
                        I

                                  I
                                           I
                                                        fly

                                                            I
                                                                    II

                                                                A
it It  will probably take me all that week after Tuesday

     to finish with Gibbs. Then join Jukes for a few

     days. Thereafter  shall go to the Shrewsbury

     country, principally to look at the Silurians and traps

     that Smyth traced in, before publishing the map.

     few days should do that.  then purpose taking you

     by storm on my way to Caernarvonshire, so that may

     see what sort of strange ground you are on, and also

     that we may hold grand geological palaver.  fancy

       will be well-nigh the end of April ere can reach

you. Where do you think you may have progressed

to by that time

       But was the usual fate of such prospective plans
       it

of work that they could not be carried out within the

specified time.  It    was the 20th April before Ramsay

could leave London. He first joined Jukes, who

had been at work in the Staffordshire coal-field, and

     who was now about to run some horizontal sections

       the Dudley district. These two friends were
It ' in
                                                                                                ;

                                                                in
                                                                   is
                                                                              a

                                                                                                                                                                :
becoming every year more closely knit together in

intimate friendship. Ramsay, for instance, writes

     Jukes rises daily in my esteem he       noble fellow.'

       was while this Midland work was progress that the

     official intimation reached Ramsay of his election into

the Royal Society. As far back as the 21st April he

     had heard from his kind-hearted chief that he was one

     of the fifteen candidates selected by the Council. He

     might well regard himself as fortunate in reaching this

     honour after not more than eight years spent in the

     active prosecution of scientific work.

       On the completion of the section -running with
148           SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION          chap, v

Jukes he once more made some critical traverses
across the Wrekin country, and it was the 20th

June before he found himself back at Llanberis to
resume the survey of Caernarvonshire. Some ex

tracts from his diary and letters will show the nature

and progress of his occupation during the campaign

of   1849.           --A

      '27///  June.       jolly  day  on  Glyder ;  clear  but

cold. Got a clearer notion of things to-day than I

had in weeks of work towards the close of last year

among the fogs.

    ' 29M. -- Y Glyder fawr ; glorious day, but ex

tremely warm. Scarce seem to have made any

impression on it yet, it is so tough and difficult to

climb.

     ' 2pth. -- Across the hills by Mynydd Perfedd, nearly

to the Ogwen, and from thence making out the section

up to Twll-du --a most rough and craggy walk. A

glorious day, which I perfectly enjoyed. Lunched on

the banks of Llyn Idwal. Then scrambled up to
Twll-du, as far up the gap as I could go -- full of
rare rock-plants. Thence I scrambled up the cliff, and

got home by half-past six. Found twelve or thirteen

letters.

    ' 6th July. -- Took horse and rode to Caernarvon [to

have the accounts sworn-to before a magistrate], and

got them off to Reeks. As I rode home I found them
busy on this side of Caernarvon sinking for coal. I

hallooed to a man to hold my horse a moment while I

ran into the field and talked with the sinkers, etc.

They have gone down seventy yards or so, the first

seven yards in drift. They asked my opinion. I told

them to let me know when they came to the coal, and

I would come down and eat        it.
1849 FIELD-WORK AROUND LLANBERIS  149

     ' 1 1th. -- Over the hills tracing the Bwlch-y-gywion

trap, and so back by the felspar stuff up some hideous

banks. It was exceedingly fatiguing, but I got a good

day's work done.'

                                                Llanber1s, 12th July 1849.

     My dear Talbot-- At length since Monday last

we have had fine weather here, and I have worked so

hard that I am quite fatigued to-day, and stay at home
to despatch some maps, and knock off the arrears of
correspondence. I think the ground I am at present at
work on is really the most fatiguing I have yet experi

enced in Wales. It is not merely walking up and

along steep places, but actual climbing, hands and
feet, and on hills so high that it often takes two or
three hours to get to the district in the first instance.
I fancied ere I came I should be done ere this, but I

haven't more than a half or two-thirds finished yet.

     ' -- Started at half-past ten, and by dint of sharp
walking was at Twll-du by twelve. Down to Llyn

Idwal, and traced all the lines round and through the
lake and down to the lower margin of Llyn Ogwen, and
then up by the Pass-y-benglog and the west ridge of

Cwm Bochlwyd, tracing a line to the top of Y Glyder

fawr. It was dreadfully tough work, and it was past
six by the time I got to the top of Glyder, so that

though I would fain have carried on my line, I was
somewhat tired both in the legs and of the subject,

and therefore deemed it wiser to leave its prosecution

for a fresh day. Overtook a nice-looking young

fellow in the Pass with a knapsack on his back, and

entering into conversation, we walked down together.

It lightened the way a bit. Dined at nine.
     ' 26th. -- Immediately after breakfast started on a
ISO  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION              chap, v

long tramp round by Capel Curig way, tracing the
outside boundary of the Glyder fawr trap, and intend

ing to come home over Trefan. But it was too far,

and, besides, the work would lead in another direction.

So I came back down that rough hillside above the
lake and Pen-y-gwryd. It is a terribly stony place. I

got into the Pass about six, and was shortly after right

well pleased to spy a large two -horse return car

coming down the road. Jumped therein. Just about
Pont-y-gromlech heard a shouting, and looking up

the side of Glyder, saw all my fellow-lodgers and

Dent rushing down the hill. They all got in or on

the affair, two hanging on behind like footmen. So

with mickle laughter we drove home to dinner.

     ' 6th August. -- As I could not sleep quiet in my
grave had I not been up Snowdon, to see that bit on

the Beddgelert side of Cwm-y-Clogwyn that bothered
Selwyn and me so much, I revisited it to-day, and
came back over the top. No one was there but

myself.                                        Met a

    ' 10th. --Started from Llanberis at nine.

Capel Curig car, and changed into it at the top of the

Pass, and was at work by half-past eleven or twelve

on this side of Y Glyder fach. The mist persecuted

me dreadfully. It came rolling down as soon as

I got up a considerable height, and then, when I

began to descend a little, would partially clear up ;

but rushing down again, I was forced to try the

section on the low ground, and then having made
out a certain amount of that, I traced a line up the
hill. No sooner had the mist got me well up than,

shifting his quarters, he rushed down the valley,

obscured Y Trefan, thicker and thicker, boiling and

seething, and if I but looked at a bit of ground, down
1849 CLOUD, MIST, AND RAIN  151

he came upon it and enveloped my head in the mist.

At last I was fain to leave about seven. When once I

was well down in the valley the white clouds all
cleared away from the hills, as far as I could see,
though when once or twice I looked back with a

speculating eye, I could just see the hill-tops suddenly
get partially obscured, as if old Kuhleborn were saying,

"You needn't come here, young man, or I'll be down

upon you in no time." Got home to the inn about

half-past eight, and had a "rough tea."
     ' wth. -- Started after breakfast and began to trace

lines from Y Trefan up to Y Glyder fach. Just as

I got to the top of the ridge, a gale of wind came on,
accompanied by a deluge of rain and a thick mist. I
couldn't see thirty yards. A compass was nearly
useless, for the ground was so rough that I could not

walk in a given direction ten yards, and the place was
cliffy on sundry sides. By and by, calculating how
the wind blew, I turned my face to it and began
carefully to descend, and after two hours' cautious
work, in difficult rocky ground, the mist suddenly
partially opened, and I found myself just above the

north end of Llyn-y-Cwm. So I descended to the

Pass amid falling waters and sheets of rain, and
trudged down to Llanberis soaked to the skin, with
my boots full of water. Dined at nine.

     ' 1$th. -- Out on the ridge of Glyder Fach tracing
round the lines in the direction of the east side of
Cwm Tryfan. Dreadfully wet. Yet I worked on in

desperation, and as there were some intervals between
the heavy storms of rain, I got a good deal done.
Home by seven well soaked.

     ' 24M. -- Out shortly after nine intending to have
noted the section along the north side of the valley
152  SURVEY OF THE SNO WDON REGION  chap, v

of the Llugwy. But in true geological fashion, I
got led on and on to the top of Carnedd Llewelyn,
and then taking advantage of the fine day, I walked

all along the ridge to Carnedd Dafydd, and across

Braich-du down to Llyn Ogwen. A glorious day and

magnificent views of the Nant Fran con range, with

Snowdon at the back ; also all the country down to
Cader, Aran Mowddy, etc. Home at seven.'

     Capel Cur1g,  August 1849.

     My dear Avel1ne -- I am in despair about getting

away from here. With one clear day I could slash in

a lot of country, all up as far as the watershed of

Carnedd Llewelyn and Carnedd Dafydd, so that I am

loath to leave to see you, lest that very day should

occur when I am away. Clear hill-tops are so scarce
that one day when they are so is worth a fortnight of
foggy weather. I have promised to make a run to
Aber to look for lodgings for Jukes to occupy imme

diately after his marriage, and if possible I shall work

my way there to-morrow, and next day trace a line

from Bangor to Caernarvon, which would enable me

to colour in a large piece of map, and so make the
work look somewhat more forward. Early next week,
then, I might perhaps manage to see you, for I am
anxious to do so before going to Brummagem, where
wI iathctouthteinstweremllisgsriooonm. --smEavnertoyoJuurksess.inceIrtelyra, ins to-day

     Andw. C. Ramsay.

     Among the letters that came to him in this season
of gloomy weather, the following note from De la
Beche may be quoted :--
1849 WORK WITH SELWYN AND AVELINE     153

                                      57 St. Stephen's Green, Dubl1n,
                                                     24/h August 1849.

     My dear Ramsay -- Here I am once again. We had a famous

Ifpassage last evening, and to-day I start, with Oldham, to the south.

          you go to the Wisdom Meeting [the meeting of the British
Association at Birmingham], we can talk over some of our matters ;

and if not, I would get down to you afterwards. Matters are in

good train at the Muzzy, and all going right, as it looks now ; trumps

will turn up there, I trust, next spring.

      Rattling by the skirts of the Welsh hills last evening, the clouds

seemed somewhat low, and looking up the valley of the Conway, I

thought of the wet bother you have lately had, and of the trouble
some quarters you are now in. Tis very tiresome for you. Once

out of   the high grounds  of Wales,  and we shall rapidly move ahead.
          sincerely,
-- Very                                           H. T. De la Beche.

     Ramsay did attend the ' Wisdom Meeting,' making

a rapid journey thither, and acting with Jukes and
Oldham as Secretaries of the Geological Section. But
he was soon back at work again in North Wales.
After carrying his boundary-lines from the Llanberis

district northwards, until he had joined them up to those
which had been mapped from Bangor, he left Llan

beris on the 3rd September and stationed himself at
Capel Curig, with the view of working out the structure
of the group of mountains rising to the east of Nant
Francon. Mr. Aveline was at work in the district

lying to the north-east, and the two colleagues were
enabled before the end of the season to join up their
lines. Mr. Selwyn, having completed the survey of

the ground lying between the Snowdon range on the
north and Ffestiniog and Tremadoc on the south,
was now at work in the Lleyn peninsula from Pwlheli.
But there were still several portions of boundary to
be settled along his northern limits. Ramsay had

thus occasion to visit both his comrades from the

central station of Capel Curig.
154  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION           chap, v

     ' 6th September . -- Attacked the side of Carnedd

Dafydd ; a hard day's work ; was not home till half-

past seven. I found the coffee-room full ; Quakers in
it who had been botanising.

     ' 8th. -- Started for Carnedd Llewelyn ; glorious

day and glorious day's work. Finished this side of

the hill, all the way to the watershed, and was twice

on the top.                           Struck up and

    ' 2nd October. --To Pen-y-gwryd.

had my last rap at old Glyder. I was sorry to part

with him. Many a bright and many a stormy day

have I passed on his sides, and as I scaled his cliffs

many a happy hour have I spent en route home

searching for ferns. The day was glorious, bright and
warm. The world scarcely ever before seemed more
bright and beautiful. I regained my voice and sang.

I perfectly regained the use of my legs, and scaled

the rocks strong and fearless as of yore.'

     Capel Cur1g,                           October 1849.

     My dear Avel1ne -- . . . What precious weather

since Monday till to-day ! I got a good slash of work

done to-day. In a few more days I must have a meet

with you again to join up west of Llyn Crafnant and

east of Llyn Geirionydd. I met Sir H. on Saturday

at Bangor, and stayed with him till Monday. We

had a short rap at Anglesey at very old rocks --older
than the Cambrian. -- Yours ever sincerely,

     Andw. C. Ramsay.

     The last sentence of this letter has a peculiar
interest to geologists. It shows that the first im

pression made on Ramsay's mind by the older rocks
of Anglesey was that they were pre-Cambrian. He
1849 INDOOR WORK AT CAPEL CURIG                           155

afterwards came to regard them as altered Cambrian ;
but his original and unbiassed judgment on the subject
is now recognised to have been the true one.

My dear B1ll 1 --     ...Capel Cur1g, 31J/ October 1849.
                      Winter does indeed

approach, and it often looks sufficiently savage here,

specially when the wind comes roaring down the glen,

driving the rain before it in sheets for four whole
days. Then ho ! to see the rivers burst their bounds,
and the lakes rise up a yard or two ! Then old
Kuhleborn reigns triumphant, and I, the enchanted

knight, fall in love with all the female waiters

and chambermaids, the daughters being lantern -

jawed.
     Then besides, I have work to do, and have begun

to read up for the production of a third Introductory
Lecture. What awful stuff the Wernerian disciples

wrote, to be sure ! I am busy analysing Jameson's
(of Edinburgh) old writings. He was a disciple and
pupil of Werner's, a favourite pupil, and by St.

Anthony a Tours, I protest t' ye, it is about as easy
to extract buttermilk from millstones, as to make

sense out of the maze of words in which they lost
themselves. And all that, too, under the guise of

extreme exactitude !

      But, somehow or other, o' nights, after a tough
day in the air, I don't feel inclined for that dry work,

or indeed for any serious work whatever. What
then ? Why, I have generally lots of letters to write,
both of Survey import and in the friendly way.

There's the home-circle, Sharpe, his honour Judge
Johnes, Playfair's jewel, Mrs. Forbes, the Rev. W.

1 His brother William.
156  SURVEY OF THE SNOW DON REGION  CHAP. V

R. S. Williams, our vicar, Dr. Falconer of Bath, and

many others which (that I may not now weary myself
writing lists of names, and so deprive my mother of

the continuation of that inestimable catalogue with

which, she will be glad to hear, I must fill my next

letter) I forbear to mention. Then I now and then
write verses. And yet again, when these delights

fail, have I not some rare and delectable books, poets,

and historiographers ? For, look ye, how can a man

weary with the choice and truth-telling histories of

Alcofribas Nasier at his elbow, purchased by me at

Birmingham for the small sum of 6s. 6d., and con

taining more wisdom and erudition than all the

collected works of Hume and Smollet, Gibbon, Hero

dotus, Titus Plinius, Ferguson, Aristotle, Macaulay,

Justinian (see his Pandects), Aulus Gellius, Avicenna,
Froissart, Mrs. Trimmer, Bishop Stillingfleet, Machia-

velli, Lamartine, Fox of ye Martyrology, Dean Swift,

Phillip de Commines, Jean Paul Richter, Gawain
Douglas, Knickerbocker, Anthony Count Hamilton,

Barbour, the Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela, Ruddiman,

Plutarchus, Mosheim, Mrs. Trollope, Thuanus, Rev.

Thomas Burnett, Major Sabine, and many others,
whose names I shall continue in my next letter? --

Yours affectionately,  A. C. R.

     ' 2nd November. -- Magnificent day. Got a splendid
day's work done, taking up the Llynbodgynwydd ash,
and carrying it all round nearly to Trefriw, and so
back by Llyn Geirionydd. It was a glorious day's

work, and a glorious day to work in, so still and sunny.
Speaking of peace, I conceived a sonnet on the way

home, when I saw the mountains rise high and solemn

into the sky in the twilight.'
                 MARTIN LUTHER

                 Peace, vexed soul ! there is a God above.
                  What though an evil destiny hath blighted

               Thy fervent hope, quenching the dawning love
                     That, like a penetrating sunbeam, lighted

                 Life's shadowy path ; beyond thy narrow care
                  The world is bright as ever. Look around !

               The earth is strewn with flowers, how passing fair !
                  The ringing voices of the brooks resound

               In the low valleys, moss-grown rock and earn,
                  And the tall water-reeds reflected rest

               On the deep bosom of the mountain tarn,
                  Telling of peace : the far-off mountain crest,

                 Piercing the sky, how strong, though tempest-riven !
                     Calleth aloud of rest, and points the way to heaven.

    A--' i <)th. tremendous day's work with Selwyn,

all across Dolwyddelan, up Cwm Penanmen, and round
by Pwll Francon and Bettws y coed.'

                                         Capel Cur1g, 26th November 1849.

    My dear W1ll1e1 -- The lines you allude to are
Cowper's --

Would I describe a preacher, such as Paul,
I would describe him sober, grave, sincere, etc.

You will find them, I think, in 'The Sofa.'2 It is

a fine description. Martin Luther, however, is my
favourite among more modern divines. A man also
                          '     but not always grave -- a
' sober, grave,  sincere     ;

great divine and reformer and eke a great composer

of sacred music, one who was not always grave, but

sang his ballad 'with a full round mouth,' and was

fond of a cask of good beer, as his letter to the

Elector of Saxony (I think) proves, when he thanked
him for one while attending a congress of divines.

It is always worth living in the world while good beer

     1 His brother.                                                given,  and
     2 The lines thus quoted from memory are not quite accurately
occur not in ' The Sofa,' but in ' The Timepiece,' line 395.
158  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

remains in it. We may thank our Saxon ancestors

for that blessing.

      ' -- After breakfast started for the hills above

 Llyn Bychan on the west side of the fault ; finished

 them ; re-mapped Mynydd Danlyn, and crossed to
 the other side by the lower end of Llyn Crafnant.
While loitering about, taking a final look, I spied
Aveline coming down anxiously, with his hat pulled
over his eyes, his coat-collar turned up, his gaiters

 hanging about his heels, taking long strides and
looking out ahead, but never holloaing, as another
man might have done. So we joined and walked
merrily down to Trefriw together.

     '4^ December. -- Had a long consultation with
Aveline and Jukes [at Aber] on the maps, and proved

that Snowdon, Glyder, and all are not lower than the

Bala lime and ashes. Jukes and I then started for
the hills, and had a splendid day among the intrusive
traps. Aveline returned to Trefriw, and Selwyn
came up from Clynnog fawr. Joking and making
fun all of us all night.'

     The campaign in Wales had thus lasted for fully

six months, and was prolonged even into the stormy

and inclement weather of December. It had been

eminently successful, for a large tract of rough moun

tainous ground and complicated geology had been

finished, and Ramsay had been able to join up the
boundary-lines of his area with those of his colleagues
on each side of him. And thus, turning his face
southwards, and paying a short visit of inspection to
Bristow in Dorsetshire, he was back in London before
the end of December, to begin the indoor labours of

another winter.
ROYAL INSTITUTION  159

     As before, we may take a few extracts from his
diary of these winter months. The Geological Society

continued to offer its fortnightly meeting as a rallying-
point for the geologists in London. The Friday
evening discourses of the Royal Institution, and the

receptions of its genial Secretary thereafter, formed
additional favourite gathering places. On the 1st

March Murchison gave the discourse, and Ramsay
records that this veteran geologist ' was quite nervous
in the early part of his lecture, hesitating and leaving
his sentences unfinished. But as he warmed he

improved, and by and by got on very well.' A week

later Edward Forbes occupied the same position, and
his appearance is thus chronicled in the diary : ' The

place was just about full. Forbes never appeared to
such advantage. He lectured in first-rate style, coolly
and boldly. The subject was " The Distribution of
Fresh -water Fishes and Plants," which he treated

certainly in a most masterly manner, showing that it
depended on recent geological revolutions.' The next

Friday is thus recorded: 'Royal Institution at night.
The Astronomer- Royal lectured to a crowded audience,
Prince Albert in the chair. Airy forgot himself, and
lectured an hour and three-quarters ! The Prince fell
asleep.' The following Friday it was Ramsay's own
turn to undergo the ordeal of addressing this critical
and sometimes somnolent assembly. His account of

the evening is as follows : ' I had half an hour's quiet

ness in the little private room behind the theatre. At
nine I was introduced, the Duke of Northumberland

in the chair, the French Ambassador on his right, Mr.
Hamilton on his left, and in the front row were Lord

Overstone, Sir John and Lady Herschel, Wheatstone,
Faraday, Murchison, etc. etc. It was literally a
16o       SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION      chap, v

brilliant audience, with many ladies. The place was

full, and they listened with great attention, occasionally

quietly applauding, which gave me encouragement. I

felt I was doing it easily. The praise I got from

Herschel, Faraday, De la Beche, and others was

almost too much to be good for me.' Faraday ran

up to him at the close, shook him by both hands, and

asked, ' Where did you learn to lecture ?'

     The subject of this discourse was ' The Geological

Phenomena that have produced or modified the

Scenery of North Wales.' The most interesting

feature in considered with reference to the develop
     :
ment of Ramsay's geological opinions, was undoubtedly;
                 :
the prominence now assigned by him to glacial action
                ' it,
in connection with the landscapes of this country.                              is
This was the first occasion, so far as we know, when
                                                                                  I
he made public profession of his belief in the former

existence of glaciers in Wales, and gave at the same

time new and original proofs of their presence, par

ticularly instancing cases where mountain-lakes were

still held back by ridges of terminal moraine, and

where large blocks of rock were perched on ice-worn

crags, where they must have been quietly deposited

by the ice.

     The annual festival of the Geological Survey

took place on the 16th January 1850, and    thus

recorded     Anniversary Survey dinner day. Sir

Henry in the chair, Reeks vice. It passed off right

jollily lots of original songs from Forbes, Jukes,
Baily, Smyth, Oldham, Hunt, Salter, and myself.

sang two.' One of his ditties was entitled the
'Song of the Geologues of the Woods,' and the

concluding verse may be taken as a sample of its
style --
1850 SURVEY SONG  161

                      The Survey needs no strangers,
                          No scurvy council's bother ;

                      We'll work with Daddy De La Beche,
                          And stick to one another ;

                  With six-inch sections, maps, reports,

                         We yet shall see the day

                             When Carlisle

                             Shall blandly smile,
                      And double all our pay,
And every man shall keep his wife when he doubles all our pay.

     The last day of April found Ramsay once more
with Selwyn and Jukes at Merchlyn in North Wales.
There were still various unfinished parts of his area to

revisit and complete, likewise sundry lines regarding
which he had to confer with his colleagues. The
progress of the work rendered it necessary that some
of the ground already surveyed should be gone over
again in the light of fresh evidence. And after the

surveys were completed there remained the laborious
task of running horizontal sections across the area,

including the most rugged and mountainous ground.
These occupations, together with occasional visits of

inspection, kept him busy in Wales until December--
a long spell of field-work, only interrupted by a brief
visit to London, the meeting of the British Association

at Edinburgh, and an excursion to Dublin for the pur
pose of seeing his friend Oldham married. The life

he led during those nine months is told in his diary

and letters.

     ' ^th May. -- Out on the hills with Selwyn as far as

the cliffs under Carnedd Llewelyn, and down by
Melynllyn and Llyn dulyn. Got some good work
done. Selwyn executed a most perilous feat of cliff-

climbing ; a slip and he would have been slain.

     ' 15///. -- Out again by Fawnog du and Carnedd
Llewelyn. Its bald head was powdered with snow.

                                                           M
162  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  CHAP. V

Yet the sun shone almost warmly, and having finished
my work, I lay down on a big stone on Cefn-yr-Arrig

and gazed on the deep shadows of Yr Elen and

Ffynnon Caseg, the peaks of Carnedd Dafydd, and

Y Glyder fawr, the great flats of Anglesey, and the

distant outlines of Man and Ireland ; and as I looked

I felt my heart soften, and I arose a better man again.

Came home over Y Foel Fras, probably the last time

I shall be on it.'

     On the 1 8th of the same month he wrote to
Aveline asking if he could recollect how many years

the Survey had been at work in Glamorganshire, for,
said he, ' in six weeks or so all this North Wales will

be done, and I want, if possible, to compare times.'
     On the 31st, in a letter to Salter from Caernarvon,

he writes, ' Selwyn and I are here putting a final touch

to all the difficulties and erst-seeming contradictions

on this side the Straits. Marry, it comes out

smoothly, except in so far that I fell on top o' the Rivals 1
yesterday, and so bruised my right shoulder that even
writing is not a pleasant exercise for the arm. That
is the beginning, I fear ; what say you ? Is it not
terrible to think that now, when just finishing Wales, it
is yet possible that I may this summer be found at the
base of a cliff, with a bloody crown and my heels in
the air ? '

     On the 6th June, while still revising with Selwyn
from Caernarvon, he writes thus to Aveline : ' One long
fine day will do for us here now, and a day or two's
drawing. Then hey ! for the sections. But first I
purpose a run to Malvern for two days, to put in some

alluvium left out by Phillips, and without which we
can't publish that quarter sheet. I am a little

        1 Or Yr Eifl, a three-peaked hill (1887 feet) in the Lleyn peninsula.
1850 RUNNING SECTIONS  163

bothered, but glad too, as I never saw the Malvern

section.

     ' Our work here fearfully differs from Sir Henry's,
and the worst of it is that he has, I think, published
his opinion in his Anniversary address. It is about

certain black slates which he puts under the Cam

brian : they being, in fact, the Lingula (Silurian) beds
brought against it again by a fault. It will be not a
very agreeable job convincing him of this.'

     The visit to Malvern and a hurried journey to
London took up only some ten days, and by the 22nd
June he was back once more at Llanberis to begin
the arduous task of running sections. This operation
was conducted with a theodolite and chain, the sur

veyor having the assistance of two men. The line of
section having been determined in such wise as to
cross the most instructive or important geological
structures, and generally the loftiest summits, was
drawn upon the map, and the surveyor then proceeded
to measure on the ground the horizontal distances, and
fix the relative heights of the various points along the
selected line. These measurements were entered in a

field-book, from which the section was afterwards

plotted on a scale, vertical and horizontal, of six inches
to a mile. When the outline of the ground had in
this manner been correctly drawn, the geological
structure was inserted from the maps and note-books,
and, where needful, a final visit was made to the ground,
and minor details were adjusted on the section.

These operations, it may easily be believed, required
both care and skill. They provided a further means
of checking the accuracy of the maps, and when
successfully completed, they furnished the surveyor
with a valuable additional store of materials for the
164  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

preparation of the written description of the geology
of the district which he had mapped. How Ramsay

fared with his sections across the Snowdon area he

must be allowed to tell in his own words.

     ' 2^th June. -- Out with my men to begin section
from the top of Snowdon to the sea. Dodged the
cliffs at the top, till from the Capel Curig road,

attempting to make them chain back a bit to Pen
Wyddfa, one of them refused, and I got exasperated,
and discharged him on the spot. The fool was afraid

to go over ground that I had danced over to show him
the way ten minutes before. Home, annoyed at

these Welsh blockheads.

     ' 2bth. -- Got a new man and began, leaving the cliff
till I had tried them. Came across over Craig du'r
Arddu and found them more daring than myself ; this

will do.

     ' 28th. -- Out on the hills in a strong joyous mood.
Did a tremendous day's work, chaining right along
the face of the cliff from the top of Snowdon to the
top of the Capel Curig path, and astonishing the sight
seers by the strange peaky, cliffy places I planted
myself on with my theodolite. Went to the top after,
and took the angles of all the lakes and principal hills
round. Home at seven. Went up Snowdon in an

hour and a half, and down in an hour.

    ' Sth July. -- Out early. Carried on the section

right down to the sea at Llanfair.'
     The section-line that was now being traced ran on

the one side from the top of Snowdon parallel with the

Llanberis valley to the Menai Strait at Llanfair,

whence it was afterwards continued across Anglesey.
On the other side it was prolonged south-eastwards

into the country mapped by Selwyn, and was carried
1850 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH  165

by him into Merionethshire, across Cynicht, Moel
Wyn, and Aran Mowddwy, and was continued by
Aveline across Montgomeryshire. The plotting and
final drawing of his part of the section occupied
Ramsay's time in wet weather at Llanberis. The

section, engraved by J. W. Lowry,1 is one of the most

striking in the whole series published by the Geolo
gical Survey. The geological structure is portrayed

by Ramsay and Selwyn with a boldness and vigour,

and at the same time with an artistic feeling, which

had hardly been equalled in geological section-drawing.
     The meeting of the British Association at Edin

burgh offered a brief but pleasant break in these

labours, as will be gathered from the following jottings.

     ' \st August. -- Murchison in the chair of Section C.

Old Jameson2 was there, and in the chair for a while.
He looked just like a baked mummy. I spoke twice.
We had some good papers ; Forbes's first-rate, and
Mr. Bryce 8 read a good paper as the mouthpiece of
the Glasgow Natural History Society. What a rough,
strong, clever-looking man Hugh Miller4 is! My

mother was there with Jess, looking very happy and

venerable.

     ' 3rd. -- This has been a glorious day. Went down
to Granton at seven and embarked on board the Pharos

    1 An admirable engraver and accomplished mathematician, who engraved the

Sections of the Survey for many years.
    2 Robert Jameson, born 1774, died 1854; the venerable Professor of Natural

History in the University of Edinburgh. As mentioned previously (p. 155), he
had been a favourite pupil of Werner at Freiberg, and for many years was the
acknowledged leader of the Wernerian school in this country.

    3 James Bryce, born 1806, died 1877 ; one of the masters of the Glasgow
High School, and author of some geological papers and a little volume on the
geology of Arran and Clydesdale.

    4 Hugh Miller, born 1802, died 1856 ; originally a stonemason in the north
of Scotland, devoted his attention to the Old Red Sandstone of that region, and
afterwards wrote some excellent popular books on the fishes of that formation,
some of which he was the first to discover.
166  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

steam-yacht, belongingtotheCommissionersof Northern
Lights. Dr. Robinson, Strickland, Dr. Johnston of
Durham, Oldham, Allan, M 'William, Williamson, and

many others there, -- a most lively and amusing party.
We got into boats by and by at the Bell Rock [Light

house], and fairly effected a landing. A wonderful

sight that tower, rising direct from the waters, so far
away at sea! Then we went to the Isle of May and
the Bass Rock, where we landed and saw its wonderful

covering of live birds. There we picked up Lord
Wrottesley1 and his daughter. Then to Inchkeith,
and so home. We breakfasted, lunched, dined, and had

tea on board, and gorgeous meals they were. Some

splendid speeches were made, and altogether it was quite

an event in one's life. Strickland had a gannet knocked
down with a hammer, to take away with him. In the

evening to Robert Chambers's : a large assemblage.

    ' 6th. -- Breakfasted at Chambers's. Sopwith very

funny ; he is witty. Opened the Section by giving
a very short abstract of my paper. Sedgwick and
Murchison then spoke of the labours of the Survey.
I spent the rest of the day at the Ethnographical

Section. Latham spoke a splendid paper to the
few gentlemen round the table, Mrs. Latham and I
frequently making the whole audience. Went to the
soiree in the Music Hall. When just over, Forbes
and I, to Sir David Brewster's great disgust, got up
a dance in the Assembly Rooms. We had nice little
partners, but neither of us knew their names.'

     After the close of the Association meeting he

spent a few days in Glasgow with the old familiar

faces. One little touch may be quoted from his diary :

' Then the parting. My mother came upstairs.

                      1 Afterwards (1854) President of the Royal Society.
1850 GLACIAL GEOLOGY IN WALES  167

" Come back as soon as you can, for you'll not have
to come often now," she said, and I was obliged to

break away and retire to my own room for a little.'

By the 16th August he was back once more at
Llanberis, whence he transferred himself to Bethesda,

in order to get at various outlying pieces of ground

around Carnedd Dafydd that remained still incom

pletely surveyed.
     De la Beche, who was never happier than when

he was able to report the completion of a large
number of square miles, began to be fidgety about
the length of time taken by the section-work in Wales,
and the consequent diminution of the area of ground
surveyed. Ramsay complained to Aveline on the

27th August that it was unfortunate to be carrying
on this work 'against the grain with the governor,

for he would fain take us away and leave the thing

unfinished. I shall get away by the middle of Sep
tember. You will not get off so soon, I suppose.
About a week ought to finish my mapping out of
doors. Two days indoors or three, some bad weather

(as to-day), and a diabolical section from Bettws over

Pen Llithrig-y-Wrach, Carnedd Llewelyn, and the
sea-- the thing is done.'

    ' $th September. -- Out by Carnedd Dafydd, tracing
in the drift. Got a good many wrinkles on the
subject. It must have been 2000 feet high at least.
Came down on the Cam Llafa side of Carnedd Dafydd
and corrected these alternations by means of the faults
-- a most troublesome bitof work. Home at half-past six.

    ' 1 \th. -- Did a glorious day's work with Howell 1 up

    1 H. H. Howell, who joined the Survey in 1850, became District Surveyor in
1872, Director for Scotland in 1882, and Senior Director in 1888, an office which

he still holds.
163         SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION                                                        CHAP. V

as far  eatsc.A, bpeerr,fegcetltytinegxplaalilneJudk--esa's    ugly bits                         of sand
stone,                                                       succession                         of domes
cut off by faults. Home at half-past seven --a long,

long walk.                                                                                      At

     ' \2th. -- Up by the coach to Cwm Idwal.

the top we found a splendid haul of fossils, and I

made a grand discovery respecting the drift. [He
here gives the section across Llyn Idwal, afterwards
published in Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. viii. (1852),

p. 375, showing the drift capping the summits above
the lake and a moraine forming the barrier of the

water]. The moraines of these valleys are subse
quent to the drift, because, if previous, they would
have been smothered in it. But, as I before proved,

            it
                   is

                                                     it,
                                                          it
the roches moutonndes are previous to because they

are covered by up to great heights. The drift on

top of Cwm Idwal  2500 feet high, and                                                           reaches

probably a parallel height on Cwm Llafar, being

thence connected all the way with the drift of the

sea-side.'

     By the end of this month he was at Dolgelli,

helping Selwyn to put some finishing touches to the
mapping of the Cader Idris region. On the 12th

October he was able to make to Salter an important

announcement touching the troublesome regulation

as to receipts for travelling charges.                                                          Henceforth
a

                                                         it

                                                                                             '
and for ever you take no more receipts for travelling

expenses, and in place thereof you must make out

   travelling charges bill. I've got all in right order,
and by a magnificent stroke of genius have got Sir

Henry's formal consent thereto.'

     His colleague Oldham had determined to resign

the charge of the Irish Geological Survey, and to

accept the direction of the Geological Survey of
THOMAS OLDHAM
THOMAS OLDHAM                           169

India.1 As a preliminary step he arranged to be

married, and asked Ramsay to support him on the
wedding day as groomsman. So the Welsh work
was laid aside for a week, and Ramsay for the first
time went to Ireland. He says of his reception at
the house of the bridegroom that he was formally
introduced to the family, including ' Mr. Neptune
Oldham, a big Newfoundland dog, who was sitting
on a chair at table, finally shaking hands with the
dog, who presented me with his paw in the most
courteous manner. We all got at home with each other
at once.' One after another of his colleagues was
thus quitting the ranks of bachelorhood, and he could
not help heaving a sigh now and then, and wondering

if his own time were ever to come. Writing to

Oldham a day or two after the marriage, these feelings

escaped in verse :--

                            Thomas hath found what he desired,
                              The maid his heart did fix on ;

                          He by an angel was inspired
                              When he popped to Miss Dixon.

                              Another bachelor hath passed,
                              And I, for lack of gold, boys,

                          Ah, woe is me ! am falling fast
                              Into the vale of old, boys.

                        Oh, many a sheep's eye have I thrown,

                                  Have cast full many a lamb's eye,
                              But never yet have chanced on one

                              That cared to take a Rams-eye.

Would that the gods might yet be kind,
   Nor longer try their tricks on ;

Then haply even I might find

   Just something like Miss Dixon.

   1 On his resignation he was succeeded by J. B. Jukes, who, having joined

the service in 1846, was transferred from the English Survey, and became Director
of the Geological Survey of Ireland in 1850, retaining that post till his death
in 1869.
170  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

     The fascination of glacial geology was now at

length beginning to influence Ramsay's geological
bent and to tinge all his views of Welsh scenery.

He had practically finished the survey of the solid
rocks. Their problems, though by no means all

solved, had at least been so far settled as to allow

of the preparation of maps and sections for the en
graver. The compilation of the descriptive memoir
of the region would be a laborious task, involving
years of interrupted application, and many renewed
visits to the ground. But the glaciation of these
Welsh mountains had all the charm of novelty.
Buckland, Darwin, and others had described some

of the proofs of former glaciers, but no one had yet
attempted to trace the story of the successive changes
of geography and of climate recorded in the various
glacial deposits. We now find in Ramsay's note-books
and diaries frequent reference to the subject. While

stationed at Bethesda he made numerous observations

and compiled many notes relating to the ice-markings
on the rocks, the distribution of the drift, the grouping
of perched blocks, and the position and heights of

moraines. He was in this way gradually accumulating

materials for his first essay on the glacial phenomena
of this country which he communicated a year later

to the Geological Society.
     There still remained a portion of Anglesey to be

surveyed before the maps of North Wales could be

regarded as complete and ready to be prepared for the
engraver. De la Beche had himself traced the lines
across some parts of that county, and other portions

had been mapped by W. W. Smyth. Ramsay and

Selwyn early in November crossed into Anglesey
with the object of filling in the unfinished portions
1850 BE LA BECHE ON ANGLESEY GEOLOGY                                                             171

and completing the whole. The following letter from

De la Beche gave them his impressions of the structure
of the ground immediately after they had begun their
work :--

                                     London, 1Uh November 1850.

     Mv dear Ramsay --Touching the mica-slates, chlorite-slates, and
other matters of the lower ground in Anglesey, they are, of course,

what they can be proved to be ; and no matter what they may be,

let us get at the fact. Pray keep a bright look-out for the con
glomerates ; they are most valuable in such investigations. You

have probably examined that beneath so much of the Cambrians as

is to be seen on the banks of the Menai, near Bangor. The con

glomerates nearer Llanberis show clearly that the matter of the

Cambrians there         in part  at least, compounded       of older detrita
                   quartz-rock    being among them.
rocks -- kinds of                                            If be really
                   is,
                                                                                    it

right that the Bangor beds are these said affairs brought up again,

probably similar pebbles will present themselves. Here, then, we
have evidence of detrital beds consolidated before so much of the

Cambrians as such conglomerates may form the base of.

know not how you have attacked the ground, but                                          had been
I
  I

               I

                                                                      is

                                                             iIf
with you, which very much regret not the case (there are, how
ever, matters of more pressing importance now under consideration

here), should have made you master of the country at Holyhead
Island, and have proceeded across country to Amlwch, though not

quite direct. Taking up the black shales (graptolitic) based upon

conglomerates of variable      character, but   sometimes   trcaopnptaeianningaffapiiresc--es
as large as one's head, to    these succeed      parcel of
                                     ;

                                               a
limestones beautifully laminated above these, shales and more

arenaceous rocks, sometimes purplish, and so on to the northern

coast, where heavy conglomerates with some impure limestones
cover all. A better section
                                 is  no doubt to be obtained on the sea-

coast by means of boat, but such means of conveyance are now
a
                       a

                           a
(November) out of the question. The two sections confirm each
other, some beautiful granite veins and alterations near them requir

ing little caution.
     At Amlwch the sections are capital, on the coast especially;

the Parys mine, continuation of the graptolitic slates. Near the

place with an unpronounceable name, to which direct thee, there
                                 ;
                                          a

                                                  I
are some capital conglomerates. Pray look the pebbles well over.

Henslow called these Old Red they are not so.

      The upper purple beds occupy position very like similar beds
in Ireland -- the highest of the series there known to us in Wicklow,
                              thTeheIrisdhatecouonftrythenotgicreadni--tic anintterruiosriontso
Wexford,  and Waterford.is                                                                        of
Anglesey     clearly that of                                                                     the
172           SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION                                          chap, v

deposit of the Old Red Sandstone. These upper purple beds will

interest you, not that there is anything in purple and (their common
associates) greenish beds ; they are found of all ages. The upper
purple beds in Ireland, the position of which is undoubted, often

remind one of the Cambrians of Bray Head and other places.
     It seems to me, before anything be written or published, it will be

needful for you and self to go over some of the main sections and points.
This you will be the better able to do after your present examinations.

    II have not the maps with me ; indeed am writing away from
Ithe Museum, and therefore cannot point out more distinctly where

would wish you to look. There are some capital cases of smashing

on the coast  from granitic  Pianrtyrsusmioonusntbaeinyonmd in(essou--thrweaarldly  of) the range
of the rocks  holding the                                                           good things ;
I Iso is the whole coast.
Iwhole in Anglesey.          believe                         have walked or boated the

                     should like a run with you in Anglesey, and,

Iplease the small porcines, we will have one, whether the lower rocks
be  aTtteerntdiartioesotthuerrnetdhingtosp. s--y-tYuorvuyrs  or superfine  elders.  am called
to                                                            sincerely,
                                                             H. T. De la Beche.

     It will be obvious from this letter that the Director-

General had recognised conglomerates at the base of
the Cambrian series of Anglesey, that he wished to
keep an open mind as to the relations and age of the

rocks underlying these conglomerates (which he seems
to have been inclined to class as pre-Cambrian), and
that he had observed the presence of trappean or

volcanic intercalations among the older Palaeozoic

formations of the island. It was unfortunate that on

all these points, where he was undoubtedly right, his

able lieutenant came to differ from him. Selwyn,
indeed, clearly detected the unconformability of the
lowest Cambrian strata upon an older series of schists.

But on the maps as finally published Ramsay's views
prevailed. No pre-Cambrian rocks were there shown.
The crystalline schists were classed as ' altered Cam
brian,' and the existence of volcanic breccias and other

proofs of volcanic action were not recognised.1

     1 See a discussion of this subject in Presidential Address to Geological
Society, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xlvii. p. 81, 189 1.
1850 LLANFAIRYNGHORNWY RECTORY  173

     Apart from the geological work, there is a peculiar
interest in these few weeks of Survey doings in

Anglesey, for now, unconsciously, Ramsay was ap
proaching one of the momentous epochs of his life.

During the day he and Selwyn traversed the rocky
northern coast of the island, charmed with ' the cliffy

foregrounds, the white breakers, the great misty plains
of Anglesey, and the snow-covered mountains rising

beyond so still and grandly.' At night they had the
shelter of little inns, sometimes of the homeliest kind.
In the course of their traverses they received an
invitation to make, for a day or two, the rectory of
Llanfairynghornwy their headquarters. The following

notes from his diary convey Ramsay's first impressions
of this hospitable household : ' The house is some
what characteristic, being full of all sorts of odds and

ends, and not in the highest order, yet everything

telling that they are people who do not exclusively
busy themselves with externals. There is a character
about the family. Mr. Williams is one of the best
specimens of a Welsh clergyman I have met, polished
and conversational, not at all deep, but very agreeable,
and, I should say, conscientious and hard-working.
Mrs. Williams is a remarkable woman. She was

engaged [when the two geologists arrived] enlarging
a map of Palestine for the use of a school her daughter
takes care of. They all assist at wrecks, etc., and she has
made a survey of the Skerries, taking the angles with

a prismatic compass. They [afterwards] made me
explain the glacial theory, and were, I think, interested,
especially Miss Louisa, who is certainly a very clever

girl.'
     The geologists were asked to come back and spend

Christmas at the rectory. This pleasant visit is thus
174  SURVEY OF THE SNO WDON REGION  ch ap. v

referred to in a letter to William Ramsay, written from
Llanfairynghornwy on Christmas Day : ' We were
detained at Bangor at work till the last moment, and
when done we threw ourselves into the rail, and fled

away here yesterday evening to eat a Christmas pie
with our jolly friends the Williamses, and eke a goose
with apple sauce. Marry, come up ; I'll stay a day or

two and make myself merry when I am here, for we've

been working extra hard. They (the W'ms.) are
bricks, and no mistake. It is no joke to enter into a
contention with one of the young ladies, Miss Louisa ;

she is so witty that you might just as well cut your
eye-teeth before you begin.' From the very first he

was greatly interested in this bright, clever daughter
of the house. In his diary he makes frequent refer

ence to her : ' Wit and a sense of the ludicrous is her

characteristic ; sense she has a good deal of, and warm
heartedness no end of.' ' Commenced the year (1 85 1)
dancing a polka in the hotel ball-room, Chester.

Trifling and merry enough, I believe, with the witty
Louisa for a partner ; not ominous, I opine, of future
partnership.' Whether ' ominous ' or not, the acquaint

ance developed into sincere affection on both sides,

and he found here at last the loving and devoted
woman who a year and a half afterwards was to become

his wife. But these pleasant dissipations, so fitly
closing a long and arduous season of field-work, soon
came to an end ; and by the 5th of January Ramsay
was once more at his post in the Survey Office in

London.

     The building in Jermyn Street was now rapidly
approaching completion. The collections at Craig's

Court were being transferred to their new home.
Already the offices of the Survey had been removed.
1851 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY ANNIVERSARY 175

There was, therefore, all the bustle of preparation in

the staff. Moreover, Sir Henry's great scheme for the

foundation of a school of applied science seemed now
at last almost certain to be carried out, and if so, it

would involve considerable change in the positions,

duties, and emoluments of a number of the officers of

the establishment. Add to this that the Great Ex

hibition of 1851, which would open in a few months,
was the subject of much consideration in several

Government departments, and not least among the
officers of the Museum of Practical Geology. Occa

sionally a minister would come to inspect progress.
Prince Albert himself went carefully over the building

and its contents, and took much interest in                                              Among
in

         I
                                                 ;
                                                                    is
                                                                                    it.
the official visits there was one which thus narrated

    the diary. '6th March. -- Lord and Lady John
Russell and two children came here to-day. He, cold

and uninterested she, most charming and intelligent.
When was introduced, he merely bowed coldly.

Ditto to all. Blewitt, the M.P. for Monmouth, he
coldly bowed to. " Who would have thought," said

Blewitt, "that I've sat beside that man and supported

him for fourteen years he  nice man to keep
party together "!

                     I
                                        ;
                                        is
                                             a
                                                                                            a
                  had a good deal of conversation

with Lady Russell, and was much pleased with her.'
     The Anniversary gathering of the Survey this

winter was the most successful that had yet been held.

        thus recorded: 18th January 85 -- Busy at
the Museum till nearly half-past five. Then off for
It              it

     is                          '
                                                             !

                                                                                     1
                                                                                               : .1

                                                                                           a
short walk, and so to the Imperial Hotel, Covent

Garden, to the Annual dinner of the Royal Hammerers.

And oh, wasn't a jolly dinner We were Sir Henry,

Forbes, Captain James, Captain Ibbetson, Smyth,

Aveline, Bone, Baily, Bristow, Salter, Reeks, Selwyn,
176         SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION                                                                      CHAP. V

James Forbes, Playfair, J. Arthur Phillips, Hunt,
Jukes, Oldham, and myself. Oldham sat on Sir H.'s

right, and I beside him. After dinner the mirth be
came fast and continuous. One comical song followed
another, all original. Forbes made me roar with
laughter, chanting something at me about --

                      ' I'll lay my head on a Bala Bala bed,
                              And wed a parson's daughter.

My songs were, one to the tune of " Trab, Trab " (trap-
trap, rap-rap, map-map), and the other, " O weel may

the Survey speed," etc.' A verse or two of the second

song, which was headed ' 1841-1851,' may be quoted :--

            I joined the chief in Tenby Bay,
               And shillings I caught nine,

            'Twas three for breeks, and three for beer
               And shillings three to dine.

            When first I left the Land o' Cakes
               And took to wearing breeches,

            I little thocht that I should join
               This corps o' De la Beche's.

            There's Forbes's men that work within,
               And our field-working laddies,

            Including Jukes, that shaved his chin
               To please the Irish paddies.1

            When age has put our auld pipes out,
                By precept and harangue,

            New lads will rise without a doubt,
               Will gar the hammers bang.

     1 Jukes wore a copious black beard, but when, on obtaining the Directorship
of the Geological Survey of Ireland, he became a candidate for the Chair of
Geology at Trinity College, Dublin, he was informed that this formidable facial

appendage would probably create a prejudice against him in the University circle,
so he appeared one morning at the Holyhead hotel with his chin clean shaven,

and so altered in appearance that the waiters took him for a stranger. But, as

he did not  egxetubtehreanptroafsesbseofroshreip. ,--hSeeealJlouwkeeds'sthLeettbeerasr,d   to   grow  again,  and  it soon
became as                                                                                 p.   454.
1851 THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY  177

     The Anniversary dinner of the Geological Society
was this year chiefly memorable for one of the most

wonderful exhibitions of Sedgwick's oratory. 'At

the dinner,' says Ramsay, ' Forbes, Wilson, Aveline,

Smyth, Sopwith, Captain James, Logan, and a few
more of us got together. Hopkins, the new President,
was in the chair. He was slow. Sedgwick made the
great speech of the evening. By turns he made us
cry and roar with laughter, as he willed. His pathos

and his wit were equally admirable. Home at twelve.'

     To the Geological Society Ramsay communicated
this winter his first paper on glacial phenomena. For

nearly three years he had been giving increased
attention to this subject. Not only had he met with
many new illustrations of the history of the glacial
period, but his observations, now that his eyes were
opened to the existence and significance of the facts,
led him to perceive the meaning of many scattered
surface-features in South Wales, to which, at the time

he was surveying in that region, he had paid little heed.
 His paper was read on the 26th March 185 1, and
was entitled, ' On the Sequence of Events during

the Pleistocene Period as evinced by the Superficial
Accumulations and Surface-markings of North Wales.'
 His comment on the meeting of the Society runs as
 follows : ' Read my paper at the Society. No man

 objected but Hopkins, who said little, however, being
 President, and he only objected to one point, and
 praised all the rest. Sir H. made a capital speech, and
 I think made an impression on Hopkins on that very

 point that bothered him in my paper. Murchison,

 Lyell, and the rest scarce ventured to criticise my

 views, though they spoke well for the grasp and

 importance of the paper.'

                                                            N
178  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION  chap, v

     A week after the reading of this essay the follow

ing entry occurs in the diary. ' Went over my Welsh
glacier-maps at night. Walked up each valley with
my mind's feet, and took Logan with me. He said at
the close that he thought I had proved my case, but

that before publication I had better look at a few

points again.' Whether it was this advice of the

veteran Canadian geologist, or the criticism at the

Society, or his own mature reflection that determined
him, he withheld the publication of the paper for more

than a year, and then issued it with a slightly altered
title.1 The chief point insisted on in the paper was

the fact that the so-called glacial period embraced two

distinct glaciations : one widespread and prior to the
deposition of the Drift ; the other local in valleys and
later than the Drift.

    A subsequent meeting of the Society is thus de

scribed : ' Murchison had a paper on the Denudation
and Drift of the Weald of Sussex. When the debat

ing came, Lyell first spoke indifferently, unable to
overcome the difficulties, but evidently feeling that
Murchison's catastrophic solutions were the greatest
difficulties of all. Then followed Sharpe, who said that
one would suppose from M.'s reasoning that elephants
were marine, instead of terrestrial animals. Then came

Mantell, who, in a most eloquent speech, asked, if the

great mammifers were annihilated by this catastrophe,
how is it that their bones are always found scattered

and in fragments ? Would not the ligaments and skin

keep them at least so far together that we would find
the principal parts of the skeleton near? Then
followed Forbes on the same tack, then Dr. Fitton,

     1 ' On the Superficial Accumulations and Surface-markings of North Wales,'
Quart. Journ. Ceol. Soc. viii. (1852), p. 371.
          THE RED LIONS                        179

asking for more facts and less theory, and then myself,

showing how little dependence was to be placed on

angularity or non-angularity of pebbles as a test of

date. Every one came hard down upon him. . . .
He thought he was to be received with praise, and

every one opposed him.'

The Red Lions had a curious experience this

season, of which the diary contains the subjoined

account. ' At six went down with Forbes to the Red

Lions at Soyer's. It appeared that he had a great

dinner to the Press, etc., of all nations, and having

made no provision for us, he dodged us into dining

with them in the great hall. His first request was

that we should dine at the same hour to save his

cooks. There were all the Reds of note, including

Owen, Latham, Dr. Smith, etc. etc. He appointed

the best places at table for us, and made his people

ply us with all sorts of good dishes and wine. It was
a splendid joke. In the garden was a huge oven, in
which half an ox was roasted. At a signal the covers

were removed, and it was wheeled on to great dishes

on a hand-barrow. Twelve cooks carried
          a                             and

                  ;

                              lo

                                                    !

                                                       it

                                                                           a
                                                                         it,

                                                                                      o' a
brass band marched before playing " The Roast Beef

of Old England," while all the guests came up behind

laughing. The Honourable Captain Fitzmaurice,

Soyer had secured as principal toast-giver and speech-

maker. This man had indicted him [the great French
          nuisance, with his lights and bands
cook] as
nights. Soyer called thrice, but the Captain would

not see him at length he somehow forced himself

into his presence, and   the gallant Captain now sat

by his side, and returned thanks for the Army and
Navy. The whole thing was so cleverly done that,

save Latham, perhaps, all of us took as joke and
180  SURVEY OF THE SNOWDON REGION   chap, v

laughed prodigiously. Before dinner, when some of us

looked a little displeased, and Ibbetson and Henfrey

remonstrated, Soyer looked round for the meekest
man, and seizing Van Voorst, " Come," said he, " let us

talk it over," and marched him away arm in arm.

     ' It was glorious to hear Jules Jamin reply for the
press, so rich was he in French grimace. Forbes I

spirited up to reply for the Lions, which he did in a

great row, but with great humour.'

     In spite of the multifarious London duties of this

winter and spring, Ramsay contrived to secure a few

days in the field, inspecting some of the joint work of

Forbes and Bristow in the Isle of Wight and along
the Dorsetshire coast. Of this pleasant but brief
Easter excursion he records as follows :--

     ' Easter Monday. -- At the railway -station met

Lyell and Bristow. Forbes met us at Southampton,

and so, by way of Lymington and Yarmouth, we got

to Freshwater Gate by half-past six, and dined at

half-past seven. I liked Lyell better ; he was often

anecdotical, but principally geological all day. He

laughed tremendously when Bristow said his portman

teau was so heavy because it contained De la Beche's

new "Geological Observer."1
    ' 25M April. -- Spent the whole day at Warbarrow.

Forbes has certainly made a capital story of his divi

sions of the Purbecks, which we must follow if

possible. We saw a splendid section all along the

coast from thence to Kimeridge Bay, where we got at

five, and came back in the fly.     He is anxious for

     'We all like Lyell much.

     1 The first edition of this portly volume, not being divided into chapters,
was a formidable piece of reading, more especially as Sir Henry's style was not
always of the clearest. The book was sometimes irreverently called by outsiders
' The Jermyn Street Bible.'
1851 LYELL IN THE FIELD  181

instruction, and so far from affecting the big-wig, is not
afraid to learn anything from any one. The notes he

takes are amazing ; many a one he has had from me
to-day. He is very helpless in the field without

people to point things out to him ; quite inexperienced

and unable to see his way either physically or geologi

cally. He could not map a mile, but understands all
when explained, and speculates thereon well.' ' He

wore spectacles half the day, and looked ten years

older [in consequence]. Logan says it is vanity that
prevents his always doing so. I think it is custom,

and perhaps his wife.'
                  CHAPTER VI

THE SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM, JERMYN STREET

The scheme which De la Beche had so patiently

worked at for some twenty years was now at last

brought to its consummation. He had succeeded in

inducing the Government to build a spacious edifice,
extending from Piccadilly to Jermyn Street, which
was to be entirely devoted to the purposes of Geology
and its allied sciences. The main portion of the
building was arranged for the display of specimens of
minerals, rocks, and fossils, especially to illustrate the
geological formations and mineral products of the

British Isles. A large series of admirable specimens had

been obtained from the mines of Cornwall and Devon,
showing the characters of metalliferous veins and their
accompaniments. Another series represented various
mineral substances employed in manufactures or arts,
with examples of their successive stages of treatment

from the raw material to the finished article. A third

series consisted of various stones employed in building
or for decorative purposes. There were likewise
numerous specimens of mining tools and machinery
and models of mines and pit- workings. In every way
that could be devised the contents were so chosen and

arranged as to justify the name given to the building,
' The Museum of Practical Geology.' The old collec
1851 THE JERMYN STREET ESTABLISHMENT  183

tions at Craig's Court not only found now a worthier

domicile, but they were augmented by many speci
mens, which, for want of room, could not previously
be exhibited.

     But in keeping the practical application of geology
before the eyes of the public, the claims of pure
science were not lost sight of or held in the back

ground. A fine assemblage of fossils which the

Geological Survey had gradually been amassing was
now arranged in due stratigraphical order. The

visitor in walking round the galleries had before him
the characteristic plants and animals of each great
period of geological time, all properly named and
grouped. He could thus, text-book in hand, study
the fauna and flora of any particular geological period
with a fulness and ease never before attainable. Geo

logical maps of different parts of Britain were
suspended for reference. Every effort was thus made
to ensure that for purposes of serious study the
Museum should be as useful as possible. By this
combination of the systematic and the practical it
was believed that an important step was taken in the
development of geological science.

     But the Jermyn Street Museum only carried out
more fully and with ampler space what had been
already attempted in the more restricted quarters of
Craig's Court. Though the giving of lectures in con
nection with the Museum had been sanctioned as far

back as 1839, the want of proper accommodation had

prevented this design from ever being put into execu
tion. But there was now the possibility of better
things, and the great new departure in the organisa
tion was the creation of a special teaching staff and
the establishment of a definite curriculum of scientific
184  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM  CHAP. VI

training. Other countries had long had their schools
of mines, yet Britain, with its enormous mineral
wealth, then yielding twenty-four millions of pounds

annually, had never possessed such an establish

ment. It was known that vast sums of money had

been wasted in fruitless search for minerals, where a

knowledge of geology would have shown that such
minerals did not exist. It was admitted that science,
if consulted in such cases, could direct the search for

minerals in new localities, and aid in the proper and
economical working of those already known. Many

representations had been made to the ruling authori
ties of the country, urging the great need of scientific
instruction in all branches of science capable of
assisting in the development of the mineral industries
of Britain. But it was not until the early summer of

 1 85 1 that the idea was finally launched into practical

accomplishment.

     The claims of De la Beche as the originator and
the life and spirit of this comprehensive scheme were

never more forcibly urged than by Murchison when,

four years later, the Geological Society awarded its
Wollaston Medal to the Director-General of the
Geological Survey. ' Then arose,' he said, 'and very
much after the design of the accomplished Director

himself, that well-adapted edifice in Jermyn Street,
which, to the imperishable credit of its author, stands

forth as the first palace ever raised from the ground in
 Britain which is entirely devoted to the advancement

of science ! . . . It is our bounden duty [as members of

the Geological Society] to cleave closely to our off

spring, Her Majesty's Geological Museum -- nay

more, to use our most strenuous endeavours to have it

maintained by the British Government in that lofty posi
1851 OPENING OF JERMYN STREET MUSEUM  185

tion to which it has been raised. We must, in short, not

only hold firmly to, but act upon the faith which is in

us, and see that an establishment like this, though it
naturally branches off into highly useful and collateral
subjects of art, be never rendered subsidiary to them,

but be permanently and independently sustained on its
own solid basis of pure science. This, our view, will
also be taken, I feel confident, by every enlightened
statesman who may be placed in a station to provide
for the future well-being of the admirable Museum,
founded and completed by our Wollaston Medallist.' 1

     The 1 2th May was fixed for the formal opening
of the Museum by Prince Albert. Ramsay thus
chronicles the events of the day : ' Over [to the
Museum] soon, wound up all I had to do, and then
prepared for our opening. Crowds began to assemble
about half-past eleven. I helped to receive below.
By and by the Prince came. We of the Museum,
some of the ministers, etc., sundry Lords once of the
Woods, the Bishop of Oxford, some of the geologists,
etc., followed to the vacant chair. Sir H. read an

address, the Prince read a reply. Then we all walked
round, Sir H. leading, and each officer explaining his
own department. And it was over.

    ' A terrible damper occurred which we kept from

Sir H. Faraday told Hunt just before the Prince
came that poor old Mr. Richard Phillips had died
yesterday. It was a shock to me. Strange that he
should have died just at the opening of the Museum.
I find myself unconsciously repeating his jokes. We

shall see him no more toddling about with a joke for

every one.'

     As finally adjusted, the subjects to be taught at the

                     1 Quart. Journ. Geol. Sec. xi. (1855), pp. 24, 25.
186            SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                        chap, v1

newly-instituted ' Government School of Mines, and
of Science applied to the Arts,' and the officers by
whom the courses of instruction were to be given, were
as follows :--

        President-- Sir Henry T. De la Beche, C.B., F.R.S.

     Chemistry, applied to the Arts and Agriculture -- Lyon Playfair,

Ph.D., F.R.S.
    Natural History, applied to Geology and the Arts -- Edward

Forbes, F.R.S.    Science,  with  its Applications  to   Mining --Robert
      Mechanical

Hunt, Keeper of Mining Records.     Applications --John  Percy,  M.D.,
      Metallurgy, with its Special

F.R.S.          and its Practical Applications -- A. C.  Ramsay, F.R.S.
               and Mineralogy --Warington W. Smyth,       M.A., F.G.S.
     Geology,
     Mining

     His acceptance of the lectureship of geology in

this institution rendered it necessary that Ramsay
should vacate his chair at University College. On
the 15th June he sent in his formal letter of resigna
tion. There was a disposition on the part of some of

the College authorities not to continue the professorship
after he should give it up, but to send the students to

him at the School of Mines. He himself, however,

was adverse to this proposal, and the idea was
abandoned. The teachers of the School did not

aspire to be called ' Professors,' and Smyth used
almost angrily to resent the appellation. But Ramsay
having for four years worn the gown in a chartered
college, the name of Professor continued to be given
to him, in accordance with the northern proverb, ' Once

a bailie, aye a bailie.'
     The preparation of lectures for the new school was

a much less arduous task than that which presented
itself to him four years before. The course he had
given at University College would suffice for his
WAKINGTON W. SMYTH
TRAINING IN FIELD-WORK  187

purpose. He had not written out his lectures, but had

only made full notes, and these he used to revise
frequently, so as to bring them abreast of the onward
march of geology. This task had to be accomplished
before the beginning of the next year. But it was not
one which pressed heavily on him, even though it in
cluded the preparation of a special introductory lecture
designed for the purposes of the School of Mines.

      Ramsay had thus ample time for inspecting duty
in the field during the summer and autumn. Much of
the earlier part of the season was spent in the Midlands

looking over the ground mapped by or assigned to

Jukes, H. H. Howell, and E. Hull.1 The two latter

geologists were recent additions to the staff, and he
trained them for their work. Never was there a more

delightful field-instructor than he. Full of enthusiasm
for the work, quick of eye to detect fragments of

evidence, and swift to perceive their importance for
purposes of mapping, he carried the beginner on with
him, and imbued him with some share of his own

ardent and buoyant nature. Laziness and indifference

were in his eyes such crimes that indulgence in them

marked a man out for his wrathful indignation, and

even for ultimate dismissal from the service. He

would take infinite pains to make any method of

procedure clear, and was long-suffering and tender
where he saw that the difficulties of the learner arose

from no want of earnest effort to comprehend. But

woe to the luckless wight who showed stupidity,
inattention, or carelessness ! Ramsay's eye would
flash, his hand would whisk the tips of the curls on

     1 Edward Hull joined the staff in 1850, became District Surveyor for
Scotland in 1867, was appointed Director for Ireland in 1869 on the death of
Jukes, which post he held until his retirement from the service in 1890.
188      SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                              chap, v1

his head, he would seize the map and rush ahead,

calling on the defaulter to come on and look. And he

would keep up this offended tone until he felt that his

pupil had at last been made to feel his delinquency.

Then some snatch of a song or line of an old ballad

or fragment from Shakespeare, appropriate to some

phase of the incident, would come into his head, and

instantly it would be on his lips with probably a hearty

laugh, that showed how entirely the cloud had passed

away. If a man had any geological faculty in him, it

was impossible that it should not be stimulated and

educated under such a teacher. And
     '                                                           unhappily,
                  !
there was no such faculty, Ramsay soon discovered
               I
the defect, and after full trial the recruit was advised'
                                                         It if,
to seek other fields of exertion.

     The inspecting duty in the Midland region brought

Ramsay into close familiarity with a type of English

scenery which contrasted strongly with what, during

his Survey life, he had been chiefly used to in Wales.

Thus he writes: 1gth July. -- Up into that fine wild

part of old England by Cannock Chase.                            truly gives

an idea of what much of England must have been in
the days of Robin Hood --wild, undulating, unenclosed

ground, covered with heath and bracken, and here and

there sprinkled with oaks, birches, and alders. In the

woods and on the hillsides you may see the wild deer

trooping along, while now and then you raise a lazy

heron, or the whirring grouse and black game.'
      2$rd. -- Out to Maxstoke Priory, etc. [Warwick

shire], tracing on Howell's fault. What a noble place

that has been, with its piles of building, its great

cathedral-like church, and its perfectly-built encircling

close walls of smoothed stones with buttress and sloping

copings  was charmed and grieved at the sight of
1851 METRICAL EPISTLE TO SALTER                    189

the stately ruins ; scarcely anything remaining but part
of the great church-tower, the gateway, some of the
smaller buildings, now a farm-house, and these beauti
ful walls. To-night I heard the Shakespearian word
" pudder " used for the first time in conversation. Old

Mr. Brown of the Colesleys said, "It will be a fine day

to-morrow, if the thunder does not pudder up," pro
nouncing the dd as th. It tells a singular story to
see many of the old farms surrounded by moats in

these parts.'

     The weather during part of the time in Derby
shire was excessively warm, and made field-work

somewhat trying, as the following characteristic letter

will show :--

Ashbourne, Derbysh1re,

                                  30M June 185 1.

My dear Salter --Where you may be I know

not, whether above or below ground, recent or fossil.

. . . Here we are burned up with fervent heat, and

our souls are melted within us. Ginger-beer o' days is

the only drink, and we dine at twelve o'clock at night

with bitter beer and soda-water.  Our noses are

flames of fire, and our lips breathe smoke as a

furnace. Oh for the dim cellars of the Museum,

and a pint of cool stout with an oyster! Then

should our throats be opened, and our lungs sing

aloud like a game-cock. Hip-hip-hurrah for Lord

S , who is not quite so bad as he's ugly. With

a shout for Sir Henry, the Gov'nor, and a prayer

that his legs may grow stouter ; Stout as the legs

of strong Samson, who bore off the gates of a city,

Easy as Salter would carry a trayful of shells oolitic

Up the high gallery - stairs, where calamites ever
190  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM  chap, v1

reposing, Rest in their timber-glass tombs, delighting
the eyes of the public ; Telling a tale of past epochs,
a tale of the forests primeval, When mighty batrachians
crawled o'er the mud that encircled their rootlets, And

the convex Productus clung by byssus to stem and to

stump, sir ; Like to the oysters that stick to the
mangroves afar by the Quorra. -- Quoth

                                                 Andw. C. Ramsay.

     The approaching completion of all the work in

North Wales, and especially the recent surveys in
Anglesey, where some of the Director - General's

mapping had been revised and modified by his
subordinates, made De la Beche desirous of con

sulting Ramsay on the ground relative to these

changes. Accordingly, he asked his lieutentant to
meet him at Holyhead on his return from Ireland.

The diary thus records the meeting :--
     ' 24M September. -- Got to Holyhead at half-past six,

and found Sir Henry perfectly jolly, but very feeble
on his legs. We spent an exceedingly pleasant even
ing together, talking on all sorts of subjects most
unreservedly ; I felt quite filial towards him.

     ' -- Wet day. First we had a spread of the

map, with which he was hugely delighted, especially
about the Permian story. Then I wrote sixteen

letters, and then we had a little walk before dinner.

He looked quite feeble, and like an old man in his

walk. It quite grieved me to see him, and I felt my

affection growing stronger for him as we walked along,

he leaning heavily on my arm, and using a stout stick
besides. In the evening we were again very confi

dential. He talked about his daughters, their abilities,
Kendall, and all his past life.
185 1 DE LA BECHE IN ANGLESEY         191

' 26th. -- After breakfast, started in a fly and pair

for Amlwch, round about by Cemmaes, etc. He

yielded the faults I claimed, and also that the altered

rocks were the same as those on the west side of the

island. We got to Amlwch by five, and took up our
quarters at the " Dinorbin Arms." After dinner he

talked of his old friends and acquaintances : Scott,

Byron, Madame De Stael, etc. etc., all of whom he

knew more or less.

     '27/^. -- Out in a car seeing the gneiss, etc., near
the smaller patch of granite. That point I yielded.
They are gneiss, and not granite. He was very

feeble, and could scarcely, with the help of my arm,

crawl along the hillsides, when for a little we put up

the car at a farm and walked. But there was a sort

of childish good-humour about him that touched me,

and I felt as fond of him as I ever did, before he

began to get so dodgy with all of us. We spent a

most jolly evening together again, he being full of

jokes, and making all the servants laugh at his repeti

tions and kindly talk to them.

' One thing he said to-day amused me much. We

were sitting on the sea-beach, eating mutton sand

wiches, and watching the action of the waves on the
pebbles, when Sir H. said: " I'll tell you what the old

gentleman is saying ; he's saying : ' Only give me
                                   "
plenty of time,'  ha !  ha !  ha
                                  !

' 28M. -- Left Amlwch after breakfast in a large

car and pair. Beautiful day. Lunched at Pentraith.

Sir H. in a sort of happy, amiable, kindly vein all day.
We put up at the "George," Menai Bridge. While I

am writing he is reading the Bible and commenting on

the Flood and other things in what he calls "that

funny story." The house being full, we are obliged
192     SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                          CHAP. VI

to take to a double-bedded room that opens directly

into the road or yard. Sat latterly in the coffee-room,

an English chatterbox, an Indian-looking dragoon, a

sensible German, and another man being our fellows.

We amused each other pronouncing difficult words

for the others to imitate. My Llanfairpwllgwyngyll

puzzled all of them.                                                      the
     ' 29th. -- Sir H. taken suddenly worse during
                                                                          He
night with English cholera, or something like
                                                            it.
                                                                    I
was so bad that by and by he got alarmed, and

jumped out of bed, got a car, drove to Bangor,

roused Mr. Charles, the surgeon, expounded the case,

and fetched him out with the needful medicines.

Miss Roberts in dreadful way about the bed-room
             I

                    a

                                                         .
we were in.     brought in Mr. Charles, and Sir H.

talked and made him laugh so about what he had

eaten and how he felt. . . The doctor gave him

a    dose, which almost on the instant put all right.

    I'     read Sir Roger de Coverley, and thought how

like the two knights are to each other in many points

of character, such as their jollity and harmless humours.

     '  Between four and six crossed to Anglesey by the

                is
                           is

                            I
ferry, and saw that old affair of Selwyn's where the

Cambrians are supposed to lie unconformably on the

older schists. There         every appearance of fault
                                                            I
there, for there a good 9-inch quartz-lode between                  II a

them.1'

      30th. -- Sir H. quite well and jolly this morning.
He vowed that was his guest here, and that must
                I
not pay any share in the bill, because would notit

have stayed had not been for his illness, so took

an opportunity of slipping into the bar and paying my

shot unknown to him.'

             1  See ant,'p. 172, and postea, p. 207.
BETROTHAL  i93

     There were still points of detail and some ques
tions of interpretation of geological structure to be

settled in the area mapped by Ramsay and Selwyn in
North Wales. Selwyn had gone back to Dolgelli to
look into these, and Ramsay joined him there.

    ' 1jth October. -- Held a council with Selwyn on the
Shropshire sheets, etc. His work there and here is

the perfection of beauty.
     ' 21st. -- Up in a car as far as the eighth milestone

on the Trawsfynydd road ; then across the country
to Bwlch-drws-Ardudwy. What a magnificent scene !
Had a rough climb over Rhinog fach. Let any one
who wishes to be convinced of the theory of stratifica
tion with subsequent disturbance of beds go there.
Their bare and unbroken continuity from top to
bottom of the mountains on either side of that savage

pass is the grandest sight in Wales.

     ' 22nd. -- Up to Drws-y-nant by the coach, and

then across the hills behind by Dolnallt, Robell fawr,
and Benglog. Selwyn made out all his points. How
he fights with a bit of ground till he makes it all clear !

Truly an admirable workman !
     ' 3rd November. -- Made some good glacial obser

vations, especially at Capel Curig. Selwyn's semi-

scepticism begins to melt.'
     These Welsh peregrinations did not pass without

including sundry detours to the rectory of Llanfair-
ynghornwy. At last, on the 15th November, on a
renewed visit to that remote spot, Ramsay and Miss
Louisa Williams were engaged. Among the con

gratulatory letters which he received regarding this

momentous and happy event in his life he carefully

preserved that which came to him from his dear old

chief. It ran as follows :--

                                               o
194     SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                          CHAP. VI

                                                    London, 18M November 1851.

     My dear Ramsay -- Yours of yesterday I have just received in
Itime to say, may you be as happy as wish you, and may your
I Ifintended wife value your right sterling honest self as do.
                                                                she

does    this last,   you  will   be sure   of  the  first.    May God prosper you
in all                     ever   sincere
        ways. --    Your                                    H. T. De la Beche.

        Ramsay's yearning for a quiet home, with a con

genial spirit upon whom he could pour out the full

flow of his affectionate nature, was now about to be

realised at last. A quotation from his letter to Mrs.

Cookman, one of the Dolaucothi family, will best

describe how he came to make his choice, and what

he himself thought of it :--

        ' From the first setting of my foot in Wales I was

a doomed man. I was fated not to escape from it

free. Only think of it ! I was done for in the last

remaining corner of Wales, where my geological work

was to be done, and just about the completion of that
work, too. It was in the far north-west corner of

Anglesey that I tumbled in head over heels, and was

enchained by a maid of Cymru, as thoroughly Welsh

as you are, for she speaks, reads, and readily trans

...lates Welsh, and, like all Welsh folk, is desperately
fond of her country and people.                             I made their

acquaintance accidentally when on a visit to Mr. and

Mrs. Fitzgerald of Mapperton (Somersetshire) at
Beaumaris. Mrs. Williams asked me to call if I

came their way, which I did. I was staying at a bit

of a public-house some miles off. Being hospitable

folk, they asked me to leave these comfortless quarters

and stay with them. I did so ; have been back sundry
times since, and behold the result !--a result that con

siderably surprised both the young lady and myself,

but principally the former, for, as is befitting in such
                                  BETROTHAL

cases, I was slain long before she knew it. You ask
for a description. Do you suppose I am to be trusted
with one? I half suspect not. I'll give you a very
little, however, and you can believe as much of it as

you like.
     ' First, then, she is not what you would call

pretty, but she is sufficiently pretty to please me.
Age about your own, perhaps a trifle younger. She
can scarcely be called musical, albeit very fond of it.
I mean, she is not much of a player, and but a poor
singer, and she knows it. But what of these things ?
I can vouch for her heart and mind. I have met with
few girls so well read, and with none so witty. Her
love of knowledge is so great, and her memory about
ten times as big as mine, that I do consider myself a
lucky fellow to have caught a wife that takes an
interest in all the pursuits that most interest me, and
who did so long before I knew her. But she is not a

blue. It takes a time to find it out. Then she is so
full of mirth and humour, keeping us all laughing. I
was always fond of laughing, you know. What more
can I say? Her family can't understand how it is

possible to live without her, and all the neighbouring
poor will miss her almost daily visits.

     ' The marriage takes place in June, and if the
French and Austrians only let the poor Switzers alone,
I hope to carry her up the Rhine to Basle, across to
Interlaken, thence over by the Jungfrau to the valley
of the Rhone, down to Martigny, round Mont Blanc,
and down the Arve to Geneva; not galloping, but
taking it leisurely, and staying at the pleasantest
places for a few days, as the humour seizes us.'

     Returning to London towards the end of the year,
Ramsay resumed his old place and his old duties.
196  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM    CHAP. VI

But everything seemed gilded now by the brightness

that had at last risen upon his domestic prospects.
He opened his course of geological instruction with an
Introductory Lecture ' On the Science of Geology and

its Applications.' The course began on the 6th January,

and consisted of thirty lectures, given on Tuesday and
Friday. To make the Museum and its contents more

widely known, and to diffuse a taste for science among

the people, evening lectures to working men were
organised as part of the educational work of the
Jermyn Street establishment. Each of the six

teachers of the school gave a single evening lecture,
so that the course consisted of six lectures, tickets

being only obtainable by those who could show that

they were truly artisans, and a registration fee of six

pence being charged for the course. Afterwards each
teacher gave a course of six lectures. The instruction

thus afforded, and still continued up to the present

time, has been eminently popular among the class

for which it was designed, large crowds sometimes
assembling in front of the Museum door at the

hour when the tickets for some specially attractive

series of lectures are given out. In that first winter
of 1851-52 Ramsay chose as his subject 'The Utility
of Geological Maps.' So much were the lectures

appreciated by the working men that they were

repeated later in the spring.
     A few jottings from Ramsay's diary of this period

are here inserted. Of the meetings of the Geological
Society he writes :--
     ' 20M February (1852). -- Geological Society
              Willis's Rooms.
Anniversary,  well supported   --  President [W. Hop
kins] pretty                       Goulbourne, Sir C.

Lemon, Pusey, Sir H., Lyell, Murchison, etc. I
1852 DISCUSSIONS AT GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY  197

observe our body annually creeps higher and higher
up the table. We are now next the bigger wigs.

     ' 2$th. -- Good scrimmage between Sedgwick and
Murchison on the Lower Silurian and Cambrian
question. It was not an enlivening spectacle. Sedg

wick used very hard words. Murchison made a

spirited and dignified reply. He appealed to me, and
I aided in a speech giving a history of the survey of

Wales.

     ' 24M March. -- Logan's paper [On the Footprints
occurring in the Potsdam Sandstone of Canada] and
Owen's [Description of the Impressions and Footprints
of the Protichnites from the Potsdam Sandstone of

Canada1] passed off well. Murchison made what
Sedgwick called a speech characterised by a sort of

bacchanalian joy at the tracks turning out not to
be tortoise tracks, and Sedgwick himself rejoiced that
the old resting-place of his mind was not disturbed by
such a terrible innovation. He did not like to be too

much disturbed. Lyell was disappointed, he said ;
then Forbes followed, and Owen rebuked them in his

reply for entertaining any other feeling than that of

joy at an error being corrected, and a scientific truth

partly elucidated. Mantell proposed that they were
the tracks of great trilobites, but no one seconded him,

or rather every one dissented, Burmeister's paper

having gone so far to prove that trilobites had soft

membranaceous appendages and no true feet.'

     One entry regarding the Royal Institution Friday
evenings may be quoted : ' $th March. -- Heard Dr.
Mantell give a most amusing lecture on the Iguanodon
and other Wealden reptiles. It was so clever and
witty, that throughout it was greeted with rounds of

                     1 Quart. Journ. Geel. See. viii. (1852), pp. 199, 214.
19s  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM  CHAP. VI

applause. His raps at Owen through that Quarterly

article were very characteristic.'
     The field-work done by the Local Director this

summer included the inspection of the mapping of
Worcestershire and adjoining areas. He in particular
traced the boundaries of the Permian breccias between
the Bromsgrove Lickey and the Clent Hills, and had
his curiosity kindled by the extraordinary character of
these rocks. At intervals he renewed his study of

them during the next few years, and came to the
conclusion that they proved the existence of Palaeozoic

glaciers --an announcement which he made at the
Liverpool meeting of the British Association in 1854.

     The marriage of Professor Ramsay and Miss
Louisa Williams took place at Llanfairynghornwy on

the 20th July, and two days later he found himself

for the first time in his life in a foreign country.
Reaching Ostend, the newly-married pair made their

way slowly through Belgium to Cologne, up the Rhine

to Basle, where they called on Schonbein and supped

with Peter Merian, thence to Zurich, and so into the

Oberland and the western Alps. For the first time

Ramsay now beheld true mountains and actual glaciers.

At the first distant glimpse of the Alps he says that he

' opened his eyes so wide that he feared they never
would close again.' What geologist can ever forget
his first transports at such a sight ! How Ramsay's

eye caught up the points of special geological interest,
while at the same time revelling in all the glories of

mountain form, may be shown in a few citations from

his diary.

     ' jth August. -- As we crossed [the Lake of

Lucerne] to Weggis, for the first time we saw a

glacier far away towards the summit of the Uri Roth
1852 HONE YMOON IN S WITZERLAND  199

Stock- -I clearly saw the curved transverse crevasses

and a distinct trainde of stones. It was an event in
our lives. From Brunnen to Fluelen the contortions

of the rocks exceeded anything I ever saw in the most
intricate old rocks of Wales. Whole mountains were

reversed, 4000 or 5000 feet high. I got a good
notion of these contortions, but very little of the
absolute character of the rocks, for I had no chance of

touching them.

     ' 1 1th. -- Were rowed by two men and a woman to
Interlaken. The scenery is so large and grand, the
cliffs so great, the strikes, dips, and contortions of the
great masses of strata so enormous and so grandly
exposed, and the immense slopes of talus below,

scarred with frequent torrents, give such overwhelming
ideas of the incessant effects of atmospheric disintegra
tion. England, Wales, and Scotland gave me no idea

of it before. At Interlaken we saw descending from

the Breithorn a genuine glacier, not very large appar
ently, for it was twelve miles off. We had a little

geological scrimmage among the limestones.'
     One of the most interesting features of this Swiss

tour was an excursion which Ramsay, leaving his wife
for a couple of days at the Grimsel, made with Dolfuss-

Ausset to the Ober Aar glacier. He gave an account
of this expedition in his article on Swiss and Welsh

glaciers, published seven years later in Peaks, Passes,
and Glaciers ; but the original narrative in his diary

contains a few personal details which may find a place

here.

     ' 1jth August. -- Went with the guide to find the
" Pavilion " of M. Dolfuss. It was perched upon a rock
some miles off. He is a great gaunt man, and stood on

a rock with a blue bonnet on his head, and a veil
200       SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM               CHAP. VI

wrapped round it. As soon as he knew who I was he

hospitably asked me to dine with him, and immediately

after proposed that I should join him in an excursion
to the Ober Aar glacier, which, after a little hesitation,

I acceded to. So we descended nearly to the lower
end of the Unter Aar glacier, whence I despatched a

note to Louisa, saying I had found an opportunity I

had waited for for thirty-eight years, and that I could

not be back till to-morrow. We then climbed up by a

brook with four men, and long ere sunset reached the
Ober Aar glacier. There we had coffee and supper

and buffalo-skins, and by and by my messenger
returned with a delightful note from Louisa. The

men then cut grass and made a bed in the windowless
hut. We spread our buffalo-skins upon had glass
of hot brandy and water, put pipe in our cheeks, and
     '
         1

                                                        a
                                                                                it,

                                                                                   aa
speedily fell asleep as jolly as sand-boys.                                            little
       Sth. -- Awoke early, long before daylight,

damp and sore in the bones. At half-past three M.

Dolfuss roused himself and blew a blast on his horn,

whereupon all the men got up and lighted two fires,

one in the stove indoors, and the other on flat stone
                                  ;
          was a glorious morningIt
                                   I
                              a
                                               a

                                                    I
outside.                          thought had

never seen stars before. Venus seemed to swim in

the heavens, a ball of light, and not as a hole had
                                  if

been punctured in bluish covering through which

the light shone. It was glorious, too, to watch the

light gradually growing on the snowy peaks of Ober-

aarhorn and the other peaks that enclosed and nurseda

the glacier. At quarter to five we started, and were
soon on the ice, five men carrying the burdens. At

first we were in groups where the ice was solid and

the crevasses distinct. These required some careful

dodging, though there never was any real danger.
1852 IN THE OBERLAND  201

By and by, as we got higher into the regions where

snow had lately fallen, it was needful to be more
cautious. We saw three chamois. We then walked

in a row, following carefully in each other's footsteps,
the foremost man sounding the snow with his pole.
About half-past ten or eleven we reached the snow-
shed where the glacier descends in the other direction
into the valley of Viesch. Then we climbed up on a
flat rock whence Monte Rosa, Mont Cervin, and the
whole of the magnificent panorama of the Alps burst
upon me. The Finsteraarhorn was close at hand,
towering above us in black and white majesty. On
the other side were all the mountains that bound the

valley of the Grimsel, partly hidden by white clouds,
through which the peaks rose as islands. The whole
looked more glorious than I can describe. About one
o'clock we began to descend. On the Grimsel side it

was very rough and steep. [At last from a point 600
or 800 feet above the hotel] M. Dolfuss blew his horn,
and the men gave a yoodle. Met Louisa on the top
of a roche moutonnde opposite the inn. Then came
M. Dolfuss, looking tall and rough. We sat together
at dinner, and were exceedingly merry. M. Dolfuss

seemed a great favourite with the landlord and all his
people, and his gaunt yet stately appearance at table

created quite a sensation.'

    At Turtmann they were delighted to fall in with
Von Buch and Merian, who were on their way to

Monte Rosa, and would fain have persuaded Ramsay
to accompany them. But he had promised to be back
at his Survey post by a particular date, and so he

reluctantly parted with them, went round by Cha-
mouni, had a scramble on the Mer de Glace, and

by the 2nd September was once more in London.
202       SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                CHAP. VI

De la Beche received him with the exclamation,

' Oh, you have come back to the very day ; I quite

thought you would  have  taken  another  week    '
                                               !

     Apart from the general stimulus which a first visit

to the Alps gives to a geologist's appreciation of his

science, in Ramsay's case a special influence was

exerted by the snowfields and glaciers. For the last

four years, as we have seen, he had been getting

increasingly interested in the various problems pre

sented by the glaciation of Wales. But he had never

before actually seen a glacier. The sight of the Swiss

glaciers, therefore, quickened his desire to renew the

study of the Welsh phenomena, and sent him back

with a far more vivid conception of what the condi

tions must have been in the Ice Age among the hills

and valleys of this country. Robert Chambers, to

whom, as already remarked, may be assigned a large

share in first directing Ramsay's attention to the relics

of old glaciers in Britain, received a letter from him

soon after he returned from his continental tour, giving

some account of what he had seen. In his reply

Chambers says : ' I am much gratified in hearing from

you at all, and particularly so on account of the late

tendency of your studies. In visiting the Alps, and

looking at what ice now is doing, you have taken the

first step required for the study of ancient glacial action.

I could have wished you to take the second (as I

consider  in trip to Scandinavia. Still, even
          I

             it)
                          a

                                              1

                                                                                         in
without that, you may be tolerably prepared for the

consideration of the corresponding phenomena in

Wales.    have read the abstract of your paper

the G. Proceedings,1 and am really much gratified by

the progress you have made in this curious investiga-

                   See ante, p. 178.
1852 EARLY WORK IN GLACIAL GEOLOGY  203

tion. Your observations on the drift on the flanks of

Carnedd Llewelyn and Carnedd Dafydd are exceed

ingly interesting, and indeed the whole article is one
calculated greatly to advance the question.' There

can be little doubt that this first trip to Switzerland
finally fixed the bent of Ramsay's mind in all his later

geological work. Though still busy with the many

problems presented by the structure of the older rocks,
these no longer absorbed his attention, nor exercised
that fascination which they had hitherto done. He
now threw himself more and more into the study of

the origin of the superficial contours of the land, and
among the various agents by which these contours

had been moulded and modified, he specially devoted
himself to the investigation of the work of ice.
Though the bold generalisations of Agassiz in regard
to the former glaciation of Britain had been published

twelve years before, they had met with but small

acceptance among the geologists of Britain. J. D.

Forbes, Buckland, Darwin, Charles Maclaren, and

Robert Chambers had indeed traced the relics of

vanished glaciers in various mountain groups of Scot
land, the Lake District, and Wales. But a broader

treatment of the subject was needed, and among those

who led the way to this more comprehensive investi
gation, and who made the Glacial Period one of the
most absorbingly interesting of all the geological ages,
a foremost place must always be assigned to Sir
Andrew Ramsay.

     In the course of preparing for the engraver the
various sheets of the map of North Wales, and the Hori
zontal Sections across the same region, a number of
difficulties presented themselves. In an area of some

complication, and where the survey had been the
-04  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM                       CHAP. VI

work of several geologists, it was hardly possible that

it should be otherwise. So that portions of the ground

required to be revisited, sometimes more than once,

and the several surveyors had to meet and discuss the

discrepancies or disputed points on the spot. Much

anxious work of this nature occupied the autumn of

1852. Ramsay took his young wife to Ffestiniog,
and from that centre proceeded to clear off all the

remaining difficulties up to the Snowdon ground in the

north, and Arenig on the east. Whilst there he was

joined by five students from the School of Mines, who

came for some initiation into the mysteries of geologi

cal surveying. They included W. T. Blanford, who

afterwards rose to distinction in the Geological Survey

of India, and is now an active member of the Royal,

Geological, Zoological, and Geographical Societies of
London ; the late H. F. Blanford, well known for his

able contributions to Indian Meteorology ; and H.

Bauerman, who afterwards became one of the staff of

the Geological Survey of Great Britain.

     This Welsh work of completion and revision took

longer than had been anticipated. At the close of

1852 it was not finished. Selwyn left the Survey at

the end of July in that year to take charge of the

Geological Survey of Victoria, so that the task of

getting the Welsh maps ready for the engraver de

volved mainly on Ramsay himself, with the powerful

assistance of W. T. Aveline. The Director-General

was waxing more and more impatient. ' More (!!!)
                  North Wales    '
examinations  in               !    he  exclaimed to  Ram

say ; ' the very sound of such matters sets me adrift. '

He wished to get rid of Wales, and to have the satis

faction of pushing on the Survey over England. As

nothing delighted him more than to be able to announce
1853 RE-EXAMINATION OF PARTS OF WALES   205

a large area of square miles as surveyed in a year, so

was he correspondingly chagrined that this prolonged
detention of some of the most active members of the

staff in Wales should seriously reduce the mileage
that could be reported. Much of the summer of 1853
was still required for completing details in some of

the Welsh ground, and both Ramsay and Aveline

worked hard, sometimes together, but more generally

apart. Frequent letters passed between them when

they were separate, for Ramsay had set his heart on

getting North Wales satisfactorily completed. He had
himself been engaged in the work, and felt his credit

at stake till he saw the survey finished as fully and
accurately as he could achieve. His views were well
expressed in a letter to De la Beche, not only regard
ing North Wales, for which he was himself responsible,
but with reference to South Wales, and to all the south

western part of England which had been completed

and published before he joined the staff, in a more rapid,

less detailed style than had subsequently been gradu

ally introduced, mainly by his own exertions. Writing

'Iin the autumn of 1853, when Sir Henry's patience was
all but gone, he says (21st November):  cannot

but think that when, by new lights shining out, omis

sions or errors are discovered, it is better to mend

them, as soon as we know the way, than to leave them

open to amateur carpers. It was anything but pleasant

the other day to hear of errors and omissions in Mal-
vernia, some of which by accidental visits I knew to be
true. You have often spoken of going down to Devon

and Cornwall with me to mend the lines there, and I

heartily wish the Silurian lines in South Wales and

May Hill were mended and brought into harmony

with those in the north, by the now easy addition of
206         SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM           CHAP. VI

the dividing line between Upper and Lower Silurian,

following out what I did years ago at Builth.

     ' As these maps stand, their authority is in great

part gone, and any one can point out their inconsist
encies. I do not, however, even now dream of mend

ing South Wales without special orders, since having

been done by others, and before my time, I have no

actual responsibility in the matter. When a personal

responsibility to you and the public weighs upon me,

I cannot rest till I have done my very best as long as

I am allowed to do it.'

     To his colleague, Salter, he was still more out

spoken about the defects of the maps of South Wales :

'When I joined the Survey in 1841, Sir Henry and

Phillips did the mapping, and I took lessons and
looked on admiringly. I have no doubt that almost

all South Wales is bad, Silurian and all. There was

no system in the work. I suspect my work at St.

David's and Fishguard is pretty nearly the best of it.

I even separated out the Cambrian, but it was not

used. From Builth to Pembroke is a mull, Llandovery
and all. Certain I am that Sir Henry had no ground

for putting my Llandeilos above the Castell Crag

Gwyddon rock. I had nothing to do with it. Sir

Henry began to map and left off unfinished. The
     is
                               it,

                                           in
                                             it
whole only about ten stages better than Devon and

Cornwall.'

     Some of the maps and sheets of Horizontal Sec

tions of North Wales having now been published,

Ramsay took a useful step  the spring of 1853 by

reading to the Geological Society a brief outline of

the general succession of rocks and geological structure
of the region, so far as these had been determined by

the Survey. In this paper he passed over the con
1853 DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND ART CREATED 207

tention of his colleague Selwyn, which, as we have

seen (pp. 172, 192), was also his own original      im
pression, that the Cambrian rocks of Anglesey
underlain by a far more ancient series of schists.  are

                                                    He

now published his belief that these schists are the

metamorphosed equivalents of the Barmouth and

Harlech grits, and the Llanberis and Penrhyn sand

stones and slates -- an opinion which he maintained

to the last. The paper is interesting as the earliest
account of the successive groups in the older Palaeozoic

rocks of North Wales, as finally worked out by the

Geological Survey.

     Among the incidents of the summer of 1853 the
most notable in Ramsay's life was the birth of a

daughter on the 3rd June at Beaumaris. It grati
fied him to think that in Wales, which had almost

become his adopted country, and which, by the ties

of marriage, had now grown doubly dear to him, his

child should have been born.

An important departmental change this year

affected the Geological Survey. Once again it was

transferred to a new set of masters. The exchange
arose in this wise. One of the consequences of the

Great Exhibition was the impulse given to the recog

nition of the importance of Science in national pro

gress. In 1853 a comprehensive scheme was carried
out by Lord Aberdeen's Government, whereby a
' Department of Science and Art ' was established

under the charge of the Board of Trade, of which
the President at that time was Mr. Cardwell. The

control of the Geological Survey, the Museum of
Practical Geology, and the School of Mines was trans

ferred from the office of Woods to this new depart

ment. Three years later, that is in 1856, another
208  SCHOOL OF MINES AND MUSEUM  chap, v1

change was made, whereby the Department of Science

and Art was transferred to the Privy Council, and was
administered by the Lord President of the Council,
assisted by a member of the Privy Council, who is
called the Vice-President of the Committee of Council

on Education. This arrangement is still maintained.
                  CHAPTER VII

               THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND

The general awakening of the country, after the Great
Exhibition of 1851, to the national importance of cul
tivating science for industrial if not for theoretical

purposes, showed itself in Scotland, among other ways,
in an agitation for the extension of the Geological
Survey to that part of the United Kingdom. The
movement never needed to be vigorously pushed, for
the mapping of Scotland had from the beginning been
contemplated as part of the duty of the Geological
Survey of Great Britain. But two serious impedi
ments had hitherto stood in the way of even making
a commencement of the work. In the first place, the
Ordnance Survey of Scotland was so far behind that the
maps, on which alone a geological investigation could
be properly based, had not been available ; and in the

second place, even if maps could have been obtained,
the staff of the Geological Survey was so small that

it was hardly possible to spare any officers for break

ing ground in Scotland. In response to the agitation

on the subject, De la Beche instructed Ramsay to go
to Scotland and see for himself the actual state of

affairs. Writing to his lieutenant on the 26th July 1853,
he said : ' The Survey (Geological) of Scotland has

been long ordered (vide votes in Parliament), but we
210 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

could never enter upon    abecause there were no
                             it,

                                     if
                                                 it

                                                  if
proper maps, not enough to continue the work upon

  we had commenced it. Now let us see there are
if
the needful maps, and fair prospect of not being
               itcompelled to break the work off commenced. You

have been sent in your official capacity to examine and

report to me on this matter, so that      may be seen

how far may be expedient to commence the Survey

of Scotland next year, your report and other needful

inquiries enabling those who will have to decide on the

subject to obtain correct view of it.'
                   a
In accordance with these instructions, Ramsayin

went to Scotland          that year, and spent the month

of August there making the necessary inquiries, and

at the same time visiting some of his relatives and old

friends. He found that in the central part of Scotland,

where upon the coal-bearing formations and among

the great industrial districts was desirable to begin,
                   a

                                      it
the Ordnance maps were exceedingly backward, but

that there was     prospect of obtaining unfinished

proofs of them in the course of next year.            it It  was

subsequently arranged that he himself should go north

and begin the geological survey in the summer or

autumn of 1854. His letters during this brief expedi
tion north of the Tweed show how impossible was

to escape from the pressure of official work. Sir

Henry was getting old and less able than he had been

to keep himself in touch with the field-work, though

to the last he continued his tours of inspection, and

even the summer of 1854 was down in County Cork
it in
exploring with Jukes the coast-line about Bearhaven.
But was essential for the progress of the service

that Ramsay should constantly keep himself in com

munication with his men. Thus he dragged at each
PRELIMINA R Y INQ UIR Y  2I I

remove a lengthening chain of correspondence. A

few extracts from his notes to Aveline, some of them

written when he was really on holiday visits in Scot
land, may here be given. ' What has become of you ?
What are the prospects of the work ? [Completion of
part of the Welsh ground.] Is it done or nearly done,

or does it look as if it would be done ; and have you
been able to solve your difficulties ? Sir H. wanted

to disturb you. I wrote trying to stave him off. . . .

I have been away a day and night among the islands
of the Forth in a steamer belonging to the Commis
sioners of Northern Lights, and landed on the Bell

Rock. It is Old Red Sandstone and twelve miles from

shore. I will send your sections, maps, etc., in a day
or two. It is not easy to find quiet here. When I
get to Hamilton I will send you a Cader sheet ; I have
none here. Yesterday I got some fine specimens of
foliated mica and chlorite schists by Loch Lomond
and Arrochar. The glacial phenomena beat anything
I ever saw. It is wonderful.'

    At this point of the narrative, when the operations
of the Geological Survey are to be described in Scot
land, it may be of advantage to look for a moment at
the state of the progress of the work at that time in
England. The whole of Wales had been completed

and published, together with Cornwall, Devon, Somer
set, Dorset, Wiltshire, Worcestershire, Herefordshire,

Warwickshire, Staffordshire, Shropshire, and Derby
shire. Portions of some other counties had also been

published, and the field-work was now being pushed
into Lancashire and Yorkshire, north of a line drawn

from Liverpool to Sheffield, and into the counties of

Nottingham, Leicester, Northampton, Oxford, Bucking
ham, Berkshire, Hampshire, Surrey, Sussex, and Kent.
212 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

     The staff at this time in England consisted of Sir
Henry de la Beche, Director-General ; A. C. Ramsay,
Local Director for Great Britain ; W. T. Aveline and

H. W. Bristow, geologists ; W. H. Baily, J. W. Salter,

H. H. Howell, and E. Hull, assistant geologists ; R.

Gibbs, general assistant ; and J. Rhind. The Irish
staff, under the Local Director, J. Beete Jukes, consisted
of W. L. Willson, geologist ; A. Wyley, G. V.
Dunoyer, F. J. Foot, G. H. Kinahan, S. Medlicott,
and J. O' Kelly, assistant geologists ; and James

Flanagan and Pierce Hoskins, specimen-collectors.
    The maps and sections of North Wales having

been completed and published, the next labour was
the preparation of a connected description of the
geology of that region. No one but Ramsay could

undertake this onerous duty. He was familiar with
the Principality from Holyhead to Caermarthen; many
square miles of it he had himself surveyed, and he had
inspected at various times almost all the rest of the
ground. Still he could not be expected to know all
the details of tracts which he had not personally
mapped. He accordingly applied to his colleagues,

more especially to Aveline, Selwyn, Jukes, and Salter,
for notes regarding their several districts, and these,
together with the memoranda he had himself made, he
proceeded to weave into a continuous Memoir. This
task continued to be his chief indoor labour for some

years. Ill-health eventually seriously delayed its com
pletion, and the Memoir did not finally make its

appearance until some twelve years later. To do the
editorial work of this volume satisfactorily it was de

sirable that he should plant himself for a time in some
central part of the region to be described, so that he
might easily verify any doubtful points by actually
1854 THE MEMOIR ON NORTH WALES                                                213

visiting the ground. Accordingly he took up his

quarters during part of the summer of 1854 at his old

station, Llanberis. A few passages from his letters

will give a picture of his life and work there. Writing

to Aveline on the 7th June he tells how an illness there

had retarded him, and adds : ' If I can walk a mile or

two to-day I shall try several more to-morrow, and if

that succeed, leave this suddenly. I have now got to

that part of the Memoir that deals with the Bala beds

and Caradoc, from Mallwyd all round by Yspytty

Evan to Conway, and am especially hard up for in
formation in places. Will you turn up your note-books

and copy out any descriptions of the structure of the

rocks, etc. ? Never mind digesting them into regular

description more than you like ; only give me any

notes you have, and I quote them in your own words
            I
                                 '11
when can.   am at present incorporating what
a
Jukes gave me about the Bala Limestone and ash,                    is
         Iand of course what chiefly want anything about
            I
                      I

                                                           :
                                                                '
the rocks above that.' Again on the 16th he writes

to the same correspondent On Monday, after an

early dinner, took a gig to the top of the Pass, and

then started across the hills for Ffestiniog, in part over

bit of country had not been on before.                                 I      was
            it                                                             I
                I
anxious to see before describing its rocks.                            passed

by the lakes called Llyniau, under the west end of

Moel Siabod, and through the upper part of Dolwydd-

elan, and down by Manod-bach. The greenstones are

right.      reached Martha's about ten at night, and got
a
             I

                                             a
                                                    I

                                                                                     a
                                                                                     I
hearty reception and supper. Next morning com

mercial gent gave me lift to Trawsfynydd, where

struck into the country, and went over Craig-y-Das-

Eithen and down by the back of Penmaen and Cwm

Eisen to Tyn-y-groes, where dined, and went on to
214 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

Dolgelli. Next morning Byers and I had a scramble
till 6 p.m., when I got a return car as far as the cross
roads near Ffestiniog. I slept at Ffestiniog, and next
morning walked up Cwm Orthin and over Cynicht to
Cwm Gwynant, near Beddgelert. I had never been
on Cynicht before, and learned a few things for the
Memoir. I then walked to the top of the Pass, where
I found a return car and reached Llanberis at
half-past eight. It was a day's work that.'

     To Salter, on the 28th of the same month, he
writes : ' Though deep in ice ' (he had been preparing
a paper on the Welsh glaciers for the British Associa

tion), ' that was only occasional work ; I am deeper in
the Memoir, and have got a great deal done. In con
sequence of last year's finishing strokes to the traps,

between the Bala road and Arenig bach, I was obliged
to re-write a good part and to re-arrange the order of
description. That is all done now, and much more,
including, of course, the Lingula Flags, which, however,

I do not consider finished without your advice there-

anent again. Your notes are of the highest value. I

have used them freely, quoting you, but putting them
necessarily into more current or running English.
This will be submitted to you in good time. I have
also used Jukes's notes about the Bala country, alter
ing and abolishing a little, and adding considerably.
I think I must send you that to read and comment
upon soon, for I repeat that you can give me much
help both there and in the Berwyns. Not a soul has

given me a single note about the latter.'

    To the same correspondent, on the 13th August, he
sends thanks for congratulations on the birth of a son
on the 6th of that month, and adds : ' I hope to be at

Llanfairynghornwy for a day by Thursday at latest en
1854 VISIT TO SOUTH OF IRELAND                "5

route to Ireland, where I want to have a touch at the

six-inch maps before beginning in Scotland. . . . This

Memoir I do not mean to say will be done (with so
much at present on my shoulders), but I do hope to
finish it next winter and early spring. . . . Were we

to go down together next spring [into Wales], and
possibly take Jukes and Aveline with us, then putting
all our experience and knowledge together, we might

through the year produce such results as would throw

a strong and steady light on Ireland. I believe that

no man single-handed could do so in two or three

months, and I believe that if you ask Forbes  (if

                                                         I
                                              he be

in London) he will agree with me, for our opinions,
have observed, always pretty well coincided in such

matters.'

The journey to Ireland referred to in the foregoing

extract was chiefly for the purpose of personally in

specting the system of mapping followed by Jukes and
                   From the commencement of the
his colleagues.

Survey in Ireland maps on the scale of six inches to

a mile had been used as the field-maps. In England
and Wales the general map on the scale of one inch

to a mile had alone been available for geological pur

poses but as the six-inch scale was now extended to
;

       it

                  It

                                                        in
                                                                                                                                             ;
Scotland, was proposed to carry on the geological
investigation of that part of the United Kingdom on

the larger scale.  will be readily understood that

the substitution of a map embracing thirty-six times
the area of that which had been used in England and

Wales would necessitate numerous modifications of the

system of mapping applicable to the smaller scale

much more detail could be expressed and abundant

notes could be inserted, which in the case of the one-

inch scale required to be written  the note-book.
216 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

De la Beche, though he had consented to the adoption
of the larger scale in Scotland, was rather inclined to

disparage  it it.  But as that scale was to be employed,

Ramsay clearly realised that was his duty to profit
                       '
by the experience of those of his colleagues who had
                        It
been using for years.  would be a great mistake
                               it
                                    it,
on my part,' he wrote to his chief, 'to omit seeing

what they do, and how they do in Ireland.     It  does

not follow that the same rules should be applied in

Scotland but whether or no, want to see how they
;                      I

keep, cut, use, and abuse their maps, what their port

folios are like, how they handle them in the field, and

twenty other things that may save us much time and

trouble in Scotland, and which only eyesight can

instruct upon.'la

     De Beche's bodily and mental powers were
visibly failing, though his natural gaiety of tempera
ment showed little abatement. His declining vigour

appeared more especially in the uncertainty and

vacillation of his official decisions.        He had both

verbally and in writing agreed that Ramsay should
begin the survey of Scotland, but afterwards, when all

the arrangements had been made, he was afraid to go

on with the proposal, lest there might be some question

ing on the subject at headquarters.           Ramsay, how

ever, knowing how fully the matter had been discussed

and approved by Sir Henry, determined to persevere
in the course which had been fixed upon. In pursuance
of that resolution he crossed to Ireland to see Jukes
and his men at work, and at the same time to have one

more conference with the chief, who had joined the

survey party in the south-west of County Cork. The

story of the interview told in letter to Mrs. Ramsay
                    :
of the 25th August       '

                         is
                                           a
                    Yesterday after breakfast, Jukes,
JOSEPH BEETE JUKES
I
1854 VISIT TO DE LA BECHE AT GLENGARIFF  217

Willson, Kinahan, and I drove in a car to Glengariff ;

Mrs. Jukes rode out with us for a mile or two on
Dolly, and two dogs were also of the party, Carlo the
setter, and Tommy the Scotch terrier. We dropped

the other men en route, and Jukes and I drove on to
Glengariff. It is not a town, but a tourists' inn in a

lovely valley. It puts one in mind of Loch Lomond,

only the water is salt and the hills not so high. There

we found Sir Henry, Rose, Kendall, and Carry
Smyth. After shaking hands, " So you've come

"Ihere," quoth the Governor. "Yes, I could not help

it!" think you might," and then he showed me

how it was impossible to begin Scotland ; he had no

objections to my going down to open the ground (not
to map it), but it was impossible to authorise any one

accompanying me, for Cardwell had said this and that

and the other thing. I asked him the meaning of his

letters urging me to go down and get something

published.  Just at that moment a question arose

about Kennedy and Medlicott. Jukes and Sir H. had
a long discussion, during which I had ample time to

quiet all vestiges of rising wrath, and to arrange my
plan of argument, which was so effectively done, that

when Sir H. and I set-to again, I got him to agree
to everything I wanted. I go down when I please, and

get Aveline to follow me ! So far well, with three
cheers for diplomacy and honesty combined ! Sir H.

is more to be pitied than railed against ; for his mind

is far, far gone, though you would not think so under

ordinary circumstances.'

     The few days spent with Jukes and his colleagues
gave Ramsay a good idea of the way in which

geological mapping on the six-inch scale could be

carried on, while at the same time it presented him for
21 S GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

the first time in his life with some vivid examples of
Irish scenery and Irish manners and habits. Writing to

his wife from near Bantry on the 27th August he says :
' The weather still continues splendid. We had a long
walking and car-ing day yesterday through a beautiful
country, wild and rocky. They call it here cultivated
in places ; but to my eye a great part of it is a sad
spectacle. You see as many houses without as with
roofs, and few gates swing on their hinges. But the
people are fine-looking, those of them that get plenty
to eat, tall and stout, with long arms and upright gait.
The women are often pretty, and they can do what few
English women can, they walk erect and graceful, with
long steps. They do not hobble or amble or mince ;
they walk.

     ' I am just about starting for Glengariff, and to
morrow will be at Killarney. I bathe every morning,
and am quite recovering all my swimming powers. I
swim right away out to sea on my face, and return on
my back by way of a change.'

     After coming back from Ireland he wrote to
Aveline on the 1st September: ' I purpose starting for
Scotland next week, and think of beginning about
Dunbar, but am not as yet certain. I shall return
to the meeting of the British Association at Liver

pool, and some time after that (not very long) I
certainly expect to want you in Scotland, both that
we may make a good beginning, and also that when I
am obliged to leave (going back and forward) I may
have a representative at work.'

      The British Association met this year at Liverpool,
and Edward Forbes, who had recently left the staff of
the Geological Survey to succeed his old master,
Jameson, in the Natural History Chair in the
1854 THE SURVEY OF SCOTLAND BEGUN  219

University of Edinburgh, was President of the

Geological section. Ramsay came to the meeting to
support his friend and read two papers. In one of

these he made known the startling conclusion to which

he had come, that in Permian time glaciers existed in

this country, and had left behind them the remarkable
breccias and boulder-beds of the Malvern and Abberley
hills. The progress of the Survey across Worcester
shire into the central parts of the midlands had given
him ample opportunity of studying these breccias. He
still further elaborated his observations, and com

municated them in the following February (1855) to
the Geological Society. He was now in the full tide
of glacial enthusiasm. The old Welsh glaciers had
acquired renewed interest from his experiences in
Switzerland, and he had endeavoured to track their

course and measure their thickness by the markings
they had left upon the rocks. He obtained renewed
proofs of the two periods of glaciation he had already
indicated, and now found that at the time of its

greatest extension the ice had actually passed across
some of the larger valleys, such as those of Llanberis
and Nant Francon. He ascertained by direct measure
ments of the heights of the striation on the rocks that
the ice of the greater glaciers was about 1300 feet
thick.

     After much delay the Geological Survey was at
last extended to Scotland in the autumn of 1854, and
the Local Director himself undertook the task of

beginning the work. The state of the Ordnance

Survey county maps on the six-inch scale left little
choice as to the district where geological work should
be started. Ramsay finally determined to commence
on the coast at Dunbar, where he could trace in the base
220 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAh D chap, v11

of the Carboniferous system, and, working gradually
westwards, might clear the way for the further prosecu
tion of the work by his staff next year. His rambles
led him into some of the lonely valleys of the Lammer-
muir Hills and along the picturesque shores of East
Lothian. He had had no quiet geological work in
Scotland since his old Arran days, and there was so
much of interest and novelty in thus breaking ground
for the Geological Survey of Scotland that, repressing
his strong desire to be back once more with his
young wife and children, he persevered with the
work until the keen frosts of December drove him at

last southward. A few pictures of this working-

season at Dunbar may be gleaned from his letters to
Mrs. Ramsay.

     ' The Old Red Conglomerate here [among the
Lammermuir Hills] is the most wonderful deposit I ever
saw, and horribly icy-looking. It is so soft, too, you
might dig it out with a pickaxe. The greater part of it
is almost indistinguishable from Drift. Examine the
enclosed stones and give me an account of their
colours. Merely write me their colours and then throw
them away. Whatever colours they are, it does not in
any way affect my mapping, but it would be a satis
faction to be certified on the subject. Are they grey
mostly, and is there any purple and green ? 1 They
are fragments from the stones that make up this
tremendous brecciated conglomerate on which I walked
on Friday all day without any prospect of getting to
the end of it. It forms great wild, heathy hills,
stretching far away south into Berwickshire. It is so

     1 In explanation of these directions it requires to be stated that Ramsay was
to a considerable extent 'colour-blind.' He was often made conscious of this
defect when discussing the Survey maps with his colleagues, for he could not dis
tinguish between some of the colours, reds and greens being especially mistaken.
                     LIFE AT DUNBAR       221

incoherent that it is everywhere traversed by the most

remarkable ravines, deep, steep, and often without

water in them. These have been made by successions

of winter floods, and sometimes in the course of ages,

the drainage having taken a new direction, they have

become permanently dry.'                  I by no means
     ' Surely this place is " Cranford."

understand the constitution of its society. Yesterday

the only person besides myself at dinner with the
was a Mr. Combes. He was a stout little gray-haired

man in black, who from his appearance might be a

clergyman with a black neckerchief, a schoolmaster, a

professor in a Scotch college, a physician, a surgeon,

a country gentleman, a retired merchant, a first-class
skipper, or anything you like, not great or noble.

Well, the conversation got animated, and our host made

an occasional mat a propos remark and thoroughly
enjoyed the talking. The little man discussed history,

English, Scotch, and Roman, the styles and merits of

Hume, Smollet, Robertson, Gibbon, and Scott, of the

Pictorial History, of Mackintosh, Fox, and Macaulay,
of the novel-writers, including Fielding, Smollet, Miss

Burney, Misses Porter, and all the moderns, the history

of poetry as shown in the writings of Dryden, Pope,

Burns, Ramsay, Tannahill, Fergusson, etc. And,

besides, he had been in India, and had voyaged about,
that was clear. Well, he and I walked home ; we

shook hands, and he turned into a house in the street,

and I looked above the door, and saw thereon Combes,

Candlemaker    '  1
             !

' With a large section of society intellect is not to

     1 This story ought to end here ; but Ramsay afterwards found out that his
enigmatical companion had been a surgeon in the old navy of the East India

Company.
222 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

be endured, especially if it dare in any way to think a

little differently from the common herd. Do you

know, it costs me no small trouble to keep out of hot

water even with  ? Our style of thought is so

utterly diverse that there is almost no chance of our

agreeing on any possible subject. I never heard an

interesting conversation in their house except from

others. But I have a great respect for them and

much affection. How curious is the difference when

one gets away among men of learning and science !

They do not see merely the outside. They reflect

and reason, and whether correctly or not, still it is

reflection and reason. I never saw Goodsir 1 but once

before, and that for five minutes. We were at once

friends, and I feel that I love him, for we have a com

munity of thought, though our sciences are quite
different. He is so unassuming, simple in manner,

gentle, and kind. I have much to learn from some of

these men.'

' This is a bright sunny day, with a westerly wind

and white waves dashing on the red cliffs and islets

below the Castle. The Castle is the merest fragment
of a ruin --a few walls some three or four yards thick

on a rocky promontory. Lauderdale House looks

upon them, still entire, but deserted by the Earl, the

windows closed up or broken. It faces the sea, and

its back looks down the long street very drearily.

The family left the town when the Reform Bill put an

end to their borough influence. A winged sphinx sits

on the roof, and wonders how long it will be before it

will fall in.'

     1 John Goodsir, born 1814, died 1867 ; one of the greatest anatomists of his
day, was an intimate friend of Edward Forbes. He was Professor of Anatomy
in the University of Edinburgh.
GALES A T DUNBAR  223

     ' The wind is rising strongly from the east. The
sea gets white. The square-sailed fishing-boats come
scudding in for shelter, and two large three-masted
steam-screws are scudding up the Firth with all sails
set forward. I write during breakfast. One of the
boats seems unable to make Dunbar Harbour, and is
running for shelter into Belhaven Bay. The men's
wives are looking out across the walls. . . . That
little boat has beat up to windward after all. She is
now under shelter of the Castle ; down goes the square
sail, off go the oilskins, and out go four oars, and she
will be in dock in a twinkling.

     ' Heigh ho ! A boat after all has been upset on

Tyne Sands. Three men are drowned and two saved.
 I saw a woman pass crying, and afterwards a sailor,
looking very grave. I feared something.

      ' The tumult of the waves is wonderful to look at.

They come rolling in, and swallow up the rocky islets
 that guard the shore, breaking over them in great
sheets of white water. The roar, the great masses of

 spray, and the labouring vessels dimly seen scudding

up the Firth -- everything seems to bespeak disaster.'

       Before he left Dunbar the Director had completed
about a third of the area he had assigned to himself to
 be mapped from that station. The Geological Survey
 of Scotland was thus fairly launched. Ramsay, how

 ever, was never again able to find time to resume the

 mapping of any area north of the Tweed.1 All that

 his increasing official duties permitted him to accom
 plish was to come down year after year and inspect
 the work of his colleagues, completed and in progress.

       1 The only time that he took the maps himself into the field was some ten

 years later, when, while spending a few days with his friend Mr. J. Carrick

  Moore in Wigtownshire, he mapped the end of the peninsula which terminates
  in Corsewall Point.
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND  chap, vn

     While stationed at Dunbar a calamity befell him
which all through the rest of his life he never ceased
to deplore. His cherished friend, Edward Forbes,

who only a few short months before had succeeded to
the Professorship of Natural History at Edinburgh,

and who had presided so genially and actively over
the Geological Section at the recent meeting of the
British Association at Liverpool, was cut off on the

1 8th November after only a few days' illness.
Ramsay thus announces the sad news to his wife : ' I
have just received a brief note from James Forbes
telling me that Edward died on Saturday at a quarter
to five. I can scarce realise it. My grief breaks out

in short fits, and then I struggle to suppress its signs.

O Louisa ! what a terrible blow, and how seemingly
inscrutable. In the flower of life, with a dear wife and

children, and in the new opening of another phase of
a great and useful career ! The more I think of him,
the more I feel that, next to you, he has exercised
more influence on me than any other person I ever
knew. He was so earnest and so good. I wish I

may be able in some small degree to imitate his worth.
We had much in common, but, as a man of science,

his station was much greater than mine can ever be.
Forbes never lost a friend. His goodness as well as

his greatness make him so universally lamented.'
     On returning to London for the winter of 1854-55,

the various members of the Geological Survey were
concerned to find how greatly their esteemed chief

had altered for the worse since they had last seen
him. Ramsay notes : ' Sir Henry is wofully changed.
He is so feeble now that he has to be carried in in his

chair, and wheeled to his room. He looks shrunk,

and his face is doubly lined ; neither is its expression
EDWARD FORBES
--
1854-1855   LAST DAYS OF DE LA BECHE  225

improved.' Nevertheless, the veteran stuck to his
post, presided over meetings of the teachers of the
school, had all the latest Survey maps submitted to

him, and took the keenest interest still in all the field-

work. He was specially pleased with the field-maps

on which Ramsay had traced the first beginnings of

the survey of Scotland, and expressed his approval

not only to him, but also to his colleagues. ' Ramsay

is advancing,' he said, ' and showing much official

aptitude.'  Not only so, but he manifested much

interest in the Local Director's glacial work, of which

he had previously been inclined to make light. ' He

was delighted,' says Ramsay, ' with the Swiss and

Welsh moraine matter compared side by side, and

actually gave some obscure hints, as if I should be

obliged some day to be over a good deal in Ireland,

apparently meaning that I should by and by have the

charge of both Surveys.'

De la Beche had often previously spoken to

Ramsay on the subject of the next Director-General.

In their more confidential moments he had assured

him that his ' geological son ' should succeed him, and

that he had put that wish so definitely in writing that

he felt certain that the Government would follow his

advice. For years, therefore, Ramsay had come to

regard the reversion of the office as secured to him

self. But during the year that preceded the time at

which we have now arrived various circumstances had

occurred to shake the confidence of his belief on this
matter. Sir Henry's failing powers, mental as well as
bodily, had led him to take, on more than one occa

sion, a course which Ramsay, feeling strongly that it
would be detrimental to the best interests of the

service, opposed as firmly, though of course as

                          Q
226 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCO TLAND chap, v11

courteously, as he could. The chief was now apt
to be impatient and somewhat exacting, as well as
inclined perhaps to push official routine and regulation
further than his able subordinates thought necessary or
desirable. Ramsay had an exceedingly difficult and
delicate task to discharge. He sympathised with his
colleagues, and was entirely loyal to the Survey, at the
same time that he had a strong affection for his chief,
and a keen sense of the duty of subordination and
discipline. So long as he could be side by side with
Sir Henry, there was little risk of serious difference.
The veteran's sense of what was just and fitting was
so strong, and his confidence in his lieutenant so

entire, that he soon came to an amicable agreement

when they argued a question together. But Ramsay
had occasion to be much in the field, and his place
was apt to be taken by other counsellors, whose
advice did not always coincide with his. Certain it is
that towards the end of 1854 De la Beche, feeling
that his own days were numbered, and being desirous
of playing some part in the nomination of a successor,

perhaps also somewhat displeased because Ramsay
had recently withstood the promulgation of a vexa
tious ordinance, fixed his thoughts for a time upon a
geologist other than his lieutenant as the proper

person to succeed him, and there is reason to believe
that he privately communicated his views on this

matter to the Minister in whose hands the appoint

ment lay.

     Up to the very end Sir Henry came to the

 Museum, even though he could not leave the chair in
which he was wheeled into the building, and his loud
voice and hearty laugh could be heard all over the
place. He had still his joke for each member of the
DEATH OF DE LA BECHE  227

staff, and his kindly word of inquiry and encourage
ment for the attendants and cleaners. ' Well, Mr.

       , are you happy ? ' he would ask of some new
comer, as he was wheeled across the Museum floor to

his own room facing Piccadilly. He appeared for the

last time on Wednesday, the nth April. It was

his intention to be back on the following Saturday,

but he became rapidly worse next day, and died on
the morning of Friday, the 13th.

     From the allusions which have been made in the

foregoing chapters some more or less adequate picture
may be formed of the character and work of this
remarkable man. His scientific achievements placed

him in the very front rank of English geologists. His
kindliness of heart and gleefulness of spirit endeared
him to all who came into close contact with him. The

very failings which have been already indicated did
not alienate the affectionate regard of his associates.
Even Ramsay, who perhaps suffered more than any
one else from these failings, loved him to the last, and
mourned for him as for one of the most leal-hearted

friends he had ever had.

     It is not necessary or desirable for the purposes of
this biography to enter into the details of the appoint
ment of a successor to De la Beche in the Geological
Survey and the establishment at Jermyn Street. It is

enough to say that Ramsay soon saw that the hopes

he had cherished for so many years were doomed to
utter disappointment. He found, moreover, that
vigorous efforts were being made in favour of a most
estimable man of good family, but possessing only a
very slender acquaintance with geology. As there

seemed some possibility that these efforts might be
successful, and that the Survey, Museum, and School
228 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

might thus be placed in most incompetent hands,
Ramsay proposed at a meeting of the professors that
Sir Roderick Murchison should be their next chief.
This suggestion being agreed to, was communicated
to Mr. Cardwell, who approved of it. Thereafter, and
apparently with a view of strengthening the applica
tion in favour of Murchison's appointment, a memorial
urging his claims was prepared by Dr. Fitton, who
obtained numerous signatures to it from leading men
of science, including Sedgwick, and this document was
sent in to Government. Within less than a month

from De la Beche's death Murchison was appointed
to succeed to the office, and he entered on his duties

on the 5th May. Ramsay did not allow even his
intimate friends to know how bitter was his dis
appointment at the loss of the prize which his own
chief had taught him to believe would certainly be

his. It was one of the most trying episodes in his

life. But to the distinguished geologist who now, as
it were, supplanted him he brought the most un
swerving loyalty, and remained his faithful colleague

up to the last.
      Before this important matter was definitely settled

Ramsay had started once more for the field. There
were two departments of the surveying now in progress
in which he took a special interest -- the Permian
mapping of the midlands and the revision of parts of
Wales. He first went over the recent Permian work,

and while so doing sought for further light upon the
question of Permian glaciers, which he had brought
fully before the Geological Society on the 21st
February in this year. The subject had been rather
laughed at by De la Beche, who said, ' As to the

scratching of breccia fragments-- " 'tis their nature to"
              PERMIAN ICE                                                                                                  229

-- a tumble-down house will give plenty of them ; and

then as to old localities for the fragments, independ

ently of not having cakes which have been eaten, who

the dickens, in such places, can say what rocks are

beneath the sprawl of New Reds?' Lyell, however,

took a much more serious view of the matter, and with

that eager enthusiasm so characteristic of him, threw

himself into
is

                       ;

                        it,

                                                                                                                        '
              and endeavoured to master all the

evidence. He asked Ramsay to go over the ground

with him, and the request was readily granted.                                                                             Lyell

brimful of these Permian glaciers,' Ramsay wrote to

Aveline and after taking the author of the Principles

of Geology over the ground, he tells in his diary how

at dinner Lyell, who had been ruminating on the

subject for some days, at last declared that to his mind

and eye the breccias told of river-ice rather than of

glaciers and icebergs. This dinner took place on the
eve of another continental journey, which Ramsay had

planned for the purpose of comparing some of the

more notable breccias of Germany with those which

he had been studying in England. Starting with

Mrs. Ramsay at the beginning of August, they made

their way by Heidelberg to Eisenach, spent some

ten days there examining the Rothliegendes and other

formations of Thuringia, and made brief visit to
       a
Berlin.                                                                  a

The revision of some of the Survey work in Wales

was subject that had lain very near to Ramsay's

heart for some years before the time at which this

narrative has arrived. We have seen how imperfect

he knew the maps of South Wales to be, owing to the

want of any proper subdivisions among the older
Palaeozoic formations. At the time when that ground

was mapped the importance of such subdivisions had
230 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

not been recognised. It was enough, in Sir Henry De
la Beche's opinion, if these ancient rocks were dis

tinguished on the maps by some one common colour.
But as the work advanced northwards, and the true

significance of the labours of Murchison and Sedgwick
began to be perceived, it was seen to be eminently
desirable to separate at least some of the larger groups.
The great break between Lower and Upper Silurian,
which Ramsay had detected near Builth, was one of
which he early saw the importance. Sedgwick and
M'Coy had shown in 1852 that rocks which had been
grouped by the Survey with the Caradoc sandstone in
the Lower Silurian series contained such an assemblage
of fossils as linked them rather with the Upper Silurian.
Hence it was that Ramsay, who felt himself responsible
for the mapping of Shropshire and the adjacent tracts
of Wales, and was anxious that the Survey maps
should be made as accurate as possible, deputed W.

T. Aveline and J. W. Salter to re-examine that region.

The result of the labours of these two members of the

staff was to establish beyond any doubt that the break
between the Lower and Upper Silurian series of
formations in that part of Britain was complete, and
that the so-called ' Caradoc ' of Murchison and ' Bala '
of Sedgwick were pakeontological equivalents, the one

of the other. It was then evident that the boundary-

lines thus established, and which were put on the
Survey maps, would need to be carried into South
Wales, where hitherto no attempt had been made to
show any stratigraphical subdivisions in the series of
formations below the Wenlock group. And this
southward extension became all the more necessary
after Aveline had separated out the ' Tarannon shales '
below the Wenlock group, and had shown what a
1855 REVISION OF SOUTH WALES                                                   231

persistent zone they formed in North Wales. Hence

at last, and after much objection on De la Beche's
part, who, as we have seen, was weary of these re
peated re-examinations of Wales, Ramsay obtained his
chief's authority in 1855 to send Aveline into South
Wales for the purpose of inserting the more glaring

omissions on the maps and improving the representa
tion of the associated igneous rocks. How keen was

the interest that Ramsay took in this work is shown

by the voluminous correspondence which he carried

on with his colleague in Wales. For weeks together
every second or third day he would write to Aveline
when at work in North Wales, commenting on the

last report received from him, and suggesting localities
for re-examination or points to be kept in view. Two

of these letters may be cited as examples.

                                          London, 12th April 1855.

My dear Talbot-- I have Sir Henry's consent for

you to have a turn in Pembrokeshire when you have

done with the Wenlock line. The business will be

first to do the Cambrian line, and secondly to walk

across each bit of trap in the country, tap it and

note down whether it is hornblendic or felspathic,

melted or felspathic ash. Except errors stare you in

the face, don't bother about them ; but of that more.
This job is urgent now, because Sir Henry has decided

to change the colouring, and to colour all greenstones

green, and all felspathic traps and granites shades of
red. I am glad of for gives us a good oppor
I
                           it,
                                   it

                                                           I
                                                                           is
tunity of improving the Pembrokeshire maps, and with

Sir H.'s determination about the colouring, there no

escape from the necessity of looking at it.  suspect,

indeed know, there will be mapping to do in the
232 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

great St. David's lump of trap. There are all kinds
there, unseparated and only indicated by one colour.
Once you get to Llandovery I think you will rapidly
finish the Wenlock line. But don't neglect to map
such sandstones as are needful. -- Ever sincerely,

                                              Andw. C. Ramsay.1

                          Ashby de la Zouche, 1 -]th June 1855.

My dear Talboots -- The Pembrokeshire fragments

[of map] will follow this by to-morrow's post. The
plain green [colour on the map] is intended to repre

sent greenstone, and the striped green, felspathic trap.

In the parcel are fragments drawn by me on an

/enlarged scale for the purpose of mapping when on
the ground.  know that all the traps between St.

David's Head and Pen-berry are intrusive greenstones,

and you need not visit them unless you like. I fear

that the trap on which St. David's stands will want

looking to and separation into kinds all the way from

east to west. I think you will find most of the long

strips greenstone, but I recollect that some of them

between Aber - pwll (four miles north - east  of St.
David's Head) and Mathry are felspathic ash.  I once
stayed a week at a public-house at Mathry.

St. David's Island is mostly greenstones, but

some felspar ; Lower Solva and Whitchurch, felspar

and quartz, I think ; in fact, a granite without its mica.

I think Trefgarn is greenstone, but am not sure. I

suspect there are both kinds near St. Dogwells. At

Wolfe's Castle there was a public-house, where I put

    1 A melancholy interest attaches to this letter, for it intimates the last official
act of De la Beche's life. He had been at the Museum the day before, and

given the consent above referred to ; but before the letter could reach its destina
tion ' our dear old governor, whose like we shall never see again,' as Ramsay
wrote, had passed away.
1855 REVISION OF SOUTH WALES  233

up a horse daily. Sir Henry did most of the Preseley
traps. You will find remarks of his on the maps that

may help you a little.
     Are the Cambrians coloured on the copy of the

Map you have with you ? On Nos. 1 to 5 you will
find some useful hints about them near St. David's,

and on Nos. 6 and 7 you will find them mapped in
some sort of way pretty carefully. You must judge
for yourself whether it will now and then be needful to

cut it fine and alter old lines. I have a notion that

most of mine are good, viz. all those west of St.
Lawrence and Mathry ; all between Little Newcastle

and Trefgarn ; also those between Fishguard, New
port, and the River Gwaen. The rest I know little
about, though I did some of them.

     Finally, do not spare horse-flesh or car-hire to do

it quickly.

As soon as it was possible for him to join his

trusted colleague, Ramsay made his way into Pem

brokeshire. He had not been back there since his

early days in the Survey. The inspection had thus a
double interest for him. To Mrs. Ramsay from Dale,

on the 1 3th November, he writes : ' We were to-day at
West Angle Bay in a sailing boat, which I had the
satisfaction of steering-- a thing that always gives me

supreme delight. I have a passion for steering boats

in a good breeze, and we had one. The only alloy

to Talbot and myself was  's stupidity with the

sailors ; he gave them so much good advice ! ' On

the 1 8th, having reached St. David's, he announced

to his wife that ' no guests being expected, the pro

vision was rather scarce, consisting of four very brown

and dry mutton-chops. However, with the help of
234 GEOLOGICAL SURVE Y IN SCOTLAND chap, vh

two apple-dumplings, some cheese, bread, and butter,

we felt that we had in truth nothing to complain of.

It was dark when we got into the town, but I recog

nised the old houses, especially the first on the road,

Captain Propert's, who in old days took the first

French prisoner when Pembrokeshire was invaded

[in 1797], and tying him to his saddle-bow, rode with
him to Haverfordwest. This morning [Sunday] after

breakfast I walked down to the Cathedral, and sat in

my old stall on the right of the bass vicar-choral, and

sang bass just as I used to do fourteen and a half years

ago. Mr. Richards preached. He was then a curate,
and is now a canon. He was the only clergyman in

the church. The congregation consisted of about ten

or a dozen women, four or five men, and some boys.

The church looked so old, older than any church you

ever saw, and though something has been done to                           it,

still looks sadly neglected. . . . When came here
I it

                                                             a

                                                              I
had just entered the Survey month or two before.

Sir Henry sent me alone to this extreme corner of

South Wales. Except one or two slight acquaintances

in the English part of Pembrokeshire, knew no one
              I
                        I
                                                  I

                                                                a
in Wales then. Truly, did not see in vision that

in eleven years should progress from this igneous

and Cambrian county to the extreme northern igneous

and Cambrian county of Wales, and there find my

mate. was then twenty-seven, and thought every day
'I
    I

                if

                            a

                             I
                                                                      it
a holiday, and nothing about marriage at all, except

that thought  man were rich enough would be

better to be married than single.

       From St. David's went to Fishguard, and stayed

there all the winter of 1841 and spring of 1842. Mr.

De la Beche, Kendall and Rose, and Aveline and

Rees were all at Fishguard till the autumn of 1841.
185S REMINISCENCES OF SOUTH WALES                    235

In the spring of 1842 I joined Sir Henry De la

Beche at Caermarthen after three weeks spent en

route at Cardigan and Newcastle Emlyn. From
Caermarthen in the same summer Sir H. went to

Llangadoc, and I to Llandeilo to join little James,
whose bones are now bleaching in the deserts of
Australia. From thence Sir H. and I went together to

Llandovery. In a fortnight I was sent to Pumpsaint,

Jwhen ohnes called on me next day to invite me to

a picnic given in one of the caves of the Gogofau.
There was a ball in the evening. That autumn I

spent at Ross and Mitcheldean, and returned to
Dolaucothi at Christmas. I think, were I to go on,

the association of ideas would carry me on all through

my life up till the day of our marriage, which (except

some that have succeeded) was, I think, the best
            for (as know, and by the consent of my
day in    it,
              it

                         I
                                                                                         in
relatives)     procured me the dearest little wife

Christendom.'

As the Survey was now creeping eastward across

the southern English counties, the Local Director
could compare the scenery and associations of that
district with those of the more ancient rocks of other

parts of the country, and send home descriptions to

his wife. Thus, while travelling through southern
Hampshire with Bristow, he writes What strik
                            :
                                 '

                                               a

                                                                             !
ing country we came through to-day to an eye like
mine, which delights in raking up images of the past

Far-spreading brown heather and moors, with little

mosses and marshes and marshy -banked streams,

broken up with grassy swells covered with native

oaks and other trees, make  true piece of old
                            a
                                                 is
England. Wasn't William Rufus who said to
               it

have laid all the New Forest waste and depopulated
236 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

it to turn it into a hunting ground ? I scarcely believe

that, in its full extent, for the district forms as a whole

one of the worst soils in England, and it is not likely

ever to have been thickly populated in these early

times. I think its villainous flint-gravelly soil is the

reason why it has remained forest-land so long.'

    From Lewes, in Sussex, he wrote : 'It is here,

you know, that the Russian prisoners are. I have
not seen any of them. The soldiers are kept in
prison, but allowed to walk out under guard. The

officers live in lodgings about the town. I have not

it.
                                                          is,
told you what a beautiful town it                              clean and airy,

such as you see nowhere out of England. The

houses are built of brick or of chalk-flints. The

streets are hilly, and gardens and trees are scattered

about the town. A grey old castle, built by the

son of William the Conqueror, stands in the middle

of The River Ouse runs through the town.
The surrounding valleys are full of pretty hamlets,

snug farms, and well-grown trees, and the sweeping,
green, bare chalk-downs swell all around, from the
tops of which (800 feet) your eye ranges far across
the lower undulations of the Weald of Sussex to

the northern escarpment of the Chalk hills twenty

miles off.'

The preparation of the great Welsh Memoir was

still Ramsay's chief indoor employment. During
wet weather in summer-time, when field-work was

impossible, he sat down resolutely to his note-books,

maps, and manuscript. In winter he was able to
work more continuously on the subject. With the

view of securing undisturbed quiet, so unattain

able in London, he used to take quarters with his
wife and children in some place where one of the
1855-1856 CORRESPONDENCE WITH J. IV. SALTER  237

surveyors was at work, so that he might have the

relaxation of an occasional day in the field. Thus
part of the winter of 1855-56 was spent at Chelten
ham, where Mr. E. Hull was at that time stationed,

and where Ramsay saw much of his valued friend,

Thomas Wright, so widely known for his admirable

labours among the Jurassic echinoderms and ammon
ites. In later years he pitched his autumn camp

in Scotland.

Among the colleagues with whom he had to

consult continually and in great detail was J. W.

Salter, whose remarkable knowledge of Palaeozoic

fossils was of essential service in working out the

stratigraphy. But with all his knowledge, it was

not always easy to obtain from this palaeontologist

the definite information which the field-men required.

In particular, there was at this time a struggle to

get him to draw up tables or lists of the fossils

actually named from each locality and horizon.

Without these it was clearly impossible to make

progress either with the revision of the field-work,

or with the preparation of the Memoir. Many

were the remonstrances and entreaties addressed to

him by Ramsay on the subject.     The following

letter may serve as a sample :--

                                           Cheltenham. 30M January 1856.

    My dear Salter -- I shall be up to the Anniversary,

and shall hear your paper.
      I have not lost my interest in the South Wales

question. Quite the reverse ; for it occupies most of
my Silurian thoughts. I have thought much over
and latterly talked over with Talbot, and formed my
conclusions, which, in many respects, are not dissimilar
              it

                                                                       it,
238 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

from yours. But I do not consider my conclusions

yet conclusive, nor do I yours, nor Talbot's, and he

knows more about it than any of us. However, we

are in a fair way. Lists, Lists, Lists, are what we

want, and what you want, and without lists the fight is

not two-thirds done. You nearly shook us about these

Bwlch Trebannon beds being Upper ; but not quite,

for we could not reconcile it to our consciences that

they could be anything but Lower. However, by

help of lists and physics, we'll purge the whole
question, and have it all straight next spring. As to

unconformities I say nothing, and wink my mental eye.

Therefore let us have lists. I shall be up in a week
or eight days. -- Ever sincerely,
                                   A. C. Ramsay.

     In London it was difficult to carry on continuous
literary labour, so many colleagues had questions to
ask, and so many callers were desirous of a chat or of
information. Nevertheless, he contrived to send off

to the editor of the Edinburgh New Philosophical
Journal a review of the fifth edition of Lyell's Manual
of Elementary Geology. This article appeared anony
mously, but its authorship was manifest. It was
obviously written by a man of wide practical acquaint
ance with geology, who could speak familiarly of the
geological features of many parts of the British Isles
of which no account had yet been published ; who
could appeal forcibly to evidence of glaciation in
central Scotland, mentioning localities that had never

been cited before ; who could refer to places all over
Wales from Anglesey to Pembrokeshire, some of which
no geologist out of the Survey had ever visited ; who
knew Charnwood Forest, had rambled across Shrop
shire, Cheshire, Staffordshire, and Derbyshire, had
CRITIQUE OF LYELL  ^39

extended his observations into Switzerland, and had

studied the drifts of the Oberland. There was only
one man in Britain who had this range of personal
experience, and that was A. C. Ramsay. Lyell had
no difficulty in at once recognising the writer. At a

party at Dr. Fitton's on the 2nd April Ramsay met
Lady Lyell. ' She told me,' he says, ' that to-day Sir
Charles had received a review of his Elements which

bore internal evidence of its authorship, and which, he

said, was the best thing that had been done, being the
only good review that had ever appeared of any of

his works since Poulett Scrope wrote one.' 1 So pleased

was Lyell that a few days afterwards he sent the
subjoined letter :--

                                                        53 Harley Street, London,
                                                                         6lh April 1856.

    IMy dear Ramsay-- I have had time since saw you to read

over more carefully your article in the New Phil., which gives me
much pleasure, independently of what is said of my book, for it is
no small satisfaction to find a younger man of wide experience, and
one who has explored different regions, arriving at similar con

clusions on many theoretical points still controverted here, and more

so on the continent.
      The opinion at p. 3 1 3, that neither the Silurian nor Cambrian

rocks show traces of a beginning, is one of those useful confessions
of faith ; also, that the greater the age of a formation, the less
chance is there of its deltas being preserved, p. 314 ; also that the
present margins of old formations are the result of denudation, ibid.,

Ietc. ; but, above all, p. 306, Titanic agency, etc.

         agree with Dr. Hooker that this article in its style is extremely

Igood, apart from scientific depth. He says it is so thoroughly

English. But for that matter always maintain that your first paper
on Arran left nothing to be desired.

      The small number of the fresh-water formations prior to the
Tertiary cannot be too much insisted upon, and you have brought
it out well. The ' Letten-kohle ' of the Trias near Stuttgart is a
 near approach to an estuarine deposit, to say no more ; and it is

     1 Alluding to the article written by G. P. Scrope which appeared in the
Quarterly Review for April 1835.
240 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

near that coaly deposit that the Microlestes or Triassic mammifer was

found in a bone-bed, the exact circumstances of which I examined

last year, and will tell you about some day.
      Your O opposite the ' Upper Cretaceous ' is too often forgotten

when the progressive development advocates reason on the absence

of Upper Cretaceous mammalia.

     In regard to the Carboniferous delta, I would rather accept the
idea of many contemporaneous rivers debouching in one sea, than

suppose the coal-fields of the United States to have been all once

united, as H. D. Rogers supposes. Assuming these coal-fields to

be deltas, it is no doubt strange that we have so few terrestrial

fossils ; that it should have been left for me and Dawson to discover

the first land shell, and in America the first reptilian bones. Land

snakes may have existed on the then continents, even without

offending against the laws of progressive development, but when we

find them, and helices, and other signs of land creatures, the time

will come for speculating on the absence of higher vertebrata.

     The four O, O, O, O, or cyphers, opposite the four lowest

Pakeozoic groups, are significant. It was also well to insist on the

numerous subdivisions of the Oolitic period, and of others, each

Ifseparately equal to the ' Glacial and recent epochs.'
       I did not take for granted that the condensed essay on the

glacial phenomena of Wales and other parts of the world was

to appear even more full and expanded in your ' Survey Memoirs,' I

should grudge its being given in an anonymous shape to any scientific

Ijournal. The distinctness of the molluscan fauna on the opposite

shores of the Isthmus of Panama is well adverted to, and suspect

unanswerable. Notwithstanding the upraised marine deposits in the

N. Polar regions, there is much low land, and so much sea, that

we have only to suppose a few such peaks as now lift themselves

Iup in the Antarctic regions (Mount Erebus, etc.), and believe we
have the required cold.

The quantity of reading and original observation adduced,

quite naturally and without parade, in the last eight or nine pages,

is prodigious, and not more than one in a hundred of the readers of

Ithe Mag. will know how to appreciate. The few will do justice to it.

  am glad you paid a passing tribute to the ' illustrious ' one who

boldly led the way against the ridicule and scepticism of the ordinary

I Icrowd in regard to Welsh glaciers.

         am rather afraid, confess, of D. Sharpe's paper, although in

the Elements I led the way before Murchison in transporting Alpine

blocks to the  JIuraaskbedy  floating   ice. But D. S. requires twice the
upheaval that                for as    having occurred since the Glacial

Period. To raise mountains 9000 feet has probably required more
than a part of one geological period, and Studer and others have in

vain looked for marine shells in the Swiss drift. Fresh - water
18s6 SURVEY ANNIVERSARY DINNER                                     241

remains and extinct mammalia I believe they have discovered near

IBerne, but never at very high levels.
      But must conclude with thanking you for what would have
been a treat had the Manual of Phillips instead of my own been the

subject of your Essay. It has scarcely ever, in the course of twenty

years, been my lot to be reviewed by writers who had any practical
                                                         I
experience as   original observers   in the field,  and     therefore value
your criticism                      truly yours,
                the more. -- Ever                           Cha. Lyell.

     At the Anniversary Survey dinner in the spring
of 1856, the first presided over by Murchison, who
entered heartily into the merriment of the evening,

Ramsay produced three new songs and a glee on
geological topics. One of the subjects selected by
him was his Permian boulder-clay, to which reference
has already been made. The style of the composition

may be inferred from one or two verses.

Few, few believe what I have told,                          tails
Men say that I am overbold.
What then ? they sneered that Welshmen's

Had polished Buckland's rocks in Wales.

And when I'm dead, and these poor bones
Lie underneath the turf and stones,
The home of worms and churchyard mice,

Men then will swallow Permian ice.

Then, then I trust the old Survey,

Young hands and these, my friends, grown grey,
Will rear above my mouldering bones
Four monstrous Permian boulder-stones.

And, on a slab by ice worn smooth,

Record that in their early youth
The poor old boy beneath that lies

Loved well to walk and talk on ice.

     The best of the Survey songs ever written by
Ramsay was one which he produced next year (1857),
and which may be conveniently inserted here. It

refers to the geological expedition made some years

                                                          R
242 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

previously by Murchison, Keyserling, and De Verneuil
across Russia to the Ural Mountains, and was such a

favourite ditty at the Survey anniversaries that its
author was often asked to sing it.

  The Lay of S1r Roder1ck the Bold and the Emperor of

                         all the russ1as

                      A1r--' The Auld Wife ayont the Fire'

                      The auld rocks ayont the sea,
                      The auld rocks ayont the sea,
                      The auld rocks ayont the sea,

                          That rise upon the Ural.
                         There was a doughty Scottish knight,
                    A hammerman o' mickle might,
                      The Laird o' Taradale he hight,

                             Gaed singing ' Tooralooral,
                      The auld rocks ayont the sea,
                      The Russian rocks ayont the sea,
                      I'll map the rocks ayont the sea,

                          That rise upon the Ural.'

                      To Petersburg the knight he gaed ;
                      The Czar cam down and to him said,
                         ' Ye're welcome here to mak a raid,

                          Out ower as fa^s the Ural.
                      Frae west to east in ilka hole
                      Ye'll cast an ee, and 'twill be droll
                         But you will find a bed o' coal,

                          And I'll sing Tooralooral.
                      The knight he cam across the sea,
                         The Scottish knight cam ower the sea,
                      To whack the Russian rocks for me,

                          Right out across the Ural.'

                    The knight he took a working squad --

                         De Verneuil and another lad,
                         Count Keyserling, and scoured like mad

                       (All singing Tooralooral) --
                      Silurian rocks and guid Auld Red,
                      Wi' fish and shells baith in ae bed,
                      And Permian strata overhead,

                       Right up against the Ural --

                         These auld rocks ayont the sea,
                      Wi' Oxford Clay ayont the sea,
                      Erratics o' the Glacial Sea,

                          Choke up against the Ural.
1856 MURCHISON IN THE FIELD                                          243

Then hame he cam, and left his mates,
And wrote a book wi' maps and plates,
And sections o' the Russian states

    Frae Baltic Sea to Ural.
The Emperor he scratched his poll, --
' 'Tis bravely done ! but by my soul ! !
I wish we had some beds o' coal ! ! !

    Oh ! Tooralooralooral ! ! ! !

There's auld rocks ayont the sea,
There's British rocks ayont the sea
Hae lots o' coal, the worse for me,

   There's nane beside the Ural ! '

                                                           (Weeps).

     In the summer of 1856 Ramsay had an oppor
tunity of seeing his chief in the field, for they spent
some weeks together in a series of geological pere
grinations in the west of England and the borders of
Wales. He thus notes his impressions to Mrs.
Ramsay : ' I am very glad to have been with Sir
Roderick, and to have seen him for many days in his
genuine field -phase, of which I had no idea before.
The impression he makes is most favourable. First,

he is a very early bird ; and secondly, he is always so
good - humoured, mirthful, and almost boyish, for

though awfully apt to deliver lectures and to talk far

too much geology, yet he will often tell many queer
anecdotes, and sometimes even talk nonsense. An
other thing you will highly approve of-- he is always

anxious to get letters from his wife, and very frequent

in his letters to her. I am certain they are very fond
of each other.'

     After attending the Cheltenham meeting of the
British Association in August of this year, where
he was President of the Geological Section, Ramsay
took his wife and family to Scotland, and settled for

some months in a cottage at Dalkeith, in Midlothian,
where he could work at the Welsh Memoir and have
GEOLOGICAL SURVE Y IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

an occasional day in the field with his colleagues,

Mr. H. H. Howell and the writer of this bio

graphy,1 who at that time, and for some years later,
constituted the whole staff of the Survey in Scotland.

There could not be a more charming companion in the

field than he. So long as the surveyor was untrained

the Director would spare no pains in going over his

mapping, sometimes spending almost as much time in

the inspection as had been occupied in the original

survey, and never resting satisfied until he saw that
the structure of the country was adequately grasped
and correctly mapped. In such educational visits the

day passed almost wholly in geological conversation

and discussion.  But when once he recognised that

his subordinate was a careful and conscientious worker

and could be trusted, his confidence in him showed

itself in many agreeable ways. He would then touch

lightly on details, contenting himself with a look at
some of the more important sections, and getting a

clear notion of the general structure.  He would

launch out into disquisitions on theoretical questions,

more especially on those which had recently been

engaging his attention, and would astonish his young
companion by the mass of information which he dis

played, much of it not obtainable from books. He

had a singular gift of conversation, which enabled him
to draw out of a man who had any special knowledge

to impart such information as served to elucidate

geological questions. He not only ransacked books of

travel, but he questioned the men themselves who had

travelled, and stored up in his memory the facts,

    1 I had joined the staff in October 1855, and after some months of field-work

with Mr. Howell in continuing the Director's mapping in East Lothian, began
the survey of Midlothian in 1856.
1856 RAMSA Y IN THE FIELD  -45

allusions, or suggestions which he thus obtained. It
was this wide range of knowledge and broad view of

geological principles which gave so much interest and
value to his lectures, and which made the long talks
with him in the field so inexpressibly instructive to
those who were privileged to take part in them.

      But where Ramsay met with a congenial spirit in

those country rambles, geology formed only a part,

and sometimes, if the rocks were not particularly
difficult or attractive, only a small part of the conversa
tion of the day. English literature was to him a vast
and exhaustless garden, full of alleys green and sunny

arbours, where from boyhood he had been wont to
spend many a delightful hour. When he found among
his colleagues one whose talk was not always of stones,

but who had ranged like himself far and wide in literary

fields, he opened out his inner soul, and his conversa

tion glowed with an animation and power as well as a
gleeful exuberance which astonished and charmed his

companion. As the writer pens these lines, he re

calls many a happy day spent with his Director among
the hills and valleys of southern Scotland, when the
discussion of the geology and the mapping were inter

spersed with endless comments on favourite authors,
disquisitions on style, analyses of characters in fiction,
and quotations of parallel passages in illustration of
some thought that had arisen in the course of the talk.

Ramsay had his favourite authors, for whom his

affection increased every year. He knew Shake

speare so well that he would every now and then flash

some apposite phrase or line from him to lighten up

the sentence he was uttering. Among novelists his
acquaintance was wide and varied, but he always put
Scott far away at the head of them all. He had read
246 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, vn

the Waverley Novels so often, and remembered them

so vividly, that their characters served in his memory

as personages whom he could almost believe that he

had actually known. How earnest he would grow

as he discoursed on the plot of Ivanhoe and its

relation to the known historical events of the time to

which it was referred ! His extensive knowledge of

English scenery enabled him to picture vividly the

surroundings of Gurth and Wamba, and to enlarge

on Scott's marvellous power of seizing the dominant

features and local characteristics of a landscape, which

perhaps he had only seen casually, and straightway

colouring them with a vivid glow of human interest.

Among English poets one of his greatest favourites

was Keats. He would sometimes speak as if he would

rather have been the author of Hyperion than of any

other poem in the language. The quaint conceits in
the Ode to a Grecian Urn delighted him, and
various lines in it were often on his lips -- 'for ever

piping songs for ever new,' ' heard melodies are
sweet, but those unheard are sweeter, ' ' beauty is

truth, truth beauty.' How often have we been re

quested to proceed with a statement by the quotation,

' Therefore,  ye  soft  pipes,  play  on    '
                                          !

There was yet another feature of Ramsay's mind

which made these excursions singularly pleasant.

Though not in any sense an antiquary, he knew a

good deal about the history of architecture, and as has

already been remarked, took a keen delight in visiting

ruins and trying to form a mental picture of what they

must have been before the gnawing tooth of time had

dismantled them. Whatever, indeed, linked him with

the past had a charm for him. He never willingly

missed an opportunity of seeing a ruined castle or keep,
1856 FIELD-WORK IN SCOTLAND  247

a mouldering abbey, a grass-grown encampment, or

a lonely cairn. If tradition or song invested any spot

with a living interest, he would not consider his
geological inspection complete if it had not included a
visit to that site.

     In Scotland, where so many ruins are scattered

over the southern counties, and where tradition,

legend, and ballad have given celebrity to so many
localities, there was during the annual visits of inspec
tion abundant opportunity afforded to the Local
Director to indulge to the full his love of the memorials

of a vanished past. His letters, written usually either
when more or less wearied after a long day of walking,

or when hurried in the morning by the preparations
for the start, give only a faint glimpse of the enthusi
asm which these old associations kindled in him on

the ground, as, indeed, they convey a most imperfect
picture of the bright sparkle and vivacious earnestness
of his best conversation. The wild lonely tract of

Lammermuir which he had partially explored from

Dunbar afforded him exhaustless materials for indulg
ing in his antiquarian tastes. In some parts of the dis

trict every prominent eminence has its circular earthen
grass-covered ramparts of ancient Celtic forts, like
the Maiden Castle, where Marmion had the nocturnal

encounter with the Palmer. Legends still tell of foray
and feud, and tradition faithfully points out the scenes
of the incidents. After a ramble with the writer

through this region, Ramsay wrote to his wife (27th

September 1859): 'We have had to drive eighteen
miles by a hilly road from Lauder to Duns, and to do

as much work as we could upon the hills by the way.
We came across a fine wild country growing into
cultivation between the southern slopes of the Lammer
248  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND  chap, v11

muirs and the English border. We passed a hill-top

on the left, crowned with two cairns, where two

brothers met and slew each other, unknowing who they
were. And far away lay the dark field of Flodden,

where Scotland bit the dust.

     ' Grieved was I to hear of Dr. Nichols death.
He was my first scientific friend when growing into
man's estate, and but for him I might never have been
such as I am.'

     On the west side of Scotland historical and tradi

tional associations enlivened not less the inspecting
tours of the Local Director. In Ayrshire he could
enjoy himself to the full. The geology had so much
variety and interest that it furnished ample material
for the most solid talk. The scenery embraced the
hills of Kyle and Carrick, with the deep ravines of the

Ayr and the Doon, while westward the whole
panorama of the Arran mountains rose out of the
blue firth. The light of song glowed all over the
region. Every parish had its old castles, its legends,

and traditions. I have never seen my friend more

thoroughly happy than when he was rambling over
that part of Scotland. Each day was full of new
surprises and delights for him. In the morning we
might be tracing out the sites of old Permian volcanoes,
or following the succession of lava-sheets in the Old

Red Sandstone, but before evening we were pretty
sure to get into old ballads and traditions, suggested
by the associations of the localities through which our
work led us. The old castle of Auchendrane, perched
so picturesquely in the ravine of the Doon, with its

charming family circle and its hospitable host, so fine
a sample of the antique world, filled him with raptur
ous delight, and formed many a time in later years the
1856 FIELD-WORK IN A YRSHIRE AND NITHSDALE 249

subject of his thoughts and his conversation.1 He was a
welcome guest too at Dalquharran Castle, in the Girvan
valley, where his love of the past was amply gratified,
where his host could retail many reminiscences of men,
manners, and customs that had long passed away, and
where his hostess threw overthe household the inexpres
sible charm of her own gentle and gracious presence.

     In the eastern part of the district where the
infant Nith turns southward into the dale which

bears its name, he was much struck with these

local associations, as may be seen in the following
passages from a letter to Miss Johnes : ' The low bit
of country in which I now write [New Cumnock]

is 700 feet above the sea. "The wind is howling in

turret and tree," or would do so if there were either
turrets or trees here for it to howl in. We are in a
great plain, once a lake, now filled with peat-moss,
through which slowly flows the winding Nith near its
sources. Great rounded green hills rise all around,
some of them more than 2000 feet in height, and
beyond and among them are vast moors and mosses,
swelling and undulating for miles and miles, amid
which " the hill-folk " took refuge in the days of Claver-

house and the " bluidy Dalzell." Two days ago I was

at Kirkconnel, on the Nith, some six miles from here.
Old Kirkconnel, now desolate, is but a ruined church,
mere foundations, with a churchyard full of mouldering
tombstones, at the foot of the desolate hills. I

searched them all, and removed the grass and moss
from some, in hopes of finding thereon " Hie jacet
Adamus Fleming," but in vain.2

     1 Auchendrane was the prototype of a sketch of ' Balbraith ' which he after
wards wrote for The Saturday Review.

     2 There is another Kirkconnel farther south, on the Kirtle Water, which
claims to be the true scene of the ballad, and where Helen's grave is pointed out
250 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND chap, v11

                 ' I wish I were where Helen lies,
                  Night and day on me she cries ;

                  O that I were where Helen lies,
                      On fair Kirkconnel Lea !

' Another theme of interest in these parts to

human mortals is the aforesaid wide dreary mosses,

where in old times the steadfast covenanting hill-folk

used to bide the weather with Bibles in their bosoms

when fleeing from Claverhouse, Dalzell, and the

rampaging     "  dragoons.   Many a spot where                                                     after
" testifying      they were  shot and buried in the                                                moss

has been pointed out to me in my geological rambles,

for even geologists have human interests.'

Until the year 1867, when the Geological Survey

of Great Britain was divided into two, and a separate

establishment was given to Scotland, Ramsay used to

visit his staff in the north each year, inspecting the

field-work, and enjoying a renewal of his acquaintance

with his native country. After that year his visits

were few, and ceased to have any inspecting duty

connected with them.

with a decayed trunk of an ancient thorn rising above                                              from the roots of which
   young sapling has sprung up.
a
                                                                                              it,
                 CHAPTER VIII

                                  FOREIGN TRAVEL

Dur1ng the six years from 1857 to 1862 Sir Andrew
Ramsay spent a part of each summer but one abroad.
It was in this part of his life that he accomplished
almost all the work in foreign geology which he ever
did. There will therefore be some convenience in the
treatment of the subject if we group the tours together
in one chapter.

     From what has been stated in the foregoing pages
it will be clear that the ice-fever in geology had now
got full hold of him. He had seen a little of Swiss
glaciers, but not nearly enough to enable him to answer
all the questions which the glacial phenomena in Britain
were continually putting to him. He therefore deter
mined to devote as much time as he could spare to the
study of ice and its work outside the narrow limits of the
British Isles, while neglecting no opportunity of in
vestigating the subject within these limits. By a happy
accident he was soon able to carry out this determina
tion in a far fuller manner than he could have dreamed
to be possible. How this came about is told in a
letter to his brother William. ' Certain of the great
steam-boat companies, at the solicitation of the
Canadians, have put a few free passages to America
and back at the disposal of the leading scientific
252  FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

societies to [enable delegates] to attend a meeting of
the "American Association for the Advancement of

Science," which takes place at Montreal on the 12th
August [1857]. Failing Sir Roderick, the Geological

Society have deputed me to represent them, so I go

in an honourable position.' Taking Mrs. Ramsay

with him, he sailed on the 29th July.
     This was by far the most enjoyable and instructive

of all his foreign expeditions. His friends, Sir William
Logan and Professor James Hall of Albany, spared

no pains to ensure his seeing everything that he

wished to see, or which they thought it important from
a geological point of view that he should visit. His

time was thus economised to the utmost. He was
taken from point to point, so that in the course of

exactly two months he had travelled over a large
extent of country, and had been conveyed over those
tracts which were specially of service to him in

reference to the problems in which he took interest.
     From Montreal Logan carried the two travellers to

Ottawa and up the St. Lawrence by the Thousand Isles
and Lake Ontario to Niagara, thence to Lake Huron.

At Sarnia, Hall met them, and brought them into New
York State by Genisee to his hospitable home at

Albany, from which centre they made excursions to
Schoharie, the Helderberg, and Catskill Mountains.
Descending the Hudson to New York, they found

there that almost all the persons to whom they had

introductions were absent on holiday. They therefore
passed on to Newhaven, and paid a short visit to
Professors Dana, Silliman, and Brush, thence to

Boston, where they were delighted to meet Agassiz,
and so back to Montreal and Quebec for the voyage
home.
1857-1858  CANADA AND SWITZERLAND  253

     The chief geological fruits of this expedition were
given partly in a discourse to the Royal Institution,

but more fully in a paper read before the Geological

Society. Ramsay had not yet realised the massiveness
of the land-ice of the Glacial Period. Like most of the

geologists of the day, he still regarded the 'drift' as
the result of transport by icebergs, and to the same

agency he attributed the striae on the sides and summits
of the hills. He recognised the remarkably ice-worn
character of Canadian topography, but he did not

yet associate that character with a former extensive

glaciation by land-ice. Nevertheless he now beheld
the effects of this glaciation on a far grander scale

than he had ever before seen them, and unconsciously

he was accumulating material that would enable him
to get rid of the paralysing idea that the land must
have been submerged beneath the ocean as far as the

highest striations or drift deposits could be traced.
 He was not, however, able entirely to divest himself
of the old error until the summer of 1 86 1 .

      In the summer of 1858 Ramsay and Tyndall made
an expedition together into Switzerland for the purpose
of studying the phenomena of glaciers and ice-action.
The results of their conjoint observations on this
occasion are to be found in the writings of each
explorer. Tyndall had not specially examined the
proofs of the former greater extension of the glaciers
of the Alps, and Ramsay, to whom this was a matter
 of supreme interest in connection with his inves

 tigations in Britain, took pains to direct his com

 panion's attention to the subject during the course
 of the excursion. Arriving at Grindelwald, they

 undertook some preliminary climbing among the ice-
 filled valleys of that district, and Ramsay proved
254  FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

himself so expert a pedestrian that Christian Lauener

deemed it quite practicable to proceed on the proposed
series of ascents with only himself as guide. They
crossed by the Strahleck Pass over to the Finsteraar

and Unteraar glaciers, spent some time at the Grimsel
studying the marvellous evidence of the vast dimen
sions of the ancient Alpine ice, went to the Rhone
glacier, and then to Viesch, the ^Eggischorn and the

Marjelen See, where they remained some days taking
measurements of the thickness of the ice and the depth
of the glacier-lake, and making observations of the
temperature of the air. Ramsay had here the great
satisfaction of watching the origin and movements of

icebergs. Descending the Rhone valley to Visp, they
walked up to Zermatt with the intention of ascending
Monte Rosa. The ample details of geological observa
tions in Ramsay's note-book of these rambles were
afterwards condensed by him in his essay on the Old
Glaciers of Switzerland and Wales. They show how

continually his experience in Britain enabled him to

interpret the phenomena in the Alps, and, on the other
hand, how the existing snow-fields and glaciers of the
Alps gave new clearness to his conceptions of the
vanished ice-sheets of his native country. One or two

citations from the note-book may fittingly find a place

here.

    ' Viesch, 30th July. -- Started at nine for the JEggi-

schorn. On the partial clearing of the mist, ascended

the mountain. Tyndall and Lauener pushed on before

me, and were at the top twenty minutes or so earlier
than I was. The day is not far past when I was at
least a match for either of them. Tyndall cannot

believe that at forty-four and a half years my best

days, as regards strength and agility, should be gone,
1858 WITH TYNDALL AMONG THE SWISS GLACIERS 255

and he makes no allowance for my having reached the

top of the curve, and begun to descend on the other

side.

' The summit of the peak consists of piled blocks

of gneissic rocks, rent by frost and weather, and heaped
on each other in wild confusion, like the summits of

the Glyders, or Y Tryfan, above the passes of Nant

Francon and Llanberis. The view from the summit

was, indeed, grand. Below on the north and west

lay the Great Aletsch glacier, seemingly as much

larger than all the other glaciers I have yet seen, as

the St. Lawrence is larger than the Severn, Thames,

or Seine. There it lay below us, broad, smooth, and

sweeping, although crevassed and somewhat crumpled.

The moraines looked small upon           On the left
                                it.

                                             it
                                                             it
descended into the valley, and on the north was lost

in the far recesses of those Alpine giants, the Jungfrau,

Monch, and Finsteraarhorn. On the north-west the

glacier joined by two great tributaries, one the Ober
'
Aletsch glacier, the other the Middle Aletsch glacier,
      isstretching up among the snows and awful cliffs of the

Aletschhorn, the peak of which rises more than 13,000
feet above the sea. This summit higher than the
          it
Jungfrau. White sunny mists were seething roundit,

half veiling and adding to its majesty.a
                             is

                                                           a it,
       Seemingly close below lay the Marjelen See, with

the glacier branching into and breaking off in large

masses, which floated away eastward as tabular bergs

before the wind, and grounded on the desolate shores.

Clearly the glacier once sent off branch down this

valley, for besides that partially does so still, the

rocks on the hills by the lake are moutonndes high up
on either side. The glacier must then have sent off a

branch that united with the Viescher glacier, and at
256  FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

 certain period of its history it sought the valley of the
 Rhone by two channels, that of the Aletsch and that of

 the Viescher glacier.'
      On reaching Zermatt he found letters telling him

 that his mother had had a serious attack of bronchitis,

but had somewhat rallied. Next day he made the
following entry in his note-book :--

     'Zermatt, gth August. -- Found at the post office a

 black-edged envelope, which at once told me that my

 mother was dead. I merely read the first few lines,

and then ran up the mountain after Tyndall, towards
the Riffel Hotel, but he had gone to the end of the
Gorner glacier, and I outstripped him. When half

way up, exhausted with my speed, I turned and saw
two figures far below by the glacier, whom I guessed

to be Tyndall and Lauener. During the half-hour
they took to come up to me I had leisure to read my

wife's letter, and my grief found a little vent. Tyndall
came up, and I marched down to him with my hat
drawn over my eyes. We arranged that Lauener

should go down and countermand the guide, who
next day was to accompany me up Monte Rosa, and
Tyndall persuaded me that instead of starting so late,

it would be better to remain with him and go next

day. So we ascended to the Riffel.'
     He started homeward early next day, and walked

the rough thirty miles of valley down to Visp to
regain his portmanteau, and catch the diligence for
Bex. Finding when there that he could reach
London almost as soon by sleeping at Bex as by
going on to Geneva, he remained to have a look
at the famous blocks of Monthey. He ' wandered

among them half a summer's day, pleased and amazed
by their beauty and great size, and the evidence of
1858 DEATH OF HIS MOTHER                         257

power conveyed to the mind while reflecting on the

agency that bore these ponderous masses and left

them perched on this hill, from 500 to 600 feet above
the Rhone. The largest, twenty-two paces in length,

and nearly equally broad and high, has on its flat

summit a good - sized summer - house with a small

garden containing cherry-trees.'1

On reaching England, and realising there amid all

the old familiar surroundings the blank that had now

fallen upon his life, with the rupture of his oldest and

tenderest associations, he made the following entry in

his diary :--
     'On the 29th July 1858 my dearest mother died

at the Bridge of Allan. She had been a few days

ailing, a little breathless, and in bed. William had

gone to Glasgow, and was telegraphed for ; when he
got back at six o'clock all was over. There may have

been many as good, but none better than our mother.

She died in her eighty-fifth year, surrounded by love.

She truly lived all her days, in health and cheerfulness,

in peace, love, and honour, with her faculties and

cheerfulness clear to the last, loving books and mirth,

and writing a good letter in a clear hand to the very

end. When my father died she must have been fifty-

three years old. I was then thirteen. She had but

,£1000 and a house. Then came a time that would

have crushed a weaker spirit. But she battled for us,

and keeping college and other boarders, brought us

all up respectably. William was apprenticed to Napier,

the engineer, and I went at that early age into  's

counting-house, and passed through many battles ere

I emerged from mercantile life and got launched in
the world of science. These times, which I look on

1 Old Glaciers of Switzerland and Wales, p. 30.
                                        S
                    FOREIGN TRAVEL             CHAP. VIII

as hard, though I was when young merry enough, my

mother never grumbled at, but doing a duty was

happy in and when we began to do well and madeit it,

her give            up, she almost missed for  time the
                    is
employment to which she had been used for eighteenis a

years.'                                          Ia

       Ere her death she had thirteen years of peace

and quietness, and every year endeared her more to
those who knew her best. My wife loved her like

veritable daughter, and all the children that approached

her loved her also. Her memory so pleasant to me,

and all her deeds, her courage, kindness, charity, and
goodness she lived her time in the world so well, and
a
so completely fulfilled a good woman's mission, that
     Ithough miss her, and every now and then think "
                 ;must write to my mother," yet my sorrow tempered

by thousand pleasant reflections. She lived to the

last happy and contented, beloved by all, happy in all

her children, and she scarcely seemed to die, so easy

itwas to pass from one world to another.'
     On returning to England from this Alpine excur

sion Ramsay had to address himself to long coursea
of arduous labour. Partly from the necessities of his

official position, and partly from his own voluntary
act in undertaking various pieces of work outside the
claims of the Survey, he was now involved in a greater
pressure of mental toil and accompanying worry than
had ever befallen him before. The inspecting duty in

the field was every year becoming more exacting, as
the staff of officers increased and the area of survey

augmented. But had that been his chief or only

occupation, he would have made in some measure
kind of holiday employment. But there was now
large and growing amount of literary work thrown
                    it

                                                          aa
1858 ROCK-CA TALOGUE OF MUSEUM JERMYN STREET 259

upon him which was unknown in the older days of the
Survey. Sir Roderick Murchison had arranged that
each of the one-inch maps, as it was published, should
be accompanied with an explanatory memoir, so that
the public might be put in possession of the chief data
used in the construction of the map, and of the infor
mation needful for its proper interpretation. These
memoirs were to be edited by the Local Director from
the manuscript notes supplied to him by the officers
who had surveyed the ground. He sometimes had to
furnish additional material from observations of his
own, and the amount of editorial supervision was thus
often exceedingly heavy. Then the great Memoir on
North Wales still dragged its slow length along.
From various causes, but chiefly from the want of
sufficiently full notes by one or two of his colleagues,
Ramsay had been unable to make rapid progress with
this large and detailed volume ; though it had been for
so long his chief indoor employment, and though he
again in the autumn of 1858 took a house in Scotland
for three months, this time at St. Andrews, in order to

push it forward.
     Another task occupied some part of his thought

and time. He had planned a descriptive catalogue of
the rock-specimens in the Survey collection in the
Jermyn Street Museum, and while assigning certain
portions of it to three of his colleagues, had kept the
main share of the work in his own hands. As ulti

mately published, this volume formed an excellent
compendium of British geology. In particular, the
account of the successive volcanic episodes in the

Palaeozoic period in Britain was by far the best which
up to that time had appeared, and it was mainly the
work of Ramsay himself.
26o  FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

      But over and above these official labours his hands

were full of work. He at this time condensed the

information on the published Survey maps, and
produced a geological map of England and Wales on
the scale of twelve miles to an inch, which is still the
most serviceable general map of the kingdom. He
prepared a Friday evening discourse for the Royal
Institution on the geological results of his Canadian
excursion, and wrote out a fuller statement of the

subject for the Geological Society. He drew up for

the well-known volume, Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers,

a chapter on the old glaciers of Switzerland and Wales.
This essay, full of original observation, and suffused
with the charm of freshness and enthusiasm, is one

of the most important and delightful which he ever

wrote. It was reprinted as a separate little volume,

and has long taken its place among the choice classics
of glacial geology. He now began to write for the
Saturday Review, and for a number of years con
tinued to furnish occasional articles to that journal,

chiefly on geological topics, but without the techni
calities of the more formal communications to learned

bodies.

     His habit at this time, when in country quarters in
the autumn, was to write during every available hour
of daylight, and only to go outside for exercise when it
was too dark any longer to see his manuscript. In
the end the strain proved too great both on his brain
and on his eyes. In the summer of 1859 he accom
panied Murchison into the North-West Highlands of
Scotland, and assisted him in the preparation of his
discourse for the British Association at Aberdeen. He

seemed tolerably well and merry at that meeting, but
afterwards, when out among the hills in the south of
kS59-186o       SERIOUS ILL-HEALTH

Scotland, he complained of weariness.1 The symptoms

of mental exhaustion increased during the autumn.

He had for the first time taken a permanent house in

London, having hitherto only occupied furnished

rooms. But hardly had he settled in the new home

when it became evident that he was in no fit condition

for London life, and more particularly to undertake his

usual course of lectures at the School of Mines.

Towards the end of December it was arranged that

the lectures should be given by his colleague Jukes,

while Ramsay himself went to the house of his helpful

and sympathetic friend, Dr. Wright of Cheltenham,

under whose care, with entire cessation of work and

worry, it was anticipated that speedy convalescence

would be secured. But the recovery was not to be

so easily effected. He was ordered to abstain from

all work for a time, and in order to obtain com

plete rest and change, he and Mrs. Ramsay with

the children went abroad. He wrote to me just

before leaving (31st March 1860) : ' I sail on Tues
day with bag, baggage, fishing - basket, rod, flies,

sketch-books, Shakespeare, and the musical glasses

in the shape of sundry minor authors. I am to be
away, if nothing specially intervene, for six months,
but I think the less we say about that the better ; and

if any one by any chance asks you anything about
                                                                 I
several months
                                                                              it,
1                                convenient word, with the addition

  I

                       is
                              a
that join the Scotch geologists as soon as come
back, and also that Sir Roderick says he will pay

During one of these rambles with me in Fife our conversation turned on the

Boulder clay and the mysteries of its origin. We both felt how unsatisfactory

was the received explanation of iceberg action and submergence.  I  was thus led

to study this deposit, and to reach thereby the conclusion, at which Ramsay also

simultaneously and independently arrived from a consideration of other evidence,

that the great glaciation was the work of land-ice. This change of view was
completed before the summer of 1861.
262                    FOREIGN TRAVEL  CHAP. VIII

you a visit during my absence. Gossips have been

exaggerating my illness, and I know that, both on my

own authority and that of the doctor, you will do me

the friendly turn to give a flat, blunt, sharp, plain,

broad, profound, high, and indignant denial to any
statement that I am seriously ill. I am even now so
wonderfully better that I can do a good hard day's
work at the office, albeit I am tired at night, and

therefore to set me up alike by day and by night, an

entire cessation for a while is needed.'

     Nearly two months were spent in Bonn, and of

this sojourn Ramsay used always to talk with much

enthusiasm. He loved the great river, and delighted
to sit quietly smoking and watching the ' breast of
waters' as it swelled beneath him. He made some

pleasant friends, among whom he specially counted
Von Dechen, the venerable Noggerath, and young
Ferdinand Zirkel. Professor Zirkel has sent me a

letter with his reminiscences of Ramsay, which is here
inserted :--

      My first meeting with the never-to-be-forgotten Ramsay was in

Ithe spring of 1860, in Bonn, so far as remember, towards the end

of April or beginning of May. One day my fatherly patron and

official chief, Von Dechen, sent for me and told me that an English

geologist, a man of great importance, had come to Bonn with his

wife, to spend some time there for the sake of his health, and in order to

Imake some geological excursions in the neighbourhood. As Dechen
himself had not time,  was asked to accompany and guide the

Istranger in these rambles. No request could have been more agree

able to me. Although was then only twenty-two years of age, yet

I knew the nearer and farther environs of my native town as well
as anybody. I was at that time a pupil of the Prussian State-

IMining Institute.

      So waited on Ramsay, who was staying at Ermekeil's Grand

Hotel Royal on the Rhine, and then began a series of blissful days.

Sometimes for the whole day, sometimes in the afternoon only, we

rambled in the Siebengebirge, to the Roderberg, to the Laacher See,

to the Devonian Eifel-limestone at Bensberg, and many other places.
1860 PROFESSOR Z1RKELS REMINISCENCES  263

When we got back Ramsay would usually have me to sup with him

and his wife in the hotel. I conceived at that time an enthusiastic

admiration for Ramsay, both for his amiable, simple, and straight

Iforward nature, and for his acuteness and his range of acquirements in
geological matters.  remember in a gully in the trachyte-tuff he
suddenly made a couple of steps forward, exclaiming, ' There is a
dyke ! ' and there, sure enough, was a dyke of solid trachyte, which

nobody had ever noticed before in this well-frequented path.

    I think Ramsay spent a happy time that season in Bonn.

Dechen once gave an evening party in his honour. His intercourse
with old Noggerath would have been greater, had the latter not been

utterly ignorant of English. I got on extremely well with Mrs.

Ramsay.

    In the summer of 1860 I made a journey to Iceland, and as,
on my return, I spent a short time in England, I then saw Ramsay

again. During the first days of my stay in London he was in the

country, but I met him on the last day in the Museum, Jermyn
Street, in company with LyelL I told him a good deal about my

tour in Iceland, and he presented me with several books.

    In 1868 I once more saw Ramsay, both before and after my

visit to Scotland. He lived at that time in Upper Phillimore Place,

in Kensington, where I spent an evening, and met Howell and Hull.
As I left London he gave me a letter to you, and this letter I

presented to you in Largs on Monday, 8th June 1868 (according to
my diary). That was the day when I had the good fortune to make
the personal acquaintance of my friend Geikie.

    The last time I saw Ramsay was at the meeting of the British
Association at Sheffield in 1879, when I was staying with Sorby.

     From Bonn Ramsay and his family moved up the

Rhine, and then ascended the Moselle to Alf and

Bertrich. There he established himself for a while,

and spent his time fishing in the river, exploring the
Eifel volcanoes, and gazing with ever - increasing

interest upon the great tableland and the valleys cut
out of it by the Moselle and its tributaries. From
that quiet life he journeyed to Treves, then back to

Heidelberg, and into the Black Forest. He attended
the tercentenary celebration of Basle University, and

even got as far as Munich. But in October he was

once more back in England.
264    FOREIGN TRAVEL                CHAP. VIII

     The following portion of a letter to Mrs. Cook-
man (4th July) from Bertrich gives a picture of
how the time passed there. ' Having stayed seven

weeks at Bonn, and excursed and fished, we steamed

up the Rhine to Coblenz, slept one night there, and
next morning steamed up the Moselle to Alf, where

we remained a fortnight, walking and idling, and

fishing again. I assure you I can throw a fly as

prettily as need be. But who shall describe the

glories of the Moselle with its unutterably tortuous

windings, its vineyards, its quaintly -gabled towns,

and all its castles, so stately in decay ! I am going

to buy one for 50 or 100 thalers (£j : 10s. or ^15),

and in memory of my late illness, take my title from
it -- Baron Beilstein.

     ' Bertrich is a pretty little village, with two or

three hotels, baths, and gardens with music in them

twice a day. Gaiety there is none, but peace and

quiet and a billiard table. The village is set in a

deep valley, and three extinct volcanoes crown the

tableland above, for hills proper there are none. I

have been on foot with a Dutchman (whom I lamed) all
over the Eifel, and have seen lots of extinct volcanoes
-- most interesting. The structure of the country, its
physical geography in fact, is most curious-- a great

tableland, about 1200 feet high, through which the

Moselle and other rivers run in deep valleys. On

this tableland are perched old volcanoes of Miocene

       is,

                                                   It

                                                                                      a
(that  of Middle Tertiary) age. The valleys are

of older date than the volcanoes, for sometimes you

see a lava-stream that has run from the mouth of the

craters into the valley below. The Devonian strata

of the tableland are awfully disturbed, not by the

volcanoes, but by far older forces.  was great
1860 IN THE EIFEL                                                                 265

plain, so to speak, with valleys scooped out of it long

before the lava began to flow.
     ' We leave this soon, but, before doing so finally,

will pay a visit to Treves, to see the northern capital

of the Emperor Constantine.'

Though these months on the Continent were

spent as far as possible in idleness, Ramsay could

hardly find himself face to face with new scenes

without being led to notice and reflect on the

features in them which bore on any of the ques

tions in geology and physical geography which had
always been with him such favourite subjects. His

excursions among the Eifel cones and craters

gave him fresh material for his work among the
old volcanoes of Wales, and for his lectures at

the School of Mines. His rambles over the great

tableland of that region, and among the streams

which have so deeply trenched  furnished him
if

                                                                        it,

                                                                   it
                                                                              is
with illustrations of river-action of which, though

he perhaps hardly realised at that time their

significance, he was in a few years to make excel

lent use.

The sojourn in Germany, and the idleness enjoined

upon him, had one effect, which was the first to strike

the eyes of his friends when he got back to England.

He had buried his razors when he left home, and

returned with a bushy beard, which he continued to

wear during the rest of his life. But though much

better in general health than when he went abroad

in spring, he was still far from having regained his

old vigour and power of work. Indeed,                                             doubtful

he ever again was capable of enduring the same

mental and physical strain as he had been before his

illness. He had again to be assisted in his lectures
266  FOREIGN TRAVEL  CHAP. VIII

during the winter,1 and was still unable for much
literary exertion. The Welsh Memoir had to stand
aside. Once or twice in the course of the summer

of 1 86 1 he amused himself with writing a paper for
The Saturday Review, including one of the best of
his contributions to that journal, on ' Lyell and
Tennyson' -- an essay which, with its humour, its

poetry, its geological aroma, and its literary deft
ness, is an excellent sample of his fugitive pieces.2

     Later in the summer he went once more with Mrs.

Ramsay to Switzerland for more mountaineering, and

to cross over to the Italian side, in order to see the

great glacier moraines of Ivrea. The general outline
of this expedition is given in a letter to his sister,

written from the Stachelberg on the 4th September :
' Ever since we left home we have had perfect
weather. We have only had two half rainy days in

all, and generally there has not been a cloud in the
sky. Louisa and I travelled as far as Cologne together

without stopping. I then went direct for another
day and night to Teplitz, in Bohemia. Thence,
after three days' rest and light work, I descended
the Elbe to Dresden, across Saxony and Bavaria
to Lindau, on the Lake of Constance, and having
travelled two days and nights, reached Berne at ten
o'clock at night, not a bit tired. Next morning
after breakfast I joined Louisa and Mr. and Miss

Johnes and Mrs. Cookman at Thun --the most lovely
spot in the universe. I stayed there from Friday

till Monday, and then left them by steamer on the
lakes for Meiringen. There I shouldered my knap-

    1 I took this duty, and thus came to have an intimate knowledge  of his

lecture materials and his methods of preparation and illustration.
    2 Saturday Review, 22nd June 1861.
1861 AMONG THE SWISS GLACIERS AGAIN 267

sack at four in the afternoon, and marched alone up

the long, rough valley of the Hash Thai to the

Grimsel, which I reached well tired at half-past ten.

' I met Tyndall there and some other friends, spent

a day on the Rhone glacier, and ascended the Seidel-

horn alone. Next day, Tyndall not being very well,

I walked to Obergestalen, and the day following

crossed with a guide over a famous pass called the

Ober Aar Joch to the ^Eggischorn. It took thirteen
hours, ten of which were spent on the ice. The pass

is about 11,500 feet high.

' In the meanwhile Louisa and the party came round

by the Gemmi Pass, great part of which can be done on

horseback, and the second day after my arrival joined

me at the ^Eggischorn. We took them up a moun

tain over 10,000 feet high, and on the Great Aletsch

glacier, which is the longest in Europe. Thence

we went to Visp, in the Rhone Valley, and next morn

ing at six they rode and I walked up the valley to

Zermatt, which we reached about six o'clock at night.

' We stayed at Zermatt six days, on one of which

I, with some others, ascended the Lyskamm, 14,891

feet high. There were eight of us, with five guides

and two porters to carry provisions. Having slept

at the Riffelberg, which saves a climb of some 2000

or 3000 feet, we started at twenty minutes to two in

the morning and crossed the Great Gorner glacier by

the light of a full moon. At dawn we were at the

foot of Monte Rosa on the snow, and by 11.40 we
reached the top of the Lyskamm. We went in two

parties, all roped together.  The final ascent was

excessively steep, all on snow and ice. Sometimes

we had one leg in Italy and the other in Switzerland.

That part took nearly three hours. The descent
268  FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

proved nearly as difficult as the ascent, but we all got
back to the Riffelberg by 7 p.m., and down to Zermatt
by a little after nine, having been nearly twenty hours

on foot. Several previous attempts had been made
to scale this mountain, but all had failed.

     ' From Zermatt we all crossed the Theodul Pass
(about 11,000 feet) into Italy. The ladies rode up to
the ice of the glacier, which they reached at seven in the

morning. They had then three hours walking on the
ice and snow, and by twelve o'clock we were at Breuil,
where we rested and slept. Next day they rode on

asses to Chatillon, a beautiful old Roman and Italian

town. Next day with Dr. Sibson we drove to Ivrea,
where we stayed a day, and then on by Chiavasso,
Milan, and the Lake of Como to Lugano, where we
stayed two days, and left the Johnes. Sibson, Louisa,
and I came across the St. Bernhardino Pass in a
diligence to H inter Rhein, near the sources of the
Rhine. There we halted three days, and Sibson and

I scaled two mountains among the glaciers, one of

which took fourteen hours. Thence we came by the
Via Mala to Glarus and Elms, " did " another splendid
pass, and came on here. To-morrow is our last day
on the ice ; on Friday we shall be in Zurich, and on

Monday evening at our own house in Kensington.'
      So far as his physical powers were concerned,

Ramsay seems to have returned to England invi
gorated by his Alpine exercise. But he had not re
gained his old elasticity of mind, and soon began again
to complain of the weariness of work. Nevertheless,
he braced himself for the duties of the winter, and

succeeded in getting through his lectures to the
students at the School of Mines without help. He
likewise found himself able at last to sit down to a
1861-1862 GLACIAL THEORY OF LAKE-BASINS  269

congenial task, and to commit to writing the thoughts
and conclusions which had been shaping themselves

in his mind for several years past regarding the origin
of lake-basins. This problem in physical geography
had never been seriously attacked, and no tenable

solution of it had yet been proposed. It was his
experience in Canada, and the sight of the lake-
sprinkled surface of the ancient gneiss of that region

which first definitely called Ramsay's attention to
this subject, though he had returned from America
still in the belief that the older and greater glaciation
was accomplished by floating ice during a time of
submergence. But the recognition to which he had
now come, that that glaciation was the work of the
grinding action of stupendous sheets of land-ice, gave
an entirely new turn to his thoughts regarding the
terrestrial contours of glaciated regions. In his jour
neys in Wales, Scotland, and Switzerland he was now
always on the watch for facts bearing on the con
nection between the traces of ice-movement and the

contours of the ground over which the ice had moved.
He had at last come to the conclusion that the pro
digious abundance of lakes in the glaciated regions
of the northern hemisphere could not be accounted for
unless they were connected in some way with ice-
action, and he inferred that in a vast number of cases,

where the lakes lie in rock-basins, these basins have

actually been scooped out by the grinding power of
land-ice. These observations and inferences he now

proceeded to elaborate as a paper for the Geological

Society.

      Before the paper was ready, however, the presi
dency of the Society was vacant, and there was a
general feeling that it should be offered to Ramsay,
270  FOREIGN TRAVEL  CHAP. VIII

if the state of his health would allow him to accept' if

The President usually confers with former presidentsa

of the Society in regard to his successor before actuallyI
proposing a name to the Council but on this occasionI;
the President, Leonard Horner, was in Florence, and
                                                                                                         it.
unable to take any personal part in the negotia
a
tions. Lyell strongly favoured Ramsay's nomination.
Murchison was afraid of the strain upon his colleague,

   he accepted the duties of this office in addition to
all that he already had to discharge, and urged him
to consult his medical adviser. On the 3rd February
1862 Ramsay's diary received the following entry:

 Sir R. in great fuss because had not seen Haden

[his doctor]. Drove out to Haden's at one o'clock.
He vowed by Jove that he would not stand between
me and the presidency. So drove back and told Sir
R., and he said that that settled the matter.'

      So at the Anniversary, on the 21st February, he

was duly elected President --an honour well earned by
twenty-one years of continuous devotion to geology,
and the large part taken by him in the work of the
Geological Survey. In the evening he began his
duties by presiding at the annual dinner of the Society,
where, with the Duke of Argyll on his right, and Lord
Ducie on his left, and most of the leaders of geological
science around him, he had the satisfaction of seeing

   company of nearly ninety assemble to celebrate the
foundation of the oldest geological society. Those
of that company who still survive will remember the

admirable way in which the new President spoke.

Never before had he so distinguished himself in the
difficult art of post-prandial oratory. In returning
thanks for his health he showed a quiet dignity and
simplicity, with touches at once of humour and pathos,
1862 HIS PAPER ON LAKE-BASINS                                           271

which went straight to the hearts of the listeners, and

called forth many rounds of applause.
     At the very next evening meeting of the Society

the President gave his paper on lake-basins. Its

conclusions were so startling a novelty in geological

physics, and were based on such a mass of detail,

requiring careful study, that they could hardly be

adequately discussed by an audience which heard them

for the first time. Ramsay did not read, but spoke

his paper, and being full of the subject did full justice

to it. ' Lyell,' as he said afterwards, ' damned the paper

with faint praise, and Falconer vigorously opposed

   was admirably defended by Huxley. The
it.
meeting was so lively as to remind us of the old days
     It
of Buckland and Sedgwick.' Some account of the
                  it
theory propounded in this paper will be given in

a subsequent chapter of this biography.                                 was
                                                                        I It
attacked by various writers, notably by Lyell, Murchi-
                                                                                    a
son, Falconer, and Ball, and to some of the onslaughts

made on               its author replied in the pages of the

Philosophical Magazine and The Reader.

The following letter, written towards the end of

this year, gives a picture of the reception of the paper,
and the ferment that arose from --
                      1
                                            London, 9/A December 1862.
                         it,
My dear Mrs. Cookman -- By this post sendI

                                            p. it
                                                                     :
                                                              a
you the other pamphlet on the origin of Alpine,

Welsh, American, Schwartzwald, and Scandinavian

lakes. The smaller one sent you the other day

was pendant to        and was written a propos of
a

paper by Tyndall in the Phil. Mag.,1 in which he ran

the theory of what ice has done to wild extreme.

                      November 1862,  377.
272             FOREIGN TRA VEL  CHAP. VIII

It was published in The Times also, and I thought it

a pity to let it be supposed that my theory led to such

extravagance.

     I do not suppose you will find fault with the

paper on the ground that it wants boldness. When

it was read Dr. Falconer of Indian-fossil-elephant

celebrity made an onslaught on it of forty minutes. I

observe that most of the men older than myself re

pudiate:        while most of the younger bloods accept
it. Lyell rejects, but then have Darwin, Hooker,
         ' it,          I
                           it

                                              it
                                                I

                                                     I
Sir William Logan, Jukes, and Geikie. When ex

plained the theory to Sir William before was read,

he said If you don't publish for America, will.'

     So strong was the opposition among the older and
more staid fellows of the Geological Society that

Ramsay used to assert that had he not been the

President, and thus in  a  manner privileged, the

Council would have voted against the publication of

the paper, except in briefest abstract.
     Before the end of the first week in September

1862 Ramsay was glad to escape once more from
London to Switzerland. There were various geo

logical matters which he longed to investigate more

fully, and as he went this time with only his friend

Dr. Sibson, an accomplished mountaineer, he was free

to arrange his route as the work to be done might

require. Making straight for Geneva, the travellers

first went to Bex, and rambled once more among the
blocks of Monthey. The weather proved most un

favourable for mountain-climbing, and after waiting

some days in rain and mist, they resolved to move

into the sunnier clime of the Italian side. Crossing

by the Sanetsch Pass from Gsteig to Sion, they were
1862 IN THE OBERLAND AND NORTHERN ITALY 273

fortunate to find the clouds clearing away. ' Ere we

reached the watershed,' he wrote to Mrs. Ramsay,

' there was no mist, except in some of the great

corries and up on the highest peaks. The sun shone

brightly. We diverged a little from the road to see

the end of the Sanetsch        glacier. The pass is 7123
                               is therefore no snow on
Paris feet high. There         moraine we said " Let us
While lunching on the          :

                                                 it.

leave our baggage here, and go up the glacier to the
Tour de St. Martin and see the great cliffs that over

look the Valais." So at twelve we started, well roped

together but the glacier proved so easy that there
a

                         ;
was no real occasion for the rope. In two hours and

half we were across the glacier, and saw those noble

cliffs 1000 feet and more plump down. We also saw
                               it
                                             a

                                                                   aa
flock of more than twenty-five chamois not far off, and

all the great range across the Valais, from Mont Blanc

to Monte Rosa, clouded in places. In an hour and

half we were back at our baggage, and started for

Sion at five o'clock. In two hours was dark, and the

guide being nobody, went ahead, and on true Swiss
                            I

road, by torrent and in forest, piloted all safe to Sion

by instinct. We got there at half-past ten, having

walked fifteen hours.'

Once more in the valley of the Rhone, they

ascended to the Bel Alp and the yEggischorn to

make further observations on the great Aletsch glacier

and its surroundings. Then retracing their steps,

they made their way by Turtmann over to the

Italian side, and so down the Val d'Aosta to Ivrea,

and thence to Turin. Once in the capital of Pied

mont, Ramsay called on his friend Quintino Sella,
known abroad as an able geologist, but to the mass of

his own countrymen familiar only as their distinguished
                                               T
-74  FOREIGN TRAVEL  CHAP. VIII

Minister of Finance. Of the short time in Turin

Mrs. Ramsay received the following pleasant narra
tive : ' From the post office I went to the Ministry
of Finance. The attendant in the ante-room, doubtful
of a stranger in a wideawake, said the Minister was
engaged with the Minister of Home Affairs, and would
be so until late in the evening. I sent in my card, and
he came back with a changed countenance and ushered
me in. Sella shook me by both hands, and said he

was uncommonly glad to see me, and that if I would
wait till he wrote a note, he would himself take me to

Gastaldi. . . . Gastaldi received me like an old friend,

and he has been almost constantly with me ever

since. . . .

     ' I have just come back from the Ministry a
decorated man, with white and gold cross and green
ribbon ! The royal letter and decree are to follow.
. . . I leave to-night, and cross Mont Cenis,

arresting myself perhaps at Macon for the second

night.'
     The knighthood thus conferred through the in

strumentality of Signor Sella was that of the order
of SS. Maurice and Lazarus -- a distinction offered,

not only in recognition of the scientific attainments of
the Local Director of the Geological Survey of Great
Britain, but also as a mark of the appreciation of his
services to Italian officers sent at various times to

England on missions of scientific inquiry.
      The end of this month of Alpine rambling con

cluded Ramsay's journeys abroad as an active geologist.

For eight years he did not again leave this country.
He had now practically accomplished the foreign travel
of his life, and though he was able in later years to
revisit some of the scenes which he had traversed in
1862 CLOSE OF ACTIVE WORK ABROAD  275

the full vigour of manhood, it was rather with a view
to rest and change, or, where any scientific work was
attempted, it was more for the purpose of testing
conclusions already made than with the view of fresh
exploration and new deduction.
                   CHAPTER IX

  THE PRESIDENCY OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- RE

          ORGANISATION OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

The period of Ramsay's life on the history of which
we now enter embraces a space of about ten years.
During that interval he was mainly occupied in the
duties of the Geological Survey, finding time and

ability for fewer extra-official labours than he had

been able to accomplish before. His routine work
was not relieved and enlivened by the inspiration of

Swiss mountaineering ; but he continued to perform
it with faithful persistence, and to superintend his
staff with the same firm and friendly hand.

     It is one of the duties of the President of the
Geological Society at the end of each of the two
years of his tenure of the office to read an address,
which may either deal with the general progress of

geology during the previous twelve months, or may
treat of some special branch of the subject to which

the writer has particularly given his attention. For

some years past Ramsay had been brooding upon

what Darwin had so well enforced --the imperfection
of the geological record. He was struck by the
extraordinary gaps in the succession of organic re

mains, even where there was no marked physical
interruption of the continuity of sedimentation. And
1863 ADDRESSES AND LECTURES              277

he connected these gaps with geographical changes of
which no other trace had survived. He had made a

communication on this subject to the American Asso

ciation at the Montreal meeting, which had attracted

considerable attention among those present. He had

afterwards made it the subject of one of his evening

lectures to working men at Jermyn Street. But no
full exposition of his views had yet been made public.
He therefore chose ' Breaks in the Succession of the
British Strata ' as the thesis to be worked out in

his two successive presidential addresses, taking the

Palaeozoic systems in the first year (1863), and the

Secondary and Tertiary systems in the second (1864).
Some account of these essays will be given in the con
cluding chapter of this volume.

     In the months of January and February 1863 Ramsay
gave a course of six evening lectures to working men in

the Jermyn Street Museum on the Physical Geology

and Geography of Great Britain. These lectures were

taken down at the time in shorthand, and were shortly

afterwards printed and published as a small volume.

Unfortunately, the lecturer's state of health at the time

prevented him from correcting the proofs with ade

quate care. The book consequently appeared full of

inaccuracies. But the nucleus of a valuable handbook

was there, and in later years its author was able to

revise and enlarge and now forms his well-known
it,
    a

          it
                                     in
and admirable treatise on the Physical Geology and

Geography of Great Britain. Even in the original

tract the geological reader can perceive the outlines

of many deductions regarding the growth of the sur

face topography of the land, which the author was able

subsequently to work out more fully. The publication

of this book marks distinct epoch        its writer's
278 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

scientific career. Thenceforward, while he continued

to take interest in all geological problems, and more

particularly in those which were engaging the attention

of his colleagues in the mapping of the Geological

Survey, it was the origin of scenery which had for

him the supreme attraction. The history of lakes,

river- basins and valleys, the influence of geological

structure on landscape, and the effects of that structure

and of its accompanying topographical contours upon
the people of the country -- these were the themes

which now engaged his thoughts, and on which he

loved to speak and write.

The old elasticity of mind which in the past had

enabled him to get through so much mental as well

as bodily work still refused to return, and though in

congenial society he could once again be the liveliest
and brightest of a party, he was apt to suffer from such

weariness as made even the simplest duties irksome.

Writing to me on the 5th May 1863 from Dolaucothi,
whither he had gone for a little rest, he says : ' I had

b"etghuenre'stolifceoninsidtheer  recovery doubtful,  but   I now   think
                                                      the  while I  could
                                  old dog yet." All

eat, laugh, sing, fish, and walk a little (three or six
miles), but still I had misgivings. Oh the charm of

this country and its pleasant friends ! Since break

fast I have been at a magistrates' meeting, seeing two

affiliation cases disposed of, and then engineering a
brook with the young ladies. This country is full of

drift, with scratched stones and erratics going up to

600, 800, or 1000 feet, maybe higher. But I have

seen no clear section of and do not know
             I

                                       it it,

                                                                I
                                                                   if
                                                                            it

                                                                                        is
stratified.  considered so long ago, but would

like to confirm it.'

The improvement in his condition was not main
1863 ASKS TO BE RELIEVED FROM LECTURING  279

tained during the summer, and he looked forward with
dismay to the winter, when the necessity for lecturing

would once more meet him face to face. As his

lectures were not written out, but were delivered

merely from notes, which he changed and brought up to
date from year to year, he always felt that the success of

a lecture depended almost entirely on his condition at
the time when he had to speak. Even up to the end,

though the subject was quite familiar to him, and he
could have discoursed for hours about it to a group of
friends, the formal lecture to a miscellaneous audience,

and still more to a company of students, was a severe
mental strain to him. When it was over he would come
out of the lecture-room sometimes so weary that he
could only go home and rest. The prospect of the
winter session of the School of Mines was, therefore,

at this time so dark to him that he seriously pro

posed to resign his lectureship, if that could be done
without pecuniary loss. He felt that if relieved from

all teaching duty, he could devote himself with more

undivided energy to his duties in the Survey, and

that the change would be better for the Survey as well

as for himself. ' If the Treasury throw out my pro

posal,' he wrote to me, 'then I am where I was; and
as I do not intend to die, I suppose I must put on half-

steam. I wish they could be, consistently with official

etiquette, a little more liberal in the matter, for it is

hard to begin to go back when one has served twenty-
two years and more, and is half a century old, especially
when one's Survey work has been well trebled.' After

some months of suspense, 'the everlasting No' of the

Treasury was duly received. ' So there it is,' he wrote
again, ' and I suppose when February comes I shall
try [lecturing]. I feel, I am glad to say, even better
280 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

than when you saw me last, and it may, perhaps, not

be too much for me.'

The field-work of the Survey was now in full march

through the remaining tracts of the southern counties of

England, and Ramsay took an active interest in and
                                   I it,
in the fascinating problems of physical geography

which  it   elucidated. On the 7th November he wrote
to me       The deevil a holiday have had since saw
       :                       aI
           '

you.       have been don't know where, but at Welling
       I         I

borough of late, and Sittingbourne and Tunbridge.

On Monday go with Hughes and Whitaker to look
              I

at and arrange about Tertiary mapping between Folke

stone and Dover, and then to Lindfield to see the last

of the Weald, that to say, of the solid rocks there.
                 I
                    is

                            I
. . . By the way, think have given up the marine

denudation of the Weald. Atmosphere, rain, and

rivers must ha' done  it.  I'm coming to that, fear
                                   I

and hope, and hoping, fearing, trembling, regretfully

triumphant, and tearfully joyous with the alloy of

despair at my heart, and the balm of truthful Gilead
spread upon the struggling soul, bursting the bonds of

antique prejudice, yet expect to moor the tempest-
                 I

tossed bark of Theory in the calm moral downs of

Assurance.'

     The second presidential address to the Geological
Society was read on the 19th February 1864. At the
Anniversary this year the Wollaston medal was be

stowed on Sir Roderick Murchison for his great services

to the science of geology, and fell to Ramsay's lot
              '

                                               a
                                                it

                                                                     a

                                                                    I I' a
as President to present it. Briefly and gracefully he

summed up the work of his chief, and added little

personal touch that gave       special charm to the

incident. Perhaps on this occasion,' he said, may

be pardoned for recalling the memory of time well
RODERICK IMPLY MURCHISON
1864 CONTROVERSY ABOUT THE ORIGIN OF LAKES 281

remember, when of all the geologists of weight, you,
Sir, were the first who held out the hand of fellowship

to me, a young man, when four-and-twenty years ago
 I was struggling to enter into the ranks of geologists.'

     With the close of his second Anniversary address
the reign of the President of the Society came to an
end. Ramsay vacated the office, and was now re
lieved of duties which, though not onerous, impose
sometimes considerable strain on the occupant, and
consume not a little of his time.

     His views on the origin of lakes involved him in

controversy which at this time he was little fitted to
wage. Murchison, in his presidential address to the

Geographical Society, had vigorously opposed the
glacial theory of lakes. Ramsay had refrained from

replying to other criticisms, feeling that if his views
were correct they would prevail, and that if they were
not, no amount of partisanship on his part would save

them from dissolution. But when his own chief put
out ' an exceedingly authoritative protest ' against his
theory, he felt that it would almost be uncourteous on

his part to remain silent. Accordingly, he wrote a
temperate but cogently-argued reply, which appeared
in the October number of the Philosophical Magazine.
His letters about this time are full of reference to the

subject, showing that though he published little, he was
following with the most lively interest what was said

on the subject by others.
     He wrote to me on the 1 5th May : ' Altogether I am

quite pleased with the rapid progress the lake-theory
has made. Lyell amazes me in the matter. He told
me the other day that it must be wrong, and he be
lieved that the hollows were due only to the disturb
ance of the rocks. . . . Have you brooded patiently
282 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

for six months without ceasing over that passage at
the end of Jukes's memoir on the Irish rivers, in which
he discusses the valley of the Rhone above the Lake

of Geneva? It is admirable and true, and by'r lakins !
he never saw the location ! Tell me not where is fancy
bred, but after my Frankland change of climate article
comes out,1 if any other good sound argument occurs

to you that I have not used. Bauerman has drawn
a wheel so true that Best has to put a heavy weight
on it to keep it from running away ! '

                                                                     Beaumar1s,  July 1864.

    My dear Ge1kie -- I am as busy as man can be,

and am really getting fast on with that big Memoir,

which I trust will be for fifty years a text -book to

the Silurian geology of North Wales. I have read

Sir R.'s counterblast in proof [above referred to], and
I told him I must reply to                                           How on earth can he pit
                      '
                               ?

                                  it.
Dawson against Logan Does he remember also that

he always thought that Switzerland was another case
'
                      For his protest and Lyell's care
       a
of water-drifting  ?                                                             a it
                                                                                    ' is I
not rush. Lyell for years scarcely believed Agassiz,
                                                                                               a
and used to have special anti- Darwin chapter till
                      a

after the great book [Origin of Species] came out. Heis
    afraid of time now, and none of them know any

thing about denudation and the true physical behaviour

of rock-masses.    I  lately had a very satisfactory letter

from Hooker on the subject. The worst of                                         that

one can scarcely hope to convince them, or the old

geological world generally. You can't make colour

blind man see colours. None of them ever mapped

country, as we have done, and disturbed countries to

        Dr. Frankland's paper on the Physical Cause of the Glacial Epoch will be
found in Phil. Mag. May 1864.
    1
                                                                  '
1865 PUNCH ON THE GEOLOGISTS                      283

them will still owe their mountain features to disturb
ance alone. -- Ever sincerely,
                                Andw. C. Ramsay.

     In the sixth edition of his Elements of Geology,
published in January 1865, Lyell noticed the theory of
the glacial origin of lake-basins, and adduced various

arguments against it. Ramsay once more broke
through his resolve not to get into controversy, and
replied to these arguments in a paper contributed to
The Philosophical Magazine for the following April.

These controversies among the geologists were
cleverly indicated in good-humoured caricature by an
artist in Punch, who portrayed some leading charac
teristic of each combatant. Murchison sits in front

cross-legged throwing up three globes like an Indian
juggler. Lyell to a rapt audience of hammers illus
trates the origin of terrestrial features by breaking
open a globe and lifting up a large fragment of it.
Ramsay, on the other hand, is busy by himself in a
corner sitting astride his globe, and digging out his
valleys and basins with a big spade.1

      But though these disputes seem to bulk large in the
scientific work of the day, they really occupied a very

subordinate place, and certainly in Ramsay's daily
work they were not allowed to take up much time or
thought. While he remained in London, the editorial

supervision of maps, sections, and memoirs left him

but little time for extraneous work. His health being

now rather better, he could once more push on the
completion of the bulky Memoir on North Wales.

His part had been finished, but the palaeontological
appendix by J. W. Salter was still incomplete. That

able but uncertain and procrastinating naturalist had

                                          1 Punch, 23rd September 1865.
284 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

resigned his appointment in the Survey during the

summer of 1863, and it was difficult thereafter to

secure his continuous services for the completion of

his part of the Memoir. But at last, towards the end

of 1865, Ramsay could write and date his preface, and

the work was finally issued to the public early in 1866.

It was the most detailed piece of writing which the

Geological Survey had yet published, and it contained

deductions and speculations of the greatest interest in

theoretical geology.

The work of the Royal Commission on Coal, of

which Ramsay was an active member, demanded a

great deal of time during the five years from 1866 to

1870. Besides the numerous meetings of the Com

mission and of its committees, he undertook much

additional labour in preparing, with the help of the

staff of the Survey, maps, sections, and other data for

the use of the Commissioners. Now and then, how

ever, some less technical application of geology would

arise to enliven the routine work of the office, as when

Dean Stanley asked whether the geologist could

throw any light on the history of the Coronation Stone

at Westminster, round which so many old legends

hang. Ramsay wrote to me about this request as

follows : ' Yesterday I was at Westminster Abbey

with the Dean, specially to examine the Coronation

Stone from Scone. It is a reddish-grey sandstone,

with three pebbles in one quartz and two dark ones
It

     is
         a
                               it

                                       it,
                                       I

                                                                           it,
                                                                                              is
of a doubtful substance, which may be Lydian stone.

hewn stone, with chisel-marks on and looks

like a stone originally prepared for building purposes.

Macculloch says was taken from Dunstaffnage to
Scone by Kenneth II.
                      see according to your map

Dunstaffnage stands on Old Red Sandstone. What
1866 THE NEILL MEDAL AND DOCTORATE OF LAWS 285

its colour and character there ? Macculloch says the
stone is calcareous, and so it is. I am going to write
a short report for the Dean, so please let me know

soon.'

     On the 2nd April 1866 the Royal Society of Edin
burgh awarded to Ramsay the Neill prize ' for his
various works and memoirs published during the last
five years, in which he had applied the large experi
ence acquired by him in the direction of the arduous
work of the Geological Survey of Great Britain to the

elucidation of important questions bearing on geolo
gical science.' The presentation was made by the
venerable President, Sir David Brewster, and Ramsay
attended in person to receive it. The ceremony was
fixed to take place at the same time as the visit of
Thomas Carlyle to Edinburgh as Rector of the
University, when he delivered his memorable address,

and when the degree of LL.D. was conferred on three
distinguished teachers of the Jermyn Street School --

Tyndall, Ramsay, and Huxley. One of the features
of this visit, which Ramsay remembered with special
pleasure, was the dinner of the Royal Society Club.
The Royal Society of Edinburgh, like its sister societies
in other parts of the United Kingdom, has its dining
club, limited in number of members, who comprise
the leading resident fellows. But the distinguishing
feature of the northern fraternity is that, while it per

mits few toasts and no speeches, its proceedings are
always enlivened with songs, often written for the

occasion. For many years it has boasted a succession
of song- writers, one or two of them gifted with great

humour, some of whose songs are known far and wide
beyond the limits of the Club. The post -prandial
efforts of Lord Neaves, unmelodious but infinitely
2.S6 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

witty, belong to a rapidly -vanishing past, but Sir
Douglas Maclagan remains to delight his privileged

listeners. His ' Battle of Glen Tilt ' will be popular

in Scotland as long as cultured conviviality holds a
place in the country. Ramsay heard that and other
famous ditties, and used to speak enthusiastically of
the way in which the philosophers of the north play
their ' high jinks.'

     There was another gratifying presentation a fort
night later. The staff of the Survey gave their
esteemed Local Director a handsome gold watch
as a mark of their appreciation of his long and
devoted exertions in the cause of the Survey,
and of his personal kindness and helpfulness to

themselves.

     At the meeting of the British Association at

Nottingham in 1866 Ramsay again led the geologists
as President of Section C. Since his previous tenure
of the office, ten years before, a custom had crept in
that the presidents opened the business of the sections
with a specially composed address. He had been
called unexpectedly and rather late in the day to

occupy the chair, and had not had time to prepare
such an address as he could have wished to deliver to

his brother geologists. He therefore discoursed to them
generally upon the influence of geological structure on

external topography, and more particularly upon the
influence of igneous rocks. He introduced, but with
some hesitation, his views of the origin of some so-
called igneous rocks, such as granite, from the action
of heat, ' with the aid of alkaline waters.' He also
found a place for his doctrine regarding breaks in
succession of life, and proclaimed himself once more
a thorough uniformitarian.
1866 BRITISH A SSOCIA TION AT NO TTINGHAM  287

     After the meeting he sent me the following
account of it :--

     My dear Ge1k1e -- I had a week in Anglesey after

the British Association meeting, and yesterday brought

up wife and bairns. I shall stay for a Coal Commis

sion meeting on the nth [Sept.], and if nothing come

of that to interfere, shall immediately take the field
thereafter. The British Association meeting was a
good one, and I stayed at Newstead Abbey, and slept

in the poet's bedroom !

                          In the poet's bed I slept,
                              And out o' the bed i' the morn,

                             Out o' the bed I crept,
                              And blew my sounding horn ;

                             Then down the turret stair
                                  1 winded in my glory,

                          And light winds raised my hair
                              As I entered the refectory.

                          And oh for the muffins and tea,
                                  Beef, ham, and venison pasty,

                          The jam and the honey o' bee,
                              The marmalade so tasty !

                          And ever at dinner again,
                                  I swear by heaven and hades,

                          We quaffed the bright champagne,
                              And jabbered with the ladies ;

                          And the lights shone overhead,
                              And the coats of mail they glinted

                              On the wall o' the hall where we fed,
                              Nor meat nor liquor stinted.

                          No more have I to say,
                                  Though the words could come by milliards,

                              1 presided in C all day,
                              And all night I played at billiards.

                                                          Yours ever more,
                                                                         Andw. C. Ramsay.

     The general tenor of his life among his colleagues
in the field during the years up to the end of 1871
can best be gathered from his letters, from which a few
selections are here given :--
288 PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY chap, 1x

                      K1ng's Arms, Sheff1eld,

...My dear Ge1k1e --       13/A August 1865.

                      I have been all about

the universe ; at Rowsley with Dakyns ; there and at
Hathersage and the Snake Inn with Green. That

country beats cock-fighting, for it has no drift, is 2000

feet high, and otherwise ought to have ice, and has
none. Then I have been at Todmorden, the deadly-

lively, with Hull. I made two speeches at Man
chester, and have also been at Kirk by and Dent and

Kendal, and am now here with Tiddeman.

    See the last Reader, yesterday's, and expire. At

least Sir R. will, when he sees what I, being in my

right mind, have bequeathed him in my last will and
testament. When I leave this I want to see my wife

and babbies a little. They have been in Anglesey a

...month, and I have not seen them for considerably
longer.  I sent my review of Campbell [' Frost
and Fire'] to Edmonston and Douglas [for North
British Review].

                  The C1ty of the Dead, vel Durham,

                                                                 3 1st October 1866.

     My dearest W1fe -- Luckily it rained to-day
when we got to this City of Silence, and therefore,
instead of starting for the hills, I had time to see
'

         I

                                                 '

                                     I

                                                               a
                                                                                               a
                                                                                                         it,
which have been doing for three hours and half,

and yet have left a deal unseen. You can concentrate

your energies on the architecture, for there are no

people for certain to look at. Here and there a

ghostly figure comes out of  corner and as

suddenly disappears, but whether these shapes are

human mortals or not, am unable to guess. To

wind up with, we have just come from church, where
1866 DURHAM                                                                289

certainly we did hear some sort of angelic melody.

But oh ! the grandeur of the Cathedral, all Norman

from end to end, excepting a sort of Lady Chapel of

very early English on the east, and, what is more, the

whole is almost unaltered Norman. Three towers

hath  one grand central one, and two at the west
is
            it,

                             !

                               I

                             if is

                                                             a

                                                                  I
end, which take away your breath with a sense of

beauty. The great interior columns are marvellous to

behold, and the roof  grandly groined. The vast

pile overlooks the river, and the west front extends far

down the bank, so that a wonderful dignity of height

   given to the building. Then the bishop's palace
(now, alas a seedy college) -- vast pile, castle and

palace in one, partly Norman, and the cloisters, the

close, and lots of other things, which                               must see

another day when can make the acquaintance of

some local antiquary, such there be in Durham.

                            Dunford Br1dge, Sheff1eld,

                            27 th November 1866.

My dearest W1fe -- This a bad place to write
                  is,
from. The reason                      is
                      that the post comes in at break

fast-time, and in these short days we are in great
                                                                     I
hurry to get out, and when we come home again
                                                                        a
across the moors the post has gone. After dinner no

human being writes letters  I if   he can help it. The

                                  I
above gives the reason why did not write yesterday,
and may be the reason why will not write to

morrow. But to-day have received several letters.a

so important that must stay in couple of hours toI
answer them. . . The letters of most importanceI
were from Sir R. and Best. The Duke [of Bucking
ham] and My Lords are making sweeping changes, to
which must reconcile myself, and believe can do
      I
                                          u

                                                      I
290 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

it without grumbling, and possibly even with tolerable

satisfaction.

     First, Scotland is to be raised to a special branch
like Ireland, and Geikie is to be Director. Second, I

am to get another ^"1oo a year, to continue in charge
of England and Wales, to drop the ' Local ' before

Director, and to be ranked as Senior Director. I am
to have two ' District Surveyors ' under me, who will

be Aveline and Bristow ; two first-class senior

geologists, eight second-class, and the rest as before,

except that we shall have a large addition to the staff.

There would be no use objecting to anything, even if

there be anything to object to, for the Duke and My

...Lords have ruled    believe, without reference to Sir
                   I
                        it,
                          I

                               I
                                                                         I

                                                                                    I
Roderick.            think have written Sir Roderick a

very good letter, without any grumblings at all.
have only compared myself to the Emperor of Austria,

losing not Venice, but his German native dominions,

and increasing his revenue thereby, and                       have

approved of all the other details.

                                   Hazelhead, Sheff1eld,

                                          4tA December 1866.

My dearest W1fe -- This                   an awful day of
                                          is
wind and rain, and this                                I
                       I        my tenth, and hope my

last letter.  a very official letter SirisR. wrote me,      was
                                          way took        these
     From      had taken amiss the        I
afraid he                                              I

changes. But to-day have had a very long anda

pleasant letter from him telling me that that was by
no means the case, and that he wrote the short official
simply because the subject was strictly of that nature,
and he was communicating copy of Cole's official
bearing My Lords' pleasure. He also tells me that
·866-1867 RAMSAY BECOMES SENIOR DIRECTOR  291

the importance of my position is very much raised,

seeing that I shall have three times as many men to

command as Jukes, and four times as many as Geikie.

To this I reply, not satirically, that I feel the compli
ment of being considered able to do four times the
work of other people, and hope it will be duly con
sidered when pension time arrives. . . . The gale is

tremendous, and the rivers are flooded.

     The changes in the organisation of the Geological
Survey referred to in these letters were the most
important that had been made since the foundation of
the service under De la Beche. The staff in Great

Britain was divided into two, Scotland being made a
distinct branch of the Survey under a separate
Director. The title of Local Director for Great

Britain being abolished, Ramsay became Senior

Director for England and Wales. Jukes remained as
before Director for Ireland, and the corresponding

office in Scotland was given to the present writer. A

new grade, that of District Surveyor, was created, in
order that separate areas in which a number of the

staff were at work might be more continuously super
vised. The number of assistant geologists and

geologists was largely increased, and it was arranged
that there should be one geologist for every three
assistants. When the new appointments were all
filled up, the Senior Director had under him a staff of

thirty-seven men, the Director for Scotland nine, and

the Director for Ireland fourteen.

     As a consequence of this transformation, Ramsay
ceased to have any control over the progress of the

work in Scotland, and no longer paid his annual visit
of inspection to the surveyors north of the Tweed.
              GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

But the number of men whom he now had to superintend
in England was larger than he had ever had before.
On reflection, he strongly disapproved of the increase
in the staff, and he particularly condemned the way in
which it was planned and carried out. Though his
long experience gave him a special claim to be con
sulted in any important changes in the organisation of
the Survey, he never heard anything definite as to
what was in contemplation until the whole scheme was
matured and adopted. He used to speak bitterly of
the difficulty of procuring the authorised number of
new men, for he felt sure that a good geological sur
veyor could not be manufactured by a board of
professors, nor even by a crammer, and could not be
discovered by any ordinary form of examination. The
recruit, properly equipped by his education, could only
acquire his fitness for duty by practical training, and it
was, in Ramsay's judgment, impossible with his force
of old hands, constituted as it was, to train at once half
their number of new men. He would have preferred

adding to the force by degrees, as good men could be
found and educated for their duties.

     It must be acknowledged, however, that the
Department of Science and Art in proposing, and the

Treasury in sanctioning, this great rearrangement and
augmentation of the staff of the Geological Survey,
were sincerely desirous to further the objects for
which the Survey was instituted. They wished that,
with as little delay as possible, the public should be
put in possession of a general geological map of the
whole country, and this end could not be attained for

many years unless the force were largely increased.
There was an additional reason that had much weight

with the Lord President of the Council. For some
1866- 1867  AGRONOMICAL MAP OF BRITAIN             293

years the Geological Survey had been carefully dis

tinguishing and mapping the various superficial

deposits which, in the earlier days of the work, it had

not been thought necessary to discriminate. Apart

from their great scientific interest, maps of the surface
geology had innumerable advantages of a practical kind.

They gave information as to the nature and distribu

tion of soils, and were thus of value for agricultural

purposes. They were of essential service in the con

struction of reservoirs, and generally in questions of

water-supply. They were of great utility in the laying

out of roads and railways ; and they could be made

to furnish valuable evidence in relation to drainage

and sanitary matters. The importance of such maps

being recognised by Government, it was desired to

afford greater facilities for their production. It was
now arranged that the practice of mapping the super

ficial deposits simultaneously with the solid rocks

underneath them, which had been introduced into the

Survey some years previously, should be continued

over all the unsurveyed districts, and that, as soon as

surveyors could be detached for the purpose, the

tracts already surveyed where the surface-formations

had not been separated should be re-traversed for the

purpose of inserting them. By this means a general

agronomical map of the whole country would be pro

vided, which would be of much service for farming

purposes, land-valuation, drainage, water-supply, and

many other practical affairs of life. These designs

have since that time been steadily kept in view, and a

large part of the country has now been completed.

      The changes in the Survey staff could not come

into operation until the beginning of the financial year,

that  is,   the 1st April 1867. Steps had been taken
294 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, ix

before that time to obtain young men who gave pro
mise of becoming efficient surveyors. But, as Ramsay
had contended, it was extremely difficult to procure
the required number at once, and some time had
passed before he could announce that his comple
ment was complete, and a still longer time before
he was able to replace the incompetent new-comers
and make his corps efficient. There was much dis
agreeable detail to be attended to before all these pre
liminaries were settled, and his letters show that it
gave him a good deal of vexation. But his gaiety of
spirit made even these worries sometimes a subject of

merriment. His letters to myself were at this time
more frequent than usual. A few of them are inserted
here :--

                                                  Lunnun, $th February 1867.

     My dear Bell-the-Cat 1--We must have a pro

found talk over the colouring of Ayrshire, for there
will be plenty of fault-finders ; and as it belongs to my
reign (old Saturn), and as my aged eyes may never
see the Empyrean (Auchendrane 2) again, we must settle
it among us, while yet, like the Centurion, I may say
to James (the Caledonian apostle), Come, and he
cometh. Let him come, then, with all his maps, and
that will do for the blooming Peach's as well, and all

will be settled before the Jovial times begin. If need

be, Bone in a day will draw in the lines (in pleasant
places) on a clean copy, and we will decide and colour
the rest.

    1 It will have been seen how playfully Ramsay used to vary the names of

his colleagues when he wrote to them. The Christian name of his correspondent
on this occasion suggested the well-known sobriquet that was given to the great
Earl of Angus at the end of the fifteenth century.

      2 See the reference ante, p. 248.
1867 EFFECTS OF THE CHANGES 295

     Poor Jukes is in a sort of semi-despair about all
this business, and considering that he will be adding

ten more Irishmen to his already Irish lot, I don't
wonder at it. His chief man lately informed him that

he had given up taking and recording dips, as he

found it to be useless ! Jukes simply longs for the
day when he will be able to retire, from age, and wear

out the fag-end of his days, un worried by Irishmen

and Boilermen, and I considerably sympathise with

him. . . . Oh for an hour of brave old De la Beche,

in his best days, to look ahead and provide for the
future !-- Ever sincerely,
                            Andw. C. Ramsay.

                                                                           June 1867.

     My dear Ge1kie -- I had barely time to write you
yesterday about your summons by Sir R. Jukes is
exceedingly fidgety. He has not a man in Ireland
that he can trust to training others. Also, they are

all so unruly, that without rules (printed) every one
will be in rebellion. Even on this side of the water

I have no doubt we are all frightfully mismanaging

everything without knowing it. At least, I have no
doubt I am, and I see no reason why you should not

be doing the same. If you feel conscious that you are

not doing the same, that merely proves that you are

so blinded by ignorance and cockyness that you don't

know when you are doing mischief. At least, I believe

that is the case with me. Therefore everything must

be reduced to printed rules.
     Now I am of this way of feeling, viz. I don't

want to have any duties, and I don't want to do them ;
and if it so happen that you are of the same opinion,

then it may fall out that Jukes may get printed rules
for Ireland, and leave us to that ancient unwritten
296 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

law which is the Lion of the North, and the bulwark
of the Hammerers' faith.

     I think I have now expressed myself in clear
scientific language, and therefore you will dine with
us on Thursday at half-past six. -- Yours ever sincerely,

                                              Andw. C. Ramsay.

                                K1rkby Lonsdale, $rd July 1867.

My dear Ge1k1e -- Yours received. Papers glanced

at, but not yet fairly read.

     The rule here is out at 9 a.m. ; no letters written
before breakfast, except in cases of fire, murder, rape,

and robbery. Home to dinner, and the post just going

(as now), and too lazy to write after dinner, except in
cases of abduction, stabbing, perjury, and earthquakes.

To-day we have been in a river, the Greta, from

ten till five. When too deep for skipping and missing

the stones skipped at, Tiddeman carried us across on

his back (Hughes and me), because Tiddeman wears

knickerbockers. I understood these villain Carbonifer

ous rocks (Upper, Middle, and Lower Coal-measures ;

Gannister beds and Millstone grit) better than I ever

did before, and so did all of us. When you don't see

a rock for miles except in a river, and that river is

generally full to the brim and more, then there is

usually Tartarus and Thomas to pay, without coin in

your pocket. To make sure to-day, we all plunged

into a pool to see what was in the bottom, but as we

never got there, heaven only knows whether it is shale

or Millstone grit.
If I get to the Railway Hotel, Newcastle-on-Tyne,

by Saturday (which is   on the cards), then I'll spend
part of Sunday reading  your brief. -- Ever sincerely,

                              Andw. C. Ramsay.
1867 BRITISH A SSOCIA TION AT D VNDEE         297

    To Miss Johnes he writes on the 17th July
from Wirksworth : ' Since I left London twenty-four

days ago, I have been staying at Kendal, Kirkby

Lonsdale, Newcastle, Belper, and here. Kendal is a

woollen-making place, but one charming day we spent

on Windermere and in the neighbouring valleys.

Kirkby Lonsdale is charming beyond expression. It

lies on the River Lune, which is more beautiful

than Alph, the sacred river. There is no trade in the

town, and the people are very good people, parsons

and all ; the gentry are hospitable round about, if you

give them a chance, and the inn is old-fashioned, full

of daughters, lively yet sedate, who, with their very

handsome old mother, do not leave their guests to the

mercy of servants.  I sometimes think of taking

Louisa there some day on our way to Scotland, that

she may know what an English river is like.'

The British Association met at Dundee in 1867,

and was attended by a large concourse of geologists.

Ramsay formed one of the number, and though he

read no paper, he took part in the discussions and

excursions. He was especially pleased to revisit St.

Andrews, where nine years before he had worked for

three months at the Welsh Memoir, and where he had

made many acquaintances. His old friend, Robert

Chambers, who had come to live in the antique uni

versity town, was present at the banquet given by the

Senatus to the excursionists, and afterwards had a

reception at his house. This was probably the last

time that Chambers and Ramsay met each other.

Chambers looked already much broken in health,

though he kept still his interest in geological progress.
He died four years afterwards.

In the spring of 1868, in the intervals of examining
298 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

candidates and lecturing, Ramsay took the occasion of
the publication of a new edition (the tenth) of Lyell's
Principles of Geology to criticise that work in two
articles in the Saturday Review. Resuming the quota
tions from his letters, we may note that on the 18th
March he wrote to Mrs. Ramsay : 'Your father would be
about as busy as I am if he had to preach six sermons
a week, had, besides, twenty-four curates to superin
tend --six with him and eighteen constantly writing
letters --two of them rebellious, with also a bishop
staying in his house constantly consulting with him,
besides having about four magistrates' meetings a week
to attend. These last are my Coal Commissions and
Councils.'

                                                      London, 1$th May 1868.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- Your argument about recent
disturbances in re lakes is a good addition. I have
long given up taking any notice of those who oppose
me. They are impenetrable, and I feel so sure I

am right, that I can well afford to leave the rest to
time. But many people have a pernicious fashion of
stating that De Mortillet and I came to the same con
clusion the same year. I wish somebody would some
day contradict that for me. He says that the lake-
basins existed before the glacial period, but how formed
he does not say. They were then filled with gravel,

etc., and the glaciers scooped out that -- a very different
sort of story, and one that in no way grapples with the
subject. Did you see my two reviews of Lyell's
first volume of the Principles in the Saturday of the
1 1th and 18th April ?-- Ever sincerely,

                                                     A. C. Ramsay.

     Ten days later he wrote to me further regarding
186S 1'M PERFECT HEALTH  -99

the opposition to his lake theory : ' All the objections
make no impression on me, and I feel it best to leave
them alone as far as I am concerned. But I still hope
and intend to apply the view to all time -- past, pre
sent, and future -- and a good deal beyond at both

ends.

     ' You will see a lot of curious papers in the volume
which I will send to-morrow. I stayed at Bonn two
months. I have given Zirkel of Bonn a letter of
introduction to you.1 He is going to the Western
Isles. He is a fine young fellow, and a Professor at
Lemberg ; he would like, too, to see some work. . . .
You must take old Hibbert on the Eifel if you go
there. Van Dechen's big map of the Drachenfels
region is not very good ; there is an explanation of it
in German. Also, the Government geological maps
of all the Prussian Rhine region are published. I can

lend you some. Be sure you see the Miocene coal at
Brill, half-way between Bonn and Cologne. I'll give

you letters if you like. Go and see the Moselle and
its tributaries -- the best case of valleys cut in a table
land that I know. You must march through the Eifel --

6s. per day, living like les coques qui se combattent.'

                                                       Leeds, 1%th September 1868.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- Late, late, so late ; but I will
venture now to reply to yours of the 4th, which work,

laziness, and sometimes imperfect health, and conse
quent demi-semi-depression, prevented my sooner
replying to. Not that I am ill, and yet I am just

something or other. It may be that it is only Age

with creeping claw that has claught me in his clutch.

                                                    1 See ante, p. 262.
3oo GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

If so, so much the worse for Age, for he has got hold

of a bad lot.
     Like the men of the '45, I have been ' out ' since

the 29th June, all but a fortnight, which I spent in
Anglesey ; and also, like the same men of '45, I have
had a controversy with the king, not King Cole, but
King Roderick of Siluria. . . . Some people wonder

why I did not reply to Sir R.'s last in the Geol.

Magazine about denudation and lakes, but I think it

is better not to ' condescend upon '   it,  as we Scotch

lawyers say. But why should he be always troubling

our Israel     Is he afeard that we are becoming re
            ?
                          ?
bellious satraps

I  did not go to Norwich [British Association

Meeting].   I  stayed away a-purpose to keep out of

any excitement.              Last year did me no good, and

giving evidence at the end of June for four days
before the Coal Commission for four hours and a half

per day, together with an immediate march and long

hours in the country during the hottest weather, have

not improved me. So stayed away from Norwich.II
D writes me that the advanced scientific thinkers
did themselves and science no good at Norwich. How,

have not heard but can well believe of some
I                            ;              it
     I                                             it,
        it                      a
              is
                  it
                         is
of our friends. . . .

   know the Strahleck, having been over                 and

very steep                   on the descent from the Col down to

the surface of the glacier on the Grindelwald side.

But very different in different years. Hinchliff

slid down on the snow from top to bottom.       think
                                            I
                                                           it

took us an hour to go down on the rocks. . . .

We have done deal of work hereaway, and are

fast moving up northwards in a broad line, in the hope

of forming  a                union with the Northumberland and
1868 A PAGAN AT THE POST-OFFICE                        301

Westmoreland men, before you can say whew. We

have begun in the Vale of Eden, and will by and by
invade your dominions, if you don't mind your eye. --

Ever sincerely,                       A. C. Ramsay.

                         Blanchland,  September 1868.

My dearest W1fe-- I write to tell you that I am

living in a fragment of an ancient abbey, placed on

the banks of the Derwent, far up the stream. The

house is now an inn, and our window looks out on a

plot of grass that may have been in the middle of the

cloisters. The modern church, a fragment of the old

one, re-muddled, looks on our grass ; and pear-trees,

trained against the walls, the fruit of which the monks

ate, writhe their old branches all about the stones.

Such relics of a beautiful antiquity always fill me with
Ifa sort of regretful feeling.
                                it had only been possible

to preserve them ! How many lovely spots there are

in England that one never heard of till one gets in

among them. Howell came with me from Hexham ;

we drove over the hills, twelve miles, after four o'clock

yesterday. At Hexham there are also the remains of

a grand abbey. The transept and the chancel are

entire, and are used (though abused), but the nave is

gone. It is as big as many a cathedral, and noble

Early English in style.
I must tell you a story of our friend Noumeran,

the Japanese. He had a post-office order sent to the

country, and when he signed his name the postmaster

insisted that it would not do. ' You must sign your

Christian name as well.' ' But,' said Noumeran, ' I am

not a Christian ; I am a Pagan.' Amazement of the

postmaster, who only knew of Pagans before as of

dragons, or griffins, or fabulous monsters of some sort.
302 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

     Howell told me a story of Disraeli. Vernon
Harcourt asked a Conservative friend, ' How can you
and your party follow such a man ? ' ' We look on
him as a professional bowler,' was the reply.

    The men wait. -- Your most affectionate,
                                               Andw. C. Ramsay.

                                   Dent, Kendal, 4M October 1868.

My dearest W1fe -- I begin another letter to you

to-night to tell you something about this place ; it is

so beautiful. The valley is five or six miles long,

' well watered.' While below it is full of lovely green

meadows, bordered with trees and dotted with old

white - washed houses of the dalesmen, all around

great bare hills rise to heights of 2000 and 2300 feet.
And the little town is so quaint, irregular, and clean,

with its village church and absence of shops, that all

combined fill the mind with a sense of repose and

old-fashionedness, but rarely met with now in toil-

worn England. And the people are so nice. Last

night we spent with the Sedgwicks in the house where

old Adam was born. Mrs. Sedgwick is very pretty,

and only about your age. She has at home six girls

and a little boy. They all crowd round Hughes, and

climb on his knees all at once.

      I have written to old Adam Sedgwick telling him
how pleased I am to be in his old home, and how kind

               and hope he will be pleased with
:Mrs. Sedgwick
     '
my letter.
                is is,
                             I
     This vale of Dent filled Ramsay with delight,
which breaks out again and again in his letters.

Thus to Miss Johnes, on the nth October 1868, he

writes Dent not on the outskirts, but in the core
1868 THE VALE OF DENT  303

of the world, and the farther you recede from it in
concentric circles, the nearer you get to the outposts of
" civilisation falsely so called." Dent town and the
valley of Dent make a kind of paradise to a man
troubled with cares of Geological Surveys and Coal
Commissions. Fancy a valley some six or eight miles
long, well watered, with green sloping pastures and
noble trees, with great peaceful, solemn hills all
around ; noises unknown from the outer world, no

sounds, in fact, but those made by winds and running
rivers, or dropping rains and cattle, and the voices of
" the kindly race of men," and church-bells o' Sundays.

All the children are clean (very) ; all the men are

stalwart and frank, honest and brave ; and all the

women that are not beautiful are comely, some of
them stalwart too. Men, women, and children, Danes
by descent, are fair, with blue open eyes -- "states
men," the men part, in the northern sense of the term
-- frank and respectful, for self-respect makes folk

respectful to others.

     ' I have been away from home for four and a
half months, as human mortals usually count them,
but to me the time looks like four and a half mortal
years, and I long to see Louisa and my children

again.'

      His journeys of inspection now ranged over the
whole breadth of the northern counties of England.
On the 2 1st November 1868 he wrote to me from

Barnsley : ' Since I saw you I have been at Newcastle,
Bellingham, Morpeth, Ponteland, Richmond, Harro
gate, Pateley Bridge, Otley, Bolton Bridge, Skipton,
and here. I have seen, besides geology, Ripon

Cathedral, Knaresboro, Kirk Hamerton (real Danish
or Anglo-Saxon), Bolton Abbey and Fountains Abbey,
304 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

besides Skipton in Craven, where, as you very well
know, " there's never a haven." '

      These inspection tours brought him into the midst
of delightful scenery, interesting geology, varied histo

rical associations, and pleasant society -- a combination
of attractions that never failed to show him at his best.

Professor Hughes, who now holds the Woodwardian
Chair at Cambridge, was then one of the staff with
whom the Director had many excursions, and who has
kindly supplied me with the following recollections of
his chief. Speaking of the evenings after the day's
tramp was over, he says : ' Ramsay always threw him
self heartily into whatever game or amusement of any
kind was going on, and thus got an insight into the
life of his men, and helped to make things pleasant
for them with their neighbours. So agreeable a com
panion at a dinner-party, and so considerate and

obliging a guest at an hotel, was always welcome, and
every one asked when he was coming back, and tried
to arrange little plans to make his stay pleasant. He
loved a game of cards or billiards, which he played to
win, not with the bored expression of one who did it
just because he was asked to, or merely to kill time.
He was very fond of chorus-singing, taking the bass
with a good deal of skill and great earnestness. Even

when there was no entertainment going on he was
generally very lively all the evening.'

London,  October 1870.

My dear Ge1k1e -- I 'have been away since July,

and only came home on Monday last. I have had an

awful battering on the Yorkshire hills of late in

thunder, lightning, and in rain (Williams). . . .
I am very well, and have been, barring an eye,
1870-1871  THE YORKSHIRE DALES            305

which is now rather better than it was before it got

worse.

     Wife and babbies all well, and rejoicing more over
the desperate willain who has returned than over
ninety-and-nine just men who stay in the field and do
their work. I'm off again on Monday for Lancashire,
about Preston, etc. etc., and shall be thereabouts for

two or three weeks ; after that to Grantham and the
Oolites. I won't be much at home before the end of
December. Sir R. looks well.

     Oh the dales, the dales, the Yorkshire dales !

Lovely, luvely, loovely ! Cock-fighting be hanged !
The terrassic system ! The Carb. Limestone is a
myth proper, and the Yoredale Rocks ditto. They pass

into limestones in the most unprincipled manner, and
now the limestone runs up to the Millstone Grit, and
now, to use a strong expression, it doesn't. Lithology
is the only science, and as for definite horizons, they
no more exist than nadir or zenith, the equator or

Fergus the First. -- Ever sincerely, A. C. Ramsay.

                                      Jermvn Street, ldth February 1871.

     My dear M1ster G. -- I have gotten yourn. I
believe I have Rutimeyer's book, and that I looked it

over, but I am a poor ignorant son of a sea-cook, and

cannot read German. But I get bits translated for
me by Ella or the Missus. As Riitimeyer does not
agree with me, of course he is wrong ! Desor's paper
(French) I have read, on the origin of Jura valleys,
lakes, etc. etc., and thought it 'Walker.' I do not
think I have seen any German treatise of his on the

subject.         you are writing that     paper for
      I am glad                           Prestwich
                 come in rather pattish.
Nature; it will                 x
3o6 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

sent me his remarks to read -- what he is going to say

when he hands over to me the Wollaston medal, and

he says nowt about the lakes. They must be still

too strong for his geological stomach. But he has
swallowed other things handsomely, and remarks that
in the matter of Palaeozoic ice I long stood alone. He
may live to swallow all the 4000 feet of Swiss ice that
scooped out lakes, and also all the big northern ice-
sheet that buried two-thirds of the northern continents.

     Do you think Riitimeyer shows good cause for his
dislocations in the Alps without good mapping done ?

     My paper on the Old Red, etc. etc., has not yet
been read. I suppose it will come on upon the 22 nd

March or thereabouts. They print the papers now
entire for convenience before they are read. It does
not follow, I believe, that they will necessarily be printed

in the Journal.
     Now I must go to prepare a lecture for 2 p.m. I

gave one last Monday night on the Origin of the River
Systems of England, and the audience liked it better
than I did.

II       If I write    it it, it,    And he likesI
        I                                              it
         And like                       will like               ; it,

            will send  it it,        All the better
         To the Royal.          it,  For my Geikie
                                     Is judgematick,
         If they like  it,           And he knoweth
                                     All that differs
         And they print
                                     B's between
            will send                And feet of bullocks.

         To my Geikie.

         If he read

-- Yours ever,                       A. C. Ramsay.

     About this period Ramsay's pen was more than
usually busy. The problems suggested by red strati
fied deposits like the New Red Sandstone and Old

Red Sandstone had often been considered by him,
1870.1871  ILLNESS OF MURCHISON  307

and he discussed the subject in two papers communi
cated in January and March 1871 to the Geological
Society. One of these dealt with the red rocks of

Palaeozoic age, and the other with those of later date.
He was likewise turning his thoughts more frequently
and earnestly to the history of topography, and espe
cially to the origin of river-valleys. He gave a series

of lectures on that subject during this year, and after
wards condensed the substance of one or two of them

into a paper on the ' River-courses of England and
Wales,' which was read before the Geological Society

on the 7th February 1872.
      Much anxiety was felt during the year 1871 as

to the health of the distinguished Director- General
of the Geological Survey. On the 30th November
1870 he had a stroke of paralysis, which at the time
deprived him of the use of his left side. But he

rallied so far as to be able to take carriage exercise,

and to attend to a good deal of business. It was

evident, however, that he would never again be fit
to resume his place in the scientific world, though he
might possibly linger long. Trenham Reeks, his faith
ful secretary, and Registrar of the School of Mines,

used to see him at his house daily, bring official and
other letters, arrange about the answering of them,
and despatch frequent bulletins to members of the staff
as to the condition of the chief. Murchison never

again set foot in the Museum in Jermyn Street.
     But as there was no immediate prospect of serious

change in Sir Roderick's condition, Ramsay took the
field among his men in the spring of 1871. Some

further letters from him show what he was doing

and thinking about during the summer and autumn

of this year.
3o8 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

                                                                   24/A March 187 1.

My dear Ge1kie -- I write a second note. If you

refer to my book on North Wales, you will see that I

state that the Lingula Flags and Cambrian are con

formable, and pass into each other, and that the

Llandeilo and Bala beds lie unconformably on both.

Officially I still call the Lingula Flags Lower Silurian,

because of the Director-General's classification, but

theoretically I consider the Lingula Flags more

closely allied to the Cambrian. In the first paper

I sent you you will see, however, that I consider

the Cambrian (below Lingula Flags) as a fresh-water
formation. The Llandeilos and Balas are, however,

nearly as closely connected with the Tremadoc Slate

and Lingula Flags as the Upper Silurian is with

Llandeilo and Bala beds. The Tremadoc Slate I

consider an upper part of the Lingula Flags. -- Ever

sincerely,  A. C. Ramsay.

                                                            K1ng's Arms, Kendal,

                                                                                  1st October 1871.

     My dear Ge1kie -- I'm smoking a pipe on a
Sunday. Hallelujah, hallelujee ! I send you my two

last [papers on Red Rocks] to Edinburgh, not knowing
where you may be. I have had a very pleasant letter
from De Koninck about them. He will write again,

but at present he seems equally surprised and pleased.
Besides twelve sent here and there in England, I
think I will devote the rest of my copies to Conti
nentals and Americans, for Englishmen can read them

in the Journal. . . .
      I came here last Tuesday, and, weather permitting,

have been daily among the Silurian Green Slates
and Porphyries. The more I see of them, the more
1871 THE COUNCIL OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY 309

am I convinced that all of them I have seen form part

of a great purely subaerial volcano = the Welsh marine
or semi-marine set. I am assisting at a bit of mapping

...which Aveline cannot make up his mind about, and
I have made up mine.  I hope to leave this on
Tuesday or Wednesday for Kirkby Stephen. It is

tough work here, driving twelve miles and then

climbing, like a climbing boy, mountains from 2000

to 3000 feet    high during equinoxious gales.  Sir R.
continues just
                the same. -- Ever sincerely,

                      A. C. Ramsay.

                                                  London, \$th December 187 1.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- Austen has decided to take
the Presidency of the Geological Society.1 That is
well. But the Society is not flourishing in papers.

I am glad we are to have a strong President, and we
must try to get a strong council, made of men of mark.

When Dallas wrote me the other day, asking if I had

no papers to fill the void, I replied that I had none
ready, and of course could not write for the sake of
writing. I also said that they might have more were
it not that authors of theoretical papers were afraid
to send them in for fear of the fatherly care of the
Council. Green's last paper was squashed, by
in particular. You will see it in the Geological
Magazine. I have a great mind to send in a paper
entitled ' The Wonderful, the Councillor,' with illustra
tions, by Rutley, of living examples. When at Clapham
(Ingleborough) last Friday I explored a cave 800 yards

long with Tiddeman. -- Ever sincerely,
                                                   A. C. Ramsay.

                     1 In the end he was obliged to decline the office.
              GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

                                                  London, 16th December 187 1.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- Yesterday I took a leaf out of
the Book of Othello, and became ' perplexed in the
extreme,' all along of a miserable trusteeship that I
hold. The consequence was that all day I stood
prostrate at the feet of Europe, having there/ore an

aversion to all legitimate business, till in the evening
I plucked up ' hart o' grease ' and wrote to S. Kensing
ton asking about the Survey Annual Reports. I have

to-day had an answer saying that My Lords meet on
Monday, and the question will come before them. ' That

is all we know on Earth, and all we need to know.'
     Having done this, I went at half- past four and

played with Herbert Spencer a game of billiards at
the Athenaeum. He beat me. Being beaten, I went

home and ate a turkey, and then proceeded to lay
about me all round and make everybody miserable,
all because a woman 200 and odd miles off is an ass,
and gives me a deal of deilish bother.

     The poet [his son Allan] came home yesterday
from Uppingham with a prize for mathematics under
his oxter. We are all very well at home, both the
cats having disappeared. I hope they are not at the
bottom of the water butt !

     Several of the drift maps have been engraved.
We are now in a state to publish. I will tell Bristow
to send you a coloured specimen copy for your
criticism before any are issued. I hope we may
manage to do so early next week. -- Ever sincerely,

                                                 Andw. C. Ramsay.

                                              London, nth January 1872.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- Yesterday in the Council of
the Geological Society I proposed Croll as a proper
        DEATH OF MURCHISON  311

man to receive the Wollaston Fund for the year. . . .
The President and others hailed my proposition.
One objection raised was that Croll's researches
involved no personal expense. Prestwich and I
thought that of no importance ; but nevertheless if you
can tell me anything on that score I shall be doubly
armed --

                 And on the top of opportunity,
                   Quell the base scullion rogues, whose envy dull
                 Would squash the light of Genius, and instead
                   Display a dirty, spluttering, farthing dip,
                And swear that 'tis the sun.

...So look alive, my pigeon, and help in this good
cause.  I can do nothing till my third edition of

Physical Geology and Geography is in the press. I

am now at the last lecture of it. I will turn it into

chapters. It will be nearly twice as long as it was,

and so much modified (I hope improved) that it may
almost be said to be a new book. -- Ever sincerely,

        A. C. Ramsay.

     Sir Roderick Murchison died on the 22nd October
1 87 1, and the office of Director- General of the
Geological Survey once more became vacant. When
he accepted the appointment it was with the expressed
intention of holding it only for a short period. ' I
will tide you over a few years,' he said to Ramsay
at the outset. But he retained the position for six
teen years and a half. Of his geological labours, and
more especially of his connection with the Geological
Survey, a full account has been given elsewhere.1
These matters have therefore been only cursorily
referred to in the foregoing chapters.

                       1 Life of Sir R. I. Murchison, 2 vols., 1875.
3" GEOLOGICAL SURVEY REORGANISED chap, 1x

     The death of their Director-General necessarily gave
rise to considerable anxiety among the officers of the
Survey. They hoped that their friend and colleague,
who had been passed over at the time of De la Beche's
death, would not be passed over again. Rumour, of
course, was busy with reports of various kinds -- the

Jermyn Street establishment was to be broken up,
there was to be no new Director-General, or an

outsider who was variously named was to be once
more put over the service. But, happily, these
predictions proved to be false. After four months of
suspense, Ramsay received from Lord Ripon, who
was then Lord-President of the Council, a letter dated
26th February 1872, asking him if it would be agreeable
to him that he should be nominated to the vacant post.

It was explained that the delay had arisen because

various questions connected with the several branches
of the establishment in Jermyn Street had been under
consideration. The appointment thus offered to him

did not embrace the School of Mines. A great

scheme was in contemplation for the formation of a
College of Science at South Kensington, for which
the Jermyn Street School would form an excellent
nucleus ; and it was therefore considered expedient to
sever the tie which from the beginning had united the
School of Mines to the rest of the organisation

planned and carried out by De la Beche. A fortnight

later I had the following note from Ramsay : ' \6th

March. -- I was yesterday summoned to attend a meet
ing of the [Committee of] Privy Council at South
Kensington. The result is I am Director - General
of the Surveys, Museum, and Mining Record Office,
Bristow succeeds me as Director for England and
Wales, Howell succeeds Bristow (as District Surveyor),
1872 RAMSA Y BECOMES DIRECTOR-GENERAL  313

and Ward gets up to be geologist.' Thus at last he
had attained what had been the height of his ambition.
After thirty-one years of faithful service he was now
placed officially at the head of the organisation of

which he had so long been the life and soul.
                   CHAPTER X

      DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

Before we follow the subject of this biography in his
new sphere of duty and responsibility it will be of
advantage to look for a moment at the state of the
Survey when he was called to be the head of it. He

was no longer to be immediately responsible for

the personal supervision of the field-work. It is

interesting, therefore, to consider in what condition he
left the mapping in England and Wales, and how far
the Survey had advanced in Scotland and Ireland,
which were now to be under his jurisdiction.

     In England and Wales the only untouched tracts
were Norfolk and Suffolk, with portions of Essex and
Cambridgeshire, the greater part of Lincolnshire and
Yorkshire, and the north-western portion of Cumber
land and Northumberland. The field-work was being
pushed forward in the six northern counties, Northum
berland, Durham, Cumberland, Westmoreland, York

shire, and Lancashire. A group of surveyors was

busy in Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, and Leicester
shire, and another in Essex, Hertfordshire, and parts
of the home-counties. As for some years past all the
surface-geology had been traced upon the maps as well as
the outcrops of the older works underneath, a consider
able part of England had now been surveyed for Drift.
1872 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR-GENERAL  315

      In Scotland the survey, extending westward from

the area where Ramsay began in 1854, had stretched
across the island from the mouth of the Firth of Tay
to the mouth of the Clyde, and southwards to a wavy

line drawn from Berwick-on-Tweed to Wigtown.
There were still large tracts of the counties of Berwick,
Roxburgh, Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Wigtown, and

Ayr to be surveyed. The Highlands had not yet

been touched.

     In Ireland all the country south of a line drawn

from Clew Bay to Dundalk had been surveyed, and
most of it had been published. The ground to the
east of a line from Dundalk to Lough Neagh had

likewise been in great part surveyed and published.

All the northern part of the country was still un
mapped, including the north-western tracts of Mayo,
Donegal, Londonderry, Tyrone, nearly the whole of
Antrim and Fermanagh, with large tracts of Sligo,

Leitrim, Monaghan, and Armagh.
     The duties of Director-General of the Geological

Survey and Director of the Museum of Practical

Geology are necessarily to a large extent administrative.
But as far as possible he keeps himself in touch with

the field-work by personally visiting the districts that

are being mapped, and becoming acquainted with the
details. By making himself familiar with the problems
encountered in each of the three kingdoms, he is
enabled to bring the experience of one branch of the

Survey to bear upon the difficulties of the others, and

thus to ensure more rapid progress as well as more
harmonious results over the whole United Kingdom.

All maps, sections, and memoirs, are submitted to him

before publication, and in this way a good deal of
editorial work is imposed upon him. The amount of
316 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

Survey correspondence is thus necessarily large and

constant. The Director-General
a                                                         further, the official
       is

                     is
                                            is
                                                     is,
channel of communication with his own and with other

departments of Government, as well as with the

general public. Endless are the applications he

receives for information or advice on geological

questions. At one moment he asked for assistance

in supplying an arsenal or fort with water at
                                                          a
another he requested to inform a government board            a

where prison or a workhouse had best be placed.                              ;
One Colonial government inquires of him whether in

his opinion water likely to be obtained at particular
spot which he may never have seen or heard of. Another
sends home a box of earth and stones with request

to know whether the material affords hopeful indica

tions of gold. A landed proprietor in England asks

him why no coal has been found on his estate, another
forwards a parcel of specimens,' and wishes to know

what useful minerals he may look for in the places

from which they were taken. A third sends a so-called

'fossil,' dug up on the estate, in the belief that
   '                                                      it
                                                               is
                  it
some unique treasure, when        proves to be merely a

lump of inorganic concretion. In numberless questions

of drainage, road-making, railway-engineering, water-

supply, choosing sites for buildings, and other matters

where knowledge of geology has practical bearing,
a                                     a

applications are continually made to the Geological

Survey for assistance.     is Itmay readily be believed

that the Director-General         thus involved in a large

amount of extraneous business, besides that which

more properly arises from his ordinary official duties.
     The quantity of letter-writing which now fell upon

Ramsay, whether by his own hand or by that of a

secretary, was often so large that left him hardly time
                                  it
1872 PROMOTION COMES TOO LATE  317

for other avocations. Amid the multitude of letters he
was glad to keep them as brief as might be. He could

comparatively seldom indulge in the pleasant gossiping
epistles which hitherto he had been wont to send to his
friends and colleagues, but restricted himself more and
more to the absolutely essential business. Neverthe
less for a few years he contrived to find opportunity for
putting on paper some of the observations he had
made on the origin of the features of landscapes, and
for communicating papers on this subject to the

Geological Society.
      Except that he was more involved in official

routine, and had less time for inspection of field-

work and for original research of his own, his life as
Director-General passed much in the same way as
that of Director had done. One year slipped away
like another, only marked by longer or shorter spells of

London life. But he had one great resource in a house
at Beaumaris left to Mrs. Ramsay by an old friend.

To this retreat he betook himself more and more with

his wife and family. There, away from the thousand
distractions of town, he attended to his correspondence
and worked at the geological or literary undertakings
which duty or choice imposed on him. The mountains
of Caernarvonshire rose in front of his windows to

remind him, as he felt himself no longer young, that
he had been a good climber in his day, and that on
their flanks and among their Cwms and crags he had
done some of the best geological labour of his life.

      Ramsay had now gained the position which for so
many years he had wished to reach. But it must be

confessed that the reward came to him too late to

enable him to profit by it as he would have done had

it been conferred ten or fifteen years sooner. He had
318 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

probably never quite recovered from the effects of that
disastrous break-down in i860. Had he been able to
free himself from the burden of his lectureship at
the School of Mines, he might perhaps have been
restored to complete health, and have escaped from that
mental weariness which his friends and colleagues used
sorrowfully to watch as it increased upon him during
each succeeding session of the school. Even the
advancement to be Director-General did not throw off
this incubus. The income of the appointment was
reduced by the amount of his salary as professor, and
he was compelled to go on lecturing for five years longer,
until the Treasury at length agreed to restore the
emoluments of the office to what they had formerly
been, and to permit him to resign his lectureship.

      In the early autumn the new Director- General
made an official tour in Ireland, in order to become
personally acquainted with the various officers in that
part of the United Kingdom, and also to see some of
the more salient features of Irish geology, of which as
yet he had not been able to obtain any knowledge by
actual examination in the field. The following letters
supply us with some pictures of the tour :--

                                                 Larne, 29M September 1872.

     My dear Mrs. Cookman -- I am at Larne, in
Antrim, some twenty miles or so north of Belfast, and
have with me my good friend John F. Campbell, ycleped
of Islay.1 And this is how it happened. Being in
London against my will, in re a fight in the Irish
branch of the Survey, I heard that Campbell was also

     1 John F. Campbell, born 1821, died 1885, author of Tales of the West
Highlands, was also fond of geological observation. He had travelled far and
wide, and was the author of the picturesque and entertaining work Frost and
Fire, besides other volumes of travel.
1872 INSPECTING TOUR IN IRELAND                  319

...in London in a dismantled state.  So here we are !

At Dublin I transacted a deal of business, saw some

marvellous antiquities at the Irish Academy, and then
with my colleague Mr. Hull, Director for Ireland, we

started for Dundalk, where besides seeing the geology,
we visited Cuchullin's Rath and saw the grave of Fin

M'Coul ; worked our way to Newry ; from Newry to

Warrenpoint, and joined there a fine young fellow
called Traill, one of the Survey. He looks something

like what I did when I joined the Survey, only he

is much handsomer, sings a great deal better, but

cannot jump so high. We saw the Carlingford country

and all the Mourne Mountains, and progressed to

Newcastle, staying two or three days at each place.
We were out on the mountains or on the sea-cliffs every

...day, and have been battered by equinoxial gales from
every point of the compass.       I do not expect to

be home for a fortnight or three weeks, for by easy
stages I have to continue this royal progress till

we get to Galway, and then back across the great

central plain of Ireland to Dublin.

    The Irish trouble to which I alluded has lost me

three weeks, otherwise I proposed going to Germany,

and perhaps taking Ella with me. But I begin now

to see that it will be too late for this year. I have
such a pretty problem in my mind, if I could only

tackle
a
              it.

                                        I
                                                     I
                                                                                             I
                              Florence Court, $th October 1872.

My dear Ge1k1e -- got your letter last night on

our arrival here, Hull and self.  have been making

grand round with Hull for more than a fortnight. . . .

Here at Lord Enniskillen's we stay till Monday.

have learned a great deal about Irish geology and

physical geography previously to me unknown. John
32° DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

Campbell stuck by us as far as Armagh, when he

branched or shunted off to speak Gaelic to the folk in

the north-west.

Thanks for your remarks on Arran. I have seen

the Mourne Mountain and Slieve Croob granites, and

one of them took away my breath. [Here follows a
rough sketch showing an upper cake of contorted and

baked Silurian strata with basalt dykes, underlain and

cut off by a mass of granite.] That is in the Mourne

Mountains, and the drawing represents the crest of a

large mountain a mile or two long ; it is one of many

such.

When I saw it drawn in a section I could scarce

believe it. But I saw it afterwards on the ground, and
it is true. --Ever sincerely,
                               A. C. Ramsay.

     The loughs of Ireland, as might have been expected,
roused the enthusiasm of one who had studied lakes

so closely, and had been involved in so much contro
versy about them. Regarding those of Fermanagh he
tells Mrs. Cookman : 'These lakes here (Upper and
Lower Lough Erne) first took away my breath, then
made my hair stand on end, and then confused my
intellect so lamentably that I doubt if I will ever
write sense any more. They are the most curious
lakes I ever saw.'

                                          Dubl1n, nth October 1872.
     My dear Ge1k1e -- Since I wrote to you I have
been at Sligo and Boyle, and I now write to say that
near Boyle I saw Old Red Sandstone, which doubtless
is Lower, and it contains bands of felspathic lavas
precisely like those of the Pentlands and Oban. I
have seen no Old Red Sandstone that is not Lower
1872 THE ANNUAL REPORT  321

and the Carboniferous lies highly unconformably

on it.

      I now also know a deal about the great Carbon
iferous Limestone plains of the middle of Ireland, and
something of the coal-fields. Ireland must have been
somewhat like Finland long ago, before so many of
its lakes got turned into peat-mosses. I have also
partly realised the Shannon and a lot of other odds and

ends in a three-and-a-half weeks' tour among Hull's men.
I have seen all the staff but two, and a very nice set
of fellows they are. I leave to-morrow night, and get
home on Tuesday, I hope. -- Ever sincerely,

                                                 A. C. Ramsay.

     One of the periodical tasks of the Director-General
is to receive the reports of the field operations, of
the indoor work, and of the Museum for the year, and
to prepare from them his Annual Report of progress,
which is sent to the Department of Science and Art

to be presented to Parliament, and published in the

annual blue book of the Department. At the end of

the year these various returns are prepared by the
officers of each branch of the Survey and the curators

of the collections in Jermyn Street, Edinburgh, and
Dublin, and the first duty of the chief after the begin-
ing of January is to master their contents, to procure

additional information or correction where needed, and

to work the whole into a narrative of all that has

been done during the previous twelve months by the

different establishments under his control. Buried in

the pages of a blue book, these Annual Reports are

much less widely known than the labour spent upon

them entitles them to be. It was now Ramsay's turn
in the early part of 1873 to compile the yearly state -

                                               Y
32- DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

ment. His personal familiarity with the men in the

field and their work enabled him to attack the most

difficult part of the task with spirit and success. In
these labours of routine, and indeed in all the official
work of his office, he received constant loyal and
efficient aid from Mr. Edward Best, who, originally

appointed as an assistant geologist for service in the
field, had been transferred early in his career to the
office in Jermyn Street, where he acted as general
secretary in charge of the correspondence and the
issue of publications. Mr. Best's long experience
made him familiar with all the details of the history
and progress of the Survey. He was a general
favourite among the staff, and for many years served
as the right hand of his chief.1

      Ramsay still occasionally contributed an article
to the Saturday Review, and gave a Friday evening

discourse at the Royal Institution. In the pages of his

favourite 'weekly' he wrote pleasantly about the history
of Great Britain, taking a much wider view into the
past as well as into the future of the subject than the
ordinary historian is content with, and adding a caution
to our statesmen for the benefit of their successors fifty
thousand years hence, when a new glacial period shall
begin to banish man from the northern half of Europe.

' It behoves the Minister for the Colonies,' he con

cludes, ' to see that our inter-tropical possessions are
kept in good order for the coming migration, for the
fortunes of the British Islands will then be far below

zero. One cold comfort remains -- the universal
northern ice-sheet may possibly solve the Irish diffi

culty.'

      1 He joined the service in 1855 under De la Beche, and retired from it on
31st March 1893, carrying with him the affectionate regard of all his colleagues.
1873 DISCOURSE AT ROYAL INSTITUTION                       323

Another occupation of the same winter was the

writing of an article on the River Po for Macmillari s

Magazine. As his mind dwelt so much now on rivers

and their operations, he was led to recall what he had

himself seen of the workings of the Po and its

tributaries on the southern flanks of the Alps, and

over the vast plains of Lombardy. He likewise read

extensively the literature of that great river. The paper

which he now wrote was translated by Gastaldi into

Italian for the Bulletin of the Italian Alpine Club, and

separate copies of the translation were printed for the

Italian Government, that they might be distributed

widely among local authorities and others in Lom

bardy. In sending a copy of the Italian version of

the paper to Mrs. Cookman, Ramsay told her that he

had 'heard from Italy that the article has helped to

stir up the authorities there in re their duty to their

rivers and the people.'

Before the Royal Institution he discoursed on

'Old Continents,' and sent me the following account
'Iof the evening.
                         lectured last   Friday    [12th    Feb
ruary 1873] on "         Continents "   to a very   full
              Old                                         house.

As I treated the subject was quite new to every one
            I
                it,

                                I
there, and by good luck was in the right humour for

lecturing.    restricted myself to the great continental

epoch between the close of the Upper Silurian and the

end of the New Red Marl, and put all episodes in

consecutive order. The act of lecturing on suggested
                                        a

                                                I it
some new ideas which did not broach, for had quite
                   I

enough to do without them in an hour. However,

perhaps they may bear fruit in          paper for the

Geological.'

Having been chosen by Murchison as his literary

executor, and charged with the writing of his bio
324 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap.x

graphy, I had applied to Ramsay for any of Mur-
chison's letters which he could supply, and also for

information as to the best way of procuring materials

from some of the old chief s correspondents. He

answered as follows : ' I have no influence with

Sedgwick. We are very good friends, but he never

quite forgets the Survey having turned his Cambrian

...into Lower Silurian, so aiding Sir Roderick, without
specially meaning it.  I doubt if Hughes will be

...able to help you in that matter. Sedgwick is still sore
about it.  I never saw Wollaston, but Greenough,

Buckland, Warburton, and Fitton I knew. There

ought also to be De la Beche, Sedgwick, old John
Taylor, Whewell, Mantell, Major Clark, old Stokes,
Sir Philip Egerton, Lord Enniskillen, Babbage, and

others. They used all to have a jollification at Lord

E.'s rooms in Jermyn Street after the meetings. Lord
E. told me a lot of things last autumn, which I now

nearly forget.'

    Of the voluminous memoir on the Geology of

North Wales, published in 1866, a new edition was

now required, and its author set about the necessary
preparation. The house at Beaumaris came then to

be of more practical value to him than ever, for while

it allowed him to escape conveniently from London,

and to keep his family around him, it provided him

with a home near the ground which he might have to

re-examine. This new edition continued to be one of

his main employments during the rest of his official

life.

       While at Beaumaris, in the summer of 1873, he

made a short excursion to St. David's, the geology of

which had in recent years been brought into pro
minence by Mr. Salter and Dr. Hicks, whose con
JOHN W. SALTER
1873 SOUTH WALES REVISITED  325

elusions did not quite coincide with those expressed
on the maps of the Geological Survey. Writing to
Mrs. Ramsay from that remote cathedral town on the 3rd
August, he says : ' To-day (Sunday) we have been at
the cathedral, and I sat in my old stall and sang bass.
But the music has sadly fallen off. The organ is dis
mantled because of the repairs of the church, and there
is only a harmonium, and the singers are diminished.
Scott is slowly restoring the building, but there is still

a great deal to do, with as yet insufficient money.
     ' To-morrow we take a boat and coast along for

eight or ten miles to re-examine the coast section.
The weather is splendid, and it will be delightful.
We have first-rate boatmen, one being the captain of
the lifeboat. . . . Now that I am here, it would never

do to leave the country without bringing the geology
of St. David's (which is now exciting so much atten
tion) up to the modern mark. Considering how

ignorant I was in 1841, I wonder I did it so well.'
     Three days later, writing to the same corre

spondent, he tells her : ' Probably we will start to

morrow, drive up to Fishguard, and thence to Car

digan. I shall refresh my memory on geological
points by the way. . . . This is a moist, hot climate,

like Cornwall. Your very clothes get damp, and your

gummed envelopes get also damp and seal them

selves.'

      On his return to Beaumaris he sent me the fol
lowing account of the trip into Pembrokeshire : ' I

have been for a fortnight at St. David's seeing all

Hicks's discoveries among the Cambrian rocks and his

Menevian strata, which form a grey band, 550 feet
thick, between the uppermost purple Cambrian grits and
the bottom of the Lingula Flags. Fossils numerous,
326 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

all of the same kind as those in the Cambrian beds,

only some additional genera and species, but none or

few common to the Lingula Flags. Etheridge I took

with me, and David Homfray came also from Port-

madoc. As I knew before, there are boulder-beds at

St. David's, but I did not know that they contain

chalk-flints, which are also found in Ramsey Island.

The country is undoubtedly moutonnd, and I saw on

the coast in three places striations running N.N.W.
and S.S.E., pointing, in fact, to the north of Ireland.

' My Contemporary Review paper, as regards

substance, is in all important points my two Red Rock

...papers in the Geological Journal, only the subject is
put consecutively.  I am satisfied that in Scotland

there are two or three glacial episodes in what is

commonly called Old Red. I have no doubt, however,

that you will work it out, and I see no reason against

a Carboniferous glacial episode. The day will come

when all folk will allow a Silurian one too, which I

long ago inferred from the rocks on Carrick Moore's

land, and troubled his mind by printing the idea.

' Hicks I think is wrong about his Laurentian axis

at St. David's. I believe the area is Cambrian

metamorphosed into a kind of syenite, and that the

granites there are, like those of Anglesey, also meta-

morphic. But I could not be supposed to see all that

in 1 84 1 when I surveyed the area.'1
     He was able this summer to carry out at last his

intention of visiting the Rhine Valley, for the purpose

of studying the problem of its origin. Taking with

him his eldest daughter, and accompanied by his sister

and his nephew (now Professor William Ramsay of
University College, London), he ascended the river

                    1 See p. 172 and note.
1873 THE SWISS VALLEYS ONCE MORE  327

from Cologne, and remained a week at Bingen, making
excursions up the valley of the Nahe and the Rhine.

Thence the party went to Strasburg, and Ramsay took
some geological expeditions into the Vosges valleys for
the solution of the question he had come to study.

Being so near, it was impossible to resist the pleasure
of seeing some of his old friends and former haunts in
Switzerland. So with his travelling companions, he
made for Basle, Lucerne, and Meiringen, crossing the
Scheideck to Grindelwald, where he was much inter

ested in the diminution of the glaciers since he had
previously seen them. By way of the Wengern Alp,
Lauterbrunnen, and Interlaken, the party reached
Berne, where they remained some days taking excur

sions with the venerable Studer. They then made for

Bex, where Ramsay, with eyes now quickened to
perceive the profound interest of river-courses, was de
lighted to have an opportunity of examining the valley of
the Rhone where it bends sharply round at Martigny,and

farther down where the river is filling up the upper end
of the Lake of Geneva with sediment. Returning to

Basle, they experienced much kindness from that delight
ful veteran of Swiss geology, Peter Merian, and from
Professor Riitimeyer, and then made their way home
ward bythe east side of the Rhine, through Heidelberg to
Cologne. It had been Ramsay's intention to descend
the whole length of the grand old river down to
Rotterdam, but on looking into the state of the
finances of the party, he found that they had just

money enough left to take them straight back to
London, which they reached by way of Ostend.

     On his return he sent me (26th September) a few
jottings of his doings : ' I got home last night, having
solved my problem in a very different way from what
328 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

I expected. It was curious to find all the supports to

one's speculative views crumbling away one after
another. So I began again quite dispassionately in re
the Rhine, and the result is that I think I have done

the gun trick, which is too long to write about. I

have also learned a deal of other odds and ends.' To
Mrs. Cookman he wrote : ' Ella and I had a delightful
journey. I saw at least five of my old friends in
Switzerland, two of them, alas ! over eighty years of
age, but I rejoice to say quite hale and hearty. But I
missed old Escher von der Linth, who is no more. I

learnt heaps of things, and will send you a memoir
when it is written and printed, on the physical history

of the valley of the Rhine. If you and Betha will

come out with my wife and me, we'll explore the valley
of the Rhone from Geneva downwards, and next year

do the Danube from its sources in the Schwarzwald to

its mouth, and write joint memoirs on these subjects,
for I am rather crazy about rivers just at present, and
it will be of great advantage to the world if Louisa and
you will get crazy too.'

     The results of this brief continental excursion were

quickly brought before the world. On the 4th February
1874 Ramsay read an account of his observations to
the Geological Society in a paper on the Physical
History of the Valley of the Rhine, and on the 27th
March he gave a Friday evening discourse on the sub

ject to the Royal Institution. A reference to his views

on this question will be made in the succeeding chapter.
     Next summer, as was usual now, he spent some

time at Beaumaris, making excursions thence to re
examine ground for the preparation of the Welsh
Memoir. With the company and assistance of Mr.
Hughes, formerly one of his staff, but who had now
1874 REVISION OF WELSH GEOLOGY                            329

succeeded Sedgwick as Woodwardian Professor at

Cambridge, and also with Mr. R. Etheridge, and Mr.

D. Homfray of Portmadoc, he traversed a good deal

of ground in the district of Cader Idris, Aran Mowd-

dwy, and Portmadoc. Rain and wind buffeted the

party a good deal, but the Director-General declared

that ' every day hardened his old legs more and more,

and by the end he cared little for the fatigue.' In an

account of his doings (9th August) he wrote to me that
' the necessity for a second edition of my North Wales

is now urgent, and I am seriously at work making out

a new line of division, that between the base of the

Llandeilos and the top of the Tremadocs, or, en grand,

between the Lingula Flag series and the Llandeilos.

I have accurately traced twenty miles of and have
                               is
                                                   '

                                                    a
                                                     it,
for the first time (yesterday) got perplexed. We have

been at work for about eighteen days.

     Some further information given in letter to his
brother William, written from Portmadoc during a

'Isubsequent excursion. (13th September 1874):

am busy revising deal of country and realising all
   a

the discoveries that have turned up since Selwyn and

   were here more than twenty-five years ago.
I                              I
                                  I
                                                       It
involves the tracing of one new geological line that no

one suspected long ago, and which surmised must

exist ever since Sir Roderick and were in the north

of Scotland some fifteen years ago.'
     The progress of his work and the nature of some

of his engagements     during  the year 1875 are told in
the following letters
                       --
   la
                    :
               I
                                                                30/A January 1875.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- highly approve of your vindi
cation of De Beche [in proof-sheets of the Life of
330 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

Murchison1]. In fact, the one-sidedness lay all on the
other side. . . . Last Wednesday Ward read a second

paper at the Geological Society on the Cumbrian

Lake-basins, going the whole hog in re their glacier

origin. Bonney allowed that he could go that length,

but that the theory in no way applied to the Swiss

and Italian lakes. Since then I have received a letter

from Gastaldi enclosing a MS. of a paper to be read

at the Academy of Turin on Sunday, the 7th February,

in which he proves that all the great Italian lakes were

produced by glacier erosion, and giving good reasons

for their special positions and relative sizes in relation

to the valleys in which they lie, and also their relations

to the Pliocene deposits of the valley of the Po. He

wants my opinion on it before it is read, which I will

send him on Monday. In the meanwhile, my wife is

translating and    will publish with his permission
after he has read              very important paper. --
Ever sincerely,                          A. C. Ramsay.
it,

        it. I
              It

                        is
                           a

                                 it

                                                              16M April 1875.II

     My dear Infanta [Miss Johnes]-- do not think(!)
you can have any idea of the good that my visit
                                      I
to Dolaucothi did to me physically and morally.
went on improving after got home, too, extending
even to the art of lecturing within the last few days.
The pleasant quietness and the absence of all necessity
for being agreeable in your house did me a power of
good. The dawdling by the quiet waters and among
my old friends the individual trees, and the sitting
opposite your father in the library, to say nothing

about his two daughters all about the house -- ach,
lieber Himmel -- these things were good for man.

                                                   See vol. ii. p. 186, note.
7

          1

                                                          a
187S DISCOURSE AT ROYAL INSTITUTION                    331

You know that I was always soft enough in the head,
but now I think I have got softened all over, not
excepting the engine that drives the blood. I do not
think I have even thought a cross thought since I came

home, and I only hope I may always be able to keep
up that decent frame of mind. You see I do not mind
what I say to you or your sister. You are one of the

Sisters of Charity, and I make my confession to you
as I would to the Pope, honest man, if I happened to
be intimate with him, and liked him sufficiently. I

often think of that pleasant episode in my life which
began when I first went to Pumpsaint, and has lasted
up till to-day. That to me is a golden legend better
than any that Caxton ever printed, for in spite of a
few clouds, so much of it has been full of air, light, and
sunshine. On the 26th July 1842 I first went to
Pumpsaint, and there was no winter at all that year,
nor for several years after. And even now there is

no more of it than is perhaps good for one.

                                           London, 24//% April 1875.

My dear Ge1k1e -- Since receiving yours of 21st

I have been very busy. . . . Last night I lectured at

the Royal Institution on the Pre-Miocene Alps, and

their subsequent waste and degradation, to a good

audience. It is a difficult subject to make quite plain

to a general audience, the figures are so large ; but

though I was not quite satisfied with it myself, Sir

Philip Egerton and others seemed to think I made it
clear. -- Ever sincerely,
                           Andw. C. Ramsay.

My dear Mrs. Cookman --    ...London, 2$rd July 1875.
                           As for me my life

is rendered miserable by writing testimonials for men
332 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

trying for professorships in Australia, Japan, Aberyst-
with, and Eton -- the latter a mastership.
                                            I have

had the nomination of a man to the University in the

capital of Japan, as Professor of Geology. Then I am

driven wild by invitations for self and lady to all sorts

of public soirees --three for this very night, to only

the quietest of which I will go. However, I have

made up my mind to dine with the Lord Mayor, and

I will take Louisa to the soiree of the Society of Arts.

. . . I have had a letter to-day from America, and the

' critter ' encloses another sheet giving a sketch of my

life, and asking me to fill in some blanks and correct it

and send it back for publication in Appletoris American
Cyclopedia ! I am laughing consumedly. -- Ever

affectionately,  Andw. C. Ramsay.

     During the summer and autumn he was again busy
in Wales, and from time to time he sent me tidings of
his doings. From his letters to me the following

sentences are taken.

   ' 27M July. -- There has been no practicable weather
till yesterday. It is fine now, and I start for Merioneth

shire on Thursday. The book is not in a state to
make any further progress till more work is done in
the field. I had brought it up to that point.

     ' 12th August. -- Here [Beaumaris] and in Mon
mouthshire, Etheridge and I are hard at work. In the
mountains about Dolgelli I have Ward and Hebert,

having shown them the sections and the needful line
to add to the map. I am not fit for daily high
mountain work on a large scale now.

     ' The case stands thus : We have ( 1 ) Lingula
Flags, (2) Tremadoc Slates, (3) Arenig beds, which in
my Memoir are called Lower Llandeilo or Arenig beds,
          GEOLOGY OF WALES  333

above which in N. Wales comes the Caradoc series,

of which the old-fashioned Llandeilos of Murchison

may with propriety be considered a part. From the

Tremadocs into the Arenig beds there pass about ten

or eleven species ; from the Arenigs into the ordinary
Llandeilo and Caradoc beds eight species. I hear

that you have equivalents of the Arenigs in the S.

of Scotland, somewhere towards the Cambrian country.

Can you give me any idea of their real relations to any
overlying Silurian strata, and underlying strata, if any ?

. . . I have some evidence that the Arenigs of

Caernarvonshire have overlapped all below, and lie

direct on the Cambrians. It is in my Geology of N.
Wales, but I think these Arenigs are there called

Llandeilos.

     '14tk September. -- I scarcely think I have had
enough of rest in the entire way. I am getting on with
my new edition in spite of too much correspondence, and
I have now got all the data except a scrap. The great
Arenig and Lower Llandeilo line is done and run out

to sea at both ends. I think I would almost rather

write a new book than a new edition. Dovetailing is
often so troublesome. I think (or hope) that I shall
soon get to the last half, which may need but little
alteration, except a few words here and there. As it

turns out, a good deal of my book will be almost re

written.  It will be a great improvement on the last
edition.  In the Welsh section, the trappy inter-

stratifications are, of course, accidents, and sometimes,

as at Criccieth, they are absent.

     ' 23rd December. -- I am so head and ears at present
in the River Dee (Wales) that I think I have got water
on the brain. It is the most curious bit of physical
history of any river I have yet tackled. It will make
334 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

a chapter of my Survey Memoir on N. Wales ; but I
shall first send it to the Geological Society. 30M. --
I have finished my Jolly Miller chapter [on the origin
of the River Dee]. The results rather astound myself
about the extremely early date of the river. It has

been running so long that the Rhine is a baby to it

in age.'

He had on hand at this time a number of geolo

gical memoirs bearing on his favourite topic of the

origin of the superficial contours of the land. The
paper on 'How Anglesey became an Island' was

read before the Geological Society on the 19th January
1876, and that upon the River Dee upon the 26th

April following. Then he was busy during the winter

partly on the new edition of the Welsh Memoir, and

partly on a revised and enlarged edition of his little

volume on The Physical Geology and Geography of
Great Britain. He still also fired an occasional shot

in defence of his theory of the glacial origin of lake-

basins. We resume the extracts from his correspond

ence.

On the 26th January 1876 he wrote to me : ' My

Dee paper only went in [to the Geological Society] last
Saturday, and therefore is not likely to be read for

a month or two, in the time of the new President,

Dr. Duncan, who assumes office on the 19th February.

'

          is
                                     it,
Austen would not take                     and there  is  no doubt that

Duncan       the next best man. Evans's selection of

him gives general satisfaction.

      We are very deficient in volcanic rocks in England
and Wales, excepting those of Lower Silurian date.

These are all younger than the Tremadoc Slates,

and begin in the Arenig series (Lower Llandeilo of
             If,
                     I
Murchison).  as have said, the red Cambrian
1876 RELIEVED OF GEOLOGICAL LECTURESHIP           335

rocks are mostly fresh-water or estuarine deposits, that

may give some sign of an old valley ; but in Wales

there is a great thickness of Lingula Flags and

...Tremadoc Slates between the Cambrian strata and
the volcanic series.  I know all the New Red

series of England north of the Severn, and it contains
no volcanic rocks. In Devon it does, see De La

Beche's Report on Devon and Cornwall, chap, vii.,

where you will find something directly bearing on your

question in re valleys and volcanoes.

' We have no Liassic or Oolitic volcanic rocks, and

none in the Wealden, though that formation must have

been deposited at the mouth of a great river-valley.

Neither have we any Cretaceous or Eocene igneous

rocks, though there is in these formations evidence of

the mouth of another big river-valley.

' The Eifel volcanoes are, in general, on the top of

...a plateau, in which, however, there were pre-Miocene
valleys, if these volcanoes be Miocene.  I think

your letter gives me a glimmering of what you are

thinking about in the matter of these old river-valleys

and volcanoes, and the subject is quite a new idea to

me, and will be to others when you work it out.'

    To Miss Johnes he wrote on the 2nd March : ' I
have pretty good news to tell of myself. This is my

last year of delivering lectures in the Royal School of

Mines. This will be a very considerable relief in point

of work. As I had pay and fees as a professor, they

cut off that part of the salary given to Sir Roderick,

supposed to represent the Museum as distinct from

the Survey. Now they are to add .£300 a year to
the Survey salary for the Museum, and cut off the

Professorship salary, etc., and for that "crowning
mercy " I am very glad, and so is Louisa. The fear
33« DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

is that by and by, having no occasion to lecture
students, I may take to lecturing her instead.'

     To Mrs. Cookman he reported that he had given

his farewell lecture on the 9th May, ' fifty-five minutes
being devoted to a broad resume of geological subjects,
and eight or ten to taking farewell of the students, and
of my post of Professor of Geology. In that theatre
I had lectured for quarter of a century, to say nothing
of three previous years at University College. Glad
as I am to stop, the severance cost me a sort of pang,
and for a moment at the beginning of the valedictory,

I almost thought I was going to break down -- a tend

ency which my watchful wife observed, but which
probably no one else did. In point of fact, I bit my
under-lip, and swallowed something like a young

potato in my throat. A sprinkling of extra strangers

came, and all my children were there to hear Papa's

last lecture.'

     On the 22nd June he formally sent in his resigna
tion of the lectureship, and the task which had once
been so light and joyful, but which in these last years
of failing power had become an increasing burden, was
now happily removed. He told me that he would be
financially a loser by the change, ' but the relief will
counterbalance that.'

                                                                \oth July 1876.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- On Thursday I take my
family to Beaumaris. Etheridge will join me by and
by to have a bout at the rocks of Lleyn (north horn
of Cardigan Bay), where I begin to believe I shall find
the Arenig Slates lying directly on the Cambrian,
without the intervention of the Menevian, Lingula, and

Tremadoc beds, and involving a vast unconformity.
1876 REVISION WORK IN NORTH WALES                                337

It is a most important point in British Silurian geology,
as I have long attempted to show, and if I find this

additional demonstration I shall be glad.
      I shall be at work in Wales, writing the Memoir,

with some field-work, for a good while, how long I

know not. In September I go to Gibraltar for the

Colonial Office and the authorities at Gibraltar, with an

assistant. All expenses for both will be paid, and I

asked nothing more, considering it a piece of duty.
It is in re water. Now I would like much if you

could spare your brother James to go with me. A

few weeks will do for the surveying will be brief.
                     it,

                                                   It

                                                             is
In accordance with his plan of work Ramsay this

summer revisited many parts of the ground in North

Wales which Selwyn and he had surveyed so long

before, and with the assistance of some of his col

leagues traced in the new boundaries.                            interesting

to notice among his notes of these journeys that over

tracts where formerly he had eyes only for the old

rocks and their structure, he now looked out eagerly

everywhere for the tracks of glaciers and ice-sheets,

examined the rock-basins, and went carefully over the

exposures of drift.

                                                     Beaumar1s, 1oth August 1876.

     My dear Ge1k1e -- We started at eight yesterday

morning, and had twelve hours on the Caernarvon
shire hills. We began by marching to the top of Moel
Tryfaen to see the Cambrians and the shell-beds of
Trimmer, 50 [correctly about 1400] feet above the sea.
These are undoubtedly true marine, beachy, false-bedded

sands and gravels, overlaid by good boulder-clay, and
have been much eroded before or during the deposition
1
   1

                                z
338 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

of the latter. It is a long story. We saw much moraine

matter en route up. There is no description of that
area in my Old Glaciers of North Wales, and no printed
description of Moel Tryfaen gives an account of all

that we saw. I shall write a note about it for the

Geol. Soc., and also put it in my new edition of

North Wales, when I have digested it. In the

meanwhile, I see nothing in it adverse to my broader

views in the Old Glaciers of North Wales.

     From Moel Tryfaen we walked across moor and

hill to Llanberis, that I might get a notion of the great

...extension of the slate-quarries since I first mapped
the country some twenty-seven years ago.          I re

examined the Cambrian rocks at Bangor the other day,

and found that the Arenig beds lie directly upon them,

without the intervention of the Tremadoc Slates and

Lingula Flags, as I have all along maintained. This is

an important point for me versus mere stratigraphico-

palaeontological men who delight in finding errors in
Survey views. I wish you could find Arenig beds

directly on the Cambrians in the West Highlands.

     On the 14th September he sailed for Gibraltar.
With the assistance of his colleague, Mr. James Geikie,
he made a careful survey of the Rock and a portion
of the surrounding ground, steamed in a gunboat along
the Spanish shores, crossed to the opposite mainland,
and sailed for fifty miles along the African coast so as
to get a bird's-eye view of the geology for purposes of
comparison with that of the northern side, spent three
days in Africa geologising and wandering among
Moors, camels, and the picturesque but odorous
streets and suburbs of a Moorish town. He was

back in England on the 30th October.
1876-1877  TESTIMONIAL FROM PUPILS  339

     On his return he set to work at once on the report
of his examination of Gibraltar with reference to the
question submitted to him. But materials enough of

a more generally interesting geological character had

been collected which it seemed a pity to bury in the
pages of a departmental blue book. The fellow-

travellers accordingly worked these materials up
into a conjoint paper, which in the spring of 1878 was

read before the Geological Society.

    A pleasant incident diversified Ramsay's London
life during the winter of 1876-77. His pupils at the

School of Mines had raised among themselves and

former students about ^100, with which they pur
chased a set of three handsome silver dessert pieces,

half a dozen old Dutch parcel gilt spoons, and some

other table ornaments. These they presented to their
much -esteemed teacher as an expression of their

gratitude and good-will for his eminent services to
the School, and for the benefit they had themselves

derived from his teaching and his influence.
     How much his thoughts turned to foreign lands

and the geological questions there awaiting solution

is well shown in his correspondence at this time.
Thus to Mrs. Cookman he wrote : ' I have planned
a route to San Remo in the hope of going there to

fetch you home ; viz. that Louisa and I first go to
Mulhouse or Basle, and then find our way down the
Saone to Lyons, where it joins the Rhone, then work
up the Rhone to Geneva, and back to Lyons, and so
down the remainder of the Rhone to Marseilles, with

a possible divertissement into Auvergne. There is
something to find out about the valleys of the Sa6ne
and Rhdne that I know nothing about, and which I

think no one but myself has yet dreamed of. On the
340 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

whole, I have always been a pretty good hand at

scientific dreaming, and I believe this dream will come
true, if I can only find time to work it out.'

    A heartrending tragedy occurred during the autumn

of 1876 in the family at Dolaucothi. The butler
shot Mr. Johnes, severely wounded Mrs. Cookman,
and afterwards committed suicide. As these were

Ramsay's dearest friends, the event was a crush

ing trial for him, and in some measure saddened all
his later life. His diary and his letters of this period

afford touching proofs of the tender affection and deep
sympathy of his nature.

     But the vortex of London life swept him on. ' We

are all well enough,' he wrote later in the year to his
Dolaucothi friends, ' and, as usual, occupied with those

innumerable busynesses which take up so much of

people's lives in London, that anything like leisure

becomes an unknown quantity. Of course, I am at
work on a book in scraps of time, and if it were only

finished I fancy I might breathe more freely, but I

know that something else is sure to succeed it. The

Survey men both of Scotland and Ireland  are crying
to me " Come," and go to both I must,    some time

this year.
     ' The invasion of scientific foreigners has also set

in with unusual severity at an earlier season than
usual. I invite them to dinner ; some of them cannot

come, and some do come, and then we have a Babel of
languages. To add to that, we have got a German

housemaid who as yet speaks no English.

      ' Since writing that last word, dispatches have
arrived from Nova Scotia requiring immediate atten

tion, the writer asking a letter from me, which, being
shown, shall stimulate the Governor of Newfoundland
1877 THE OLD GLACIERS OF NORTH ITALY 341

to see the importance of certain work on the north
east coast of Labrador, whither my friend is being
despatched from Newfoundland the dreary. He is

the man who told Louisa that the worst dinner he
ever had consisted of " cold eagle and badger-sauce." '

     To the same friends, who were now on the Riviera,
he writes : ' I grieve to say there is no chance of foreign
travel for me this year. I must go to Ireland, and I
must go to Scotland, and I have irons in the fire that
must be got out and cooled, some of them, I hope, ere
this year is much further advanced. . . . All of those
valleys opening into the Alps, from the Dora Baltea
to Como, have made a deep impression on me. I

wish I could see them again, and specially with you
two and Louisa. Besides the beauty, some curiously
interesting points have come out since we were there.

It is now known that the great lakes of Como,
Maggiore, etc., were at one time fjords, like those of
Norway. When the mighty old glaciers were busy
scooping out my lake - hollows, the ends of them

descended into the sea, and deposited their moraines
there, for sea-shells are mingled with the material at
the ends of the moraines. Then as the glaciers retired,
the lakes became fjords, and I hear that, just as in the
Swedish lakes, some marine species still inhabit the
waters of Maggiore. There is a geological infliction
for you ! I give it you without remorse, for I know
you to have a soul above buttons, unlike me, when

once I wandered out round a lonely lake at the
Grimsel in search of any kind of button, and found
one of brass, by the margin on an ice-scratched rock.'

     The journeys of inspection to Ireland and Scotland
were duly made, and pictures of his progress may be

gathered from his correspondence.
342 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

                                                    Beaumar1s, gtA September 1877.

     My dear Ge1kie -- I got back on Thursday, after a
month's stiffish work all about Ireland, from Kilkenny

and Galway up to Portrush and the Giant's Causeway,
and so south by Belfast back to Dublin. I have seen
all the Miocene basalts in the north of Ireland, and
from thence have had a view of Rathlin, Isla, Jura, the
Mull of Cantyre, Ailsa, Arran, the Ayrshire mountains
by Loch Doon, and a lot of small islands away north
by Oban that I could not name. As for glaciation
in Ireland, by Glendalough [Galway], etc. etc., good
heavens ! ! ! The sections at Glendalough and away

north are the Silurian rocks of N.W. Sutherland, etc.,

quartzites, limestones, and all.

     I shall be ready for the Cumberland and south of

Scotland comparison with you and your men, Peach
and Home, and with Aveline, Ward, and Bristow.

     The conference with his colleagues in the north
west of England and the south of Scotland was the
last important conclave which Ramsay held in the
field. The Directors for England and Scotland, each
with two of their respective staffs, met him at Kendal,
and the party journeyed through the more important
geological tracts. Those of the number who had not
been out in the field for some years with their chief
saw with regret the marked failing in his vigour. The
old brightness and kindliness were there as fully as of
old, the merry laugh still rang out after the ready jest,
and the lively talk, with interesting reminiscence and
literary allusion, still charmed as they had always
done ; but the elastic step, the eager endurance, the
sustained power of tracking the intricacies of geological
structure had grown markedly feebler. I remember
1877 A GEOLOGICAL CONFERENCE IN THE FIELD 343

well the pang with which I realised as we climbed
a hill-side above Derwent Water that my beloved
friend, whom from my boyhood I had looked up to
with pride and affection as the very embodiment of
geological prowess, had now become an old man. He
was then not more than sixty-three years of age, but a
life of physical and mental toil and official worry had
made him prematurely aged. At the end of the day
when we got back to our inn he would often look
exceedingly weary, and yet dinner would for the time
revive him, and make him once more what he used

always to be, the gayest member of a Survey gathering.
      I remember that on the same occasion he showed

how difficult it now was for him to keep pace with the
onward developments of his own science. The intro
duction of the microscope as an adjunct to a field-
geologist's equipment and the microscopic study of thin
slices of rocks for petrographical determination had
been recognised for some time by several members of
his staff as absolutely essential for accurate mapping in
regions of crystalline rocks. I had myself made use
of the aid of the microscope for twelve years before

this time, and J. C. Ward had adopted the same course

in his study of the volcanic district of the Lakes. The
party having dined, Ward and I had retired to another
room that we might examine under the microscope
some of his volcanic rocks, and compare them with
the Palaeozoic volcanic series of Scotland. We had

been engaged on this task for an hour or two when
Ramsay joined us. He sat rather impatiently watching
us for a while, and then starting up, left the room after
exclaiming, ' I cannot see of what use these slides can
be to a field -man. I don't believe in looking at a
mountain with a microscope.'
344 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

     While on the journey through Scotland, he sent
the following account of it to his friends at Dolau-
cothi : ' From one of the windows of this coffee-room

[in Perth] I can see the Tay, full-flooded, rushing
through the arches of that noble bridge, which reminds
me of the bridge across the Moselle at Treves, only
both river and bridge at Perth are more striking than
those of Treves. Of a verity there is no denying the
fact that the Tay is the finest river in Britain, with
more water in it than even the Thames or the Severn,

and such a varied landscape to flow through, with
hills and cliffs, woods and swelling fields, all undulating
and brae-like, except the noble haughs or meadows
that here and there form the banks of the river, and
of which the Inches of Perth (once islands) form such
beautiful examples.

      ' I went to Keswick, Cockermouth, Carlisle, Hawick,

Melrose, Galashiels, Peebles, Edinburgh, Leadhills,
and Moffat, Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries again
and Edinburgh, and so to Arbroath, Stonehaven,
Blairgowrie, and Perth. There is a catalogue for you,
that beats Homer's catalogue of ships, or Milton's

catalogue of devils. I hope ere a fortnight elapses
to be in the bosom of my own family at Cromwell

Crescent.'

      Returning to London, he was soon once again in
the midst of his ' new edition ' and other multifarious

preparations. His paper on the geology of Gibraltar

was read before the Geological Society on the 6th
March 1878, and he gave a Friday evening discourse
on the subject on the 24th May, which was his last
appearance before the Royal Institution. The fifth

edition of his Physical Geology and Geography of
Great Britain, on which he had been engaged in
1878-1880  LOSES THE LEFT EYE  345

intervals of leisure for several years past, was at length
published in May of this year.

     For some time previous to that at which this

narrative has now arrived, Ramsay had suffered much
trouble from an affection of the left eye, brought on

in the first instance by overwork in lamplight, and
aggravated by a severe wetting at the funeral of a
brother-in-law. In the autumn of 1878 the ailment
became so serious that, to save the other eye, it

was necessary to remove the left one -- an operation
skilfully performed by his friend Mr. Whitaker Hulke,

and borne by Ramsay with his characteristic quiet

courage.

    A month later he wrote to his friends at Dolau-

cothi : ' I am well enough to be doing much as usual,
excepting that I do less work as yet. Then I have
got a most lovely glass eye. You are not to quote
Shakespeare, " Get thee glass eyes, and, like a scurvy
politician, seem to see the things thou dost not." '

     On the 1 6th June 1879 he received a gratifying
telegram from Sella at Rome, that he had been elected
a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of the

Lincei, an honour which he specially prized, not only
because of the famous Society which conferred it on
him, but because it came as a mark of the kindly
esteem of his friend, the illustrious statesman and

geologist of Italy.
     In the early summer of 1880 he succeeded in

taking a brief holiday in a part of Europe which he

had not before explored. Mrs. Ramsay and his

second daughter had spent the winter at Hyeres,

and he met them on their way home at Aix les Bains.
The traces left by the vast ancient glacier of the

Rhone, which once overspread all that region, filled
346 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

him with astonishment and delight. He boated down
Lac Bourget, walked over hills strikingly ice-worn,
and picked up fragments of gneiss, granite, and other
rocks that had been brought down by the ice from the
heart of the distant Alps. He took the bearings of
the glacial striae, observed the positions, sizes, and
composition of the erratic blocks, and saw so much as
to fill him with the strongest desire to return and
make a more complete examination of the district for
comparison with the old glaciated areas so familiar
to him at home.

     From Aix the party made its way to Geneva,
spent a day or two there with the Swiss geologist, A.

Favre, and was back in England again by the 1oth

June.
     Ramsay had been elected President of the British

Association for this year, and the meeting was to be
held on the 25th August at Swansea. In the quiet
of his retreat at Beaumaris he prepared the presi
dential address. He chose a thoroughly geological
theme, and contrived to say a little on all the branches
of the science in which he himself had specially worked.
After a general historical introduction he launched into
the subject of metamorphism, and then into that of
the volcanic eruptions of former periods, whence he
naturally passed to the structure and relative ages of
mountain-chains. The salt-lakes of past times and
the recurrence of fresh - water conditions again and
again in geological history were next touched upon,
before the fascinating topic of glaciers and their

operations was reached. In summing up his dis

course, the President professed once more his geo
logical faith as an uncompromising Uniformitarian,
declaring that, from the period of the oldest known
188o PRESIDENT OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION  347

rocks down to the present day, ' all the physical events
in the history of the earth have varied neither in
kind nor in intensity from those of which we now

have experience.'

     The discourse, though printed, was not read by
the speaker. He had a few notes before him, to
which he made occasional reference as he passed from
one division to another. His lively inflections of

voice, marked Scottish accent, and energetic gestures
as he enforced the successive points which he wished
the audience to comprehend were a novel and not un
welcome variation from the more usual formality of
the presidential address. In the proceedings at the

close reference was made to the fact that, though the
President was not a Welshman, he had done his best

to atone for that defect by marrying a Welshwoman.
Ramsay in replying spoke of his love for Wales ; he
knew almost every mountain-top in the Principality,
he said, having either surveyed them with his own
hands, or having superintended the surveys of them

by others.
     Towards the end of the year two marks of recog

nition of Ramsay's lifelong devotion to science were
received by him. At the Anniversary of the Royal
Society on the 1st December a Royal Medal was given
to him ' for his long-continued and successful labours

in geology and physical geography.' A few days later

the University of Glasgow conferred on him the

degree of LL.D. -- thus towards the close of his career

linking him by a new tie with his native town and the
college with which he had so many pleasant early

associations.

     The second edition of the North Wales Memoir,

which had involved so much labour both in the field
348 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

and at the desk, was at last published at the close of

1 88 1. In bulk it considerably exceeded the previous

edition. A special interest attaches to it because

it was its author's last Survey publication. As the
year wore on it had become more and more evident
that he must seek retirement from the endless cares of
official life. In the course of the summer he made a
round of farewell visits among his staff. I accompanied
him through some parts of the centre of Scotland. He
particularly wished to see some of the Highland lakes.
So we made for Kenmore, and sailed up Loch Tay,
and then by Lochs Vennachar and Achray to Loch
Katrine and Loch Lomond. The scenery brought
back early associations to him, and mingled with these

reminiscences came the new interest which such

scenery had for him in its bearing upon his doctrine of
the glacial origin of lake-basins, and at the same time

the sadness that arose from the feeling that he should
probably never see these scenes again.

     The British Association held its jubilee this year
at York, where it had opened its career fifty years
before. Ramsay, as the oldest surviving president of
Section C, was asked to take the chair of that section
on this occasion. He did so, and gave the address ;
but the effort was a great strain upon him, and he
returned to Beaumaris to rest. It was definitely

arranged that he should retire from his Government
appointment at the end of the year.

     To his old friend and colleague, Mr. Howell, he
wrote : ' I feel grateful for the regret that our good
fellows feel for my retirement. I regret it too very
much, but in the words of the old ballad, "I'm weary
wi' hunting and fain would lie down." I hope I may

find contented rest in doing nothing but what I choose
1881 RETIREMENT AND KNIGHTHOOD

to do. The change, however, will be very great, even

though the non- official intercourse should continue

between us as fast as ever.'

He announced to his friends at Dolaucothi : ' On

the 31st December I shall retire from the public

service, and whether or not there will be another

Director-General I do not know. Neither do I quite
know how I shall enjoy doing nothing but what I
choose to do ; but, on the whole, I think I shall manage

very well. They have given me the highest possible

pension, and that and our private incomes will enable

...us to live just as we have been accustomed to do ever
since I became Director-General.   I think that,
on the whole, I have been a " fortunate youth." One

thing also pleases me, that I shall be able some time

in 1882 to pay a visit to Dolaucothi the beloved, and

to lie upon a bank where the wild thyme grows, and

where oxlip and the nodding cowslip blows."

    ' My address to the geological section of the
British Association at York last summer principally

dealt with the progress of geology for the last fifty
years. In my mind there is no doubt that it or was,
I
           '

                   I
                       I

                                                                                          is,
                                                                                        is

                                                                                                          a
the last address shall ever give.

The other day, as Louisa, Fanny, Dora, and

had arrived at the pudding stage of dinner,

franked letter arrived from Mr. Gladstone, informing
me that at the instance of Lord Spencer, who my

official chief, am required on Wednesday next to go

down to Windsor by the 1.10 p.m. train in levde

costume, and from the station, along with others, am

to be transported to the castle to be knighted at three.'

     On the afternoon of the 31st December Sir Andrew
quitted his desk at the Jermyn Street Museum, and

closed his long and honourable career as a civil servant.
350 DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE SURVEY chap, x

For upwards of forty years he had given himself with
his whole heart to the work of the Geological Survey,

and he carried with him into his retirement the affec
tionate wishes of every member of the staff over which
he had so long and so ably presided.
                  CHAPTER XI

             RETIREMENT -- SUMMARY OF CAREER

Released from official life, and free to go where he
pleased in this country or to travel abroad, Sir Andrew
Ramsay looked forward to a few years of pleasant
rest and cheerful occupation in the pursuits that more
especially interested him. And to his friends the
regret at seeing him retire from active life was
tempered by the reflection that now at last he would
be able to work as he chose at those problems which,
by the pressure of his Survey duties and his engage
ments in London, he had been prevented from
thoroughly investigating. But time and over-exertion
had done their work upon him. His life henceforward
was marked by a calm, painless, and gradual decline.
His days for mental exertion were now at an end.

     For a short time after his retirement he remained
in London, and had a fair enjoyment of life, usually

finding his way to the Athenaeum Club in the course
of the afternoon, and having a game of billiards with
some friend there. When summer came, and brought
with it the time for retreating to Beaumaris, he was
able to take short walks and to indulge his favourite
pastime of steering a boat. He tried to do a little
writing on a geographical subject which he had
undertaken. As the autumn approached, the second
352  RETIREMENT  CHAP. XI

 daughter was again ordered abroad for the winter, and
 as Sir Andrew had such a love of mountains, it was

 determined to move the whole family to St. Moritz.
       In the early part of the season the place gave him

 great pleasure, for he was able to take some fairly long
 walks, and it was a delight to him to find himself once
 more in the chain of the Alps. But in the middle of

 November the snow came, not to depart for the rest
 of the winter. Thereafter every walk involved a

 slippery descent from the hotel and a slippery ascent
 in returning. The consequent fatigue became so great

 that his pedestrian excursions were necessarily limited.

 Sledge-driving proved equally impracticable, for the
 keen frosty air induced severe pain round the glass
 eye. He was thus cooped up in the hotel, the most

 practicable exercise available being obtained by pacing
 up and down a covered verandah open to the air.

      By the end of March the party was glad to take
flight by the Maloja to Chiavenna, and thence by
steamer on the Lake of Como to Cadenabbia. Sir
Andrew enjoyed watching the pleasure which these

charming scenes gave to his daughters, who saw them
for the first time, and he seemed himself also to ap
preciate their beauty ; but the confinement of the pre
ceding winter had left its mark upon him. The old
spirit of happy comprehension of what he saw, and the

keen zest with which he scrutinised new physical
features and sought to interpret them, were now only
too visibly on the wane. The route homeward in
cluded a halt of a fortnight at Venice, which he

thoroughly enjoyed, and another for the same length
of time at Pallanza, which also gave him much

pleasure.

     The family returned to England in time to spend
1882-1891  CLOSING YEARS  353

the summer at Beaumaris, where Sir Andrew's

diminished strength was painfully shown by his
shortening walks. They went back, however, to the
Continent in the autumn in order to pass the wintet
at Hyeres. The journey homeward in May (1882)
proved to be the last of Ramsay's experiences of
foreign travel. He was well enough to be greatly
interested in the Roman remains of Southern France.

At Nimes his antiquarian zeal was kindled by the

grand amphitheatre and the baths and the Maison
Carree. He walked across the Pont de Gard by the
old water channel. Farther north his ardour for the

relics of the past was renewed in Auvergne, as he
paced the mouldering rampart of the hill of Gergovia,

and pictured to himself Caesar's siege and the heroic
defence of Vercingetorix. Fain would he have
climbed the Puy de Dome, but the weather prevented
him from attempting it.

     For the next two years Sir Andrew and his family

came up to London for the winter, but he hardly ever

went to the Athenaeum, and was only able slowly to

walk up and down the streets in the neighbourhood of

his house in Cromwell Crescent. It was then resolved

to break up the London home, in order that he might
remain permanently at Beaumaris. There he continued
for a time to enjoy the panorama of his own Caernarvon
shire mountains, and was much more in the open air than

he could have been in London. But from this time

forward nothing could be done save to watch with sad
and affectionate eyes the progress of the slow decline.
His mind does not seem in these last years to have

reverted often to his geological days ; at least he

seldom spoke of them. His memory would some
times dwell on the long bygone days of his childhood.

                                             2A
354  RETIREMENT AND DEATH  chap, x1

He continued to read with delight the Waverley
Novels, and the humour of Dean Ramsay's Reminis
cences of Scottish Life never failed to call out his
merry laugh. His general health remained good, but

his strength, bodily and mental, seemed imperceptibly

to ebb away.

     Almost every fine day until 1891 he was wheeled
out in a bath -chair and placed in some sunny,

sheltered spot where he could watch the mountains
and the sea, while his wife sat and read or worked

beside him. These daily little journeys continued to

give him great pleasure, until at last, in September of

that year, his increasing weakness made them no

longer possible. Eventually he was unable to bear
the fatigue of rising and being dressed, so kept his
bed until, on the 9th December, he passed gently

away.

     He was buried in the churchyard that surrounds the
pretty little church of Llansadwrn, among his wife's
people. The spot was a favourite one with him, for it
commands on the one side a noble view of the whole

range of the high grounds of North Wales from the
Orme's Head, through the Snowdon group, down to
the far Rivals, and on the other a wide sweep of the
undulating plains of Anglesey. It was fitting that one

who had loved Wales so ardently, who had spent the
best years of his life there, and who had done more
than any other writer to unravel at once its geology

and its physical geography, should be laid to rest
within view of the peak of Snowdon, and within sound
of the rush of the tide through the Strait of Menai.
        SUMMARY OF RAMSAY'S SCIENTIFIC WORK 355

     This memoir would be incomplete if it did not
give some retrospect and summary of the work

achieved in the lifetime which it has attempted to

describe. It is too soon yet properly to appraise the
ultimate value of this work in the general progress of
science. But we may at least group Sir Andrew

Ramsay's labours in the several categories under
which they may be classified in order to form some
conception of the general character and sum of his
contributions to the geology of his time.

     I. The department of Structural Geology comprises
his earliest and his latest labours, beginning with his
little pamphlet on Arran, and ending with the volumin
ous second edition of the monograph on North Wales.
Between these two limits he accomplished a large
amount of investigation directed towards the eluci
dation of the geological structure of Britain. In
England his own share of this labour was for the most
part merged in that of his colleagues. For, in his
eagerness for the repute of the Survey as a body, he
was careless of his individual fame. Undoubtedly his
own greatest achievement is his mapping in North
Wales, and more particularly the working out of the
structure of the complicated and mountainous ground
around Snowdon. It must be remembered by those
who now examine the geology of that region that
when Ramsay surveyed it the science of petrography
hardly existed at all in England. He had no assist
ance from the microscope, and scarcely any from the
chemical laboratory. He had to determine his rocks
with no more help than could be given by a pocket-
lens, and he was guided in this matter largely by the
behaviour of the masses in the field. It should not,

therefore, be matter for surprise that a geologist of
356  SUMMARY OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

to-day, coming with all the appliances of modern

petrography, may be able to improve the nomen
clature followed by Ramsay, and to show that he had
been mistaken in some of his determinations, as

where, for instance, he may have classed lavas as tuffs,
or tuffs as lavas. The surprise ought rather to be

that a man with only field-evidence and his geological

instinct to guide him, should have succeeded in un
ravelling so admirably the complications of so difficult

a region.
      British geology lies under a deep obligation to

Ramsay for the skill and insight with which he
deciphered the relics of the older Palaeozoic volcanoes.
Without attempting to enter into the minutiae of the
mineralogical and chemical constitution of the rocks,

he seized upon the salient features that illustrated

ancient volcanic action, and he supplied, in the Survey
Memoirs and in the Descriptive Catalogue of the
Jermyn Street Museum, the first detailed and con
nected description of the different epochs of volcanic
activity in the Silurian period in Britain.

     On the maps and sections of the Geological
Survey he expressed most of his results in structural

geology, and it may be fearlessly asserted that at the

time of their appearance these publications were un
surpassed for clearness, beauty, and accuracy. Even
where the mapping was mainly the work of his col
leagues, it usually had the benefit of help from his
skilful hand and sound judgment. His Geological
Map of England and Wales, reduced from the Survey
sheets and other sources of information, is still the
most useful small map of the kingdom, and his
general Geological Map of the British Isles is a con
venient compendium of British geology.
STRATIGRAPH1CAL WORK  357

     II. In Stratigraphy much of Ramsay's work is so

intimately bound up with his labours in structural

geology as to be hardly separable. But his two
presidential addresses to the Geological Society mark
a distinct epoch in stratigraphical work. Darwin had
dwelt upon the imperfection of the Geological Record.

Ramsay proceeded to indicate the historical meaning
of this imperfection. He pointed out the various breaks
in the succession of the stratified formations of Britain,

and by his wide practical knowledge of the subject,

gave it a clearness and significance which it had not
before been suspected to possess. He showed that these
breaks sometimes consist of actual unconformabilities,

arising from disturbance and denudation, and demon
strating a long lapse of time unrecorded by stratified

deposits ; while in other instances they are marked by
no visible discontinuity of the stratification, but by a

sudden and more or less marked change in the fossils
characteristic of two apparently consecutive forma

tions. His careful tabulated lists of genera and

species that pass from one formation to another finally

annihilated the long-lived delusion that each geological

system was complete in itself, and was separated, by a
general destruction and re-creation of life, from the

formation that succeeded it. Accepting Darwin's
views on the origin of species, he argued that the
relative lapse of time between different formations

might be determined by the greater or less distinction

between them as regards their organic contents. By
this line of argument he was led to the novel and
suggestive conclusion that periods of time, of which
there was in the geological record of Britain no strati-
graphical chronicle, might be much longer than those

which were represented by stratified formations.
358  SUMMARY OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

These doctrines were by far the most important which
had been taught in regard to the principles of strati

graphy since these principles were first determined by
the discoveries of William Smith.

    III. Connecting his Stratigraphical with his

Physiographical researches comes the series of papers
in which he discussed the former existence of Conti

nents, or of terrestrial conditions, during the deposition
of the geological record. He dwelt especially upon the
red colour of certain formations, their barrenness in

organic remains, the proofs of the occurrence of traces
of land animals and plants in them, and the similarity
presented by them to the deposits of salt lakes or
inland seas. In this way he tried to restore in some
degree the physical geography of ancient periods of
the earth's history. He attempted also, from the same
kind of reasoning, to estimate the relative value of the

old continental periods, and came to the conclusion
that the period which began with the Old Red Sand
stone and closed with the New Red Marl may have

been comparable to all the time that has elapsed from
the beginning of the deposition of the Lias down to the

present day.

     IV. In Physiography Ramsay's work was abundant,
as well as remarkably original and important. It may

be grouped in three subdivisions: (1) Denudation in
General ; (2) The History of River-valleys ; and (3)
The Results of the Operations of Ice.

     (1) The early paper on the Denudation of South
Wales, published in 1846, in the first volume of the

Memoirs of the Geological Survey, was undoubtedly

the most important essay on the subject which up to
that time had appeared. Much had previously been
written on the question of denudation, but it was of the
             WORK IN PHYSIOGRAPHY                                359

vaguest nature. It was Ramsay's merit that he based

his discussion upon the results of careful surveying.
He had traced out the structure of a complicated

geological region, and was able to show what should
have been the form of the surface had it depended

entirely on geological structure. He was thus in a

position to demonstrate how much material had been

removed by denudation, and how far the process of
removal had been guided by geological structure. It

is true, as he himself afterwards confessed, that at that

time he assigned too much power to the sea, and too
little to the subaerial agents, in the lowering of a mass
of land. But his exposition of the old base-level of

ancient erosion, or ' plain of marine denudation,' as he

called       will ever be a classical study in geological
           it,
literature.                                                  in

Subsequently, as he realised more and more how

mighty had been the action of rain, frost, rivers,

glaciers, and other subaerial forces in carving the sur
face of the land, he came boldly forward to take the

lead among British geologists                                    enforcing this

doctrine.

     (2) During the last ten years of his official life the
physical history of river-valleys exercised a peculiar

fascination on Sir Andrew's mind. The subject had

for many years engaged his attention, but not until the
appearance in 1862 of his friend Jukes's remarkable
memoir on the river- valleys of the south of Ireland

did he realise how the problem might be satisfactorily
attacked. He was led to the conclusion that the

denudation of the Weald had been effected by subaerial

waste, and that the cause of the flow of the rivers,

from that central low tract through the encircling rim

of chalk downs, was to be sought in the ancient topo
36o  SUMMARY OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

ofgraphy of the region, when the streams descended

from a central, still unremoved dome or ridge

ofchalk. Extending this process of reasoning, he after

wards discussed the main causes whereby the rivers

England had been led to flow in the courses which
they now follow. There was undoubtedly a good deal

of speculation in this discussion, but his treatment of

the subject was full of suggestiveness, and pointed out

the direction in which, with perhaps a larger array of

facts, the question might eventually be solved.
     Subsequently he attacked the history of individual

rivers, working it out in more detail along the same
lines as he had already followed. In this manner he
traced the successive stages which, in his opinion, had
led to the excavation of the present valley of the
Rhine, showing that in Miocene time the flow of the
drainage between the Black Forest and the Vosges
had been from north to south, or towards the great

hollow lying to the north of the Alps, that subsequent
disturbance and elevation of the Alpine chain tilted

the ground in such a manner that the drainage was
reversed, and the streams from the tract of the Alps

were collected into a river which found its way

northward, and gradually excavated the valley and
gorge in which the present Rhine still flows. Though
it cannot be demonstrated that such have been the

successive stages in the history of the course of this

river, the available evidence makes Ramsay's explana

tion highly probable.
     The later application of the same principles of

interpretation to the history of the valley of the Dee
in Wales led him into still ampler fields of speculation,
because dealing with a vaster and dimmer geological
past. He could not claim to have proved every step
THEORY OF ORIGIN OF LAKES  361

in his chain of argument, but he undoubtedly pro
pounded a method whereby, if such questions are
capable of solution, they may most advantageously

be attempted.

     (3) It was in his researches among the traces of
ancient glaciers and ice-sheets that Sir Andrew accom
plished his most original physiographical work. His
demonstration of the occurrence of evidence of two

glaciations in Wales was an important step in the
elucidation of the history of the Ice Age, for he showed
that after a general glaciation of the Welsh hills and
valleys, and the deposition of the drift upon them, a

later time came when the ice existed only as local

glaciers in the valleys among the higher mountains.
      But his name will be most widely known for his

theory of the Glacial Origin of certain Lake-basins.
This theory has been warmly attacked and as vigor
ously defended. The contest regarding it still con

tinues, though more than thirty years have passed
since it was published. This is not the place for a
review of the voluminous arguments that have been

adduced for and against the theory. If we look upon

the doctrine as promulgated by its author, and not in

the extravagant form in which it sometimes appears in
the hands of too zealous partisans, we must admit that

Ramsay was the first to call attention to the remark

able fact that lakes are especially numerous in the
glaciated tracts of the northern hemisphere. Taking
the rock-basin lakes on which he based his doctrine of

glacial erosion, it is a fact that while they are prodigi
ously abundant in glaciated tracts like the gneisses
of Canada, Scandinavia, Finland, and Scotland, they
either do not occur, or are excessively rare, outside of

ice- worn areas. It is likewise true that these rock
362  SUMMARY OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

basins have once been filled with ice, for roches

moutonndes occur round their margins and rise from
their bottoms. There can be no doubt also that the

ice which filled them was in motion, for the rocks that

enclose them are scored and polished, and the direc

tion of the striae shows that the ice descended into

the basins at their upper end and ascended from them

at the lower. Ramsay went farther, and insisted that

the hollows themselves had actually been dug out by
the moving ice. I have myself no doubt that he was
essentially right in this contention. That there may
be difficulty in the universal application of his doctrine
will be readily admitted, and was fully recognised by
himself. He carefully guarded himself by the very
title of his original paper, ' On the Glacial Origin of
Certain Lakes,' from being supposed to have one
explanation for all sheets of fresh water over the surface

of the globe. But that the lakes in glaciated regions
are connected in origin with the general denudation
of the regions in which they lie is a fact which few
geologists who have carefully mapped the rocks around
these water-basins will dispute. And the only agent
known to us to be capable of the kind of erosion which
would produce such basins is land-ice. On any other
hypothesis yet proposed the lake-basins are not only

unintelligible, but contradictory to all that is now well
ascertained regarding the progress of denudation and
the influence of geological structure upon topography.

     In connection with Sir Andrew Ramsay's glacial
work, reference should be made here to his papers on
the evidence for the existence of ice in Palaeozoic time.
The Permian examples cited by him were certainly

striking, but the general feeling among geologists
seems to be that the evidence is not convincing. The
UNCOMPROMISING UNIFORMITARIANISM                   363

cases from the Lower Silurian, Old Red Sandstone,

and Carboniferous formations are still less conclusive.

     As a contribution to Physiography his volume on
The Physical Geology and Geography of Great Britain
is worthy of special mention. It puts in clear and

untechnical language the evidence on which geology
proceeds to trace the bygone history of a terrestrial

region. Unfortunately, the last edition was brought

out by him when his powers had already begun to fail,
and he was led to weight the book by the addition of
various already published papers and essays which,

though excellent for the purposes for which they were
written, were somewhat out of place in his otherwise

charming little volume.1

    V. Sir Andrew made few contributions to the litera

ture of the History of Geology. His two inaugural

lectures at University College presented a rapid sketch

of the leading features in the progress of geological

research up to this century, and his last address        as
President of Section C of the British Association
                                                         at
York in 1881 gave an outline of the advance
                                                         of

geology during the fifty years preceding that date.
     He was a thorough uniformitarian in geology.

Having early imbibed his theoretical views from Lyell's

Principles, he maintained them to the end, and took

occasion when he was President of the British Associa

tion at Swansea, and consciously approaching the end
of his active career, to proclaim them as a last declara

tion of faith to his contemporaries.            other
                                                refer
    VI. In this retrospect of the literary and

work which Sir Andrew Ramsay accomplished,

ence should not be omitted to his contributions to the

    1 A new edition of this book is now in preparation under the able editorship
of Mr. H. B. Woodward of the Geological Survey.
364  SUMMARY OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

 Saturday Review. Sometimes these were criticisms
of publications, and in that case often took as their
subject the maps and memoirs of some Colonial
Survey. He was thus enabled to do signal service
to his friend Logan, then struggling with the Canadian
 Philistines, who saw no practical good in geological
work of any kind. But now and then he let his
fancy loose in the pages of the Saturday, and treated

geological and other topics with the light playfulness
so characteristic of his talk, but in which the nature

of his official writings hardly allowed him to indulge

in print.

    VII. But it is not by the visible amount of published

work that we can rightly estimate the extent of Sir
Andrew Ramsay's influence in promoting the advance
of his favourite science. For nearly thirty years he
was a teacher of geology. Year by year a fresh band
of young men came to listen to him, and to carry the
fruits of his instruction to all parts of the world.

Season after season he lectured to working men, who

flocked in hundreds to hear him. His lectures were

not written out, but delivered from notes, and were

always kept up to the latest conditions of the science.

Many a time some new deduction that had been

simmering in his mind for a while would be communi
cated first of all to his students. In the debates at

the Geological Society, also, he would often make
known some fresh observation, or some novel present

ation of known facts, or some suggestive speculation
which had recently taken shape in his mind. Indeed,
much of his work was published only in this way,
for writing became increasingly irksome to him ; but
in the excitement of lecturing or of discussion he
would pour out from his full stores of information,
EDUCATIONAL INFLUENCE  36S

and taking his audience into his confidence, would
flash out new views that he had never communi

cated to any one before. There was always some
thing remarkably suggestive in his lectures. He
loved to put broad and striking views of geological
principles and theory before his audience, and sought
thus to excite an interest that would search for detail,

rather than to weary it by dwelling on the detail him
self. He spoke with a good deal of facial expression,
his brow sometimes wrinkling with his earnestness to
make a point clear, and again beaming with a kindly
smile as he was enjoying his discourse, and felt that he
was carrying his auditors with him. The working
men used to crowd round his table at the end of a
lecture to ask questions, and one of them once said to
him, ' You are the best lecturer I ever heard in my
life ; and you always look so happy in it.'

     There was another form of instruction less palpable
perhaps than that communicated in formal prelections,
but not less valuable --the practical training which he
gave to his men on the staff of the Geological Survey.
Those who have enjoyed that training look back
upon it as one of the privileges of their lives. The

influence of his example was contagious. A district

which had seemed hopelessly entangled and insuffer

ably dull, after a visit from the Director came to be
seen in a new light. Its very difficulties grew to be
centres of attraction, and its dulness was changed into
freshened interest. That this influence has not been
without effect in the higher education of the country
will be seen from the number of men trained under

Ramsay who have held or now hold University chairs
or other educational appointments in this country

and in the colonies.
366  SUMMAR V OF CAREER  CHAP. XI

     But above and beyond the impress of his scientific
achievements Sir Andrew Ramsay's high position

among his contemporaries was largely determined
by his individual personality. His frank manly bear

ing, his well -cut features beaming with intelligence

and with a sweet childlike candour, his ready powers
of conversation, his wide range of knowledge, his
boyish exuberance of spirits, his simplicity and modesty
of nature, his sterling integrity, perfect straight
forwardness, and high sense of duty, his generous

sympathy and untiring helpfulness, marked him out
as a man of singular charm, and endeared him to
a wide circle of friends who, while they admired him

for his genius, loved him for the beauty and bright
ness of his character.
                 APPENDIX

I. -- L1st of Papers, Books, etc, by S1r Andrew C. Ramsay,

                                                F.R.S.1

                                                       1840

' Notes taken during the Surveys for the Construction of the Geo
       logical Model Maps and Sections of the Island of Arran.'
       Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1840 [1841]. Sections, p. 92.

                 1 84 1 and previous years

'The Geology of the Island of Arran, from original survey.' 8vo.

Glasgow [1841].

                 1846

' On the Denudation of South Wales and the adjacent Counties of
       England.' Mem. Geol. Survey, vol. i. pp. 297-335.

                 1847

' On the Causes and Amount of Geological Denudations.' A discourse

at the Royal Institution. Athenaum, 27th March 1847, p. 342.

'On the Origin of the existing Physical Outline of a portion of

Cardiganshire.'  Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1847 [1848]. Sections,

pp. 66, 67.

                 1848

' Sketch of the Structure of Parts of North and South Wales.'
      (With W. T. Aveline.) Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. iv. pp.

294-297.

     1 The years put in separate lines are generally those in which the work was done ;
the years placed within square brackets give the dates of publication.
 368 APPENDIX

 ' Passages in the History of Geology.' Two Lectures at University
        College, London. 8vo. London, 1848, and second lecture

           1849.

 ' On some points connected with the Physical Geology of the

         Silurian district between Builth and Pen-y-bont, Radnorshire.'
        Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1848 [1849]. Sections, p. 73.

                                                        1850
 ' On the Geological Phenomena that have produced or modified the

       Scenery of North Wales.' Friday evening discourse at Royal

         Institution. Athenaum, 6th April 1850, p. 377.
 ' On the Geological Position of the Black Slates of Menai Straits, etc. '

        Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1850 [1851]. Sections, p. 102.

                                                        1852

'On the Science of Geology and its Applications.' Introductory
        Lecture to the Course of Geology, School of Mines, Session
        1851-52. Records School of Mines, vol. i. pp. 81-102.

' On the Superficial Accumulations and Surface-markings of North
       Wales.' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. viii. pp. 371-376.

                                                       1853

' On the Physical Structure and Succession of some of the Lower
        Palaeozoic Rocks of North Wales and part of Shropshire,' with
       Notes on the Fossils by J. W. Salter. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.

         vol. ix. pp. 1 61-179.

                                                       1854
' On the Geology of the Gold-bearing District of Merionethshire,

       North Wales.' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. voL x. pp. 242-247.
'On the former probable existence of Palaeozoic Glaciers.' Rep.

       Brit. Assoc. for 1854 [1855]. Sections, pp. 93, 94.
' On the thickness of the Ice of the ancient Glaciers of North

        Wales, and other points bearing on the Glaciation of the
       Country.' Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1854 [1855]. Sections, pp.
         94, 95-
' On the occurrence of Angular, Subangular, Polished, and Striated
       Fragments and Boulders in the Permian Breccia of Shropshire,
       Worcestershire, etc. ; and on the Probable Existence of Glaciers
                     LIST OF RAMSAY'S PUBLICATIONS                            369

              and Icebergs in the Permian Epoch.'                      Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.
              vol. xi. pp. 185-205.

                                                        1857

'On certain peculiarities of Climate during part of the Permian
       Epoch.' Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. pp. 417-421.
'' '
                                        i.1858

                                                ii.
                                                                  ii.
    The Physical Structure of Merionethshire and Caernarvonshire.'

         Geologist, vol. pp. 169-174.

'On the Geological Causes that have influenced the Scenery of

              Canada and the North-eastern Provinces of the United States.'

       Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. pp. 522-524.                                 (With W. T.
 Geology of Parts of Wiltshire and Gloucestershire.'                   London, 1858.

       Aveline and E. Hull.) Geol. Survey Mem. 8vo.                    Dependencies.'
'Geological Surveys in Great Britain and her

         Saturday Review, 3rd July, pp. 8-10.
    Descriptive Catalogue of the Rock Specimens in the Museum of

         Practical Geology.' (With H. W. Bristow, H. Bauerman, and
          A. Geikie.) 8vo. London, 1858; 2nd edit., 1859; 3rd edit.,

              1862.

                               1859

    On Some of the Glacial Phenomena of Canada and the North
' '' '
             1eastern Provinces of the United States during the Drift-

              Period.' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xv. pp. 200-215.

    Geology of Pennsylvania.'  Saturday Review, 30th April and 28th

                    May, pp. 530, 531, 558-560.

              Beach Rambles.' (Review of G. Francis's Beach Rambles in
                    Search of Sea-side Pebbles and Crystals.') Saturday Review,
                               2 J.
             2th November, pp. 585, 586.                               1859.  3rd
                                  B
    Geological Map of England and Wales.' (Stanford.)        '
          edit., 1872; 4th edit., 1877; 5th edit., 1881.

''                                                        1860

    The Old Glaciers of Switzerland and North Wales.' 8vo. London.
          (Printed in Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers, by the Alpine Club.

           8vo. 1859.)
    Geological Surveys of Canada and New Zealand.' Saturday Review,

         nth August, pp. 174-176.
370 APPENDIX

' Lyell and Tennyson.'               1861
' Kensington Gardens.'
                        Saturday Review, 22nd June, pp. 631, 632.
                        Saturday Review, 29th June, pp. 668, 669.

                                                        1862

' On the Glacial Origin of certain Lakes in Switzerland, the Black
        Forest, Great Britain, Sweden, North America, and elsewhere.'
       Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xviii. pp. 185-204.

' The Excavation of the Valleys of the Alps.' Phil. Mag. vol. xxiv.
       PP- 377-38o.

                                 1863

' Breaks in Succession of the British Pateozoic Strata.' Address to

Geological Society.     Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xix. pp.
xxix-lii.

                                                     1863-78

'The Physical Geology and Geography of Great Britain.' 8vo.
        London. 2nd edit., 1864; 3rd edit., 1872 ; 4th edit., 1874;

         5th edit., 1878.

                                 1864

' Notes accompanying Translation of Paper on " The Sahara, and its
        Different Types of Deserts and Oases," ' by E. Desor. Geol.

       Mag. vol. i. pp. 27-34.
' The Breaks in Succession of the British Mesozoic Strata.' Address

to Geological Society.           Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xx. pp.
xl-lx.

' On the Erosion of Valleys and Lakes : a Reply to Sir Roderick

        Murchison's Anniversary Address to the Geographical Society.'

       Phil. Mag. vol. xxviii. pp. 293-311.
'The Geology of Canada.' Saturday Review, 26th March, pp. 383,

         384.                           14th May and nth June,
'Changes of Climate.' Saturday Review,

        pp. 591, 592, 719-721.

' The Ice-drifted Conglomerates  1865                        Reader,
        1 2th August, p. 186.    of the Old Red Sandstone.'
              LIST OF RAMSA Y'S PUBLICATIONS                 371

' On the Eozoon and the Laurentian Rocks of Canada.' Proc. Roy.

        Inst. vol. iv. pp. 374-377-                          Phil.
' Sir Charles Lyell and the Glacial Theory of Lake Basins.'

Mag. vol. xxix. pp. 285-298.

                      1866

' The Geology of North Wales.' With Appendix on Fossils by J.

        W. Salter. Geol. Survey Mem. 8vo. London, 1866. 2nd

         edit. 188 1.
' Address to the Geological Section of the British Association at

       Nottingham.' Rep. Brit. Assoc. for 1866 [1867]. Sections,
        pp. 46-50.

                                                        1868

' Review of 1st vol. of Lyell's "Principles of Geology."'   Saturday
      Review, nth and 18th April.

                      1869

' Evidence given before the Royal Commission                on Water-Supply.'

       Report, pp. 104-107. Folio. London.                     (With O. Torell
' Report on Ice as an Agent of Geologic Change.             1869 [1870], pp.

       and H. Bauerman.) Rep. Brit. Assoc. for

            171-174.

                      1871

' On the Recurrence of Glacial Phenomena during great Con

       tinental Epochs.' Nature, vol. v. pp. 64, 65.
'On the Physical Relations of the New Red Marl, Rhaetic Beds,

       and Lower Lias. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xxvii. pp.

         189-199.

' On the Red Rocks of England of older date than the Trias.'

      Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xxvii. pp. 241-256.
' Report on the Probability of finding Coal under the Permian,

New Red Sandstone, and other superincumbent Strata.' Roy.

'           Comm. on Coal, vol. i. pp. 1 19-145.             Also Evidence, vol.
               pp. 422-424, 449, 463-488. Folio.            London.
         ii.
                                                      1872  Quart. Journ. Geol.

On the River-courses of England and Wales.'
      Soc. vol. xxviii. pp. 148-160.
                                APPENDIX

' The River Po.' Macmillaris Magazine, vol. xxvii. pp. 125-129.

(' Les Inondations en Italic') II Fiume Po. Bolktino del Club
      Alpino Italiano, vol. vi. 8vo. Turin, 1873. (Translated

        from Macmillaris Magazine, December 1872.)

                                                  1872-1881

' Annual Reports of the Director-General of the Geological Survey of
      the United Kingdom, the Museum of Practical Geology, the
      Royal School of Mines, and the Mining Record Office, for the
      years 1871 to 1881.' Reports of Science and Art Department.

1873

'On Old Continents.' Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. viL pp. 32-34.

       (Translated into French in the Revue Scientifique.)
' Report on the Exploration of Brixham Cave,' conducted by a

Committee of the Geological Society. (Report prepared by
RJ. Prestwich, agreed and approved by G. Busk,
                                                     Godwin-

Austen, and A. C. Ramsay.) Phil. Trans, vol. clxiii. pp.

       47I-572-                  Saturday Review, 25th January,
'The History of Great Britain.'

      pp. no, n1.

1874

' On the Comparative Value of certain Geological Ages (or groups of
       Formations) considered as Items of Geological Time.' Proc.
       Roy. Soc. vol. xxii. pp. 334-343-

' Article "Geology" in Blackie's " The Popular Encyclopaedia." ' 8vo.

        London.
' On the Physical History of the Rhine.' Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. vii.

        pp. 279-288.                                 Quart. Joum.

' The Physical History of the Valley of the Rhine.'

         Geol. Soc. vol. xxx. pp. 81-95.

                                                        1875

' The Pre-Miocene Alps, and their subsequent Waste and Degrada
       tion.' Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. vii. pp. 455-457.

' Geological History of some of the Mountain Chains and Groups of
       Europe.' Lectures at the Royal School of Mines. Mining
      Journal, vol. xlv. pp. 57, 79, 106, 135, 162, 191.
    LIST OF RAMSAY'S PUBLICATIONS                                                             373

' General Instructions for Observations in Geology.' (With J. Evans.)
        In ' Manual of the Natural History, etc., of Greenland and the
        neighbouring Regions ' ; prepared for the use of the Arctic

         Expedition of 1875. 8vo. London. Pp. 68-77.
' Evidence given before Civil Service Inquiry Commission : and

        Memorandum on the Geological Survey.' Second Report of
         Commission, with Appendix. Folio. London. Pp. 43-46,

         70-72.        of Wall    Maps.'  (Stanford's.)  British Isles,
' Orographical Series

        Europe, etc.

                                  1876

' How Anglesey became             an Island.' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol.

         xxxii. pp. 1 1 6-1 2 2.  by William Ramsay, ' On the Influence of
Note appended to paper            in Accelerating the Precipitation of Clay

        Various Substances

    suspended in Water.' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xxxii.

         p. 132.

' On the Physical History of the Dee, Wales.' Quart. Journ. Geol.

         Soc. vol. xxxii. pp. 219-229.     Geol. Mag. Decade II.

' The Origin of Lake-Basins.' (A Letter.)

    vol. iii. pp. 136-138.

                                  1877

' The Origin and Progress of the Geological Survey of the British
       Isles, and the Method on which it is conducted.' In Science

    Conferences.  Conferences held in connection with the Special

    Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus, vol.
                                          J.             pp. 364-380.

    8vo. London.                                             ii.

''  Report on the Question of the Supply of Fresh Water to the Town                        ;
         and Garrison of Gibraltar.' Folio. London.

    The Existence of Coal beneath the New Red and Permian Strata.'

    Proc. Dudley Geol. Soc. vol. iii. pp. 35-37.

                                  1878

'   The Geology of Gibraltar and the Opposite Coast of Africa and

    the History of the Mediterranean Sea.' Proc. Roy. Inst. vol.

       viii. pp. 594-601.                                1878.
'Geological Map of the British Isles.' (Stanford.)
'On the Geology of Gibraltar.' (With Geikie.)              Quart. Journ.

    Geol. Soc. vol. xxxiv. pp. 505-541.
374 APPENDIX

                                                        1879  Water-Supply,  etc. '

' Discussion at Annual Conference on National
      Journ. Soc. Arts, vol. xxvii. p. 159.

                                                        1880

'On the Recurrence of certain Phenomena in Geological Time."
     (Presidential Address to the British Association.) Rep. Brit.

       Assoc. for 1880, pp. 1-22.

                                                       1881

' On the Origin, Progress, and the Present State of British Geology,
       especially since the first meeting of the British Association at
       York in 1831.' Address to Section C. Rep. Brit. Assoc. for
        1881 [1882], pp. 605-608.

                                                       1883

'Notes on the Geology of St. David's.' (1842-43.) In paper 'On
      the Supposed Pre -Cambrian Rocks of St David's,' by A.
       Geikie. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xxxix. pp. 263, 264.

                                                        1885

' Stanford's Compendium of Geography -- Europe.' (With F. W.

       Rudler, G. G. Chisholm, and A. H. Keane.) 8vo. London.

II. -- L1st of Geolog1cal Survey Maps (one-1nch Scale), Parts

             OF WHICH WERE SURVEYED BY SlR A. C. RAMSAY.1

           England and Wales

Sheet 19.  (1845) Mendip Hills, Bath.

35. ^845) Bristol, Chepstow, Cotteswold Hills.

38. (I845) Pembroke, Milford Haven.

40. (1845) St. David's.

41. (J845) Caermarthen, Llandeilo, Llandovery.

43. S.E. (1845) Woolhope, Malvern, Ledbury.

53. N.W. (1855) Coventry, Rugby, Leamington.

54. N.W. (1852) Kidderminster, Bromsgrove.

     1 The original dates of publication are given, but new editions of some of the
Sheets have been published.
          LIST OF RAMS A Y'S PUBLICATIONS                      375

Sheet     56. N.VV. [1850) Rhayader.
   ,,     56. N.E. (1850) Clun, Knighton, Presteign.

  ,,,     56. S.W. (1850) Builth.
          56. S.E. (1850) New Radnor.
    ,,    57- N.W. (1848) Cardiganshire coast.
    ..    57- N.E. (1848) Aberystwith.
    .,    57- S.W. ^1848) Aberavon, Aberforth.

     »    57- S.E. (1848) Lampeter, Tregaron.

    ,,    58. (1850) Cardiganshire coast.
    ,,    59- N.E. (1850) Barmouth, Dolgelly, Cader Idris.
    ,,
    ,,    59- S.E. (1848) Machynlleth, Aberdovey, Plinlimmon.
   ,,     60. N.W. [1851) Dinas Mowddwy, Llanfair.
    ,,    60. N.E. [1850) WelshpooL
    ,,    60. S.W. (1850) Llanidloes.
          60. S.E. (1850) Montgomery, Bishops Castle
    ,,    61. N.W. (1855) Shrewsbury.
   ,,     61. N.E. (1855) Wellington, Wrekin.
     »    61. S.W. (1850) Church Stretton, Longmynd.
          62. N.W. (1852) Cannock Chase.
     11
     ,i   62. S.W. [1852) Wolverhampton, Dudley.
     »    62. N.E. (1856) Lichfield, Tamworth.
     »    62. S.E. [1855) Birmingham.
     »
      ,.  71. N.W. (1855) Belper, Wirksworth.
      ·   72. N.E. 1852) Ashbourn.
      »
      »   74- N.W. (1850) Corwen, Pentre Voelas.
     ,,   74- N.E. (1850) Crewe, Nantwich.

    ,,    74- S.W. (1850) Bala, Hirnant.
          74- S.E. (1850) Oswestry.
      ,,  7 5- N.W. (1850) Nevin, Caernarvonshire.
      »   75- N.E. (185 1) Snowdon, Tremadoc.

          75- S.E. (185 1 ) Harlech, Portmadoc.
          77- N. (1852) Holyhead Island.
          78. N.W. (1852) Anglesey, part of Holyhead.
          78. N.E. (1852) Beaumaris, Conway.
          78. S.W. (1852) Anglesey, Caernarvon.
          78. S.E. (1852) Bangor, Llanberis.
          79- N.W. (1850) Little Orme's Head.

                                                   Scotland
          33. (1860) Dunbar, Haddington.
376 APPENDIX

III. -- L1st of Hor1zontal Sect1ons of the Geolog1cal Survey

                      drawn by S1r Andrew C. Ramsay.

Sheet 1

No. 1. Section from Porth-wyn, St. Bride's Bay, near Solva, Pem

brokeshire, to the north cliff of Ynys-y- Barry ; on a line 1 00°

W. of N. from Porth-wyn to the cross-roads near Shyvog

Common, and 5° E. of N. from thence to the sea.  By A. C.
Ramsay and W. T. Aveline.

No. 2. Section across Pembrokeshire, from South to North. From
        St. Gowan's Head to Lanstadwell, from Lanstadwell to Tref-
       garn Rock, and thence to Dinas Head, near Fishguard. By A.
       C. Ramsay and W. T. Aveline. (1845. Revised 1857.)

Sheet 3

No. 1. Section from Cerrig-dwfn to   Mynydd-bancy-ffair,  near
        Llandeilo. By A. C. Ramsay.

No. 3. Section from the Black        Mountain, near Llangadoc, to
        Cefnllwyn hir, Caermarthen.   By H. T. De la Beche, A. C.
       Ramsay, and W. T. Aveline.
                                      (1844.)

                                                     Sheet 4

No. 4. Section from Mynydd Bwlch-y-groes, Brecknock to Craig-ddu,
        Cardigan Bay. By A. C. Ramsay and W. T. Aveline. (1845.
        Revised 1858.)

                                                     Sheet s

No. 1. Section across the Old Red Sandstone and Silurian Rocks,
       from the Black Mountain Range S.E. of Glasbury to Allt-wen,
       Cardigan Bay, near Aberystwith. By A. C. Ramsay, T. E.
       James, and W. T. Aveline. (1845. Revised 1858.)

                                                     Sheet 6

No. 2. Section across the Silurian Rocks, from Gwaun Ceste to
       Rhiw Gwraidd, Radnor. (1845. Revised 1858.)
LIST OF RAMSAY'S PUBLICATIONS

                                                    Sheet 13

No. 1. Section from Edge Hill, Forest of Dean, to Taynton House.
        (n.d. ; about 1845.)

Sheet 14

No. 2. Section from the Great Western Railroad, near Saltford

Station, to the Box Valley near Slaughterford.  (1845.)

                                                    Sheet 15

No. 1. Section from Ridge Barn Hill, near Castle Cary, Somerset,
       to Jay Hill, near Bitton, Gloucester. By H. T. De la Beche,
       D. H. Williams, and A. C. Ramsay. (1845.)

                                                    Sheet 27

Section across Radnor Forest and Hanter Hill, to the Old Red
        Sandstone near Fern Hall, South of Kington, Herefordshire.
       By A. C. Ramsay, H. W. Bristow, and W. T. Aveline. (1852.)

                                                    Sheet 28

Section from Llanfair-is-gaer, Menai Straits, over the Cambrian and
        Silurian Rocks of Dinas, Snowdon, Cynicht, Moel-wyn, Cors-
       goch (near Trawsfynydd), Aran Mowddwy, and Newtown,
        Montgomeryshire, and the Upper Silurian Rocks and Old Red
        Sandstone of Clun Forest, Bucknall, Wigmore Valley, Orleton,
        etc., near Ludlow. (1853.)

                                                    Sheet 29

Section from Craig das Eithin across Y Dduallt, Aran Mowddwy, and
     Cwledog, Merionethshire. By A C. Ramsay, A R. C. Selwyn,

       and W. T. Aveline. (1853.)

                                                    Sheet 31

Section from the Suspension Bridge, Menai Straits, across Y-Glyder-
        fawr, Moel Siabod, Bala Lake, etc. (1854.)
378 APPENDIX

                                                    Sheet 40

No. 1. Section from Porth Llanlliana, across Anglesey to the Menai

        Straits at Llanidan.
No. 2. Section from Carmels Point to the north shore of Church

        Bay, N.W. of Anglesey.
No. 3. Section across Anglesey from Point ^Elianus to the Menai

        Bridge by Traeth Dulas and Pentraeth. (With explanation,
         1857-)

                                                    Sheet 44

No. 2. Section through Tan-y-Castell, Cefn-y-Fedw, eta (Account
        of Silurian, Old Red Sandstone, and Carboniferous Rocks in
        'Explanation,' 1859.)

                                                    Sheet 45

No 1. Section across the Upper Silurian Rocks and Coal-measures
        of Coalbrook Dale, etc. (Notes in 'Explanation,' 1859.)

                                                    Sheet 50

Section from near Cleobury Mortimer to Nuneaton, Forest of Wyre,
        Clent Hills, etc. (Notes in 'Explanation,' 1859.)

                                                    Sheet 54

No. 1. Section from N.W. to S.E., across the Wrekin, Coalbrook
        Dale Coalfield, Shropshire, and the New Red Sandstone of
       Beckbury, Pattingham, and Oreton Hill, to Baggeridge Wood,
        South of Wolverhampton, Staffordshire. By A. C. Ramsay,
       D. H. Williams, and E. Hull (1858). (With explanation, 1859.)

                                                    Sheet 58

No. 2. Section from W. to E. from Cluddley, near Wellington,
       across the Coalbrook Dale Coalfield, the Permian Rocks, and
       New Red Sandstone, near Shiffnal and Brewood to the
       Western Border of the S. Staffordshire Coalfield S. of Cannock.
       By A. C. Ramsay, D. H. Williams, and E. Hull, (1860.)
LIST OF RAMSAY'S PUBLICATIONS  379

IV. -- L1st of Vert1cal Sect1ons of the Geolog1cal Survey
                      drawn by S1r Andrew C. Ramsay.

                                                    Sheet 12

Sections illustrative of the passage of the Old Red Sandstone into
        the Carboniferous Limestone in South Wales and South-Western
        England.

No. 2. Skrinkle Haven, Pembrokeshire.

                                                    Sheet 15

No. 1. Section through the Silurian strata of May Hill, Gloucester

         shire.
                                INDEX

Abberley H1lls, 219                      Arran, Isle of, as a summer resort, 10 ;

Aberaeron, 73, 74, 75, 81                    attractive geology of, 12 ; surveyed
                                             and modelled by Ramsay, 16, 17 ;
Abergwailas, 81                             volume on, by Ramsay, 21, 29, 239;
                                             descriptions of, 22-25 · revisited, 74
Aberpwl, 232                             Ash, volcanic, 82, 83
Aberystwith, 73, 74, 77, 8 1             Atmospheric disintegration, 199
                                         Auchendrane Castle (E. Cathcart), 248,
iEggischorn, 254, 267, 273
Africa, Ramsay's excursion into, 338         294
                                         Austen, see Godwin-Austen
Agassiz, L. , notice of, 18; visited by
                                         AAvuevleinrgen, e,W3. 5T3., appointed to Geologi
    Ramsay, 252
Agronomical map of British Isles, 293        cal Survey, 43, 66 ; letters to, 77,
Airy, G. B., 159                            82, 83, 126, 146, 149, IS2. «54.
Aix les Bains, 345                           158, 162, 167, 211, 213, 218, 231,
Albert, Prince, 159, 175, 185
Aletsch glacier, 255, 267, 273               232, 234 ; at work in Wales, 79,
Alf, 263                                     80, 83, 100, 153, 158, 204, 205,
Alps, Ramsay's visits to the, 198, 202,
                                             234; paper at Geological Society,
   253, 266, 272, 327, 352; conse            124 ; at the annual Survey dinners,
   quences of upheaval of, 360               175 ; position on staff of Survey in
Altered rocks, Ramsay's views regard         1854, 212; revision work of, in
                                             North Wales, 230 ; attends confer
ing, 52, 83, 109, 154, 172, 191,             ence in Scotland, 342
                                         Ayrshire, coast-scenery of, 4 ; Ramsay's
    207, 286, 326                            visits to, 248 ; survey of, 315
American Association for the Advance

   ment of Science, 252  of Glasgow,
Amlwch, 171, 191
Andersonian University

17                                       Ba1ly, W. H., 66, 116, 129, 142,

Anglesey, 105, 107, 154, 164, 170,           160, 175, 212
    172, 190, 191, 192, 207, 287, 288,

  III,300,326,T3.,3457,                  Bala, geology of, 80, 82, 83, 105, 125,
     D.
Ansted,              78                     213. 214
Antiquities, Ramsay's love of,           Bala rocks, equivalents of Caradoc
                                188,

    246, 289, 301, 319, 353                  series,  230  ;  unconformability  of, 308
Antrim, 315, 318                                      271
Arans, geology of the, 79, 82, 165,      Ball, J.,

                                         Bangor, 152, 154, 171, 174, 192, 338
                                         Bantry, 218
    329
Arbroath, 344                            Barlow, Dr., 146
Arenig, geology of, 79, 204
Arenig group, 332, 333, 334, 336, 338    Barmouth, 82
Argyll, Duke of, 270
Armagh, 315, 320                         Barnsley, 303
                                         Barry, Sir Charles, 40
                                         Basle, 263, 327
382 INDEX

Bass Rock, 166                                16 ; memorialises Government           re
                                              garding mining records, 41 ;            at
Bauerman, H., 204                             Cambridge (1845), 73 ; Oxford
                                                                                     (1848),
Bayfield, Captain, 64                         (1847),  99, 103 ;        Swansea         153;
Beaumaris, Ramsay's life at, 317, 324,        135;     Birmingham           (1849),
                                              Edinburgh (1850), 165; Liverpool
    328, 332, 336, 342, 346. 348. 35 1,                 218; Cheltenham              (1856),
                                              (1854),  Nottingham (1866),
    353                                       243;                                      286;
Beddgelert, 105, 136, 140, 214
Bel Alp, 273                                  Dundee (1867), 297 ; Norwich
Belfast, 342                                  (1868), 300; Swansea (1880), 346 ;
Bell Rock, 166                                   Jubilee Meeting, York   (1881),
                                              Brodick, disappearance of  village      348
Bellingham, 303                                                                      of, 11
Belper, 297
Berkshire, 2 1 1                              Bromsgrove Lickey, 198

Berlin, 229                                   Brougham, story of, 146
Berne, 226
Bertrich, Ramsay's stay at, 264               J.,Brush, Professor, 252
                                              Bryce,   165

Berwick, 315                                  Buch, Leopold von, 73, 201
Berwyn Hills, 2 14                            Buckingham, Duke of, 289

Best, E., 322                                 Buckinghamshire, 2 1 1
Bethesda (North Wales),                       Buckland, W., notice of, 18 ; Ramsay
Bettws y coed, 157, 167    167,  170                                                 for
                                                                                      of
Bex, 272, 327                                 introduced to, 30 ; applied to
                                              advice regarding early progress
                                              Geological Survey, 37 ; opinion of
Bingen, 327
Black Forest, 263, 328, 360                   early Geological Survey maps, 39,

Blairgowrie, 344                              42 ; on R. Chambers, 103 ; speeches
Blanc, Louis, 146                             at Geological Society, 124, 144 ;

Blanchland,   3F01.,                          goes over Jermyn Street Museum
Blanford, H.                                  with Sir R. Peel, 143 ; on British
W. T., 204            204
                                              glaciers, 64, 13 7, 170, 203
                                           i Builth, geology of, 79, 99, 109, 112,
Bolton Bridge, 303
Bone, C. R., 67, 130, 175                         135, 206
Bonn, Ramsay's sojourn in, 262                Burlington House, 122
Bonney, Professor T. G., 330
                                              Buttons, Geological Survey, 45

Boulder - clay, growth of Ramsay's         I  Cadenabb1a, 352           of, 75, 79,  S1,
    opinions regarding, 261, 337              Cader Idris, geology

Bowerbank, Dr. J. S., soiree at house             125, 133, 168, 329
of, 30                                        Caer Caradoc, 1 10
                                              Caermarthen, 56, 235
Boyle, 320 (Roscommon)           Ramsay's     Caernarvonshire, see North Wales
"Breaks in Succession,"
                                              Cambrian and Silurian controversy,
   views regarding, 277, 357
Breidden Hills, geology of, 79, 133

Brewster, Sir David, 166, 285                 52, 53. 77. 79. 90, 134. 197. 324
Bristow, H. W., notice of, 66 ; in                  boundary traced by Ramsay in

Gloucestershire, 50 ; at Ludlow and           South Wales, 206
Radnor, 73 ; in Dorsetshire, 99,                  red rocks, of fresh-water origin,
158, 180 ; at the Geological Society,
124, 144; at the Survey dinners,              335 ; relation of, to Lingula Flags,

175; in the Isle of Wight, 133, 180;          308, 325
position on staff of Survey in 1854,
212 ; in Hampshire, 235 ; referred            Cambridgeshire, 314
to, 310; promoted to be District
Surveyor, 290 ; becomes Director of           Campbell, J. F. , Ramsay reviews his
the Geological Survey of England
                                                 Frost and Fire, 288 ; accompanies
                                                  Ramsay to Ireland, 318, 320 ; notice

                                                  of, 318               Survey of, 64 ;
                                              Canada, Geological

   and Wales, 312, 342                            Ramsay's visit to, 252, 269
Britain, climate of, 59                       Canino, Prince of, 104

British Association, Glasgow (1840), Cannock Chase, 188
                                     INDEX                                                                     383

Capel Curig, 150, 153, 193                 Cookman, Mrs., letters to, 194, 264,
Caradoc rocks, 230, 333
Cardiganshire, see South Wales                 271, 318, 320, 323, 331, 336, 339,

Cardwell, E., 207, 217, 228                    340, 341, 345, 349
                                           Cornwall, early geological maps of,
Carlingford, 319        152,   154,  161,
Carlisle, 344                                  37, 205, 206, 211

         Lord, 161                         Coronation stone at Westminster, 284
Carlyle, T., 285                           Covenanters, 249, 250
Carnedd Llewelyn,                          Cowper, quoted, 157
                                           Craig's Court, Museum in, 41, 128,

     167, 203                                 «74. 183
Carpenter, W. B., 124                      Crib goch, 135, 136
Cerrig y druidion, Survey work at, 105     Criccieth,
Chalmers, Thomas, 100, 146                              333         in  Edinburgh,  3
                                           Croll, J.,
Chambers, R., detected by Ramsay as                    J3.1, 0dyer
   author of the Vestiges of Creation,     Crombie,
    78 ; at British Association, Oxford,
                                                   Elizabeth, mother of A.                                     C.
     103 ; first induces Ramsay to study
    glacial geology, 137 ; notice of,      "  Ramsay, 2  Anchor,"       Strand,     30
    137 ; at British Association, Edin        Crown and
    burgh, 166; on Ramsay's early
                                           Crum, Walter, of Thornliebank, 2
    glacial studies, 202 ; on British
                                           Cumberland, 314, 342
    glaciers, 203 ; last interview with    Cwm Gwynant, 2 14
    Ramsay, 297                            Cwm Idwal, 168
Chamouni, 201
                                           Cwm Llafar, 168
Charlesworth, E., 124
Chartist scare of 1848, 129                Cynicht, 214
Chatillon, 268
                                           Dakyns, J. R., 288

                                           Dale (Pembrokeshire), 233
                                           Dalkeith, 243
Cheltenham, 237, 261                       Dallas, W. S., 309           (T. F.  Kennedy),
                                           Dalquharran Castle
Chiavenna, 352
Chili, elevation of, 85, 87                   249
Church Stretton, 80                        Dana, J. D., 252
                                           DDaa"nrwuDbineen, urdiGvaet,rio, no3n2o8fRSaomusthay'sWaleesssa,y"
Clent Hills, 198                                                                                                 on
Clew Bay, 315                                                                                                  85 ;
Climate of Britain, 59                        at Geological Society, 123; visit of
Clunn's Hotel, Covent Garden,   122

Clynnog fawr, 158                              Ramsay to, 130 ; on British glaciers,
Coal, foolish search for, near Caernar         170, 203 ; on imperfection of the
                                               Geological Record, 357
    von, 148                               Dechen, H. von, 262, 299
Coblenz, 264                               Dee river (Wales), 333, 360
Cole, Sir Henry, 290    South  Kensing
College of Science, at                     De la Beche, H. T., notice of, 18 ;

ton, origin of, 312                           is asked by Murchison to take

Cologne, 327                                  Ramsay into the Geological Survey,
Colours for igneous rocks on Geological
                                              28 ; writes offering appointment on

    Survey maps, 231, 232                     Geological Survey to Ramsay, 32 ;
Como, Lake of, 341, 352                       ancestry, 34 ; founded Geological
                                              Survey, 34; sent to Military College,
Conglomerates, geological importance          Great Marlow, 34 ; devotes himself
                                              to geology, 35 ; scientific qualifica
of, 171, 172                                  tions, 35 ; published works by, 36 ;
Continents, Ramsay's views regarding          personal character, 36 ; begins the
                                              investigation of the geology of S.W.
former, 323, 358                              England, 36 ; defrays most of the
                                              expense of the early years of Geo
Conway, 153, 213                              logical Survey, 38 ; publication of
Conybeare, W. D., 58                          his Maps and Report on Devon and

        and Phillips's Geology of England
   and Wales, new edition of, under

taken by Ramsay and E. Forbes,

58, 72
3«4 INDEX

Cornwall, 38 ; member of Com                 227 ; his opinion of Ramsay's views
mission for selecting building material       regarding Permian breccias, 228 ;

for new Houses of Parliament, 40 ;            his latest official decisions, 231 ; his
                                              influence longed for again, 295 ;
geological sections of, 44 ; his work         Ramsay's opinion of, 329
                                          Dent, Ramsay on Vale of, 288, 302
in the field, 44 ; knighted, 56 ;         Denudation, subaerial, development of
sagacity in choosing his colleagues,
                                      of
57 ; becomes Director-General
the Geological Survey of Great               Ramsay's views regarding, 23, 199,

Britain and Ireland, 65 ; at Geo          "  221, 254,   280, 358,   359      paper
logical Society, 78 ; with the staff at      Denudation    of South  Wales,"
Dolgelli, 81 ; at Ffestiniog and Bala,
                                             on, written by Ramsay, 63 ; planned
83 ; on Survey Memoirs, 84 ; on              for first volume of Memoirs of Geo
Cambrian and Silurian controversy,           logical Survey, 67 ; criticised favour
                                             ably by De la Beche, 78 ; published,
92, 93 ; on Royal Institution, 95 ;
proposes that Ramsay should become            84 ; summarised, 358
                                          Departmentof Science and Art, 207, 208
Professor in University College, 101,

102 ; opposes R. Chambers, 103 ;          Derbyshire, 121, 144, 189, 211
at British Association, Oxford, 104 ;     Derwent river, 301, 343
mapping in North Wales, 105 ;             Desor, Prof., 305
President of Geological Society, 119,     Devon and Cornwall, Report on, by

123, 143 ; his scheme for the                De la Beche, 38 ; maps of, Ramsay's
erection of a museum, 121 ; alarmed           opinion of, 205, 206
                                          Dillwyn, Mr., 135
by the proposed publications of his       Disraeli, story of, 302
officers, 125; officialism of, 127;       District Surveyors appointed in Geo

conduct of, at the Chartist scare of

1848, 128 ; intheSnowdon country,             logical Survey, 290, 291
                                          Dolaucothi, visits to, 76, 81, 108,
135, 140; opinion of Lyell and

Murchison, 141 ; letters to Ramsay,           235. 33° ; tragedy at, 340
141 ; at anniversary dinners of the       Dolfuss-Ausset, M., 199
Survey, 142, 160, 175 ; describes         Dolgelli, geology of, 79, 81, 82, 125,
progress of Geological Survey, 143 ;
at Royal Institution, 145 ; letter to         133, 168, 193, 214, 332
Ramsay, 153; his work in North            Dolwyddelan, 157, 213
                                          Donegal, 315
Wales corrected by Ramsay and             Doon river, 248
                                          Dora Baltea, 341
Selwyn, 163, 190; anxious for faster      Dorset, 99, 121, 133, 144, 158, 180,211

progress in Wales, 167, 204 ; work        Dresden, 266
in Anglesey, 170, 171, 172; sup           Drift, glacial, 167, 168, 178, 203, 253,

ports Ramsay in regard to glacial             261, 293
geology, 177; Bristow's joke regard       Dry-proofs of maps, 60
                                          Dublin, 319, 320, 342
ing the Geological Observer, 181 ;        Ducie, Lord, 270
recognition of his claims in founding
                                          Dudley, 147
the Jermyn Street establishment,          Dumfriesshire, 315, 344
                                          Dunbar, Geological Survey of Scotland
182, 184 ; receives the Wollaston
medal, 184; first President of the           begun at, 219; Ramsay's descrip
                                              tions of, 220-223
School of Mines, 186 ; in Anglesey        Duncan, P. M., 334
                                          Dundalk, 315
with Ramsay, 190 ; on the action of       Dundee, 297
the sea, 191 ; letter to Ramsay on        Dunford Bridge, 289
his engagement, 194; on Ramsay's          Dunoyer, G. V., 212

return from his marriage tour, 202 ;

on the extension of the Geological

Survey to Scotland, 209 ; failing
powers of, 210, 216, 224, 226 ; at

Glengariff with Jukes and Ramsay,         Durham County, 314
217; his relations to Ramsay in                    description of, by Ramsay, 288

respect of the Director-Generalship,      East Loth1an, Geology of, 220

225 ; his last days, 226 ; death,
                                   INDEX                                                3«5

Eden, Vale of, 301                                       140 ; advice as to Professorship at
Edinburgh, British Association Meeting
                                                         University College, 10 1 ; his artistic
    at, 161, 165 ; visited, 344                          faculty, 110; at University College,
          Royal Society of, awards Neill                 118; at Geological Society, 124,
                                                         144, 177, 179; refuses to be sworn
    medal to A. C. Ramsay, 285
          Royal Society Club, 285                        in as a special constable, 129 ; gives
            University, Natural History                  outline of his lecture on generic

    Chair at, 165, 218, 224; confers                     centres, 130; in the Isle of Wight,

   degree of LL.D. on A. C. Ramsay,                      133 ; on Snowdon, 135 ; at the
                                                         annual dinners of the Geological
     285
Egerton, Sir Philip, 104, 331                            Survey, 142, 160, 175 ; as a writer
Eifel, volcanoes of the, 263, 264, 265,                  of after-dinner songs, 142, 160, 176 ;
                                                         discourses at Royal Institution, 159;
     335 ; walking tour in the, 299
Eisenach, 229                                            at British Association, Edinburgh,
Elbe river, 266
Elie de Beaumont, 139                                    165;   sreopnlgiesbyf,or1"76R;edonLioMnusr,c"his1o8n0,  ;
Emerson, R. W., 124
English scenery, Ramsay's descriptions                   179 ;
                                                         in Isle of Wight and Dorsetshire,
     of, 188, 235, 236, 246, 249, 297,                   180 ; appointed to School of Mines,

     302                                                 186; succeeds Jameson at Edinburgh,
Enniskillen, Lord, 319, 324                              218; President of Section Cat British
Escher von der Linth, 328
Essex, 314                                               Association, 218 ; his death, 224
Etheridge, R., 326, 329, 332, 336                    Forbes, James (brother of Edward), 176

Evans, J. , 334                                            J. D., 203
Exhibition, Great, of 185 1, 175, 207,
                                                     Foreign Governments, geologists sent
     209
                                                         to England by, 139
                                                     Fossils, Ramsay's discoveries of, 56,

                                                         83, 112, 134, 137, 168

Falconer, H., 63, 271, 272                           Fountains Abbey, 303
Faraday, M., 159, 160                                Frankland, Dr. E., 282
Favre, A., 346
                                                     French invasion of Pembrokeshire
Fawnog du, 16t
Featherstonhaugh, G. W., 29                              (1797). 234
Fermanagh, 315, 320                                  Fresh water conditions of deposit, 335,
Ffestiniog, 83, 108, 153, 204,
                                                         346. 358
                                                     Freshwater Gate, 180

                                   213,              Galash1els, 344

   214                                               Galway, 319, 342
Finsteraarhorn, 201, 255                             Gastaldi, Prof., 274, 323,
Firth of Forth, excursion to islands of,                                           330
                                                     Geikie, J., 294, 337, 338
166 ; storm in, 223

Fishguard,  206,    233, 234, 235, 325               Gemmi Pass, 267
Fitton, W.         64, 73, 102, 118, 145,
            H.,                                      Geneva, 272, 327, 346
                                                     Geological Club dinners, 30,
    179, 228, 239                                                                       122 ;
Fitzmaurice, Hon. Captain, 179                           foundation and constitution       of,

FFljaorndasg,anI,talJi.a,n,212341                        122

                                                              map of England and Wales

Florence Court, 319                                      by Ramsay, 260, 356       views re
Fluelen, contorted rocks at, 199                                 record, Ramsay's

Foot, F. J., 212                                         garding imperfection of, 276, 357
Forbes, E., notice of, 18 ; appointed
                                                              Society, anniversaries of, 78,

Palaeontologist to the Geological                        120, 123, 143, 149, 177, 184, 196,

Survey, 57, 66; with the "Red                            270, 277, 280

Lions," 58, 62, 104, 179; de                                  Society, connection of, with

scribes Irish Survey life, 72 ; at                       Geological Survey, 37, 120, 184
                                   of Brit. Assoc.,             Society, meetings of, 31, 62,
C73am; bhriisdg"e   Meeting        " of Wales, 77 ;
                   road map                              64, 77, 119, 124, 143. «77. 178,
                                                         197. 3°9, 328, 344
with Ramsay in Wales, 83, 108,

                                                     2C
386 INDEX

Geological Survey of Great Britain,             321 ; revision of maps of Wales
   founded by H. T. De la Beche, 34 ;           (see 'Revision'); conference of
   first beginnings of in 1832, 36, 37 ;        Director-General with Directors for
   under Board of Ordnance, 37 ; pub            England and Scotland, 342 ; Sir A.
   lication of early maps, 37, 38, 39 ;          C. Ramsay resigns his position on
   connection of with Geological                 the staff, 348
   Society, 37, 120; character of first      Geology, Structural, Ramsay's contri
   maps, 39, 205, 206; field-work                butions to, 355

    extended to South Wales, 42, 43 ;                 Stratigraphical, Ramsay's work
   duties of officers of, 43 ; military
    uniform of, 45 ; life of, in the field,  in. 357
    45 ; discomforts and risks in work
    of, 46 ; palaeontologist appointed,                Physiographical,        Ramsay's
   57 ; influence of climate on work of,
    59 ; winter work of, 60 ; transferred    researches in, 358
   to the Office of Works, 61, 65;                history of, 349, 363
   augmentation of staff, 66 ; publishes            Museum of Economic              (see
   Memoirs, 67, 84 ; account of by
   Leonard Horner, 68 ; system of                Museum)
   accounting in, 69, 168 ; duties of        Gergovia, 353
   Local Director of, 71 ; work of in        Giant's Causeway, 342
   Ireland, 72 ; work of in South            Gibbs, R., 66, 83, 105, 108, 135, 136,
   Wales finished, 75 ; work of in
   North Wales begun, 79 ; in progress           137. r47. 212
   in the Dolgelli region, 81 ; appealed     Gibraltar, 337, 338, 344
   to by Murchison, 93 ; revision work       Glacial geology, Ramsay's first refer

  of (see 'Revision'); preliminary              ence to, 64 ; his first lessons in,
                                                 137 ; early incredulity regarding,
   traverses in Snowdon region, 105 ;           138; Ramsay's first public declara
   section-running by, 113; progress of         tion relating to, 160 ; progress of
   up to 1848, 120; first sketch of              Ramsay's views regarding, 167, 168,
   work done in North Wales, 125 ; first         170, 177, 193, 198, 202, 219, 251,
   publication of results of work in North
   Wales, 125 ; regulation as to pub             253. 2S4, 268, 326, 337, 345, 346 ;
   lication of results obtained by officers     summary of his contributions to,
   of the, 126 ; work in Snowdon
                                             361
   region, 133, 148, 153, 161 ; legal
   powers of trespass, 133 ; annual               periods, successive, 198,         219,
   dinners of, 142, 160, 175, 241 ;                                                   of,
   songs by members of, 142, 160, 161,           228, 322, 326, 362
    176, 241, 242 ; head office removed
   to Jermyn Street, 174 ; transferred to    Gladstone, Mr. W. E., 349
   Department of Science and Art,
   207 ; extended to Scotland, 209,          Glas lyn, 135
   219 ; progress of in England up to
   1854, 211; condition of staff in          Glasgow,           Chemical  Society
   1854, 212; six -inch Ordnance
                                             founded, 2
    Survey maps used by, 215, 217 ;
   death of De la Beche, 227 ; Mur                     Philosophical      Society of,
   chison appointed as his successor,
   228 ; explanatory memoirs for the         foundation of, 2             degree    of
                                                     University confers
   maps organised, 259 ; reorganisation
   and enlargement of staff in 1867,         LL.D. on Ramsay, 347

   290-293 ; agronomical work, 293 ;         Glendalough (Galway), 342
   progress of the service up to 1872,
   314; duties of Director-General,          Glengariff, 217
   315; preparation of Annual Report,
                                             Glen Sannox, 23
                                             Glyder fawr, 107, 136, 148, 149, 154,

                                             255
                                                  fach, 150, 151
                                             C,Goatfell, view from top of, 22
                                             Godwin-Austen, R. A.              78,  124,

                                                 144,  3°J.9,.  334
                                             Goodsir,           222

                                             J.,Gorner glacier, 267
                                             Graham,            notice of, 29 ; at Univer

                                             sity College, 118
                                             Grant, Dr., 118

                                             Grantham,  H30.,5 309
                                             Green, A.
                                          INDEX                                387

Green Slates and Porphyries, 308                   the field, 304 ; referred to, 280, 296,
Greenough, G. B., notice of, 18; on
                                                   328
early maps of Geological Survey,
                                               Hulke, J. W., 345
37 ; discussion with Sedgwick, 64 ;
at University College, 102 ; at                Hull, E., 187, 212, 237, 288, 319
                                               Hunt, Robert, Keeper of Mining
    Council of Geological Society, 143
Greta, River, 296                                  Records, 66, 129, 160, 176, 186
Griffin and Co. publish Ramsay's first         Hutton's Theory of the Earth, 116,

    book, 21                                        117, 118

Griffith, R., notice of, 18 ; maps Cam         Huxley, T. H., 271, 285

    brian rocks in Ireland, 94                 Hyeres, 345, 353
Grimsel, 199, 201, 254,
                                         267,  Ibbetson, Captain, 175, 180
                                               Iguanodon, Mantell on the, 197
    341                                        Inchkeith, 166
Grindelwald, 253, 300, 327                     India, Geological Survey of,

Hadd1ngton, 1                                       168                        63,
Hall, J. (Albany), 252
                                               Ingleborough, 309
Hammerers, the Royal, 142, 175                 Inspection duty in the Geological Sur
Hampshire, 144, 211, 235
Harlech, 82                                        vey, 68, 79, 187, 244, 247, 250,

Harrogate, 303                                     258
Hasli Thai, 267                                Interlaken, 199, 327
                                               Ireland, Geological Survey of, 61, 65,
Hathersage, 288
                                                   71, 72, 83, 121, 168, 169, 212, 215,
Hauer, Ritter von, 140                             291. 293, 314, 315

Haverfordwest, S3, 234                                   Ramsay's visits to, 169, 215,
Hawick, 344                                        318, 342
Hazelhead, Sheffield,
                              290                       lakes of, 320, 321
Hebert, E. J., 332                                      future glaciation of, 322
Heidelberg, 229,                               Italy, Ramsay's visits to, 168, 272 ;
                    263,      327                 rivers of northern, 323 ; glacial
Henfrey, A., 180                                   fjords of, 341
Henry, T. H., 78                               Ivrea, moraines of, 266, 268, 273
Herefordshire, 121, 211

Herschel, Sir John, 159                        James, Sir Henry, R.E., 66, 144,

Hertfordshire, 314                             JamIe7sSoT.nr,e17v7oRr.,E.o, n43A, r6r6a,n,23515; Wer-
                                                   nerian writings of, 155; at British
HHeicxkhsa,mH, .,303124, 326  Ramsay's visits      Association, 165 ; succeeded by E.
Highlands of Scotland,
                                                   Forbes, 218
to, 211, 260, 348 ; Survey not                 Jamin, Jules, 180
begun in 187 1, 315; his views on              Jermyn Street, Museum and School of
age of schists of, 1 19
                                                   Mines in, 121, 174, 182, 185, 196
Hinter Rhein, 268                                  312, 322, 339; catalogue of rock-
                                                   specimens in, 259, 356
Holyhead, 171, 190                  66, 239,   Johnes, Mr., of Dolaucothi, 76, 266,
Homfray, D., 326, 329
Hooker, Dr. (Sir) Joseph,                          340
                                                           Miss, letters to, 249, 297,
282
                                                   3°2, 330, 335
Hope Bowdler, 110                              Johnston, Prof., of Durham, his advice
Hopkins, W., 85,
                    130,      177,  196            to Ramsay, 20
Home, J., 342                                  Jordan, T. B., keeper of Mining
Horner, Leonard, on Geological Sur
                                                   Records, 42, 66
vey, 67; notice of, 122; President
                                               Jukes, J. B., joins the Geological Sur
   of Geological Society, 270
                                                   vey, 80 ; notice of, 82 ; with Ram
Homes, M., 140                                     say at Ffestiniog, 82, 83 ; at Cerrig
Hoskins, P., 212
Howell, H. H., 167, 187, 212, 244,

   301, 302,  312,   348            life  in
                    on Ramsay's
Hughes, T.    R.,
388 INDEX

y druidion, 105 ; Ramsay's opinion      Lectures organised at Craig's Court
of, 105, 147 ; reads a paper at
Geological Society, 124 ; as a writer      and Jermyn Street, 183
of "Survey songs," 142, 160; at         Lectures, Ramsay's, 95, 98, 1 1 5-1 19,
Aber, 152, 158 ; at work in Wales,
161 ; becomes Director of Geological       124, 159, 186, 196, 253, 279, 31S,
Survey of Ireland, 169, 176, 212;
visited by Ramsay in County Cork,          323. 328. 331. 335. 364
216; relieves Ramsay of his lectures,   Leicestershire, 211, 314
261 ; on the valley of the Rhone,       Leitrim,
282 ; his feelings with regard to the   Lemon,    315  C,  196
reorganisation of the Survey, 295 ;
his paper on origin of river-valleys,             Sir

3S9                                     Letter-writing in the Geological Survey,

                                        247, 289, 296, 316
                                        Lewes (Sussex), 236
                                        Lincei, Royal Academy of, 345
                                        Lincolnshire, 314
                                        Lindau, 266

Keats, Ramsay's admiration of, 246      Lindfield, 280
Keeping, W., 77
                                        Lingula Flags, upper limit of, 308, 329,
Kendal, 288, 297, 308, 342                 332. 333. 335. 336, 338 ; Ramsay's
Kenmore, 348                               view of the stratigraphical relations
Kent, 211                                  of, 308

Keswick, 344                            Llanberis, 70, 106, 133, 134, 137,
Kilkenny, 342                              139, 148, 163, 167, 171, 213, 219,
Killarney, 218
                                            338
Kimeridge Bay, 180                  of  Llanbrynmair, 79                      332,
Kinahan, G. H., 212, 217                Llandegle Rhos, 112                   193,
King, Mr. James, his reminiscences
                                        Llandeilo, 56
    Ramsay's boyhood, 5                          Flags, lower limit of, 329,
Kirkby Lonsdale, 288, 296
                                           333 ; volcanic rocks of, 334
         Stephen, 309                   Llandovery, 232
Kirkconnel, 249                         Llanfachreth, 81

Kirkcudbrightshire, 315, 344            Llanfair, 164
                                        Llanfairynghomwy Rectory, 173,
Kirk Hamerton, 303
                                            198, 214
Knaresboro, 303                         Llangadock, 56
Knighthood conferred on A. C. Ram       Llanidloes, 75
                                        Llansadwrn, 354
    say, 274, 349                       Llechog, 135
Koninck, L. G. de, 308                  Lleyn peninsula, 153
                                        Llugwy, 152
Labrador, 341                           Llyn Bychan, 158
Lac Bourget, 346
                                                 Crafnant, 154, 158
Lakes, Ramsay's views regarding origin           Dulyn, 161

    of, 269, 271, 281, 298, 299, 320,   Geirionydd, 154, 156
                                        Idwal, 137, 148, 149, 168
    321, 330, 341 ; summary of, 361
Lammermuir, 220, 247                             Llydaw, 136          Survey,
Lancashire, 211, 314                             Ogwen, 149, 152
Landsborough, D., early influence of,   Llyn-y-Cwm, 151
                                        Local Director of Geological
    on Ramsay, 13
Lankester, E., 63, 145                      duties of, 68
Larne, 318
Latham, R. G., 166, 179                 Loch Achray, 348
Lauder, 247                                      Katrine, 348
Lauderdale, Earl of, 222                         Lomond, 348
                                                 Ranza, 24
Lauener, C, Swiss guide, 254                     Tay, 348
                                                 Vennachar, 348
Laurentian rocks, supposed, 326
Lauterbrunnen, 327                      Lockhart, J. Gibson, 146
Lay of Sir Roderick the Bold and the
                                        Logan, W. E. , geological sections by, 44;
   Emperor of all the Russias, 242
                                         INDEX                                    389

    notice of, 64; at Geological Society,       Mackintosh, A. F., 64
                                                           SCir,D.,on286British
    177 ; conference with Ramsay on             Maclagan,                        glaciers,
   glacial geology, 178 ; paper on Pro-         Maclaren,
    tichnites, 197 ; receives Ramsay in
    Canada, 252 ; on Ramsay's views                 203
    regarding lake basins, 272 ; aided          Maggiore, Lake, 341
    by Ramsay, 364                              Mallwyd, 80, 213
London, Ramsay's life in, 60, 77, 118,          Maloja, 352
                                                Malvern Hills, 162, 205, 219
    142, 159, 174, 196, 238, 310, 317,          Mantell, G., 58, 145, 178, 197
                                                Maps used by Geological Survey,
    331. 34°. 351. 353                                                            215,
Londonderry, 315
Longmynd, 80                impressions  of,        219
Lough Erne, Ramsay's                            Marchllyn Mawr, 134
                                                Marine denudation, plain of, 359
320                                             Marjelen See, 254, 255
                                                Mathry, 232
         Neagh, 315                             Maxstoke Priory, 188

Lowry, J. W., 165                               May, Isle of, 166

Lucerne, Lake of, 198, 327                             Hill, 205
Lune, River, 297
Lyell,C.,visitsArran,l5 ; attends British       Mayo, County, 315
                                                Medlicott, S., 212
Association meeting in Glasgow
(1840), 17, 19; early kindness of, to           Meiringen, 266, 327
                                                Memoirs of Geological Survey, 67 ; first
Ramsay, 29 ; consulted by Board of
Ordnance as to future of Geological                 volume published, 84 ; sheet-explana
                                                    tions instituted, 259
S"uDrveenyu,da3t7ion;  on   Ramsay's essay on   Menai Strait, 164, 171, 191
                        of  South Wales," 85 ;  Mendip Hills, 86, 88, 89

testimonial to Ramsay, 102 ; opposes            Menevian group, 336
                            on Hutton, 117;     Mer de Glace, 201
R. Chambers, 103 ;           of L. Horner,      Merian, P., 198, 201, 327
married a daughter                              Metamorphism, see Altered Rocks

122 ; in company, 130 ; on American             Microscope, use of, in geological sur
Society, 131 ; Elementary Manual
reviewed by Ramsay, 138 ; De la                     veying, 343, 355
Beche on, 141 ; President of Geo                Midlands, geological work in, 147, 187,
logical Society, 143, 144 ; at Royal
Institution, 145 ; on Ramsay's first                188, 198, 219, 228
glacial paper, 177 ; on Murchison's             Midlothian, 243
views regarding the denudation of               Miller, Hugh, 63, 165
the Weald, 178; joins Ramsay in                 Mines, School of, 184, 186
the Isle of Wight, 180; on Pro-
                                                Mining Record Office founded, 42
tichnites, 197 ; accompanies Ram                Miocene basalts, 342
say over Permian breccias of Mid                Mist, geologising in, 47, 113, 150, 151,

lands, 229 ; letterto Ramsay regarding               152
a review of his Elements, 239 ; favours         Mitcheldean, 235
Ramsay's nomination as President of
                                                Moel Siabod, 125, 213
the Geological Society, 270 ; on
Ramsay's views upon lake -basins,               Tryfaen, 337, 338
271, 281, 282, 283; his Principles
                                                Monaghan, 315
    criticised by Ramsay, 298                   Mont Blanc, 273
        Lady, 15, 130, 239
                                                         Cervin, 201
Lymington, 180
                                                III,Monte Rosa, 201, 267, 273
                                                Montgomeryshire,       144

Lyskamm, Ramsay's ascent of, 267                Monthey, blocks of, 256, 272
                                                Montreal, Ramsay visits, 252
M'Cov, Professor, 144, 230                      Moore, J. Carrick, 223, 326
                                                Morpeth, 303
Macculloch, J. , on Arran ; on Corona           Mortillet, G. de, 298
                                                Moselle, Ramsay's stay on the, 263,
   tion Stone, 284
                                                   264 ; his study of its evidence of
M'Lauchlan, H., 38

Machynlleth, 75
39° INDEX

river erosion, 265, 299 ; compared              Newcastle, 303
with the Tay, 344                               New Cumnock, 249
Mountain-chains, elevation of, 85               New Forest, Ramsay on history of the,

Mourne Mountains, 319, 320                          235
Munich, 263                                     Newfoundland, geological surveying in,
Murchison, R.  I.,  on   Arran,  15  ;  notice
                                                    340
of, 18 ; geological work of, 25 ; in            New Red Sandstone, 21, 89, 91, 306,
vites Ramsay to accompany him, 26 ;
                                                    335. 358
procures Ramsay's appointment to                Newstead Abbey, 287

Geological Survey, 28 ; at the Geo              Nichol, Dr. J. P., encourages Ramsay
logical Club, 30 ; on early work of
Geological Survey in Wales, 52 ;                    in youth, 9, 14 ; organises an ex
map of Wales by , 5 3 ; at Anniversary             hibition of the geology of West Scot
of Geological Society, 78, 144 ; on                 land, 16 ; advises Ramsay, 18 ; sees
Cambrian and Silurian controversy,                  the value of an appointment in the
                                                    Geological Survey, 32 ; meets Ram
93 ; opposes R. Chambers, 103 ;                     say at British Association at Oxford,
at British Association, 103, 166 ;                   103 ; death, 248
De la Beche on, 141 ; as a writer               Nicol, James, 123, 145
of "Survey songs," 142; gives up                Nimes, 353
wearing a wig, 143 ; at Royal In                Nithsdale, 249
stitution, 145, 159 ; dinner party              Nbggerath, Professor, 262
given by, 146 ; discourses at Royal             Norfolk, 314
Institution, 159; on Ramsay's first             Northampton, Marquis of, 63
glacial paper, 177; reads paper on              Northamptonshire, 211
                                                Northumberland, 314
Weald before Geological Society,                Norwich, 300
178; on De la Beche's labours in                Nottingham, 286
                                                Nottinghamshire, 211, 314
founding the Jermyn Street Museum,              Nova Scotia, 340

184 ; contest with Sedgwick, 197 ;              Oban, 320
on Protichnites, 197 ; appointed                Ober Aar glacier, 199, 267
Director-General of the Geological              Obergestalen, 267
                                                Oberland, 198
Survey, 228 ; with Ramsay in the                Officialism in a Government depart

field, 243 ; on Ramsay's nomination                 ment, 127, 128
as President of theGeological Society,
                                                O'Kelly, J., 212
    270 ; is awarded the Wollaston
    medal, 280 ; opposes Ramsay's               Oldham, Thomas, 82, 84, 118, 141,
   theory of lake-basins, 281, 282,                  142, 153, 160, 166, 168, 176
    300 ; correspondence with Ramsay
    with regard to Survey changes, 290 ;        Old Red Sandstone, Ramsay's views
    struck down with paralysis, 307 ;                regarding, 220, 306, 320, 326,

-- --deatLha,d3y1, 128, 29, 146                      358
                                                Order of SS. Maurice and Lazarus, 274
Museum of Economic Geology, origin              OrdnanceSurvey.earlyconnectionofwith

    of,  40,  41         Geology,    erection       Geological Survey, 36, 37, 38, 42, 68,
          of  Practical                             215 ; state of, in Scotland, 209, 219
----                                            Otley, 303
                                                Overstone, Lord, 159
of building for, in Jermyn Street,              Owen, R., 62, 145, 179, 197
121, 174, 182; contents of, 182;                Oxfordshire, 211

opening of, 185 ; evening lectures              Pallanza, 352
to artisans at, 196 ; duties of Director
                                                Parliament, Houses of, Commission for
    of. 315                                         considering building-stone for, 40
Mynydd Danlyn, 158
                                                Parys Mine, 171, 172
          Perfedd, 148                          Pateley Bridge, 303

Nant Francon, 152, 153, 219, 255

Neaves, Lord, 285
Necker de Saussure on Arran, 15, 16
Neill prize, 285
                                                                          39i

Peach, B. N. (Geological Survey), 294,            Professor, work of a, 117
                                                  Protichnites, reading of Logan's and
    342
Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers, 199, 260                 Owen's papers on, 197
                                                  Pumpsaint, Ramsay stationed at, 76,
Peel, Sir R., sounded as to becoming
    President of the Royal Society, 128 ;             235. 33«
                                                  Punch on the quarrels of the geologists,
   on Jermyn Street Museum, 143 ; at
                                                      283
    Geological Society, 144                       Purbeck formation, Forbes' subdivisions
Pembrokeshire, geology of, 43, 50, 231,
                                                      of, 180
    232, 233, 234                                 Puy de Dome, 353
                                                  Pwlheli, 153
Pentland, J. B., 146

        Hills, 320
Pen-y-bont, 81

Pen-y-gwryd, 150, 154            of, 198,         RRaam1--ns,aPyag,reeonAlto.aCggi.esi,--ng1C;hinab,pr4.o6tIh., e--1rs015a8, n11d41-31si,8s4t1e05r.1,
Percy, Dr. John, 145, 186        Survey,
Permian breccias, investigation                   3 ; birth, 4 ; childhood, 4 ; attends
                                                  Glasgow Grammar School, 5 ; first
    219, 228, 229, 241, 362                       reads Shakespeare, 6 ; loses his
Perth, 344
Petrography in the Geological

Ph3il4li3p-s,35J5., notice of, 18; employed       father, 7 (see p. 257) ; goes into
                                                  business, 7, 257 ; edits a manu
    in Geological Survey, 43, 50, 63, 162         script journal, 8 ; enters into partner

      J. A., 129, 130, 176                        ship as a cloth-merchant, 9 ; in
                                                  fluenced towards science by D.
        R. , Curator of Museum of
                                                  Landsborough, 13; and by J. P.
   Economic Geology, 41, 66 ; death
                                                  Nichol, 14 ; makes the acquaintance
     of, 185      and Geography, by               of Lyell, 15 ; geologically surveys
                                                  Arran, 17 ; first meets De la Beche,
        W., 58                                    Murchison, E. Forbes, etc., 18; reads
Physical Geology

A. C. Ramsay,277, 3 11,334, 344,3^3

Physiography, Ramsay's contributions              his first geological paper, 19 ;
                                                  misses the excursion to Arran, 20 ;
    to, 358
Playfair, John, his   Illustrations  of           writes his volume on Arran, 21 ;
                                     of
   Huttonian Theory,  116                         extracts from this volume, 22-25 :
Playfair, Lord, an    early friend                leaves home to join Murchison, 26 ;

Ramsay, 9 ; his reminiscences of Sir              letter to his mother, 26 ; to his
Charles and Lady Lyell with Ramsay
in Arran, 14 ; with Ramsay in                     brother William, 27 ; first visits
London, 61, 62, 64, 77, 78, 144,                  London, 28 ; is appointed to the

                                                  Geological Survey, 28 ; dines at

176 ; appointed chemist to Geo                    Geological Club, 30 ; joins the
logical Survey, 66 ; with the sur
                                                  Survey at  TeIIn.by--,  3138(4s1e-e1p8p4.5.176--, 2H34is)
veyors in Wales, 108 ; at the time                    Chap.

of the Chartist riot, 129; appointed              opinion of the early maps of the

to School of Mines, 186                           Geological Survey, 39, 53 ; early
                                                  days in the Survey, 42, 49, 234 ; with
Plynlimmon, 75
Po, River, article by Ramsay on the, 323          J. Phillips in South Wales, 43, 50 ;
Pont ele Gard, 353
Ponteland, 303                                    first Report on Welsh Geology, 51 ;
Porteous Mob, anecdote of, 3                      first mapping of volcanic rocks, 51 ;
                                                  sings in cathedral choir at St. David's,
Portlock, J. E., 65
                                                  54, 234 ; musical talent of, 54 ;
Port Madoc, 133, 326, 329                         sociality of, in South Wales, 55 ; finds
Portrush, 342                                     fossils in South Wales, 56;undertakes,
Pre-Cambrian rocks of Anglesey, 154,
                                                  with E. Forbes, to prepare a new
    172, 191, 192, 207                            edition of Conybeare and Phillips'

PPrreessttownic, h,30J5., 78, 124, 144, 305, 311  Geology, 58, 72 ; life in London, 61 ;
                                                  promoted to be Local Director, 61 ;
Privy Council, Committee on Educa                 writes the essay on the ' ' Denudation
                                                  of South Wales," 63 ; declines the
   tion, 208
39= INDEX

offer of an appointment to the                                                              Chap. V.-- 1848-1851. -- Begins
Geological Survey of India, 63 ;
                                                                                          the survey of the Snowdon region,
firsCt hsappe.echIIaIt.G--eol1o8g4ic5a-l  18S4o6ci.e--ty,    64                           132; secretary of Section C at

                                                           His                            British Association 1848, 135 ; as a
                                                                                          mountaineer, 136; receives a lesson
position as Local Director, 66 ; new                                                      isM1no3an7gn'slau;,cariale1,lv4ige61ew3;o8lofo;rgifyeantLfdrydsoeihmnlilnp'seRr.wEaCiUtthhmMamJmuubrktceaehrrssiy,-,

duties assigned to him, 68 ; the

task of inspecting the work of his

colleagues, 68 ; his experiences with

the Survey accounts, 70 ; relation to                                                     147 ;  elected into Royal Society,
Irish Survey, 71 ; at Cambridge                                                           147 ;  resumes work at Llanberis,
meeting of British Association                                                            148 ; on sinking for coal near Caer

(1845), 73, buys a pony for field                                                         narvon, 148 ; hampered by mist in

work, 75 ; verses by, 76 ; in London                                                      the Snowdon country, 150; stationed

Wh(1isa8l4ee5ss-s4a"y6)p,ounb7l7i"sh;eDiden,nNu8do4artti;honcWritaoilcefisse,Sdo7u9tbhy;  at Capel Curig, 153; first impressions
                                                                                          of Anglesey geology, 154; on the
Darwin, 85 ; criticised by Lyell, 85 ;
reply to Lyell, 88 ; on disturbance                                                       Wernerian School, 155; sonnet by,
                                                                                          157; on Cowper and Luther, 157;
and upheaval, 89 ; on denudation,                                                         life in London, 158; discourse at
90 ; on geological time, 90 ; ex
presses his indebtedness to Lyell,                                                        Royal Institution, 159 ; first publicly
                                                                                          expresses his opinion on the glacia-
92 ; invited to give a Friday evening                                                     tion of Wales, 160; writes two songs

discourse at Royal Institution, 95 ;                                                      for Survey dinner, 160 ; returns to
returns home for Christmas, 95 ;                                                          field-work in North Wales, 161 ; cor

rhyming    letter   to  his mother,       --95 Dis                                        rects De la Beche's work in North
    Chap.               1847 - 1848.
             IV.   --                                                                     Wales, 163, 190; runs sections in the

course to Royal Institution, 98 ;                                                         Snowdon region, 163 ; at British
mapping volcanic rocks in Wales,                                                          Association, Edinburgh, 165 ; on
                                                                                          glacial drift in Wales, 168 ; first visit
99 ; offered Chair of Geology at
University College, London, 101 ;                                                         to Ireland, 169 ; verses on Oldham's
                                                                                          marriage, 169 ; work in Anglesey,
accepts the professorship, 103 ; at                                                       170 ; makes the acquaintance of the
tends British Association at Oxford,                                                      Rector of Llanfairynghornwy and his
                                                                                          family, 173; songs by, 176; reads
103 ; resumes work in North Wales,
105 ; accompanies De la Beche in a                                                        his first paper on glacial geology,
tour to Llanberis, etc., 105 ; first                                                      177 ; in the Isle of Wight with
ascent of Snowdon, 106 ; accident                                                         Lyell and Forbes, 180

on Glydyr fawr, 107 ; first visit to                                                         Chap. VI.-- 1851-1853.-- Resigns
Anglesey, 107 ; works at his lectures,
108, 115, 1 16 ; his sketching powers,                                                    his professorship in University Col
                                                                                          lege, and is appointed to School of
IIO, 116; his love of antiquities,
1II, 188, 246; finds the Wenlock                                                          Mines, 186 ; his power as an in

unconformability and fossils in sup                                                       structor in the field, 187 ; on English
posed "greenstones", 112; studies                                                         scenery, 188 ; on antiquities and
Welsh, 112; verses by, 113; gives
his introductory lecture, 118; first                                                      provincialisms, 188; metrical epistle
course of lectures, 119; elected into                                                     to Salter, 189; tour in Anglesey
                                                                                          with De la Beche, 190 ; account of
the Geological Club, 121 ; speaks                                                         last excursion with the Director-

at Geological Society, 123; elected                                                       General in Wales, 190 ; on Welsh
a member of council of the Geologi                                                        words, 192 ; with Selwyn in the
                                                                                          Dolgelli region, 193 ; engagement
cal Society, 123 ; reads a paper at                                                       to Miss Williams, 193 ; opens his
the Geological Society, 124 ; obtains                                                     course of lectures at the School of
concession as to the reading of papers

by officers of Survey, 126 ; loyalty                                                      mines, 196 ; on controversy between
                                                                                          Sedgwick and Murchison, 197 ; in
to De la Beche, 127 ; in the Chartist                                                     vestigates the Permian breccias of
scare of 1848, 129; visits Darwin,

130                                                                                       Worcestershire, etc., 198 ; marriage,
                                                        INDEX                                   393

198 ; first visit to the Continent,                           quities, 246 ; his inspecting work in
198 ; sees the Alps and glaciers for                          Scotland, 247 ; in Lammermuir,
the first time, 198; excursion with                           247 ; in the West of Scotland, 248

Dolfuss-Ausset to the Ober Aar                                   Chap.VUl.-- 1857-1862.-- Visits

glacier, 199 ; reception by De la                             Canada and the United States, 251 ;
Beche on his return, 202 ; influence                          growth of his views on glaciation,

of the Swiss tour on his geological                           253; visits Switzerland with Tyndall,
                                                              253 ; death of his mother, 256 ;
progress, 202 ; correspondence with                           draws a picture of her character, 257 ;
R. Chambers, 202 ; his share in the                           increase of his literary duties, 258 ;
                                                              publishes a geological map of Eng
development of glacial geology, 203 ;

resumes work at Ffestiniog, 204 ;                             land and Wales, 260 ; writes for
difficulties with De la Beche as to

the progress of the Survey in Wales,                          Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers, and
205 ; on the early maps of Devon,
Cornwall, and South Wales, 205,                               Saturday Review, 260 ; accompanies

                                                              Murchisonto North-West Highlands,

206 ; on the Geology of Wales,                                260 ; beginning of ill-health, 261

206 ; on altered Cambrian rocks,                              (seep. 318); views regarding Boulder
                                                              clay, 261 ; obtains leave of absence
207 ; birth  VoIfI.a--da1u8g5h3te-1r,85260.--7
    Chap.                                            Pre      for six months and goes to Germany,

liminary visit to Scotland before ex                          261 ; life in Bonn, 262 ; stay on the

tending the Geological Survey                                 Moselle, 263 ; grows a beard, 265 ;
thither, 210; begins to prepare the                           goes with Mrs. Ramsay to Switzer

Survey Memoir on North Wales,                                 land, 266 ; ascends the Lyskamm,
212; birth of a son, 214; journey
                                                              267 ; turns his thoughts to the prob
to south of Ireland, 215 ; on Irish                           lem of the origin of lakes, 269 ;
scenery and peasantry, 218 ; reads                            becomes President of the Geological

papers at Liverpool meeting of                                Society, 270 ; reads his paper on
British Association, 219; on glacia-                          Lake basins, 271 ; revisits Switzer

tion of Wales, 219 ; begins the                               land, 272 ; receives an Italian
Geological Survey of Scotland, 219;                           KnCighhatph.oodIX, .2--741863-1872.-- Presi

life at Dunbar, 220 ; on Old Red

Conglomerate, 220 ; his colour                                dency  "oBf reGaekosloginicatlhe  Society, 276 ;
blindness, 220 ; led by De la Beche                           takes                              Succession of

to expect to be his successor, 225 ;                          the British Strata" as the subject
disappointment of his hopes, 227 ;
proposes that Murchison should be                             of his Presidential addresses, 277 ;
                                                              origin of his Physical Geology and
Director-General, 228 ; resumes the
                                                              Geography of Great Britain, J27 ;
investigation of the Permian breccias,
228 ; visits the Rothliegendes of                             gives increasing attention to the
Germany, 229 ; on revision of South                           origin of scenery, 278 ; continued
Wales, 229-235; reminiscences of
                                                               ill-health, 278 ; asks to be relieved
his early Survey life, 234 ; on Hamp                           from lecturing, 279 ; views on
shire scenery, 235 ; description of                            Denudation, 280 ; presents the
Lewes, 236 ; reviews fifth edition of
Lyell's Manual of Elementary                                   Wollaston medal to Murchison, 280 ;

                                                               replies to Murchison's criticism of

Geology, 238 (see p. 138) ; songs at                           the lake -basin theory, 281, 288 ;
                                                               replies to Lyell's criticism of the

t"heLaSyurovef ySidr inRnoedr eirnick18t5h6e,  241   ;   his   same theory, 283 ; finishes the
                                               Bold     and    Memoir on North Wales, 284 ; work

the Emperor of all the Russias,"                               on the Royal Coal Commission, 284 ;

242 ; President of Section C at                                on the Coronation Stone, 284 ; is
British Association, 243 ; his char                            awarded the Neill medal by the
acteristics among his colleagues in
                                                               Royal Society of Edinburgh, 285 ;
the field, 244 ; his love and know                             is made LL.D. by Edinburgh
ledge of English literature, 245 ; on
the Waverley Novels, 246 ; on                                  University, 285 ; is presented with
Keats, 246 ; his enthusiasm for anti                           a gold watch by his staff, 286 ;
                                                               President of Section C at British
394 INDEX

Association (1866), 286; metrical           Lincei, 345 ; examines the evidence

account of the meeting, 287 ; Sur           ofof the former great extension of the

vey rambles, 288, 289, 296, 300,            Rhone glacier, 345 ; President
303, 304 ; description of Durham,           British Association, 346 ; receives
288 ; hears of prospective reorgan
isation of the Survey, 290 ; becomes        one of the Royal medals of the Royal
Senior Director, 291 ; on rules and         Society, 347 ; is made LL.D. by
regulations, 295 ; on Kendal and            the University of Glasgow, 347 ;
the River Lune, 297 ; at the British        president of Section C at the jubilee
Association (1867), 297 ; attitude on
the lake question, 298 ; criticises         meeting of British Association, 348 ;
Lyell's Principles, 298 ; on English        resignation determined on, 348 ; is
antiquities, 301 ; story of a pagan         knighted, 349 ; retires from the
at the post-office, 301 ; on the Vale
of Dent, 302 ; on the Yorkshire             Survey,    349XI.  --  1882-1891.  -- Re
dales, 305 ; is awarded the Wollas-             Chap.
ton medal, 306 ; metrical account of        tirement, 351 ; St. Moritz, Como,
his paper on English river-systems,         Venice, 352 ; Southern France,
                                            353 ; removal to permanent resi
306 ; on Cambrian and Lower                 dence at Beaumaris, 353 ; last years
                                            of life, 353 ; his death, 354
"Silurian classification, 308 ; on             Summary of his scientific work,
   green slates and porphyries," 308 ;
on the Council of the Geological            355 ; his contributions to Structural
                                            Geology, 355 ; work among older
Society, 309 ; is appointed Director-       Palaeozoic volcanic rocks, 356 ;
General of the Geological Survey,312        Stratigraphical work, 357 ; papers
                                            on old continents, 358 ; Physio-
   Chap. X. -- 1872-1882.-- Duties          graphical work, 358 ; researches in
as Director-General, 316; his promo         Denudation, 358 ; investigation of
                                            river valleys, 359 ; studies in Glacia-
tion comes too late, 317; is compelled      tion, 361 ; contributions to the
                                            History of Geology, 363 ; literary
to continue to lecture, 318 ; tour in       essays, etc., 363 ; general view of
Ireland, 318 ; article in Saturday          his scientific influence and character,
Review, 322 ; article  o"n    River Po,
323 ; discourses on         Old Conti

nents," 323 ; begins the prepara             364
tion of a new edition of the Memoir      Ramsay, Dean, 354

on North Wales, 324; revises geology            W. (father of A. C. Ramsay),
of St. David's, 324 ; studies the
origin of the valley of the Rhine,           1. 3. 6

326 ; revisits Rhineland and Switzer              W. (brother of A. C. R.),
land, 326 ; revision of the Geological
Survey map and Memoir of Wales,              letters to, 9, 27, 155, 157, 329
                                                  Professor W. (nephew of A. C.

328, 329, 332, 333, 336 ; discourse         R.), 326
at Royal Institution, 331 ; on history               Mrs. W. (E. Crombie),
of the River Dee, 333 ; on volcanic
rocks in Britain, 334 ; is relieved         mother of A. C. Ramsay, marriage
from lecturing, 335; on MoelTryfaen,
                                            of, 2 ; character of, 3 ; family life of,
337 ; is commissioned to examine            4 ; letters to, 26, 74, 95 ; her dismay
and report on rock of Gibraltar, 337,       at her son's appointment to the
                                            Geological Survey, 32 ; at British
338 ; receives a presentation of
plate from his old students, 339 ;          Association, 165 ; Ramsay's regard
on the Italian lakes, 341 ; inspection      for her, 167; death of, 256; char
tour in Ireland, 342 ; conference in
Scotland, 342 ; his growing weak             acter of, as drawn by Ramsay, 257
ness, 342 ; discourses for the last      Red deposits, Ramsay's views regard
time to the Royal Institution, 344 ;
undergoes an operation for the re        "  ing,  306, 308, 326, 335           London
                                            Red   Lions," notice of, 62 ;

                                            company of, founded, 58 ; dinners

                                            of, 104, 145, 179

                                         Reeks, Trenham, 64, 124, 129, 137,

moval of the left eye, 345 ; is elected      144, 145, 160, 175, 307
into the Royal Academy of the            Rees, T., 43. 234
                                   INDEX                                          395

Revision in the Geological Survey, 99,    Schonbein, Professor, 198               estab
    1n, 161, 203, 229, 324, 326, 329,     Science and Art Department,

    332,  J3.3, 6,213237.  338               lishment of the, 207, 208.
Rhind,
                                          Science, College of, at South Kensing
Rhine, Ramsay's investigation of valley
                                              ton, 312
    of, 326, 327, 328, 360                Scotland, Geological Survey of, 209,
Rhinog fach, 193
Rhobell fawr, geology of, 81, 193             219, 290, 291, 314, 315, 342
Rhone glacier, 254, 267, 345              Scott, Ramsay's opinion of, 245, 354
valley, 201, 254, 256, 267, 272,          Scrope, G. P., 239
                                          Sea, geological influence of, 85, 86,

    273. 327. 339. 345                        88, 90, 359           of Geological
Richmond (Yorkshire), 303                 Sections, horizontal,
Riffel, 256, 267
Ripon, 303                                Survey, 44, 52, 113, 147, 163, 167,

         Lord, 312                            203, 356  A.,  on     Arran,        15 ; on
Rivals, the (Lleyn), 162                  Sedgwick,
River valleys, Ramsay's investigations
                                          Geological Survey, 38 ; discussion
    of, 264, 265, 299, 306, 307, 325,     with Greenough, 64 ; paper on
    326, 328, 333, 344, 359
Ross (Herefordshire), 235                 Wales, 77 ; on Survey sections, 93 ;
Rowsley, 288                              opposes R. Chambers, 103 ; speeches

                                          at the Geological Society, 77, 123,

Roxburghshire, 315                        124, 144, 177 ; at Murchison's, 146;
Royal Commission on Coal, 284             at British Association, 166; contest

         Institution, Friday evenings at  with Murchison, 197 ; on Protich-
   the, 145, 159, 197; Ramsay's lec       nites, 197; on Silurian rocks, 230;
    tures to, 95, 98, 159, 253, 323,
                                          birthplace of, 302 ; Ramsay's re
    328, 331, 344                             marks on, 324
           Society, Ramsay elected into,  Selkirk, Lord, 124

    147 ; awards Royal medal to Ram       Sella, Quintino,   C2,73a, pp3o4i5nted  to Geo
                                          Selwyn, A. R.

    say, 347                              logical Survey, 66 ; with Ramsay in

Russell, Lord John, 175                   Wales, 75, 79, 80, 105, 108, 133,
Russian prisoners at Lewes, 236
Rutimeyer, Professor, 305, 306, 327       135. 137, 140, 153. 158, 161, 162,
Rutley, F., 309
                                          168, 170, 173, 193; joint paper with
                                          Ramsay, 124; horizontal sections

St. Andrews, Ramsay at, 259, 297              by, 164 ; detects the unconform-
                                              ability below the Cambrian rocks of
St. David's, geology of, 51, 52, 206,         Anglesey, 172, 192; at the Survey
   232, 233, 324, 326
                                              dinners, 175 ; resigns his appoint
St. Moritz, 352                               ment in the Geological Survey, 204 ;
Salt lakes of ancient times, 358              revision of work of, 329
Saltcoats, Ramsay's boyhood at, 4, 13,    Sharpe, D., 178, 240
                                          Sharpey, Dr., 1 18
    123                                   Sheean, Mr., barrister, 145
                                          Shelley, Lady, 104
Salter, J. W., 79, 104, 119, 130, 142,    Shelve, 79
160, 162, 168, 175, 189, 206, 212,        Shropshire, 121, 193, 211, 230
                                          Sibson, Dr., 268, 272
   214, 230, 237, 283, 324      contribu  Siebengebirge, 262
Sanetsch glacier, 273
Saone, valley of the, 339
Saturday Review, Ramsay's

   tions to, 260, 266, 322, 364           Silliman, Professor, 252
Scenery, Ramsay's investigations of       Silurian and Cambrian controversy, 52,

origin of, 63, 67, 160, 278, 307,             53. 77. 79. 90, 134, 197. 324
                                          Silurian, Upper and Lower, line be
317,      "  334 {see "Glacial  Geology"
and          River Valleys ")
                                              tween, 206, 230
Scheideck, 327                                     volcanic rocks,  334   273
School of Mines, institution of, 183,                               272,
                                          Sion, Rhone Valley,
185. 339
                                          Sismonda, A., 139
396 INDEX

Sittingbourne, 280                               Tarannon shales, 230
                                                 Tay River, Ramsay's impression of
Skipton, 303
Slieve Croob, 320                                    the,
                                                 Taylor,   3J4.4,
Sligo,  315,  H3.2, 040                                            30
Smith,   C.                                      Tenby,    28C, ,293,1
                                                 Tennant,                33,    43,     176

Smith, James, of Jordanhill,        notice  of,

     18                                          Teplitz, 266
                                                 "The auld rocks ayont the sea," 242
Smith, W., father of English Geology,            Theodul Pass, 268

    40, 358                                      The Old Glaciers of Switzerland and
Smyth, Admiral W. H., 64, 146                       North Wales, by A. C. Ramsay,

        W. W., mining geologist to                   260, 338
   Geological Survey, 66 ; with Ram              Thomson, Professor Thomas,
                                                 Thun, 266
    say in Wales, 99, 105, 137 ; work                                                         2, 31
   in Anglesey, 170; at Geological
   Society, 124, 144; as a writer of             Thuringia, Ramsay studies the Roth-
   "Survey songs," 142, 160; at the
   annual dinners of the Survey, 142,                liegendes      of,  J.2,29288,     296,  309
                                                 Tiddeman,         R.
    160, 175
Snowdon, geology of, 106, 132, 134,              Time, geological, 86

                                                 Todmorden, 288

    "35. 136, 150, 163, 164, 204                 Topography, see Scenery
Somerset, 121
                                                 Traill, W. A., 319
Somerset House, 122                              Training duty on the Geological                    Sur

Sopwith, T., 42, 78, 166, 177                        vey, 187
South Kensington, College of Science
                                                 Trawsfynydd, 213
at, 312                                          Trefan, 150, 151
             the French                          Trefgarn, 232
Soy"erR, ed   Lions," 179  cook,    and     the  Trefriw, 158
                                                 Tremadoc, 153
Spencer, Herbert, 310                                                           of, 308, 329, 332,
                                                           group, limits
Spring LorRdic,e,349T., Chancellor
                                    of the       335. 336. 338

    Exchequer, 38                                Treves, 263,      344          337
Stachelberg, 266                                                   80,
                                                 Trimmer, J.,

Staffordshire, geology of, 147, 211              Tunbridge, 280
                                                 Turin, 273
Stanger, Dr., 29                                 Turnberry, 145

Stanley, Dean, 284                               Turtmann, 201,

Steno, 116                                       TTyynlodra, llA, .J,.,142453,  273
                                                                                  254,
Still, H., 38
Strahleck Pass, 254, 300
                                                                                        256,  267,  271

Stratigraphy, Ramsay's contributions             Tyn-y-groes, 213

    to, 357    H. E., 18, 78, 166                Tyrone, 315
Strickland,

Studer, B., 240, 327                             Unconformab1l1t1es, 336, 357
                                                 Uniformitarianism, 286, 346, 363
Subsidence and denudation, 85                    University College, London, Chair of
Suffolk, 314
                                                     Geology in, 101, 103, 108, 115,
Surrey, 2 1 1                                        184, 336
                                                 Unter Aar glacier, 200, 254
Surveyor, life of a geological, 45; winter

work of, 60 ; in London, 60

Sussex, 211

Swansea, 135, 346                                Vala1s, 273
Switzerland, Ramsay's visits to, 195,            Val d'Aosta,
                                                 Van Voorst,       J2.,73180
    198, 202, 203, 253, 266, 272, 327,

352                                              Venice, 352
    Lyell's views of the glaciation of,          Verses by A. C. Ramsay, 76, 95, 113,

    240                                              115, 157. 161, 169, 176, 189, 241,
Switzerland and Wales, Ramsay's                      242, 287, 306, 311

    work on old glaciers of, 260                 Vestiges of Creation, 77, 103, 137
INDEX                                                                          397

Victoria, Geological Survey of, 204         Wernerian school, Ramsay's opinion
Visp, 267                                      of the, 155
Volcanic rocks, mapping of, 51, 52,
                                            Westminster Palace, 9 ; selection of
    79, 82, 83, 99, 100, 135, 137, 172,         building-stone for, 40
    214, 231, 265, 309, 333, 334,
                                            Westmoreland, 314
    343                                     Wheatstone, C., 159
         Ramsay's general account of, 259,  Whitaker, W., 280
                                            Wight, Isle of, geology, 133, 180
    334. 335. 356
Vosges, 327, 360                            Wigtownshire, 223, 315

Wales, North, Geological Survey of,         Williams, D. H., 43, 66, 83
                                                     Miss L., Llanfairynghornwy,
    75. 79. 105. 121, 124, 133, 137,
    138, 144, 148, 161, 162, 190, 193,          173, 174 ; her engagement with A.
    203, 204, 206, 211 ; Memoir of,         WiCls.onR,amWs.ayL, .,192312, 217
    212, 213, 236, 243, 259, 282, 283,
    284 ; new edition of Memoir of,                 John, 129
    324, 329. 332, 333. 334. 337. 347 ;     Wiltshire, 121, 211
    Ramsay's closing years in, 317;         Wirksworth, 297
   value of Ramsay's work in, 355           Wollaston Medal, 123, 144, 185, 280,
Wales, South, geological survey of, 42,
    5°. 53. 56, 73. 75. 77. 90, 104,            306
    124, 144; imperfection of early         Woods and Forests, Office of, 41, 207
    maps of, 205, 206, 229, 231 ; re        Worcestershire, 198, 211, 219
    vision of, 229-235, 237, 324, 325       Wrekin, 148
Warbarrow, 180                              Wright, Thomas, 237, 261
                                            Wrottesley, Lord, 166
Warburton, H., 64, 102                      Wyley, A., 212
Ward, J. Clifton, 313, 330, 332, 342,
                                            Yeov1l,    78   162
    343                                              Fras,
Warwickshire, 188, 211                      Y Foel
Weald, denudation of the, 280, 359          York, British Association at, 348
Wealden formation, 335                      Yorkshire, 21 1, 304, 305, 314
Wellingborough, 280                         Yspytty Evan, 213
Wenlock group, unconformability of,
                                            Zermatt, 254, 256, 267
    112 ; strata below, 230                 Zirkel, F., 262, 299

THE END

Printtdky R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.
r

