Autobiographical sketch of James Croll ... with memoir of his life
and work,

Croll, James, 1821-1890.
London, E. Stanford, 1896.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.b3134686

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
BERKELEY

LIBRARY        LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY Of
  CALIFORNIA

EAR

utt UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.

               Class
      r i-

      i;' x

viri
             SK!;T«"

M HS (

       *.?>!i !»' 0>

. :-~ I'.«I-';-K hi:;; r.

                               I'M/.
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
         SKETCH

          OF

J** AMES        CROLL
                    \v
LL.D., F.R.S., ETC.

          WITH

flDemotr of bis life an& TKflorfc

JAMES CAMPBELL IRONS, M.A.

          LONDON: EDWARD STANFORD
26 AND 27 COCKSPUR STREET, CHARING CROSS, S.W.

                                                   1896
                     PREFACE

HAVING been one of the intimate friends who urged
           Dr. Croll to write an autobiographical account of
his remarkable career, it fell to me to arrange the materials

which he left for publication. Unfortunately, the auto

biographical sketch was never completed, and together

with the additional papers which came into my hands,

it hardly furnished an adequate account of his life and

scientific achievements. Accordingly, an effort was made

to obtain further information, and various friends were

asked to forward letters illustrating the development of

his researches. The cordial response of several leading

scientists made my task less difficult, but the time

occupied in procuring and examining these materials

partly accounts for the delay in the appearance of this

volume.

While the work was in progress, kindly advice was

given  by Professor  Masson regarding the Autobiography,
which                acknowledge. He wrote that " it is
        I cordially

so characteristic, that it would be best to preserve it

entire, as it would be a pity to lose anything of the

simple and pleasant peculiarities of the autobiographical

original." This course has been followed, and a more
detailed account of his life and scientific work has been

added. Such an arrangement involved a certain amount

of overlapping and reduplication, which was hardly avoid

able under the circumstances.

    To many friends of Dr. Croll who forwarded letters, I
beg to express my sincere thanks. In particular to Mr.

Francis Darwin, who kindly gave permission to use the

correspondence with his father, Mr. Charles Darwin, and

                     227714
:4:- ..: /'·. -.-' PREFACE
.'-.:

    ''.-

      ; ':
               :
to Professor G. H. Darwin, who extended a similar

courtesy to Mr. A. R. Wallace, Sir. D. Hooker, Pro
                                   J.
                                           I
                                                     I
fessor Foster, Professor Tyndall, Rev. O. Fisher, Mrs.

Romanes, Mrs. Tyndall, and many others.     have also

to thank Mr. Horne and Mr. Bennie of the Geological

Survey for letters, papers, and various suggestions.      beg

also to acknowledge my great obligations to Mr. Herbert-

son, F.R.S.E., Lecturer at the Heriot - Watt College,

Edinburgh, for his valuable assistance in making digest
                                            a

of Dr. Croll's papers to Mr. Fowler of the Kensington
                  &
Museum for permission to use his review of the work on;

Stellar Evolution, and to Mr. Whittaker for the republica-

tion of his review of The Philosophical Basis of Evolution.
My special thanks are likewise due to Lord Kelvin and

Messrs. Macmillan Co. for their permission to use the

Obituary Notices at the end of the volume.

My brother, the Rev. David E. Irons, B.D., Glasgow,

has written part of the biographical account, has aided
me generally in the compilation of the work, and has

revised the proof-sheets.

     This volume has been written with the hope that the
life of Dr. Croll, recording the triumph over his early

struggles, his scientific researches, which secured him
                                            J.
world-wide reputation as an original thinker, and his
                                                     I.
earnest belief in the Christian faith, may prove interest
                                                              a
ing. It may only be added that the entire proceeds of its

sale will be handed to his widow.

                                                      C.

10 ROYAL TERRACE, EDINBURGH,
                  November 1896.
PREFATORY NOTE

 T HAVE been frequently urged during the past few

 -*' years to draw up a statement of the principal
incidents of my life. As this is a thing to which I have
a strong aversion, I have hitherto declined. Induced

mainly by the desire of my wife, I have at last agreed

to comply with the wishes of my friends. Mrs. Croll
will hurriedly jot down in pencil, to dictation, the facts
as they occur to my mind. These jottings will probably

never be revised or read over by me. Owing to the
state of my head, and the pressure of work of a more
important character, I am obliged to adopt this course.
Besides, it is a sort of work to which I am naturally ill
adapted, being almost devoid of the faculty for descriptive

writing.

                          J. C.

PERTH, December 7, 1887.
CHAP.      CONTENTS

......PORTRAIT                                             .                PAGK
                                                           .
......PREFACE                                                 fates Title
                                                           .
        PREFATORY NOTE                                                          3

.AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                                                           5

   I. Ancestry, Birth, Childhood, and School Days .             ..45629
  n. Intellectual New Birth and Life- Education .
                                                                              63
......III. Choice of a Trade                                        . 76

.......IV. Abandonment of Trade and Return to Perth in 1850
...........v. Literary Work                                               8}
                                                                          96
  VI. Early Scientific Work                                              IO&

 vil. Climate and Time --Correspondence with Sir A. Ramsay, Sir C.       129
                                                                         146
          Lyell, and Sir J. F. W. Herschel . . . .
VIII. Eccentricity of Earth's Orbit -- Glacial Epochs -- Geological

             Chronology -- Mild Polar Climates -- Arctic Interglacial

              Periods
  IX. Personal History -- Accident in 1865 -- Correspondence with

             Professors Tyndall and Foster-- Excursions with Mr. Bennie
......XIII.
 X. Appointment on Geological Survey                                     165
XI. Investigations in Surface Geology -- Correspondence
                                                              with

Mr. Bennie -- Method of Determining Sub-aerial Denuda

tion -- Correspondence with Mr. Charles Darwin .                 .175
......XIV.

 XV.
XII. Papers on the Glacial Epoch and Glaciers -- Correspondence

    with Mr. Darwin                                                      204

Papers on Ocean Currents-- Gulf Stream Influence of Ocean
    Currents on Climate -- Ocean Currents in Glacial Epochs --

Theories of Cause of Ocean Currents . . . 224
.......fessor G. C. Foster, and others, and degree of LL.D.
Miscellaneous Papers                                                             236
Personal History --Correspondence with Sir C. Lyell,
                                                           Professor
Foster, and Mr. A. R. Wallace  .  .
                                                           . .256
XVI. Personal History --Correspondence with Sir A. Ramsay, Pro

conferred                                                                272

           7
 ....Jansen regarding Ocean Currents

xvni. Personal History -- Probable Age and Origin of the Sun--Cor
8 CONTENTS

.......XIX.                                                                "-AGE
                                                                            290
 XX.
CHAP.                                                                       306
                                                                            326
  XVII. Publication of Climate and Time-- Correspondence with Mr.           362
                                                                            379
 .....Superannuation Allowance                                               396

XXI. Evolution by Force impossible --Correspondence with Mr. H.
       respondence with Mr. Herbert Spencer and Mr. Charles

       Darwin

       Correspondence with Sir J. D. Hooker and Mr. A. R,
       ....Spencer, Dr. Shadworth Hodgson
       Wallace, etc. --Thickness of the Antarctic Ice  .            .

       Resignation of Appointment on Geological Survey --Dr. Croll's
.....xxn. Correspondence with Professor J. G. Romanes
                                                       ..

       ............SECOND PORTRAIT                                  Faces p. 405

xxm. Correspondence with Sir J. D. Hooker and Professor

       M'Farland as to Climate and Time  ...                               405
                                                                           421
xxiv. Resumption of Physical Studies -- Cause of Mild Polar Climates

            --Correspondence with Sir J. D. Hooker, Professor G. H.

       Darwin, etc.

XXV. Discussions on Climate and Cosmology --Close of Scientific

           Work --Correspondence with Mr. A. R. Wallace, Sir J. D.

                Hooker, etc.                                               436
XXVI. Stellar Evolution -- Correspondence with Professor Darwin,

       etc. -- Resumption of Astronomical Studies -- Resumption of
       Physical Studies --Replies to Critics, etc. -- Correspondence

                with Mr. A. R. Wallace, Professor Winchell, etc. .     . 448
xxvil. Philosophical Basis of Evolution-- Closing Days-- Death         . 476

       Obituary Notices by Lord Kelvin from Nature ; and by J.

          -499Home, Esquire, F.R.S.E. . . . .

       Letter by    Professor  M'Farland, America, dated 22nd       March
             1895,  throwing                                          Con
                               light on " The Croll-Newcomb
       ..........52troversy" . . . . . .
APPENDIX --

       List of Publications . . . . .                                      527
                                                                           536
       Memorial to Treasury as to Superannuation Allowance, with

       List of Gentlemen who signed Recommendation        .            .

INDEX                                                                      549
  LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

           AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

MY ancestors, who spelled their name Croil, and
              some of them, it would seem, Croyl, were in
habitants of the parish of Cargill for at least more than
the last two centuries; for I have been able, from the
parish baptismal register, to trace my direct parentage
back till about the middle of the seventeenth century,
that is, as far back as the register extends.

      I was born at Little Whitefield, parish of Cargill, on
Tuesday, January 2, 1821, at eleven o'clock P.M. It
was a cold wintry night, with the snow lying thickly on
the ground. I was the second of a family of four sons.
My father David Croil, son of Alexander Croil, was born
in March 1781, and was consequently forty years of
age when I was born. He was a stonemason by trade.
Little Whitefield, now a farmhouse, was then a small
village of some eight or ten houses. Beside the village
were a hundred or a hundred and fifty acres of land,
divided principally amongst four of the villagers : namely,
William Brewster, James Brown, William Marshall (I
think), and my father. The village was demolished, and
the land put into one farm, when I was about three years
of age.

      My forefathers had resided at that village for several
generations past. My mother, Janet Ellis, youngest
io LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

daughter of James Ellis, was born at Elgin in 1781,
and was consequently of the same age as my father.
She left Morayshire for Perth during the earlier part of

the present century, and was married to my father, some

time, I think, about the latter end of 1 8 1 8. Both my
parents possessed a considerable amount of individuality
of character. Mentally, however, they were considerably
diverse. My mother was firm, shrewd, and observing,
and gifted with a considerable amount of what is called
in Scotland "common sense." My father was mild,
thoughtful, and meditative, and possessed of strong
religious and moral sentiments. This amiable disposi
tion and high moral character made him greatly esteemed
and respected. But he had the misfortune to possess a
most anxious and sensitive mind. I was supposed to
possess a considerable share of the peculiarities of both
parents, with, no doubt, a predominance of those of my
father. I have often thought that, had I possessed some
more of my mother's qualities, and less of some of my
father's, the battle of life would not have proved so
painful to me. When a boy, I was always proud to

tell, when asked, who my father was ; for the mention
of his name generally commanded respect, and pro

cured for me a kindly word, with the remark, " I hope
that when you grow up you will be as good a man as
your father."

     As already stated, I was the second of a family of

four sons. Alexander, the eldest, was born on November
29, 1819, and died when about ten years of age. His
death was a severe blow to my parents, especially to my

father, who never afterwards regained his former vivacity
of spirits. My youngest brother, William, born February
25, 1826, died in infancy. David, born April 23, 1822,

to whom I shall subsequently have occasion to refer,

died on February 28, 1876. He had the misfortune to
be deformed. He was very much hunchbacked, which
was supposed to have been the result of a fall from a

servant's arms, when he was an infant.
            AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                         11

When the proprietor of the parish, or, at least, of the

greater part of             the Right Honourable Lord Wil-
            is
                 a
                       it,

                             it

                                       I
                                          I

                                                                                            ;

                                                                    a

                                                                     I it
loughby, decided to convert the small holdings into

large farms, he allotted two pieces of ground for feuing

purposes: one piece, about a mile to the south-west of
Little Whitefield, now called Wolfhill the other three

miles to the north, now called Burreltown. My father

took one or two feus in the former place, on which

he erected                  dwelling-house, and removed to

about the year 1824, when was about three years

of age.

There very little in my infant years to which

need refer, except,         may be, to my somewhat early

developed power of memory.                     have most distinct

remembrance of witnessing the ceremony of my brother

David's baptism. My father being a Congregationalist,

and a member of the Rev. William Orme's church in

Perth, that minister came out and preached an out-door

sermon to the villagers on the occasion of the baptism
                                                            I;
and have vivid remembrance of the scene, although
II

      I

                        aa
could not then have been over eighteen months old.

have also remembrance of number of little incidents
                            I
                                       Ia
which occurred before was three years of age, among
which was the flitting - day from Little Whitefield
to Wolfhill. After this date there are very few long

breaks in my remembrance.                      suppose must have
                                               I

inherited this faculty from my father, who told me that

he had distinct remembrance of things which occurred
         a

when he was only two years old.

     For the first three or four years after removing to
Wolfhill nothing of importance occurred worth recording.

was not early sent to school, my parents having been,
I
    I

                                  ;

                              I

                                            a
as think, judiciously opposed to too early mental

work. Another cause was that, about this time,

became afflicted with rather troublesome pain on the

top or about the opening of the head, which prevented

me being able, except in the heat of summer, to remain

bareheaded and, as could not be persuaded to sit in
la LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

school with my cap on, my parents had for a considerable
time to allow me to remain at home. My first lessons

were consequently obtained from my parents, assisted by
my eldest brother. The village schoolmaster also now

and again gave me private lessons at home. In this
way I learned to read and write. The village school
to which I refer was a very poor affair indeed.
An elderly man, who had seen better days, taught, for a

living, a few boys in a private house. A year or two

afterwards I went, for a short time, to the parish school,
a mile and a half distant from Wolf hill ; and subse
quently I attended a Voluntary school at Guildtown
two miles to the west of the village. The teacher there

was rather harsh and tyrannical ; and the consequence

was that I abhorred school, and, as might be expected,

made very little progress. Next year, however, 1834,
he was succeeded by a Mr. Keiller, a man of more genial
nature. I remained with him some eight or nine months,
and then had to leave school finally. The cause of my
having to leave so soon was this. My father, having
one or two acres of ground, kept a cow, and as he was
away from home during the greater part of the year,

following his duties as a stonemason, I had to be taken

from school to assist my mother at home.

     I must say that I was rather a dull scholar, scarcely

up to the average of boys of the same age, as far as

regards getting up my lessons sharply and correctly. I

never succeeded in acquiring an accurate style of reading,
and by no amount of labour could I manage to become

even a moderately good speller. I unfortunately left
school just at the time I was beginning to have a long

ing desire for a much better education. The cir

cumstances which led to this desire I shall now

narrate.

      Up to the years of eleven or so I had little or no
love for reading; being much fonder of play than of
books. This somewhat disappointed my father. One
day during the summer of 1832, when at Perth, I
         AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                                                      13

observed in a bookseller's window the first number of the

Penny Magazine, which had just appeared. Attracted
by the illustrations, I went in and purchased it. This

incident led to a new epoch in my life. Having read
the first number with interest, I then purchased the

second, third, and succeeding numbers as they appeared,

all of which I read with zest. Shortly after I had com

menced to read the Penny Magazine, a book on natural

philosophy, Dick's Christian Philosopher, I think, or some

other of his books, came under my notice. Commencing

to read  was at once struck with the novelty of the
         I iIt,
                                         II

                                                           I
                                                                                  it
ideas.   shortly afterwards procured one or two other

books on physical science, among which was Joyce's famous

scientific dialogues. At first became bewildered, but

soon the beauty and simplicity of the conceptions filled

me with delight and astonishment, and began then in

earnest to study the matter.  may here mention that,

even at the very commencement of my studies, was

not the facts and details of the physical sciences which

  riveted my attention, but the laws or principles which

they were intended to illustrate. This necessarily

  determined me to study the sciences in something like

systematic form for, in order to understand a given law,
         ;

          I
                           I

                                         II

                                                         it
II  was generally obliged to make myself acquainted with

  the preceding law or conditions on which                   depended.

    remember well that, before could make headway in

  physical astronomy (and this was the only branch of

  astronomy which have ever studied), had to go back

  and study the laws of motion and the fundamental prin

  ciples of mechanics. In like manner studied pneu

  matics, hydrostatics, light, heat, electricity, and magnetism.

I   obtained assistance from no one. In fact, there were

  none of my acquaintances who knew anything whatever

  about these subjects. Notwithstanding all these dis

  advantages under which laboured, managed in the
         I
                           I

                              I
  course of four years or so, or by the time was between

  fifteen and sixteen years old, to obtain a pretty tolerable

  knowledge of all the general principles of those branches
14 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of physical science. The reason of my being enabled at

this early age to make so much progress in so short a

time was, as I have already stated, that it was the

principles or laws to which my attention was mainly, if
not exclusively directed. In studying, for example, the
electrical machine or the air-pump, I paid little or no

attention to the details of their various parts, further than

as they illustrated the electrical or the pneumatic laws

according to which these machines operated. The

consequence was that these multifarious details soon

disappeared from the memory, and the laws or principles

only remained.

      There were two important and, to most people,

interesting sciences for which I had no relish, namely,

chemistry and geology, more particularly the latter. The

reason was that to me they appeared so full of details

and so deficient in rational principles, being so much

sciences of observation and experiment. Had any one
told me then that one day I should be a professional
geologist, I would have regarded the statement as in

credible. In truth, it was more by accident than by
choice that I became a geologist. Geology is almost

the only science on which (with the exception of one
department of   I it,
                                    I  shall afterwards have
                to which

occasion to refer) have never spent a single day's
earnest study. However, the accident of becoming a

member of the Geological Survey was of immense

advantage to me when afterwards became engaged in
                I
                           I it
my climatological studies; for enabled me to become

acquainted with geological phenomena necessary for the

subject, of which otherwise            would have remained

ignorant, and without which my work would have been

but very imperfectly accomplished.

No grand physical conceptions acquired in after years

ever made such an impression on my mind as those of

this early date, except be those relating to the modern
                it

science of energy, which was not then in existence  ;

namely, the transformation and conservation of energy,
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  15

and the dynamical theory and mechanical equivalent of
heat. My early acquaintance with the general principles
of physical science has been of great service to me in

after years.

      In the summer of 1837, when I was between sixteen

and seventeen years of age, the question arose -- what

occupation or handicraft was I to follow ? This was a
point somewhat difficult to determine; for I had no

liking for any particular occupation, nor was it supposed

that I possessed any special fitness for one occupation

more than another. The bent of my mind at the time

was to obtain a university education, which might enable
me to follow out physical science. This, however, was a

wish that could not be realised, as my father was by far

too poor. After several days' consideration I thought I
might try the occupation of a millwright. As I was fond
of theoretical mechanics, it occurred to me that this

occupation might be the most congenial and the one for

which I was best adapted. But this I afterwards found
to be a mistake ; for, although I was familiar with
theoretical mechanics, yet, as a working mechanic, I was
scarcely up to the average. The strong natural tendency
of my mind toward abstract thinking somehow unsuited
me for the practical details of daily work.

     After it was decided that I was to be a millwright, I

was engaged as an apprentice to a millwright at Collace,
a village at the foot of Dunsinane Hill, three miles
distant from home. In 1841, at the termination of my

engagement, I left Collace, and worked for two years

as a journeyman with a firm of the name of Martin &

Robertson, Banchory, near Coupar-Angus. The wages
received were small, being only eight shillings a week,
with food, which was of the poorest description possible.
As my employers were in difficulties, small as my wages

were, I lost money by them. It was on the whole
rather a rough life. A very considerable part of our

work consisted in the repairing of corn- saw- and thresh
ing-mills. The consequence was that we were very
16 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

 frequently away from home, and seldom more than a day

or two at one place. During the last two years I occu

pied, on an average, three different beds in a week ; and
these were not of the most comfortable character. We

 millwrights had generally to go to the ploughman's
 bothy ; and when there was no room there, we had to

go to the barn or the stable loft above the horses.
Frequently we had to bury ourselves under the clothes to
secure protection from the rats. Having spent some five

or six years as a millwright, I got tired of the trade, and
resolved to try something else. I came home to Wolf-
hill,--being at the time about twenty-two years of age, --

and went to St. Martin's parish school for a winter to

study algebra. Then, being pretty well up to woodwork,

I got employment as a house joiner in the beginning of
summer. After a little practice, I soon found this a far
more congenial occupation. The first job, in the joiner
way, in which I was engaged, was at the Free Church
which was being erected at Kinrossie, parish of Collace,
for the Rev., now Dr., Andrew A. Bonar. After the

church was finished, work became scarce in the neighbour
hood, and, in the summer of 1 844, I went to Glasgow
in search of employment. There I found work at once,

and remained for a few months, afterwards removing to

Paisley, where I remained for upwards of a year. I
liked both the place and my employment. But my stay
here was brought to a sudden termination in the spring of
1 846, in the twenty-fifth year of my age, by an event which
had the effect of changing the whole course of my future
life. When a boy of about ten or eleven years of age, I
had what is called a boil on my left elbow joint. One
day it was accidentally knocked against the corner of a
door, and this had the effect of preventing it healing up.
It, however, proved of very little inconvenience to me,

except that now and again, especially during the spring
months, the elbow became somewhat inflamed. But in
Paisley, at the time to which I refer, the state of the
elbow began to assume a somewhat serious character, and
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  17

my medical advisers informed me that it would be

absolutely necessary for me to abandon my occupation

as a joiner and try some easier pursuit. I accordingly
took their advice, left the place, and returned home to
think over what should be done.

     This I felt to be a great blow to my future prospects.
But although, as we shall see, it led to years of poverty

and hardship, nevertheless, being freed from the long

hours of manual labour, I enjoyed a great deal of leisure

for reading and study. Strange are the ways of Provi
dence. Had it not been for a mere accident in early life,

I should in all likelihood have remained a working joiner

till the end of my days. Here, however, before proceed
ing further with my narrative, I must turn back a little,

in order to refer to another circumstance which exercised

a very considerable influence on my future life.
      Although brought up under religious influences (my

parents being Independents of the good old Congregational
type, having in the early part of the century joined that
body), I was nevertheless, till over the age of seventeen,
indifferent to divine things. During the autumn of
1839 I became deeply impressed, mainly by the reading
of Boston's Fourfold State ; and in this condition I
remained for some time, till I was led to see that salva
tion was entirely of free grace. Simple trust in Christ's
vicarious death gave me complete peace of mind and
true happiness, a peace which the world can neither give
nor take away. The agnostic will smile at my experience.

How different would he feel if he experienced this

blessed peace himself!

                          "The love of Jesus, what it is
                                None but His loved ones know."

      Shortly afterwards a remarkable religious movement
took place in the parish of Collace, where I was then
residing, under the ministry of the Rev. Andrew Bonar.

I was soon then amongst kindred spirits ; and the year

that followed was probably the happiest in my life.

                2
i8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Living in a retired country place, after the toils of the
day, when the shadows of evening were falling, I generally
took a stroll in the fields, or along a quiet road for an

hour or two, to meditate and ponder over spiritual things.

These hours I enjoyed exceedingly, and I continued the
practice for years afterwards, until I went to reside in the
city. Nothing in city life did I miss so much as these

quiet walks.
                       " The calm retreat, the silent shade,
                                With prayer and praise agree,
                             And seem by Thy sweet bounty made

                                    For those who follow Thee."

     Almost from boyhood I had a love for retired,
solitary walks in the country. On these occasions I can
enjoy a congenial companion, but I would rather be
alone to meditate. It is more sweet, more pleasant.
The stillness of nature adds to the charm. I well

remember one of the solitary musings of my early days,
when I could have been only about twelve or thirteen

years of age. It was this. I asked myself, What would
there be, if there were no world ? The ready answer, of

course, was that there would be the sun, moon, and stars.

What would there be, if there were no sun, moon, and
stars ? There would be God. But what would there be
if there were no God ? There would be nothing but
empty space. But if there were no space, what would
remain? This question staggered me. I could not in
thought get quit of space. Why could not I in thought
annihilate space ? This was the puzzle ; and it remained
a puzzle to me till, in after years, I began to study Kant.
Kant gave an explanation ; but the explanation he gave

commits us to such sweeping idealistic consequences that,

even to this day, I cannot accept it.

      After leaving the spiritual atmosphere of Collace, and

going to reside at Banchory, where I had to associate

constantly with people in a great measure indifferent to
divine things, my spirituality ere long began gradually

to decline. Along with this, as a natural consequence,
            AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                     19

my former    peace and happiness     declined, and   I  often
exclaimed,  in the language of the
                                    poet Cowper --

            " What peaceful hours I once enjoyed  !

                  How sweet their memory still ;

               But they have left an aching void
                  The world can never fill."

      On leaving Banchory, and returning home, I was

again in a more congenial atmosphere.

     At this time the controversy between Arminianism
and Calvinism was beginning to agitate the country. I

took a very keen interest in the controversy, adopting
the Arminian side of the question. When I went to the
west of Scotland, I naturally associated myself with the
Arminians, then called Morisonians, for at this time

the Evangelical Union had not been formed.
      When I went to Paisley, they were endeavouring to

establish a congregation in the town. I took a lively
interest in the work. Mr. Landels, now the well-known

Rev. Dr. Landels of Edinburgh, then a student of Mr.
Morison, Kilmarnock, preached frequently and with

much success ; he was a most excellent young man,
but he soon adopted Baptist principles. After him Mr.

A. M. Wilson, now the esteemed pastor of the E.U.

Church, Bathgate, came and preached for some time

with success ; and when the church was formed, he was

chosen as the pastor. From a manuscript list of the

members, I find that I had been elected as one of the
deacons ; but I never acted in this capacity, as I left

the place just after the church had been organised.
      I may here mention, that on coming to Paisley I felt

somewhat disappointed at a very marked difference
between the Arminians of the West and the Calvinists

of Collace, with whom I had formerly associated. The

former were more argumentative ; but they were not so
spiritual, so fond of the social prayer-meeting, or so
much inclined to speak to one another of their own
personal experiences. This may be accounted for by
the fact that at Collace there had been a genuine revival
20 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of religion, while in the west there had been simply a
revival of Arminian principles. This difference did not,
however, lessen my conviction of the truth of the
Arminian principles.

      To resume my narrative : After coming home from
Paisley, I had to consider what was to be done to enable
me to earn a livelihood for the future. I had not
received the proper training, or the sort of education

which would fit me for becoming a clerk ; and, even

supposing I had, it was a kind of occupation for which I
was naturally unsuited. After some consideration, it was
thought that some sort of occupation in the tea trade
might suit me. On duly thinking over the matter, I
went to Perth to see what could be done. I had come
to no conclusion as to whom I should consult, or as to

what shop I should enter. Musing over the matter, as
I approached the city by the bridge, I observed a man

distributing small handbills to the passers-by. All in a
moment it struck me that if these bills should relate to

the tea trade, I would be guided by this, and would go to

the shop to which they referred ; at least, before trying
any other. What could induce me to come to a con
clusion so apparently absurd and incautious, I cannot
tell. Strange are the ways of Providence ! for had it not

been for that decision, in all probability, my future course

in life would have been very different from what it

actually turned out to be. On coming up to the man, I
found the bills related to a tea and coffee warehouse
which had recently been opened in the High Street of
Perth. Guided by the bill, I went direct to the shop,

and found the proprietor to be an agreeable and in
telligent person. After talking over various matters, I

then told him what I had been thinking about. He
agreed with me that I might manage to make a com
fortable livelihood by selling tea ; and that I might push
the sale by going into the country. I accordingly got a
small stock and commenced operations. I soon found,

however, that the attempt to push a sale in the country
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  21

was a rather disagreeable job for me, and I resolved to

give it up. The merchant whom I had visited -- Mr.

David Irons, who afterwards proved to be one of the

kindest friends I have ever met with in life -- now pro

posed to me that I might try and open a shop for myself
in some suitable town, where I might be likely to succeed.
Unfortunately, I had not the means for any such under

taking; but he, in the most kindly manner, offered to
assist me. He agreed to give me a stock to commence

with, and that I should repay him in regular instalments
as it was sold ; and that he would in this way keep up

my stock. I need hardly say that an offer so generous
was readily accepted. As it was now about the end of
the harvest season, my friend suggested that I might

come to Perth for the winter, and learn the mechanical

art of weighing and parcelling up the tea, serving over
the counter, and all the usual routine of shop work. I
accordingly came in ; and, before the winter was over, I

became a thoroughly proficient shopkeeper.
      On the approach of spring 1847, it was arranged that

I should try Elgin, as a likely place. I accordingly went

north, secured a suitable shop, and commenced business.
As the merchants there were charging large profits, I

soon secured a fair amount of trade. I liked the place,

my occupation, and the people very much. The shop

work suited me well, as it afforded intervals now and

again for reading and study. I had not long entered on
my new occupation when an incident occurred which I
may now mention, as it led to consequences which very

much influenced my opinions on theological subjects.

Although I had read a good deal on the free will con
troversy, I had never seen Edwards' famous work on the
subject. One day, however, I went out to a bookseller,

purchased this treatise, came back to the shop, and com

menced reading it. I had not proceeded far before I

became much impressed by the singular acuteness,

clearness, and force of the reasoning. It excited feelings
approaching to astonishment and admiration. I resolved
22 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

then to commence at the beginning of the book and
study it through, line by line, and page by page, until I
should thoroughly master the treatise. This I did with

the greatest care, often lingering for a day on a single
page, with the view of not only thoroughly mastering the
argument, but of examining it under every possible phase.
But after I had gone through the book in this manner, I

was utterly unable to perceive a flaw in the reasoning,

which could in any way vitiate the main conclusions.
The whole appeared irresistibly clear and convincing ;

and yet I could not adopt the theory that man was a
necessitated agent. I went over the book a second, a

third, a fourth, a fifth, and more times, with the self-same

result. In short, for at least a year and a half, every
spare hour of the day was devoted to the study of this

work. It is probable that no one has ever devoted so
much time to the study of the book as I have done. It

is the most fascinating book I have ever met with in
all my studies.

     I had heard a good deal about Professor Tappan, of

America, who had published a refutation of Edwards'
arguments. I accordingly ordered a copy ; and after
a delay of several weeks, Tappan's work, consisting of

three volumes, came to hand. I eagerly set to work to

study Tappan's examination of Edwards' system, with
 the hope and expectation that I would now be enabled to
perceive Edwards' fundamental error; for I still believed
 that an error somewhere must exist. But I had not
 gone far into the book, when I began to perceive, to my

 disappointment, not only that my difficulties were not met,
 but that Tappan had failed to perceive the real nature of
 the problem, or the force of Edwards' main argument
 against a self-determining power in the will. When I had

 read the second volume on the appeal to consciousness,
 my disappointment was not diminished. The testimony of
 consciousness, according to Tappan, seemed to amount

 simply to this : " I am perfectly conscious when I choose
 A., for example, of having the conviction that, all things
               AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                                                                      13

else being the same, I might have chosen B. instead of
A." This no one will deny ; but it leaves wholly unde

termined the question as to whether the conviction is true

or false; and this is the very point in dispute. The

impression produced in my mind by the reading of

Tappan's work was that the assumed flaw in the reason
ing of Edwards had really no existence. Since then I

have gone over thirty or forty treatises on the free will
controversy, the most of which were opposed to Edwards,

and my conviction as to the soundness of Edwards'
conclusions remains unchanged. As a natural con

sequence, all my former objections to the main points of
the Calvinistic theology soon disappeared ; and I became
convinced that some moderate form of Calvinism was

nearest the truth, not only of philosophy, but also of

Scripture.

     I must here refer to a thought which suggested itself

to my mind shortly after commencing the study of

Edwards' treatise. The idea was this : the determination
in reference to the will is merely a special form of a far
more general and comprehensive system of determination,

in fact, a determination which comprehends universal

                                                        it
                                                              is
                                                                 is a

                                                                                       is,
nature. Every organic form in nature is what it in

virtue of determination. Whether                          plant or an

animal, or whatever else  bites--speevceifriycthsiinzge,  form, genus,                                      and
every peculiarity may                                            due to                                     the

particular determination given to the molecules in its

formation.      The fundamental  quneostti--on           in reference                                     to the
production     of organic forms                         What are the                                      forces
               ?

                            is
                               is

                                  is

                                                                             ?
                                                                                                         ?
action, or on what does their exertion depend but,
in
           is
What that which directs or determines these forces, what

directs their action It not-- What moves the mole

cules in the production of the organic form but, What

determines that motion? It the particular determination

of the force which accounts for the particular phenomenon.

The mere exertion of force may be supposed to be
the same in all phenomena. And what holds true of the

physical world holds equally true of the mental, moral,
34 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

and spiritual. In short, the entire universe is a process
of determinations, but not of determinations occurring at
random. There are a unity, a plan, and a purpose pervad
ing the whole, which imply thought and intelligence.
When these considerations suggested themselves to my
mind, I was very much impressed ; and I resolved that

I would go into the examination of this subject, and

devote my future time, in so far as it was at my command,

to this work. Unfortunately, however, I did not abide
by my resolution ; for I allowed physical science to divert

my mind from the matter for fully a quarter of a century
of the best part of my life.

    On the nth September 1848, I was married to my

wife, Isabella, second youngest daughter of Mr. John
Macdonald, Forres. The union has proved a happy
one. She has been the sharer of my joys, sorrows, and

trials (and these have not been few) for the past forty
years. Her care, economy, and kindly attention to my
comfort during the years of comparative hardships through

which we have passed, have cheered me on during all my
trials and sorrows.

     At this time I was addicted to the nasty habit of
smoking tobacco. I had only smoked for a few years,

but the appetite seems to have got a strong hold of me.
The tobacco had a most injurious effect on my stomach

and nervous system. I had lost almost all appetite for

food, and was altogether in a somewhat shaky condition.

I had repeatedly tried to abandon the habit, but without
success. At last I determined that, come what might, I
would never during my life put a pipe in my mouth, and
that, to make this determination more binding on me, I
would pledge myself in writing to do so. I mentioned this
resolution to one or two friends, who were about as great
slaves to the tobacco as myself; and they agreed to follow
my example. Accordingly, a pledge was written out, to
which we appended our names. From that day, 29th
December 1849, till the present hour, I have adhered
strictly to my pledge. I believe, however, that I am the
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  25

only one of those who signed the pledge who so adhered

to it. I had a terrible struggle with the appetite. For
two or three months I was in a state of partial stupor,

and it was nearly three years before the craving for

the tobacco left me.

     I may mention that I had been a pledged abstainer
from drink for several years before then. In fact, as

drink was not used at home by my parents, I may say
that I was practically an abstainer from infancy.

     A little after the time at which I gave up the use of

tobacco, my elbow joint, which had not troubled me
since the time I left Paisley, was attacked by inflamma

tion of a very serious character. The effect of the

inflammation was to completely destroy the joint, which

shortly afterwards ossified, and became immovable.
This was a sad blow to me ; but, like many more of

the strange dispensations of Providence, it proved a

blessing in disguise. It completely cured the joint
disease, and I afterwards enjoyed better health. By

this illness, however, I was so long unfitted for attend
ance in my shop, that the trade rapidly fell off; and
afterwards I could not manage to get the business raised

to a paying condition. I struggled on for some time ;

but at last, in order to avoid losing money and getting

into debt, I resolved to close the shop. I accordingly

sold off everything, left Elgin, and came south to Perth.
This was about the beginning of the summer of 1850.
Owing to the weakly state of my arm, it was a con
siderable time after coming south before I was able to

do any manual work. At that time the influence of

electricity and galvanism as a curative agent was ex

citing a good deal of attention. As I was familiar with
the construction of the machines which were used, I
thought I should try the making of an induction appar
atus, which I accordingly did. It was soon purchased ;
 and, as others were required, I continued at the making

 of them for some time.

      For about a year, at this period, I had a great deal
26 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of leisure time for reading and study. My principal

reading was on questions relating to liberty and necessity.
This led me into theology, and then into metaphysics.
I began at this time to study the Scottish school, and

read, as I could get access to books, Reid, Stewart,
Brown, Hamilton, and others. One of the first books
I read was Beattie on Truth, which much delighted me,
as it tended to remove a sort of philosophical scepticism
and doubt in regard to the foundations of certainty,

which made me often feel rather unhappy.
      Again, however, the great question to be considered

was to what hand I should turn in order to earn a

permanent livelihood. Some of my friends suggested

that I should try a temperance hotel ; and one of them

stated that he was about to erect a house at Blairgowrie,

and that I could have it for that purpose if I chose.
After due consideration I made up my mind to try that

course. But here was the difficulty : the house required

to be furnished, and this would require a considerable

sum, which I had not. It occurred to me, however, that,

as it would be some six or eight months before the
house could be ready for occupation, and as my arm was
now much improved, I might try and make a consider
able number of the necessary articles of furniture during
that time. I accordingly set to work : made chairs,

tables, bedsteads, basin-stands, toilet-tables, and other
articles ; and, with the small sum in our possession, we
managed to open the house in the early part of 1852.

As we had no family, my wife, anxious to lessen ex

penses as much as possible, proposed to dispense with
a servant, and do all the work herself. The house was
kept in the perfection of cleanliness, and every attention
was paid to the comfort of visitors, who generally ex
pressed themselves well pleased. But as there was no

railway to Blairgowrie at that time, the visitors were few
and far between ; and it was only with the most strict
economy that we could manage to keep out of debt.
Although Mrs. Croll had too much work, I, on the
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  Vf

contrary, unfortunately had too little. I took it into
my foolish head to try to learn the Latin language.
The reader will smile when I tell him that my main

aim in trying to acquire Latin was to enable me to read
the discussions of the schoolmen. An assistant teacher

in the parish school gave me three lessons a week
privately. But it would be difficult to find one with less

aptitude for languages than I have. With a great
amount of labour and perseverance I managed, in the
course of a year, to acquire a knowledge of the rudi
ments of the language, and was reading in Ca:sar. I
found, however, that I would require another year's
study before my Latin would be sufficient for my pur
pose ; and, as I could not afford to lose so much time,
I abandoned the whole affair.

      After a year and a halfs trial of the hotel, we found

that there was little chance of its ever becoming self-

supporting; so we gave it up, sold the furniture, and
left the place. This was at the May term of 1853. I
then went to Glasgow, where I obtained employment in
an insurance office. About this time the Safety Life
Assurance Company was started. This company was
under the directorship of Richard Cobden, John Bright,
Henry E. Gurney, Thomas Brassey, and other well-

known men. A friend of mine, Mr. Wm. Logan, much

esteemed in Glasgow for the interest he took in the

temperance and other social reforms, was appointed the

agent for the company in Glasgow. Requiring an
assistant, he offered me the place, which I accepted.
My principal duties were outside the office, pushing for
proposals, in which I was pretty successful, particularly
among the working classes. During the summer of the

following year, cholera broke out very badly in Glasgow ;

and as the company was desirous that business should
be as much suspended as possible till the epidemic

should somewhat abate, I left the town for a few weeks

and went to Perth. While at Perth, Dr. Robert D.
Thomson, the well-known chemist, who was one of the
28 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

directors of the Temperance Provident Institution, was
there on a visit at the time. The directors of this

institution wished an agent in Dundee to devote his

whole time to the work, and as something about my

qualifications was known, I was offered the appointment.
The terms proposed to me were favourable. I accepted
the offer, went down to Dundee about the end of August,
and commenced operations. I succeeded pretty well in
that town. After I had been about nine or ten months
in the place, the directors of the Safety Office offered
me their Edinburgh agency ; and as the situation was

much superior, so far as salary was concerned, to that

which I then held, I of course accepted the appointment,
and at the May term of 1855, left Dundee for Edin

burgh.

     I found it much more difficult to obtain assurance

proposals in Edinburgh than in either Glasgow or
Dundee. The Safety was an English company, new
and untried ; and although the directors were well-
known men, it did not offer any advantages superior
or even equal to those of some of the old-established
Edinburgh offices.

     In the spring of 1856 my father died. There is
something impressive about the death of one's parents.
It brings forcibly to mind the fact that we are here but

pilgrims and strangers.

     During the time I was in the insurance business, I

managed to find a considerable amount of time for
reading and study. This was effected by employing
every moment of my extra office hours to this purpose.

My reading was exclusively in philosophy. It was in
Edinburgh that I began the study of Kant. With the

exception of Edwards, no writer has made such an
impression on my mind as Kant.

     At this time I became very much troubled by pain

in the eyes, occasioned by looking so much on white
paper. When the pain began in the eyes, strange to
say, it left the top or opening of the head, the place
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  29

where it had been seated almost from infancy. I found

that, by placing a small piece of plain coloured glass on
the page of the book, I could manage to read without
feeling much inconvenience. The pain in the eyes con

tinued for several years.

      In the autumn of 1856 I was transferred from
Edinburgh to Leicester, where it was expected that
more business might be done. When I came to
Leicester, I found that there was as much difficulty in

obtaining proposals there as in Edinburgh. Although
one of the members of Parliament for the town was a

director of the company, yet the people of Leicester
seemed to think that one of the old-established Scotch

offices was fully as safe as the Safety. After being
there for about six months, my wife took seriously ill,

and the medical advisers stated that it would be necessary

that she should leave Leicester when she was able to be

removed. She was shortly afterwards removed to

Glasgow, to be beside her sisters, and there she lay for
upwards of a year in bed.

      As I could not return to Leicester, and the company
had no opening for me in Scotland, I left their service.
 I got an engagement again from the Temperance
Provident Institution, and went to Paisley, where I
remained for six or eight months. I then finally

abandoned the insurance business altogether, after spend
ing four and a half years of about the most disagreeable

part of my life. To one like me, naturally so fond of
 retirement and even of solitude, it was painful to be

 constantly obliged to make up to strangers.
       I was now at perfect leisure, and as, for some time,

 nothing turned up for me to do, I commenced and drew

 up, somewhat hastily, some thoughts on the metaphysics

 of theism, a subject over which I had been pondering.

 These were embodied in the small volume, published

 anonymously in the latter end of 1857, under the

 title, The Philosophy of Theism. Only five hundred
 copies were printed, and the most of them were circu
30 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

lated privately. The book, though favourably received

by the press, attracted but little general attention. It

appeared at a time when metaphysics was at about its

lowest ebb.
      In the spring of the following year, 1858, I got an

engagement in the office of the Commonwealth, a Glasgow
weekly newspaper, principally devoted to the advocacy
of temperance, and social and political reform. On the
2gth August of the same year my mother died ; and my
brother David, who up till this time had been residing at
home with her at Wolfhill, came through and took up
his abode with us. As I mentioned before, he was

deformed, being hunchbacked, in consequence, as it was
supposed, of a fall received when an infant.

     A few months after my mother's death I unfortunately

met with a mishap which has since entailed on me a
considerable amount of pain and discomfort, and has

disabled me all along for much physical exertion. One

day, as I was exerting my whole strength in using a
joiner's plane, while dressing a piece of wood, something
suddenly appeared to give way about the region of the
heart. Medical men have never been able to detect
what is wrong. But ever since then, though my health
and strength remained unimpaired, I durst not lift any
thing heavy, or attempt to run, or even walk fast. This

mishap, however, has been to me a far less affliction than

one which happened seven years later, and to which

I shall afterwards have occasion to refer.

      After remaining for upwards of a year and a half in
the Commonwealth office, I learned that a person was
required to take charge of Anderson's College and
Museum, and applied for the situation. There were

about sixty applicants. Fortunately for me, as it after
wards turned out, I received the appointment, and entered
on my duties at the end of the autumn of 1859. Taking
it all in all, I have never been in any place so congenial
to me as that institution proved. After upwards of
twenty years of an unsettled life, full of hardships and
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                              31

difficulties, it was a relief to get settled down in what
might be regarded as a permanent home. My salary
was small, it is true, little more than sufficient to enable

us to subsist ; but  this was compensated by advantages
for me of another
                     kind. It will naturally be asked --

why such want of success in life? Why so many

changes, trials, and difficulties ? There were several

causes which conspired to lead to this state of things.

The mishap to my elbow joint compelled me to give up
the occupation of a joiner when a young man ; and the
inflammation which destroyed the joint five years
afterwards had the effect of blasting my hopes in the

way of shopkeeping. The main cause, however, and
one of which I had been all along conscious, was that

strong and almost irresistible propensity towards study,

which prevented me devoting my whole energy to busi

ness. Study always came first, business second ; and
the result was that in this age of competition I was left
behind in the race. In this respect, however, my situa

tion in Anderson's College suited me well. Here was

the fine scientific library, belonging     to the    Glasgow
Philosophical Society, to which I had                privilege
                                        access, --a

of which I took due advantage. Here also was the library

of four or five thousand volumes in connection with

the popular evening classes of the institution ; and,
further, the private library of the founder of the institu
tion, consisting of over two thousand volumes. My duties

were regular and steady, requiring little mental labour ;

and as my brother was staying with me, he gave me

a great deal of assistance, which consequently allowed me
a good deal of spare time for study. The Museum was
open from 1 1 A.M. till 3 P.M.; but as I had little or
nothing to do with the arrangement and classification of
the specimens, and there were but few visitors, I had
generally a few hours a day of a quiet time for reading

and study.

     I suspect that the fact of my mind being so evenly

balanced between the love of physics and the love of philo
32 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sophy has been a disadvantage as well as an advantage to

me ; for when I am engaged in physics, for example, I am
continually tempted to turn aside into philosophy ; and

when in philosophy, the attractions of physics frequently
draw me over. In fact, it is only by a strong effort of

will that I have managed to keep for years continuously

in the same region of inquiry, without passing over into

the other.

When I came to Anderson's College, I had been

engaged in philosophical and theological studies for a

period of fifteen years. Just about the time I entered
the institution, I had, in fact, begun to consider in a

systematic form the problem which, as already stated,

had suggested itself to my mind in 1848, and which had

been but slightly touched upon in my little book, The

Philosophy of Theism, then recently published. I soon
found, however, that the attractions offered by the

institution for the study of physical science were too

strong to allow me to continue my metaphysical studies ;

and although this problem to which I had set myself was

then, as it still the one of all others most attractive
            is,
to me, nevertheless resolved to lay aside for a yearIIitit
or two, and begin again the study of physics at the place

where had left off in former years. At this time,

the then modern principle of the transformation and con

servation of energy and the dynamical theory of heat

attracted my attention.  I  read also with much interest

the researches of Faraday, Joule, Thomson, Tyndall,

Rankine, and others on heat, electricity, and magnetism.

At this period the question of the cause of the Glacial

epoch was being discussed with interest among geologists.
In the spring of 1864 turned my attention to this
a

          ;

                           I
                                              I

                                                            it
subject and, without knowing at the time what Herschel

and Lyell had written on the matter, occurred to me

that the change in the eccentricity of the earth's orbit

might probably be the real cause.                             accordingly drew

up paper on the subject, which was published in the

Philosophical Magazine for August 1864. The paper
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  33

excited a considerable amount of attention, and I was

repeatedly advised to go more fully into the subject ; and,
as the path appeared to me a new and interesting one, I
resolved to follow it out. But little did I suspect, at the
time when I made this resolution, that it would become

a path so entangled that fully twenty years would elapse
before I could get out of it.

     One evening in July of 1865, after a day's writing,
I hurriedly bent down to assist in putting a few tacks
into a carpet, when I experienced something like a twitch
in a part of the upper and left side of the head. It did

not strike me at the time as a matter of much importance ;
but it afterwards proved to be the severest affliction that

has happened to me in life. Had it not been for this

mishap to the head, all the private work I have been

able to do during the twenty years which followed might

have easily been done, and would have been done, in the
course of two or three years. The affection in the head
did not in any way affect my general health, neither did

it in the least degree impair my mental energy. I could
think as vigorously as ever, but I dared not " turn on the
full steam." After this twitch a dull pain settled in that
part of the brain, which increased till it became unbear
able, if I persisted in doing mental work for any length
of time. I was therefore obliged to do mental labour

very quietly and slowly, for a short period at a time, and

then take a good long rest. If I attempted to do too

much in one day, I was generally disabled for a few
days to come. Another consequence was this : before
this affliction in my head, I could concentrate my

thoughts on a single point, and exert my whole mental

energy till the difficulty was overcome ; but this I never

could attempt afterwards. After struggling so many
years against difficulties of every sort, and just at the
 time I had about overcome them all, and was expecting
to be able to do some real work, I felt it very hard to be
 so disabled for the future. However, under all these
 difficulties, I managed, during the two and a half years

               3
34 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

which elapsed before I left Anderson's College, to

write about a dozen of papers of a longer or shorter

character.

      Amongst the very first to express a favourable opinion
of the theory of the cause of the Glacial epoch, which I

had recently advanced in the Philosophical Magazine,
were Professor (now Sir Andrew) Ramsay, then director

of the Geological Survey of England and Wales, and Dr.
A. Geikie, who, on the reorganisation of the service, had
just been appointed to the directorship of the Scottish
Survey. At this time a large addition to the staff was
required, and I was asked if I would be willing to allow
myself to be nominated for the Scottish service. This
very kind offer was tempting to me in many respects ;
but as I was somewhat up in years, and suffering a little

from the mishap to my head, and, besides, not satisfied
as to my special qualifications for the scientific duties of

the office, I did not see my way clear to accept the
proposal. As it was necessary that one of the men
should be permanently located in Edinburgh, to act as
resident surveyor and clerk in the office, I was again
asked if I would be willing to accept this appointment.
This very materially altered the condition of things ; and,
after duly thinking over the matter, and consulting some
of my friends, I agreed to be nominated. I felt, how

ever, reluctant to undertake duties which required much
mental work, as, owing to the state of my head, it might
materially interfere with the private work on which my

mind was so much set. But, on the other hand, as my

salary was so small, and my health at the same time

suffering a good deal during the winter months from the
cold draughts in the lobbies of the institution, I felt that,

taking all things into consideration, I ought not to lose
this opportunity of improving my circumstances, and I
accordingly agreed to stand for Civil Service examination.
I failed, however, in some of the subjects. This is what

might have been expected, considering my constitutional
nervousness, combined with my age and want of experi
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  35

ence in ordeals of that kind. I, notwithstanding, received
the appointment, and got my Civil Service certificate some
time afterwards. I accordingly resigned my situation in

Glasgow, went through to Edinburgh, and entered the

Service on September 2, 1867.

      I found, as I had expected, that the duties of the office

were not at all laborious, either physically or mentally.
They consisted simply in attending to the various
details of office work : namely, conducting the corre

spondence with the men in the field ; supplying them

with the necessary maps, instruments, and stores ; corre

spondence with the engraver, colourist, and Ordnance

Survey ; checking the maps ; keeping the registers, etc.

etc. These various duties kept me busy during office
hours, without producing mental exhaustion. The only

thing I suffered from was now and again having to write

two or three letters in succession. The director, Mr.
Geikie, I found to be a most agreeable person. This
was all along a great comfort to me. During the

thirteen years we were together in the office, never so
much as an angry word passed between us. I need
hardly add that my duties as resident geologist really
did not require much acquaintance with the science of
geology. This relieved my mind from having to study

a science for which I had no great liking, and thus

allowed me to devote my whole leisure hours to those
physical questions in which I was engaged. There was,
however, one department of geological inquiry with

which the physical questions, in which I was then
engaged, required that I should be acquainted, namely,

surface geology, or drift in its bearings on Glacial and
Interglacial periods. I had begun my studies in this
department before I left the " Andersonian," and had
made frequent excursions into the country in search of
glacial phenomena. I was fortunate in discovering two

remarkable buried river channels, belonging to pre-

Glacial and Interglacial ages, and some other singular
facts bearing on the history of the Glacial period. These
36 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

researches were continued after I went to Edinburgh

with equal success ; and their results were given in one

or two papers contributed to magazines, and afterwards

embodied in Climate and Time.

      Although  --thebehinogursonolfybufrsoimness10inAm.My.  new occupation
were not long
                                                             to 4 P.M. -- and
the duties not laborious, I nevertheless found that in the

evening I was not in such a fresh condition to begin my
private labours as I was when in the " Andersonian."

     This at times made me feel a sort of half regret that I

had ever left my former situation. These six hours of

mental work, comparatively light as it certainly was,

added to my private work, began ere long to tell badly
on my poor head ; and I had to adopt every means I

could devise to husband my energies.

      I may here give a short statement of the mode of life
which I adopted when I came to Edinburgh, to which I

adhered pretty closely during the whole time I was in
the Survey. After being in Edinburgh for a short time, I

took a small house at Jordan Bank, Morningside, at the
southern extremity of the city. After coming home

from the office and taking dinner, which was generally
about five o'clock in the afternoon, I took a rest for

about an hour, and then took a stroll in the country. A

few hundred yards beyond Morningside the main road

separates into two branches, which, after diverging about
a quarter of a mile apart, again unite about a mile and a

half beyond the place where they separated. One very
frequent walk of mine after dinner was to go out by the

one branch and return by the other. This gave me a

circuit of about three miles. As I walked very slowly
and employed the whole time in study, I was generally
out of doors for one hour and a half, or two hours. At
other times I would make an excursion to the Braid

Hills or to Craiglockhart. As the beauties of nature,

especially in its retirement, have such a charm for me, I
found these outdoor walks helpful to study. I never

took a companion with me in these walks, as not only
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  37

would doing so deprive me of the opportunity of getting
on with my studies, but the effort and excitement of

talking would to a considerable extent unfit my head for
mental work on my return.

      In these walks I generally carried a pencil in the
one hand and a bit of paper in the other, on which I

jotted down my ideas as they suggested themselves; or

rather, I should say, made jottings to enable me to keep

a record of them till my return home, when they would
be written out more fully. To save my head, I got a

young man to come and read and write an hour each

evening for me. This generally would end the labours

of the day. But, should I be still in a working
condition, I would continue my studies quietly for

another hour.

      I found that if I attempted to do any head work in
the morning, it would completely knock me up for the
day. When going to the office in the morning, I was

obliged, as much as possible, to avoid talking to people

on the way, which sometimes was no easy matter ; and
this compelled me to take a by-path. Another thing I

was obliged to adopt, was not going out to public meet

ings or to dinner or evening parties. Had I not adopted
this mode of life, I could not, in the state of my head,

have done private work. During the thirteen years I
was in Edinburgh, I remember of being only twice at a
scientific meeting, and once at a concert. On the whole,
I led a somewhat retired life in Edinburgh. But, in
order to get on with my work, I had to adopt another

expedient : namely, to confine my reading exclusively to

the subjects which I was engaged in studying. So strictly
did I adhere to this resolution, that it was but rarely I

looked even at a newspaper or a journal of any kind.
In fact, my reading was rather a toil to me than a

pleasure. It was a means to an end, but a means which

could not be avoided. The pleasure lay in the study,

and not in the reading ; but without the reading there
would not have been sufficient materials for study. Had
38 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I been reading simply for pleasure, it would probably not

have been either in physics or in metaphysics, but rather
in the writings of Wordsworth, Tennyson, and other
authors of that ideal type.

     In all my reading I had to adopt this plan : namely,
to mark on the margin of the page, and underline with
pencil the passages to which I might have occasion to
refer. Had I not adopted this mode, the reading would
not have been of great advantage. But, notwithstanding
all these precautions, the head grew gradually worse ; so
much so, that I had frequently to apply for sick leave
for a month or six weeks at a time; and in 1873 I was
disabled for duty for nearly nine months. For two or
three years prior to the publication of Climate and Time,
it was with the greatest difficulty that I could manage

to put together in one day as many sentences as would
fill half a page of foolscap. In fact, the appearance of

the volume was delayed for two or three years on this

account. During all this time the mind was as vigorous

as ever ; it was pain in the head, and pain alone, which

stopped all progress when I attempted mental work. I
frequently thought I should be obliged to resign my
situation in the Survey ; but as I had not completed my
tenth year of service, and would therefore not be entitled
to superannuation, I was strongly urged to try and
struggle on. I was for several years under the medical
treatment of Dr. Warburton Begbie, and this experienced

physician did everything in his power ; but nothing he

could prescribe had any effect. I was afterwards under

 Professor Sanders, and latterly under Professor Grainger
Stewart, with no greater success.

       In February 1876, my brother, who had been staying
with us ever since my mother's death, died suddenly
from heart disease. In this same month the University
of St. Andrews conferred on me the degree of LL.D., an

honour which I felt at the time somewhat doubtful as to
the propriety of accepting. A few months afterwards I

was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London.
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH       39

I may also mention that in the same year I was chosen
an Honorary Member of the New York Academy of

Science. I was afterwards chosen an Honorary Member

of the Bristol Natural Society, of the Psychological

Society of Great Britain, of the Glasgow Geological

Society, of the Literary and Antiquarian Society of

Perth, and of the Perthshire Society of Natural Science.

I had the honour of receiving from the Geological Society

of London the balance of the proceeds of the Wollaston

Donation Fund in 1872, the Murchison Fund in 1876,

and the Barlow-Jamieson Fund in 1884.

     When I had finished Climate and Time, I resolved

to abandon not only my climatological studies, but

physics in general, in order to be able to resume those

investigations into the philosophy of evolution, which I
had laid aside at the time that I entered Anderson's

College. I soon found, however, that it was a resolution
to which I could not well adhere. After the publication
of the volume, I found that, notwithstanding the care I

had taken to express my views in the clearest manner I

could, these views were on many points very much mis

apprehended. I therefore found it necessary to endeavour

not only to remove those misapprehensions, but to enter

at much greater length into some of those difficult points

which had perhaps been too briefly discussed in the

volume. The consequence was, that, owing to the state

of my head obliging me to write so slowly, and also to

other circumstances, it was not till 1885, or ten years
after the publication of the volume, that I managed to

shake myself clear of that [perplexing question which
had engaged my attention for upwards of twenty years.

(Since this was written, I    have been obliged to enter

again into the consideration  of some points. -- May 1888.)

One day in the office, during the summer of 1880,

while hurriedly endeavouring to remove some maps from

a drawer, and standing in an awkward position on a

pair of steps, I unfortunately strained something about
the region of the heart. The result was, that for months
40 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I was unable to walk about, or make any physical
exertion. It became doubtful if I should ever be able
for office duties. Just at this time, I had been suffering

rather badly from my old complaint in the head, and
was at the time under the medical treatment of Professor

Grainger Stewart. This gentleman thought that it might
be well to try what effect the external application of that

powerful drug aconite might have in relieving the pain
in the affected part of the head. His instructions were

to apply a little of the aconite over the part when I felt
the pain badly. I continued to do so for some time, but
it had not the desired effect. One evening, after I had
applied it once or twice, I all at once found that I had

lost my power of speech, or rather, that I could only

speak like a paralytic, in an unintelligible form. It is

evident that this powerful poison had paralysed some of
the nerves or muscles of the tongue or the lips. In
course of a week or two I regained my speech, though
even yet there are a good many words which I cannot

pronounce.

     As I was now disabled for duty both by head and

heart, and as there was not much prospect that I should

ever be fit for office work, it was considered advisable

that I should resign. And as I had been admitted into
the service at the advanced age of forty-six, it was
believed that, in computing the amount of superannua
tion to be allotted me, my age would be taken into
consideration. This I had every reason to believe would

be the case, the more so, seeing that there was a clause

in the Superannuation Act which applied to my case. I

accordingly agreed to withdraw from service. But, to

my utter chagrin, no attention was paid to these con

siderations by the Treasury; and I received superannuation
only for the thirteen years I had actually been in the
Service. Thus my income was all at once reduced from
£350 to £7$, 1 6s. 8d. a year. No effort was made to
urge upon the Treasury to allow me a little more ; and
as this sum was insufficient, seeing that I was a married
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH  41

man, I had no alternative but to give up housekeeping

and go into cheap lodgings. Application was made to
Mr. Gladstone, who was then Prime Minister and First
Lord of the Treasury, to allow me a small sum from
the Civil List ; but, after keeping my friends waiting for

a year and a half, he stated that he could not recommend

a pension for me. A year or two afterwards, when Lord

Salisbury came into office, application was again made
by my friends for a small grant from the Civil List, but
with like unsuccess.

      After moving about for five years in this unsettled

condition, and having during the time obtained, through
the kindness of friends, a little increase to my income, I
resolved on taking up house again. I was fortunate in
obtaining a lease of a comfortable house in the suburbs
of Perth; and, at the end of the summer of 1886, I took

up my permanent abode there.
      The results of my labours since the appearance of

Climate and Time in 1875 were, in October of 1885,
published in a volume, under the title of Climate and

Cosmology. This I resolved should terminate my studies,

not merely in climatology, but also in physical science
in general. This resolution, as was stated before, was

made in order to enable me to finish work which had

been laid aside for upwards of twenty-five years. But
whether my wish in this respect will ever be accomplished,
is certainly at present a matter of uncertainty.
                        CHAPTER I

ANCESTRY, BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS

A\." A MONG all the provinces in Scotland," writes Sir

           Walter Scott, " if an intelligent stranger were asked

to describe the most varied and the most beautiful, it is

probable he would name the county of Perth. A native,

also, of any other district of Caledonia, though his

partialities might lead him to prefer his native county

in the first instance, would certainly class that of Perth in

the second, and thus    gaipvaerti--ts  inhabitants    a fair right to
                                        Perthshire   forms the fairest
plead that --prejudice
portion of the northern kingdom. It is long since Lady

Mary Wortley Montagu, with that excellent taste which

characterises her writings, expressed her opinion that the

most interesting district of every country, and that which

exhibits the varied beauties of natural scenery in greatest

perfection, is that where the mountains sink down upon

the champaign, or more level land. The most picturesque,

if not the highest hills, are to be found in the county of

Perth. The rivers find their way out of the mountainous

region by the wildest leaps, and through the most

romantic passes connecting the Highlands with the

Lowlands. Above, the vegetation of a happier climate

and soil is mingled with the magnificent characteristics

of mountain scenery ; and woods, groves, and thickets in

profusion clothe the base of the hills, ascend up the

ravines, and mingle with the precipices. It is in such

favoured regions that the traveller finds what the poet

Gray, or someone else, has termed ' beauty lying in the

lap of terror.'
BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 43

" From the same advantage of situation, this favoured

province presents a variety of the most pleasing character.

Its lakes, woods, and mountains vie in beauty with any

that the Highland tour exhibits ; while Perthshire con

tains amidst this romantic scenery, and in some places in

connection with      many fertile and habitable tracts
         al
which may vie with the richness of Merry England
                          it,
herself. The country has also been the scene of manyit

remarkable exploits and events, some of historicala

importance, others interesting to the poet and romancer,

though recorded in popular tradition alone. It was in

these vales that the Saxons of the plain and the Gael of

the mountains had many                                       desperate and bloody

encounter, in which  was frequently impossible to

decide the palm of victory between the mailed chivalry

of the low country and the plaided clans whom they

opposed."

In the eastern division of this charming county lies

the little post-office village of Cargill, which gives its

name to parish in one of the most picturesque districts,

known as Strathmore. The village stands on the left

bank of the river Tay, about three quarters of a mile

west-south-west of the railway station of Cargill on the

Caledonian line, being about eleven and                      half miles
                                                             is a
north-north-east of the city of Perth, and four and a                is

quarter miles south-west of the town of Coupar-Angus.

The parish embraces the villages of Burreltown,

Woodside, and Wolfhill, and bounded on the north
;
                              1

                         3

                                      1

                               »£

                                                          5

                                                is
east by Coupar-Angus, on the east by Kettins, in Forfar-

shire, and by a detached portion of Scone, on the

south-east by Abernyte and Collace, on the south by

St. Martins, on the west by Auchtergaven and Kinclaven,

and on the north-west by Caputh. Its greatest length,

from east-north-east to west-south-west,                     about 6|

miles its breadth, from north-west to south-east, varies

between 3^ furlongs and miles; and its area 9626^
acres, of which      are water. The noble river Tay,

                     Fair Maid of Perth.
44 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

which pours the largest volume of water into the ocean
of any river in Great Britain, and was compared by the
early Roman invaders with the Tiber, winds its way for
four and a half miles along the western boundary of the
parish, while the lazy little Isla, gliding for two and a
quarter miles down to the Tay, traces the north-western
boundary. The land is finely diversified with ascents
and declivities, clad with wood and interspersed with
water. The western border, to the mean breadth of

about a mile, rises gradually from the Tay, --the central

tracts forming a low plateau with some unevenness of
contour, while the eastern border includes a strip of the
Sidlaw Hills. In the extreme south-west the surface
sinks to about I00 feet above sea-level, thence rising
near Wolf hill to a height of 409 feet, of 414 feet in
Gallowhill, of 390 feet at Redstone, of 598 feet near
Legertlaw, and of about 1235 in King's Seat on the
Abernyte border. Sandstone of excellent quality has

been extensively quarried for building purposes, and
limestone is to be found in considerable quantity, which

might be profitably worked, whilst a reddish rock marl

is also plentiful in the district. The soil near the Tay

is strongly argillaceous ; on the central plateau it is

partly loamy and partly moorish ; while towards the
foot of the Sidlaws it is formed of light, dry gravel.
An extensive acreage is under wood, very little is
pastoral, and still less is allowed to lie waste. The
scenery along the Tay includes the picturesque Linn of
Campsie, and ranges from the softly romantic to the
grandly magnificent. Tumuli and remains of Caledonian

megalithic structures occur in various places, while
vestiges of a Roman camp, withfosstz perfectly discern
ible, and with fragments of an aqueduct leading from it

to a neighbouring rivulet, are to be seen near the

confluence of the Tay and Isla. A Roman road, twenty

feet broad, and formed of rough, round stones, passes

north-eastward by Burreltown ; and a high rock over

looking the Linn of Campsie is crowned by traces of an
BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 45

ancient monastery, said to have been subordinate to

Cupar, whose abbey, being supplied with fuel from

Campsie Wood, gives the name of Abbey Road to the

track by which it was conveyed. Stobhall House, a

prominent feature, belongs to Lady Willoughby de Eresby,

who is the largest proprietor in the district.

     At Little Whitefield, a small hamlet in this charming

county, James Croll was born on Tuesday the 2nd of
January 1821, at eleven o'clock at night. The weather

was cold    and stormy,    with snow lying     thickly  on  the
ground, as   in the case  of Burns, who sings
                                               --

            "'Twas then a blast of Januar' win'
                 Blew hansel in on Robin."

      The war of the elements seems to have foretold the

troubled and unsettled life which Croll was destined to

lead, as well as the comparatively cold reception which
his last work was doomed to meet from the unsym
pathetic world. . . . Most instructive would it be, were
we able to tell the history of his ancestors on both sides
of the family, as has been so fully done in the case of
Ralph Waldo Emerson, and see how nature, working
quietly through many years and gathering from many
sources, at last produced, by the blending of many

different qualifications, the man in whom the family was

destined to develop its noblest mental and moral charac
teristics, and then to pass away. Unfortunately, of his

ancestors on the mother's side, we know almost nothing.
On the father's side Croll seems to have been the con
summate flower of a healthy, vigorous stock of men in lowly
life, which flourished for centuries, unknown to the world,
in the quiet seclusion of a country parish in the county
of Perth. The Croils, or Croyls, for so his forefathers
used to spell their name, were inhabitants of the parish
of Cargill for a period of at least two centuries. On
examining the baptismal register of the parish, James
was able to trace his parentage backwards in a direct line
to about the middle of the seventeenth century. Here,
46 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

unfortunately, the register comes to an end, and he was
able to learn no more. Enough, however, remains to
indicate that the Croils were a race of patient, plodding
men, whose motto might well have been " Steady, aye

steady."

     For several generations the Croils were inhabitants of
the small crofting village of Little Whitefield, in the
parish of Cargill. This village contained only some eight

or ten houses, whose tenants had about a hundred or
a hundred and fifty acres of the surrounding land
divided among them as crofts. Here Croll's father, David,

son of Alexander Croil, was born in March 1781. Like
his forefathers, he clung to his native soil. He learned
the trade of a stonemason, and seems to have succeeded

in securing for himself a house and croft in his native
village only at a somewhat advanced period of his life.

At all events, it was not till he had reached the mature

age of thirty-seven that he ventured to enter upon married
life. His wife, Janet, youngest daughter of James Ellis,
of Elgin, was born in that city in 1781. She left Moray-
shire for Perth during the early part of the present
century ; and, about the latter end of the year 1 8 1 8, she
was married to David Croil, who was of the same age as

herself.

      Croll's parents were both distinguished by the posses
sion of great force of character and high intelligence.
In some respects, however, they differed widely from one
another. His mother was a woman of much native
shrewdness, keen powers of observation, and great firm
ness of purpose. In the ordinary affairs of life she
displayed no small amount of that remarkable com
modity, usually termed " common sense," which generally

indicates a well balanced mind and the power to do well
in the battle of life. His father was a man of a deeply
religious nature, warmly attached by both sympathy and
conviction to the Independent or Congregational Church,

whose members enjoyed a high reputation in the begin
ning of this century for their earnestness of purpose and
        BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 47

purity of character. Endowed with considerable intel

lectual power, he was more inclined to a quietly medi
tative than to a busy, pushing life. Strictly conscientious
in all things, he was also keenly sensitive by nature, and apt
to be too easily troubled by the cares of life. His high
moral character and amiable disposition secured for him
the friendship and esteem of all who knew him. He was
highly respected throughout the district in which he

worked, and his children were always proud to tell, when
asked, who their father was, as the mention of his name

generally procured for them a friendly smile and the

encouraging remark, " I hope that, when you grow up ,

you will be as good a man as your father."
      The family of David Croil consisted of four sons, of

whom James was the second. Alexander, the eldest,
was born on the 29th of November 1819. He seems to
have been a boy of much promise, able and willing to
assist his younger brothers in the preparation of their
lessons ; and his death, which took place when he was
about ten years old, threw a deep shadow over the family
life. The parents felt the blow severely, especially the
father, who never afterwards regained his usual vivacity
of spirits. David, the third son, was born on the 23rd
of April 1822. In infancy he was believed to have
fallen from the arms of a girl who was nursing him. This
accident brought on a curvature of the spine and general
debility, so great that, although he lived to the age of
fifty-four, he was never able to leave the shelter of the
home circle and fight an independent battle with the
world. William, the youngest of the family, was born on
 the 25th of February 1826 and died in infancy.

      James, the second son of David and Janet Croil, was
born at Little Whitefield, as already stated, on the 2nd
 of January 1821. Of his earliest years we know
 nothing beyond a few characteristic incidents which he
 has narrated in his autobiographical sketch. Even in
 infancy a certain delicacy of constitution seems to
 have become manifest ; but, at the same time, some
48 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of his remarkable powers of mind were strikingly
displayed. He could hardly have been more than
eighteen months old when his brother David was
baptized. His father was then a member of the Con

gregational Church in Perth ; and the pastor, the Rev.
Wm. Orme (afterwards of Camberwell, London), came

out to Little Whitefield to perform the ceremony. Avail
ing himself of the opportunity afforded by his visit, the

minister conducted a religious service in the open air for
the benefit of the villagers. Open-air services of this
kind formed a very special feature in the ecclesiastical

life of Scotland at this time. In connection with the

Presbyterian Churches, established and non-established,
there was usually a great gathering of the people in the

open-air at sacramental seasons. Burns has immortalised

these in his strikingly forcible satire, " The Holy Fair."
During the early part of the century, however, a consider
able revival of religion was awakened in the people of
Scotland, by the itinerant preaching services of Rowland
Hill and the brothers Haldane; and this was largely
furthered and developed by the ministers of the Congre
gational or Independent Church. They regarded it as
an important part of their work to make preaching tours

throughout the country, to hold out-door services as
opportunity was given, and to conduct Sabbath schools
for the religious instruction of the young.

      The Rev. William Orme was a rather remarkable man

among them. It is a curious coincidence that, like

Croll (as we shall see), he had served an apprenticeship
as a wheelwright in the Grassmarket of Edinburgh.
This occupation he only quitted in the month of October
1805, in his nineteenth year, to join Mr. Haldane's
Academy, under the tuition of Mr. George Cowie, in
preparation for the work of the ministry. Having com
pleted his curriculum there, he was, in March 1 807, called
to the pastorate of the Congregational Church in Perth,
where he laboured for seventeen years, only leaving the
city when he accepted a call to a church in Camberwell,
        BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 49

London. Soon after he went to Camberwell he led the
English Dissenters in their agitation for the repeal of the
odious and obnoxious " Test and Corporation Acts," in
which he was successful. He was a man of considerable
intellectual ability, much energy and decision of character,
while he also possessed the power of ready tongue and
pen. He wrote lives of Owen and Baxter, as also a
copious and elaborate Bibliotheca Biblica, which showed
extensive reading, great industry, and high attainments
as a writer. He also wrote the life of Kiffin, a Baptist

minister in London, Memoirs of John Urquhart, an
Argument for the Weekly Observance of the Lords Supper,
Discourses on the Work of the Holy Spirit, a Catechism
on the Constitution and Ordinances of the Kingdom of

Christ, and various articles for the magazines.

    A contemporary says that long before his introduction

to the metropolis, Mr. Orme had risen to high and
distinguished eminence as an able preacher of the New
Covenant; and we have learned that in Perth he was
considered one of the ablest and most popular ministers
of his time. He would therefore, no doubt, on a visit to
a small hamlet like Little Whitefield, create considerable
excitement in the neighbourhood. His visit would be
an event in the place ; and people would, doubtless, be
gathered together in large numbers from the surrounding
district to hear him preach.

     Little James Croll was present at the service
conducted by Mr. Orme, and the whole scene was so
vividly impressed upon his mind that, even to his latest
years, he retained a most distinct recollection of the
interesting ceremony. Other striking incidents of the
first three years of his life were similarly treasured up in

memory,-- among them the stirring events of the day

when the family removed from his earliest home, while,
of the years subsequent to these, his mental record was
singularly regular and complete, including every important
incident in the history of himself and his family. The
remarkable power of accurate observation, thus early

             4
50 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

displayed and afterwards developed by Croll, he seems to
have inherited from his mother. The tenacious memory,

from which nothing which interested him ever passed
away, came from his father, whose recollections of the
past went back to within two years of his own birth.

      The first three years of Croll's life passed quietly away
in the little hamlet, where his forefathers had lived for
several generations. Then there came a change. In
the early part of the present century the landed pro
prietors of Scotland were attacked by the mania for large
farms. In many districts crofting villages were swept
away to make room for a new style of agriculture ; and

the old inhabitants were turned adrift to shift for them

selves as best they could. Among the old-fashioned
hamlets thus abolished, to prepare for the formation of
extensive farms, was Little Whitefield. In this case,
however, the owner of the ground, Lord Willoughby,
evinced a kindly sympathy with his humble tenants, and
decided, in their interest, to set apart two pieces of
land for feuing purposes : the first, a stretch of waste
land, about a mile to the south of Little Whitefield, now
known as Wolf hill ; the second, a bit of ground lying
three miles to the north, now called Burreltown. David
Croll took a feu in the former district, erected on it a
dwelling - house and other buildings necessary for a
crofter, and then, in 1824, removed with his family to
their new home. Availing himself of the permission

 granted to the feuars in the new village, to reclaim a
 part of the waste ground in the vicinity, he employed
 himself in this work during the time which he could

 spare from his labours as a stonemason ; and by and by,
 having succeeded in bringing some four or five acres into

 fairly good condition, he felt himself restored to his

 former position.
       Having established himself with his wife and children

 in the new home at Wolfhill, David Croll resumed the
 even tenor of his humble, industrious life. Himself a

 highly thoughtful man, he had his own views on the
BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 51

Itearly education of the young.  seemed to him that

the physical system ought to be allowed a considerable

period of natural, healthy development, before the work
of direct mental training was begun. Accordingly, James
was granted three or four more years of careless ease, in
which no thought of lessons ever disturbed his dreams.

At length, when it seemed high time that he should enter

upon the usual routine of school life, an unexpected
difficulty presented itself. He had begun to suffer from

a somewhat troublesome pain on the top or about the
opening of his head. He was thus unable to remain
with uncovered head for any length of time, except in
the very heat of summer ; and as he could not on any

account be persuaded to sit beside his uncovered com

panions with a cap on his head, his parents were reluc

tantly compelled to keep him at home and give him
private lessons. Thus it happened that his first teacher

was his father, who was at times assisted by his eldest
son, a lad but two years the senior of his pupil. From

time to time James also received a private lesson from
the master of the little village school ; and so, amid many
difficulties, he acquired the elements of reading and
writing. Even the schoolmaster, who assisted the father
and brother in the work of teaching the young philosopher,

seems to have been but very imperfectly qualified for his

task ; he was an elderly man who had once occupied a

more lucrative position in the world but had latterly
been compelled, through reverse of fortune, to eke out a

scanty livelihood by giving lessons to a few boys in the
quiet village of Wolfhill. After about two years of

somewhat mixed and fragmentary instruction at home,

James was sent, for a short time, to the parish school of
Cargill, a mile and a half distant from his home ; and by
and by he was removed to a voluntary school in the
village of Guildtown, about two miles west of Wolf-
hill. The master here, unfortunately, was a rough,

pompous, and tyrannical man, who fully succeeded in
inspiring his pupils with a thorough detestation of school
J2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

and all that was connected with it. It must surely have
been of him that Croll, in after years, told the following

absurdly ludicrous story :--" One day the ' dominie ' was

giving the boys their usual Bible lesson, when he suddenly
asked the question ' Which of all the prophets, in your
opinion, most resembled the Apostle Paul ? ' Each of

the lads, in turn, gave the answer which seemed to him

the most appropriate. At last the teacher approached a

boy who generally sat at the foot of the class, and never,

in any case, was able to rise more than one or two

places higher. On this occasion, however, he seemed

unusually anxious to be heard ; and, when the question
was put to him, he at once answered, ' It's yer ainsel,

sir.' The astonishment of his comrades may be

imagined ; but what must have been their feelings when

the master calmly replied    ' That's a  good boy ; you  go up
to the top of the class for  that ' ? "  That a man of   whom

such a story could be related should have been accepted

as an instructor of youth in a village but a few miles

distant from the city of Perth, seems hardly credible in

these days. That he failed to excite any enthusiasm for

learning even in the mind of young Croll can excite no

surprise. Fortunately for the district, he was soon re

placed by Mr. Keiller, a much more kindly and intelli

gent man, whose work was naturally attended by more

satisfactory results. James Croll, however, enjoyed but
little of his good offices. He was now (1834) thirteen
years of age ; and, after some eight or nine months under

the new teacher, he left school finally, to enter upon

other work.

Croll's school days, taken altogether, extended over a

period of about six years ; but there were blank spaces

in this period, his teachers were too frequently changed,

and, as we all know, too many masters spoil the lad. His

training seems to have been wholly confined to the three

R's ; and, even within these narrow limits, the work was
but poorly done. The eager, active intellect of the boy

was never roused by his early teachers, his interest was
       BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 53

never stirred by anything they presented to his view.

Bright and intelligent, full of fun and frolic, he was left

to spend his energy on out-of-doors schemes and occupa

tions. In some respects, in view of a certain delicacy of

constitution which had already appeared, we may regard

this as a bit of good fortune. To the surprise and dis

appointment of his father, he was (he himself tells us) a
rather dull scholar, scarcely up to the average of boys of

the same age in the matter of getting up lessons quickly
and correctly. He failed to acquire an accurate style of

reading ; and by no amount of labour could he succeed
in learning to spell even moderately well. For him the

teacher (so called) was a mere taskmaster, the lessons
the labour of a bondsman, like the making of bricks

without straw. His real teachers were to be found out

side the village schoolroom, the forces which stirred his

youthful intellect were to speed from a far distance. In

due season they drew near, they acted with quickening

power, they presented the wonders of science in all their

beauty and charm, they aroused in the boy a passionate

desire for the higher education ; but, alas ! they did so
only as the unbending force of circumstances was com

pelling him to enter upon a lowly lot in active life.

      Croll's father was not merely a working stonemason ;
he was also a crofter, holding some four or five acres of

land, the cultivation of which involved a considerable

amount of labour. During the greater part of the year

he followed the work of his trade, which carried him to

many different places at a greater or less distance from

home.  The lot of a mason in these times in Scotland

was rather a hard one. Carlyle, writing of his father and
a companion, both of whom were masons, says : " The two
' slung their tools ' (mallets and irons hung in two equi
poised masses on the shoulders) and crossed the hills into
Nithsdale to Auldgarth, where a bridge was building.

This was my father's most foreign adventure. He never

again, or before, saw anything so new ; or, except when
he came to Craigenputtock on visits, so distant. He
54 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

loved to speak of it. That talking day we had together
I made him tell it me all over again from the beginning,
as a whole, for the first time. He was a ' hewer,' and

had some few pence a day. He could describe with the

lucidest distinctness how the whole work went on, and

' headers ' and ' closers ' solidly massed together made an
"Aimpregnable pile." l
                                  noble craft it that of a mason
                      is

                            I

                                                            is,

                                                                                                                                  ;
good building will last longer than most books, than
a
one book of a million.            have a dim picture of him (my
             1
father) in his little world. In summer season diligently,

cheerfully labouring with trowel and hammer, amused by

grave talk and grave humour with the doers of the craft.

Building, walling, an             operation that   --beeyvoennd  most other
ones requires incessant            consideration,                new inven

tion." But for all this, as we have been told, they only

earned a few pence a day. In the "dear years" (1799
and 800), says Carlyle, " when the oatmeal was as high

as ten shillings a stone, he had noticed the labourers
                      2

                                      if

                                                                            a

                                                                        it (I
have heard him tell) retire each separately to brook and
there drink instead of dining, without complaint, anxious

only to hide it."                                  a
      The mere possession of the croft evinced a strong

desire to improve the condition of the stonemason and
his family. The little farm, well worked, was sure to
add considerably to the comforts of the household, but
also added greatly to the toils of the hard-working
parents. When we consider that those four or five acres

wuhpaa,dstdefr,iarsiantnindtgo,bbyaenydreeacmrlasainmouefrdinugnfrc--oemabsirnaogusgtahhttaeridontfolabboogusrtoa--rtemboorefoarclkauinnltdgi

vation and rendered really productive, we cannot but
wonder that, in conjunction with the severe daily toil of a

stonemason, Croll's father was able to accomplish such a
work at all. Yet, like many other hard-headed and hard-

handed Scotchmen, he, along with his wife and family,
did so. The wife and children, of course, lent a helping
and at times. The work of reclaiming could be carried

                                                   Ibid. 6l.
                1
                             i.

                                                                                f

                                                                                                                \.
                Rent  45, 47, 48
        BIRTH, CHILDHOOD, AND SCHOOL DAYS 55

on at any season of the year ; but when the ground was
brought into a state of cultivation, the labour of making
it productive could be accomplished only at the appro
priate seasons of the year. There was not sufficient
work to occupy Croll throughout the year on his croft,
and it would have been impossible for him in such a way
to earn a competent sustenance for himself and his family.
He therefore continued, as we have seen, to follow his
occupation of stonemason, which often took him from
home. The working of the croft was thus left mainly in
the hands of his wife, who occasionally obtained from
outside helpers such assistance as was indispensable. In
ordinary circumstances, however, she required some
regular assistance at home. Her eldest son, Alexander,
had died some five years before the present date (1834),
and James had for some time been engaged at intervals
in bits of humble farm work. The position of the affairs
of the family now demanded that he should devote him
self regularly to this occupation ; and, accordingly, with
an aching heart, he left school, when not quite fourteen
years of age, to enter upon his apprenticeship to the
stern work of life.
                       CHAPTER II

   INTELLECTUAL NEW BIRTH AND LIFE-EDUCATION

                      early teachers did nothing in the way of
            educating the boy ; and the few books in his
father's possession were by no means such as to attract
his attention or awaken in him any intellectual interest.
Thus, up to the age of about eleven and a half years,
he evinced no taste for reading, and gave absolutely no
promise of his future career. His intellectual new birth
had not yet taken place. That event, however, was near
at hand. In the beginning of April 1832, when he was
on a visit to the city of Perth, he paused one day to look
into the window of a bookseller, where some of the latest
productions of the press were displayed. His attention
was arrested by the illustrations of a little periodical
paper, chiefly, perhaps, by the picture of a brown bear
walking on his hind legs along a tree which crossed a
river, and carrying a dead horse in his fore paws. He
entered the shop and purchased the first number of the
Penny Magazine, which had just been established by " The
Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge" for the
purpose of acting, like the stage-coach, " as a means of
convenience and enjoyment to the people at large."
Carrying his treasure home, the country boy found, in
the eight large pages of the little magazine, what to him
was truly a feast of reason, a feast which in him produced
a flow of soul. Here he found a historical article on
Charing Cross, London ; articles geographical, historical,
and social, on Van Diemen's Land and Poland ; brief
biographical sketches of Ren£ Descartes, mathematician

                                                                  se
INTELLECTUAL NEW BIRTH AND EDUCATION 57

and metaphysician, and of Dr. William Harvey, the dis

coverer of the circulation of the blood ; an outline of the
life of the Rev. George Crabbe, with a poetical extract

from his Parish Register on Isaac Ashford, whom he
describes as " a noble peasant, a wise good man, con
tented to be poor " ; accounts of the Wapiti (deer) and
the bear in the Zoological Gardens ; a quaint sermon on

malt, and an article on the antiquity of beer ; and, lastly,

a few columns of miscellanea. The boy perused with

ever deepening interest the pages of the little magazine,

in which a new world seemed to be opening up to his

view. He purchased the following numbers of the new

periodical regularly as they appeared, and became a

diligent student of its contents. In this way he became

acquainted with the life story of men of many lands and

ages who had risen to eminence in all departments of

life ; he learned something of the great works of art,

ancient and modern, in painting, sculpture, and architec

ture, as well as of historically interesting antiquities

of a different order ; he gained some insight into many
striking features of natural history, and he was at times

carried away by romantic narratives of travel and adven

ture ; while, at the same time, he had presented to his

mind, in simple and attractive style, the elementary

principles of language and numbers, along with well

established facts in statistics and economy. The con

tents of the Penny Magazine were, in short, encyclopaedic ;
and, through its volumes, young Croll gained his first

notions both of natural science and of philosophy, of

which he was afterwards to become so distinguished a

student. So highly did he appreciate the benefits he

a

                                   it,
                                                        a

                                                                a

                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                    ;
had received from  that, in later years, he took the

trouble of procuring several odd volumes of the work,

that he might be the possessor of complete copy of the

magazine from its first number down to its last.

Croll had now entered on new epoch in his life his

intellectual interest had been aroused and he had made

beginning in the great work of self-education. There
$8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

arose within him a great longing for a better training

than he was receiving at the village school ; but, alas !
the means wherewithal were not to be found. He felt,

however, that at any cost he must continue not only
to read, but still more to extend his course. In the
pages of his first tutor he had perused occasional notices
of important works in various departments of literature
and science; and as the magazine articles had only
whetted his appetite, he determined to lay aside his
occasional pence of pocket-money, and devote them to
the purchase of books.

      Among the first of the volumes which he succeeded
in obtaining was The Christian Philosopher; or, The

Connection of Science and Philosophy with Religion, by

Dr. Thomas Dick. This work, although very far from
being a " book for boys," proved very valuable to our
young student in the way of stimulating his interest in
lofty subjects of thought, extending his views of the
world in which we live, and developing all his recently
awakened powers of mind. The object of the author

was to illustrate the harmony which subsists between
the system of nature and the system of revelation, and
to show that the manifestation of God in the material
universe ought to be blended with our views of the facts

and doctrines recorded in the volume of inspiration. In
his first volume he treats of the natural attributes of the

Deity in their relation to religion ; he presents his readers
with a rich variety of phenomena drawn from many fields
of science in illustration of the omnipotence, wisdom, and
goodness of God ; and he gives a cursory but careful view
of natural history, geography, geology, and astronomy in
their relation to religion and Christian theology. In the
second volume he deals in like fashion with natural philo

sophy, chemistry, anatomy, physiology, and the inven
tions of human art ; he treats of various scriptural facts

and doctrines which may be illustrated from the system

of nature; and he urges the advantages to be derived

from an enlarged study of science in connection with
 INTELLECTUAL NEW BIRTH AND EDUCATION 59

philosophy. The effect at first produced on the mind
of young Croll by his plunge into this view of science,
philosophy, and philosophic facts and reasonings may be
more easily imagined than described. He was utterly
bewildered by the novelty and grandeur of the concep
tions presented to his mind in almost measureless number
and variety. With dauntless energy and tenacity of

purpose, however, unaided by friend or teacher, he pur
sued his solitary path through the teeming pages of Dick's
work, slowly mastering facts and reasonings, till order,
simplicity, and beauty became manifest in what had at
first seemed a mere chaos of perplexity and confusion ;
and now his amazement and bewilderment gave place to
admiration and delight. Strange to say, what chiefly
charmed the boy, even in his earliest scientific reading,
was not the miscellaneous array of striking phenomena
in all departments of nature drawn up before him for
inspection, but the general laws or principles which under
lay these phenomena, and gave them order and beauty.

Any novel phenomenon which was presented to his mind
suggested irresistibly the question How ? and the state
ment of the general law to which this phenomenon could
be referred was usually followed by another How ? Croll

could find no rest for his mind except in fundamental
principles. Thus physical astronomy (the only branch
of astronomy which he ever studied), while it deeply
interested him, failed to give him any real satisfaction
on his first acquaintance with it. He was ignorant of

the mathematical and mechanical principles on which it

depends.
      Croll accordingly determined to set about the study

of science in systematic fashion, impelled by the difficulties
he had found in his perusal of Dick's Christian Philosopher,
of which he had probably read only the first volume.
He purchased one or two books which seemed likely to
prove helpful to him, and among them was Joyce's
Scientific Dialogues. In this valuable work, which for
many years aided greatly in extending a knowledge of
60 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

physical science among the young, he found a real

treasure. An exposition of the first principles of

experimental philosophy prepared for the instruction
and entertainment of young people, it was drawn up
in the form of conversations between a father and

his children, and carefully adapted to the capacities

of those of ten or eleven years of age. To the youth
who had fearlessly, and with some success, attacked the
grim pages of Dick's bulky, close-wrought volumes, those
of Joyce's slenderer work promised a speedy and triumph
ant victory. He positively revelled in the perusal of the
book. The romance of science was that which early
fascinated his mind and kindled his imagination. Swiftly
laying^hold of the mass of interesting facts laid out before
him, he passed with avidity to the mastery of the general

principles which underlay them all and gave them mean

ing and value in his view. To the details of the con
struction of philosophical instruments, such as the air-pump
or the electrical machine, he paid little or no attention,
except in so far as they illustrated the laws of pneumatics

or electricity according to which these instruments oper
ated. The details excited his interest only for a moment ;
as soon as the general laws or principles were firmly
grasped, they ceased to charm, and largely passed away
from his mind. The thorough mastery of principles to
which he set himself, and by means of which he was

enabled easily to recall facts and details when necessary,
gave the young student an enormous advantage in the
prosecution of his work. He was able to advance by
leaps and bounds without the assistance of any friend or
teacher, where the progress of others who enjoy such

assistance is usually very slow. In this way, in the
course of some four or five years from the day on which

he first opened the Penny Magazine, namely, by the time

he was about sixteen years old, he had gained a pretty
tolerable knowledge of the general principles of mechanics,
pneumatics, hydrostatics, heat, light, electricity, and

magnetism.
INTELLECTUAL NEW BIRTH AND EDUCATION 61

Two very important and, to most people, very interest

ing branches of science utterly failed to attract young

Croll. The fact that they are so largely sciences of

observation and experiment, which gives them their

interest in the minds of most people, was the means
of repelling him. For chemistry and geology, " more

particularly the latter," he had no relish. They ap

peared to him to be so largely made up of mere facts

and details, so deficient in rational principles ; they

seemed to be so lacking in the philosophic method and

material which were to him as the very breath of life,

that he positively shrank from them. Had any one

told him, he says, in his early years, that he would one

day become a professional geologist, he would have re

garded the statement as incredible. In fact, it was

largely by what men call accident, more by the con

straint of others than by his own personal choice, that

in later years he entered the office of the Geological
         If we except one department of geology, to
Survey.

which we shall by and by have occasion to refer, it was

almost the only science to the study of which he never

devoted a single day. He never became, never cared

to become, a geologist, in the ordinary sense of the term,

even although he became a member of the Geological

Survey staff. Nevertheless, his acceptance of a post on

that staff proved of immense advantage to him in the

pursuit of the climatological studies which made him

famous, as it afforded him a comparatively easy means

of gaining an acquaintance with geological phenomena,

phenomena of which, but for that appointment, he

would most probably have remained ignorant ; and with

out the knowledge of which his important work would

have been but very imperfectly accomplished.

Thus, in the quiet seclusion of the little village of

Wolfhill, passed away the years of Croll's boyhood.

They were formative years ; by the sacred influences

of his parents' pious home, his naturally religious and

meditative soul was unconsciously educated ; while,
62 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

from the pages of the Penny Magazine, Dick's Christian
Philosopher, Joyce's Scientific Dialogues, and a few other
books to which he was mysteriously guided, he received

intellectual impressions and impulses from the influence

of which he never escaped.  His mental being was

stirred to its very depths by the grandeur of the con

ceptions presented to him in these works ; and he
received from them an impetus towards the pursuit of

truth in natural science and in mental philosophy

which remained with him to the end.1 Indeed, no grand

physical conceptions which he ever acquired in later
years made such an impression on his mind as those of

this   early  dastceie;nceexcoefptiennge,rgpy,e--rhaitpss,    those relating    to
the   modern                                                transformation    and

its conservation, and to the dynamical theory and the
mechanical equivalent of heat. Thus the moral char

acter of the man was determined, his intellectual bent

was assigned, and his whole course in life was largely

influenced.

     For a period of nearly three years, from the age of

about fourteen, he was almost wholly engaged during

the daytime in the agricultural labour demanded by the
culture of his father's croft.

              1 See solitary musing, described on p. 18.
                    CHAPTER III

                          CHOICE OF A TRADE

AFTER Croll had been labouring on the croft for
            two or three years, it became evident to his father
and mother, as well as to himself, that some occupation
better than that of a crofter must be found for him.
What that occupation should be proved a perplexing
question to all. Croll himself had, since the " reading

fit" came on him, become imbued with an ardent thirst
for knowledge and a desire for more education. He
had been quietly but perseveringly trying to satisfy the
thirst and the desire, and had succeeded only in enor
mously stimulating them. Accordingly, now, when

about to take his first step into the world, he felt the
strongest desire to receive the benefit of a university
education. The satisfaction of this desire unfortunately

proved altogether impossible. His father was too poor
to support the lad during the usual four years of a
university curriculum, and he had no relations rich enough
to render any assistance. In those days the bursaries
open to poor but promising students at our Scottish
Universities were neither very numerous nor very large ;
but even had they been more numerous, Croll had not
proved himself one of those brilliant boys who, by
diligent study at the parish school, have always, in

Scotland, been able to enjoy a university education at
very small cost to parents or friends. The nearest
university was St. Andrews, which was about forty miles

distant from Wolf hill ; and although several bursaries
are annually awarded there to clever lads, these were

                                                                                83
64 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

altogether beyond the reach of Croll, who had enjoyed

no systematic training in even the elements of mathe
matics or the Latin or Greek languages. His long

ing desire for a university education had thus to be

stifled, and the project given up as impracticable and

unattainable. What else, then, could the lad do ? He

had no special aptitude or desire for any particular

trade ; but to trade he must go, since his irregular and

imperfect education shut him out from the professions.

After pondering anxiously over the matter for several

days and consulting his friends, he came to the con

clusion that, as he had made some study of the theory

of mechanics, he might find the work of a millwright

one in which his study would be of some service to him.

Accordingly, it^was resolved that he should be appren
ticed to a millwright; and in the village of Collace he

entered upon this trade. He himself says little of the

experiences of the years of his apprenticeship ; and we

have not been able to ascertain anything further than

what is recorded in the autobiography.

      On the completion of his apprenticeship, he left

Collace and went to work as a journeyman with the

firm of Martin & Robertson, millwrights at Banchory,

Coupar-Angus. The business of this firm was chiefly

that   of making   and repairing threshing-mills throughout
the   " Howe " of  Strathmore and the surrounding districts.

They usually employed some four or five men at this

work, whose wages were by no means large, about

eight shillings per week together with food, which was

usually of the poorest description possible. The repairs

on the corn -saw and threshing-mills had usually to be

executed at the different farms where the mills were

erected ; and this, of course, caused the men to be con

stantly shifting about from place to place, so that they

scarcely ever spent more than a day or two at one

place. In those days there were no railways in the

Howe of    Strathmore ;  and the men     were     frequently
compelled  to walk long   distances on            sometimes
                                        foot, --
   CHOICE OF A TRADE                          65

of thirty or forty miles a day,-- in order to fulfil their

engagements. With his usual dry humour Croll says

quietly, " It was on the whole rather a rough life."

The millwright was looked on as somewhat of the
nature of a tramp ; and he had generally to rest in the
ploughman's " bothy," which, in those days, was a very
rough outhouse belonging to the farm, consisting of little

more than the four bare walls and containing several
beds, a table, and a few chairs or forms. When the

bothy was full, the poor millwright had to betake him
self to the barn or the stable-loft above the horses, where

he had to bury himself under the clothes, generally a

few sacks, to protect himself from the rats.

Croll endured these hardships very patiently for a

period of some five or six years ; but he gradually came

to see that this trade was wholly unsuited to the develop

ment of either his mind or his body. His experiences

during this period, however, did not fail to leave their

marks upon his constitution.  Long after, in conse

quence of the excessively long walks he had to perform,

his feet were so grown over with corns, that he was

obliged to cut holes in his shoes, and allow the corns

to grow out without cutting or paring them. During

all these years of trial, Croll performed his arduous

duties without a grumble, while, according to the
testimony of those who knew him then, " his moral

character and daily deportment were most exemplary
and in every way commendable." The Rev. Mr. Bruce,
Free Church minister, Rhynie, writes of him at this

period, " I never heard a complaint brought against

him by any one. But, on the contrary, everybody spoke
well of him, and had the highest respect for him. To

me, who was a few years his junior, there always seemed

something so modest and unaffected about him which

naturally drew my affections towards him and reverence

for him."
     Croll abandoned the millwright trade when about

twenty-two years of age, and returned to the village of

5
66 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Collace for a season. He had probably saved a little

money out of his hard-earned wages, for we find that,

the insatiable craving for education having attacked

him again, he went to the parish school of St. Martins

for a winter to study algebra. The sight of a grown

up, grave-looking working man attending the parish
school for " counting," as the schoolboys called
                              a                                was
                                                          it,
a  source of wonder and amusement to the lads. Yet

cases like this were to be seen in many of the better

schools in Scotland, both in town and country, and the

younger pupils were rarely rude to such men. During

this winter, doubtless, Croll lent helping hand to his

parents in the working of the croft, and made himself

generally useful at home. At the opening of the

summer, however, he was obliged to resume work, as his

little hoard of savings had been almost wholly exhausted,

and he had again to earn his livelihood. He accordingly

sought and obtained employment as       it ajoiner. His

new trade he readily learned so well as to become a

very efficient tradesman, and he found        much more

suited to his taste, as he did not require to travel from

place to place so much, while the life in general was by

no means so hard.

   The first big job on which Croll was engaged as a

joiner was the erection of the Free Church at Kinrossie,

in the parish of Collace, of which the Rev. Andrew A.

Bonar (afterwards D.D., of Glasgow) was then minister.
Collace was some two or three miles distant from Wolf-

hill the joiners began work at A.M. and ceased about
6                             :

         ;                      6
                 ;

                          it
   P.M. and as seemed too much for the young man,

with already injured feet, to do a hard day's work and

walk such distance both morning and evening, Croll's
       a

father thought he should reside at Collace. The kindly

old man accordingly called on some of his friends in

Collace with this object in view, and one of them agreed
" to make way for him among the young folks." This

villager still alive, and writesis
      " So James came next morning, and continued with
                 CHOICE OF A TRADE                                                      67

us all the time the building was going on. In a few

days after this, Mr. Andrew Bonar, now Dr. Bonar of

Finniston, who was our minister, then called at our house

in his ordinary course, and in course of ordinary con

versation he says, ' By the bye, haven't you James Croll
staying with you.' We said we had. ' Then,' said he,
' how do you get on with James ? ' I said, ' Remarkably

well ; I think he is one of the nicest young men I have

ever met with.' ' But,' says Mr. Bonar, ' how do you
get on with him in your conversations ? ' I said, ' Remark

ably well, so far as I can follow him, but sometimes, when

I think the subject of conversation is made clear enough,

                      vmieawde--osof methJainmgesbeyonndot
and no more can beI                                                                 satisfied
he has some ulterior              I'                                               in his eye

                                                    it,

                                                                                            ?

                                                     It ' is

                                                                         it,

                                                                       aI ;
that am not able to follow him.' Mr. Bonar laughed

most heartily and said, don't wonder at Andrew,

don't   wonder    at it. Do    you    know that  James                             has
very   striking                 cast  of mind "
                 metaphysical

     The new Free Church was the church being erected

at the time of the Disruption in 1843.           appears that

Mr. Bonar, an able and zealous minister, was then in the

habit of gathering together a number of grown-up young

men in his house on the Sunday evenings, after the

services of the day were over, for spiritual instruction.

Croll took advantage of this class, and speedily attracted

the attention of the minister, who formed a high opinion

of him. Writing in 1891, Dr. Bonar says: "It long

since met James Croll, though in earlier days knew
him well. He lived at that time in the village of

Wolf hill, parish of Cargill, not far from where my lot
       I                                a

                                                  I is
was cast. He was known among us as young disciple

who showed a great inclination to philosophical study,

and he was much esteemed."

     After the Free Church at Kinrossie was completed,

there happened to be scarcity of building work in
                      a
                                       a

                                                                                1
the neighbourhood, and in the summer of 844, Croll

removed to Glasgow, where he soon found employment.

He remained in Glasgow for only few months, removing
 68 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

 then to Paisley, where he stayed for about a year. He
 liked this place and his employment. About this time
 a controversy arose in theological circles between Cal-
 vinists and Arminians. Croll took a deep interest in
 this controversy, and joined the Arminians, then called
 Morisonians after Dr. Morison, who was the leader of
 the new movement. He attached himself to a number

 of the followers of Dr. Morison, who were endeavouring
 to found a church in Paisley under the preaching first of
 Mr., afterwards Dr., Landels, now of Edinburgh, and
 then of the Rev. Mr. A. M. Wilson, afterwards of Bath-
 gate. He took a warm interest in the formation of this

 church, and was elected a deacon, but he did not enter

 upon office, as he was obliged to leave the town before

 he was called upon to act.
       When Croll was working at his trade in Paisley, in

 the spring of 1846, the elbow joint of his left arm

 became so seriously inflamed, that he felt compelled to

 consult his medical adviser, who told him that he must

 abandon his trade as a joiner, and adopt some easier

 occupation, which would not necessitate so much physical

exertion. It appears that this ailment had its origin in

a boil, which appeared on his arm when he was a boy of
about ten or eleven. Unfortunately, it was accidentally
knocked against the corner of a door, and it proved very
troublesome both during the healing up and afterwards,
and continued to afflict him more or less every spring
for several years. There was nothing for it but to
return home and rest for a season, consider his position,
and decide what should be done in the future. Ac
cordingly, he left Paisley, and returned to his father's
house at Wolfhill. There he remained for some time,
reading and studying diligently, till the arm got better ;
but unfortunately it never recovered sufficiently to allow
him to use it freely, as the joint ultimately ossified, and
Croll suffered ever afterwards from a stiff elbow.

      He was now in a greater dilemma than ever. The
joiner business, or, indeed, any kind of trade, was out of
                        CHOICE OF A TRADE    69

the question. He had neither the education nor the

training to fit him for a clerkship, and, moreover, he had

no aptitude or inclination for such an occupation. He

thought he might get some kind of employment in the

tea trade ; and accordingly one day walked to the city
of Perth, a distance of about eight miles, to make

inquiries. The story of his selection and adoption of

this trade is so romantic and interesting, that, although it

involves repetition, it can be told only in his own words :
" Musing over the matter, as I approached the city by
the bridge, I observed a man distributing small handbills

to the passers-by. All in a moment it struck me that
if these bills should relate to the tea trade, I would be

guided by this, and would go to the shop to which they

referred ; at least, before trying any other. What could

induce me to come to a conclusion so apparently absurd

and incautious, I cannot tell. Strange are the ways of

Providence ! for had it not been for that decision, in all

probability, my future course in life would have been very

different from what it actually turned out to be. On
coming up to the man, I found the bills related to a tea

and coffee warehouse which had recently been opened

in the High Street of Perth. Guided by the bill, I went

direct to the shop, and found the proprietor to be an

agreeable and intelligent person. After talking over

various matters, I then told him what I had been think

ing about. He agreed with me that I might manage to

make a comfortable livelihood by selling tea ; and that I

might push the sale by going into the country. I accord

ingly got a small stock and commenced operations. I

soon found, however, that the attempt to push a sale in

the country was a rather disagreeable job for me, and I

rveissiotelvde--d  to   give it  up. The     merchant whom I had
                   Mr.   David   Irons, who
                                             afterwards proved to be
one of the kindest friends I have ever met with in life --

now proposed to me that I might try and open a shop

for myself in some suitable town, where I might be likely

to succeed. Unfortunately I had not the means for any such
70 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

undertaking ; but he, in the most kindly manner, offered
to assist me. He agreed to give me a stock to commence
with, and that I should repay him in regular instalments
as it was sold ; and that he would in this way keep up
my stock. I need hardly say that an offer so generous
was readily accepted. As it was now about the end of
the harvest season, my friend suggested that I might
come to Perth for the winter, and learn the mechanical
art of weighing and parcelling up the tea, serving over
the counter, and all the usual routine of shop work. I
accordingly came in, and before the winter was over, I

became a thoroughly proficient shopkeeper."
      Croll, as " a thoroughly proficient shopkeeper, learned

in the mechanical art of weighing and parcelling up the
tea, serving over the counter, and all the routine of shop
work," is a dream which existed only as a picture in his
own imagination, arising largely out of gratitude for a
kind act, and thankfulness for a tranquil period of his
life. The reality was very different from the picture.
The primary qualification for a shopkeeper is an
affable, agreeable, and, as some would say, almost
obsequious manner. Croll had, to the day of his death,
a modest, shy, dry, and almost speechless manner, except
on occasions when he was drawn out jby congenial con

versation among real friends. A second requisite is an

active and attractive appearance, alertness and energy
 of body. Croll was heavy and ungainly in appearance,
 solid, sound as a rock, true as steel, but somewhat slow

and awkward in manner and appearance. A third

 requisite is adroitness in " serving over the counter."
 Croll never was very adroit either in mind or body, and
 could and did serve only with his natural reserve and

shyness. A fourth requisite is rapidity and neatness in

 the mechanical art of weighing and parcelling up the
 tea, and in the general routine of shop work. Croll
 never was either rapid or neat in any mechanical work
 he performed ; and with his hands and arms trained
 only to the hard work of a millwright or joiner, as well
CHOICE OF A TRADE  71

 as the awkwardness and inaptitude caused by the weak
 ness and stiffness of his elbow, it can easily be seen

 that he could not be a proficient by any means in
the " mechanical art of weighing and parcelling up the

tea." His appearance behind the counter is well de
scribed by an eye-witness : " It was something altogether
extraordinary to see the man, with his large head, massive

 forehead, and kindly countenance, with his heavy form
of body, hard horny hands and stiff arm, standing behind
the counter of a tea-shop. One is accustomed to see

 rather a small thin man with thin nimble fingers and

active arms discharging this duty ; and no one, even the
most casual observer, could see Croll in the character of

shopkeeper at this time without knowing that he was

not a shopkeeper to the manner born, and that he was

evidently in a new sphere."

      During the time he was in Perth, however, he was
happy. His friend, Mr. David Irons, was a kind, in

telligent, well-read man, who took a deep interest in him,
had many conversations with him on religious matters,

and encouraged him in all that pertained to his spiritual
and temporal welfare. As he had gone to Perth only to
learn the tea trade, it now became necessary to fix on a
place in which he might begin business. After looking

about a while, he thought that there was an opening in
Elgin for a tea merchant. Accordingly, that place was
fixed upon, and he went north in the spring of 1847,

and opened a tea-shop there. For a time he was com
paratively successful in business, and liked the place and
the people well. Instead, however, of developing the
social side of his life, and making friends with the people,
he became a hard philosophical student. He got hold
of the great work of Jonathan Edwards, on the Freedom
of the Will, which he read and re-read, both in season

and out of season. Tappan's book he also tackled ; but,
like many other readers of this work, he was greatly
disappointed. He found, in common with most philo
sophical students, that Tappan missed the point of
72 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Edwards' argument altogether, and failed to grapple with

the real difficulty of the problem. He never discovered

any satisfactory answer to Edwards' argument, and
" became convinced that some moderate form of Calvinism

was nearest the truth, not only of philosophy, but also of

Scripture."

Here, in Elgin, it was that Croll first formed the

opinion which he matured and developed at intervals
from that time to his death, namely, that " the entire

universe is a process of determinations ; but not of
determinations occurring at random. There are a unity,

a plan, and a purpose pervading the whole which imply

thought and intelligence." Again and again he returned

                                            it
                                                  it,
to this thought, he brooded over and wrote upon in
                                                       :
magazines and pamphlets, till reached its final form in
                                                             it
his last work.

    On the nth of September 1848, he was married to

Isabella, second daughter of Mr. John Macdonald, Forres.

It curious coincidence that Croll's mother belonged
is
   a

to Elgin, and his wife to the immediately adjoining
town of Forres. In his own simple, manly way, he
writes briefly on his married life, saying only " The

union has proved  a  happy one. She has been the

sharer of my joys, sorrows, and trials (and these have
not been few) for the past forty years. Her care,
economy, and kindly attention to my comfort during

the years of comparative hardships through which we

have passed, have cheered me on during all my trials

and sorrows." Croll was man of few words, but                    aa
             a
                    a
                                         a
better deserved, truer tribute of gratitude and respect

to the partner of his life, never was penned by any man.
     Like many more bachelors in their solitude, Croll

had formed fond liking for the fragrant weed, and, for

some time, indulged this taste to such an extent as to

produce the inevitable result of excessive smoking --

dyspeptic affection. He tried to give up the habit

several times, but failed. At last, getting one or two

friends to join him, he made written pledge, on the
                                            a
CHOICE OF A TRADE                                            73

29th of December 1 849, to abandon the habit ; and

from that date up to the end, he adhered strictly to his

pledge. This little incident gives the keynote to the

character of the man. Nothing could deter him from

the accomplishment of what he deliberately resolved
                     " I had a terrible struggle with
upon and undertook.

the appetite. For two or three months I was in a state

of partial stupor ; and it was nearly three years before the

craving for tobacco left me." But, having once set his hand

to the plough, he scorned the very idea of turning back.

In this connection it may be mentioned that he had

been a pledged abstainer from intoxicating liquor for

several years. His parents had never been in the

habit of using intoxicating liquors, which, indeed, were

a luxury for which they had no need, no funds, and no

inclination. Croll had, therefore, been practically an

abstainer from infancy ; but when he came to the years
of maturity, he gave in his adhesion to total abstinence

as a matter of principle. During the time he was in Elgin

he acted as secretary of the Temperance Society there.
     In the course of his philosophical and religious read

ing, Croll had become acquainted with the writings of the

Rev. James (afterwards Dr.) Morison, of Kilmarnock ;
and, about the year 1 848 he opened up a correspond
ence with this eminent theologian, which continued at

intervals to the time of his death. A letter from Croll

to Dr. Morison, dated 24th November 1 849, gives a
vivid glimpse of the man as he then was.

                                                               ELGIN, 2$th November 1849.

MR. MORISON -- DEAR SIR, -- I duly received your

kind letter, and am much obliged to you for its con

tents, all the more so when I consider how little time

you must have for so particular details such as it

contains. You express at the end of your note a wish

to know something concerning me. This I am most

happy to do, though I am sure that, when you know

will be of little service to you.
it,                                                          am twenty
   it

                                                          I
74 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

eight years and married, but have no family. My
parents dwell near St. Martins, Perthshire. I was a
wright to trade, but four or five years ago I was

obliged to give up my trade on account of a sore arm,

and through the kindness of a few friends, particularly

Mr. John Lister, I was enabled to commence business

here about three years ago as a grocer. When young,

I got a good many years at school, but, I am sorry to say,

made little or no progress, having always had a perfect

hatred to school. My deficiency in spelling, writing,

grammar, has been a great loss to me in after years.

When I was about twelve years old, I happened to fall

in with a book upon theoretical astronomy which per

fectly fascinated me, and in order to get a knowledge

of that subject, I commenced the study of mechanics

and mathematics, and pursued eagerly this subject for

six or seven years, as far as time would permit me, to

the neglect of everything else but what I was obliged

to do. But being brought under deep religious impres
sions, I abandoned them altogether, and afterwards

studiously avoided them, knowing the danger I was
then in of being led away by them if I commenced
again. I was brought to the truth under Mr. Bonar,

Collace, and about that time your works on the atone

ment happened to come my way. The reasoning

contained in them was so forcible that I could not

resist and became an advocate of your views, and
a
eagerly read all the books written on that subject by
    I
you and others who were thus cast out.     was in
          it,                              I
                    a                                I

                  I
                      I
Paisley when the church was formed there, and left

that place little after Mr. Wilson came. Some years

ago fell in with Lord Kames on Liberty and Necessity,

and Edwards on the Will. That latter book perfectly

astonished me.           studied  over and over again, till
                                  it
got completely master of it.            saw that Calvinism was
                                     I

subject that was not so easily got rid of, which set me
in earnest to fathom the mystery how to get quit of
" awful necessity," in order to get
                                        a  comprehensive view
CHOICE OF A TRADE  75

of the subject. I commenced the study of the philo
sophy of mind, and read Brown, Reid, and some of D.
Stewart on that subject; with Combe, Spurzheim,
Smith, and others on the phrenological view of the
subject. So, instead of having got satisfaction, I am in
no hope that for years to come will I be so clear upon
that subject as I would fain wish and expect, though I

am perfectly satisfied that liberty is right. There is one
comfort, however, that the doctrine of necessity (philo

sophical) is hid in mist and metaphysics, so that few

can see it so as to believe it and act upon the belief.

But I must stop, for I have by this time wearied you

with what will be of little interest to you.-- I am, dear

sir, your obedient servant,
                                                             JAMES CROLL.

      The arm to which Croll refers in this letter began
about this time to give him more trouble. The elbow
joint was again attacked by inflammation ; the effect of

which, on this occasion, was to completely destroy the

joint and render it stiff and immovable. This was a
sore trial to him ; but it stopped further inflammation
of the elbow or trouble with the arm, and he afterwards
enjoyed better general health. This illness unfitted him
for some time for attending properly to the business of
his shop, in consequence of which the trade fell off, and
he was never able to restore the business. He tried

hard to regain his lost footing, but in vain ; and after
a while, finding that he was only losing money, he, in

dread of falling into debt, realised his business, paid his

debts, closed the shop, and left Elgin forthwith.
                        CHAPTER IV

                    RETURN TO PERTH IN 1850

IN the beginning of the summer of 1850, Croll, having
        left Elgin for good, returned to the city of Perth.
He had not, however, quite regained health after his
illness at Elgin, and it was a considerable time till he
recovered so fully as to be able to do any manual work.

At this time the effect of electricity and galvanism for

medical purposes had begun to attract attention, and
Croll now applied himself to the study of this subject.
He had long ago studied electricity in its theoretical
aspect, and was familiar with the principles upon which

electrical machines were necessarily constructed. It was

comparatively easy for him, therefore, to understand
upon what principle an electric or galvanic battery must

act. It was not so easy, however, for a disabled joiner

or tea merchant to construct such a machine. Nothing
possible, however, daunted Croll. Dire necessity drove
him to do something to earn a livelihood for himself
and his wife ; and so he applied himself to the con
struction of induction apparatus. These machines proved
thoroughly well made, complete in all respects, and well
adapted to the end in view. The writer had one of
them in his possession for several years, which he only
parted with to Croll himself in later years ; and as he
subsequently found out, it was given away to a poor
person who could not afford to buy one. He continued
the making of these machines for some time ; but, within
the comparatively limited area of Perth and Dundee, the
demand for them was very small, and soon became

                                                                              78
     RETURN TO PERTH IN i8jo                                         77

exhausted. With what he made in connection with

these machines he managed, through the economy of his

wife, to exist for about a year, during which he succeeded

in reading a good many of the writers of the Scottish

philosophical school.
      The inevitable " bread and butter " problem, however,

again presented itself. The demand for electrical energy

had been dissipated by Croll's industry, and no force he

could exert could conserve or create a demand which

had been fairly exhausted by supply. He had to earn

a livelihood for himself and wife, and what could he do ?

With a good deal of Micawber-like philosophy he looked

for   something to  tu" rpnhiloupso. pheWr h"athadvied  turn up would
to   any one but a                                      seemed a most

impracticable scheme. We have it in his own words :
" Some of my friends suggested that I should try a tem

perance hotel, and one of them stated that he was about
to erect a house at Blairgowrie, and that I could have

it for that purpose if I chose. After due considera

tion I made up my mind to try that course." There

is an honest, innocent simplicity about this, which

cannot fail to bring a sad smile over a business man's

countenance. That a man                           and wife with no    experience
     ahnoytelkibnuds--inesshso--uldansdtarvteray  little experience  of business
of                                                hotel, and that a
of                                                                   temperance

hotel ! Was anything more unpractical ever attempted ?

But that is not all. Where was this temperance hotel

to be? In Blairgowrie, a village of some 3500 inhabit
ants, with already one hotel and fifteen public-houses or

small inns in the place. Most people in such circum
stances would have seen that his " friend," the builder,

was looking rather to get an honest tenant for his new

house than to secure a livelihood for Croll and his wife.

But the impracticability of the scheme did not end there ;
for, as Croll says, " here was the difficulty : the house

required to be furnished, and this would require a con

siderable sum, which I had not. It occurred to me,

however, that as it would be some six or eight months
78 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

before the house would be ready for occupation, and as

my arm was now much improved, I might try and make
a considerable number of the necessary articles before
that time." Accordingly, the brave man set to work,
made the most of the furniture necessary for the hotel

with his own hands, and succeeded in getting the house
opened in the beginning of 1852.

     As was to be expected in a small place like Blair-

gowrie, where there were no railways, the visitors to the
temperance hotel were few and far between, and Croll
and his wife were unable to make a livelihood out of the
concern. He says, " Although Mrs. Croll had too much
work, I, on the contrary, unfortunately had too little."

With the practical wisdom of a " philosopher," he sought
work in the form of endeavouring to learn Latin under
the assistant teacher of the parish school. After about a
year's hard labour, he acquired a knowledge of the
rudiments of the language ; but, finding that it would
need another year to enable him to read Latin, he
abandoned the thing altogether.

      The temperance hotel having proved a failure after
a year and a halfs trial, Croll gave up the business, sold
off the furniture, and left the place. He left Blairgowrie
at the May term of 1853, and removed to Glasgow,

where he got an engagement as an out-door canvasser
for the Safety Insurance Co. This company was under

the directorship of Richard Cobden, John Bright, Henry
E. Gurney, Thomas Brassey, and others, whose names
were a great recommendation to the company. For
some time Croll was wonderfully successful as an
insurance canvasser, particularly amongst the working

men ; but as cholera found its way to Glasgow about
this date, the directors felt that it would be unwise to
push the business, and consequently Croll's services were
not long required. He accordingly returned again to

Perth, where, through the same friend who introduced
him to the tea trade, he was introduced to Dr. Robert D.
Thomson, chemist, one of the directors of the Temper
            RETURN TO PERTH IN 1850                                     79

ance Provident Institution, who was then on a visit to

the city of Perth. Through him Croll was offered an

agency in Dundee, and he was asked to devote his whole

time to the work.

    He accordingly removed to Dundee in August 1834,

and began his canvassing. Here, again, he proved very

successful in this uphill work. As we have already seen,

Croll was very systematic in his work, and had an

indomitable amount of perseverance. His method was

something like this. He selected a district and sent out

circulars with a prospectus containing table of rates and

other information. He then called on the people to

whom the circulars had been sent. Frequently he

received only a cool reception from one out of thirty or

forty whom he circularised and called for. When he did

get this, he carefully explained the principles of
insurance, the advantages of the company he represented,

and tried to press the duty of insuring home to the

person. Many times he had to make three or four calls
                                " proposal  "
on  a  man  before  he  got  a                    and  when             this
                                               ;

was got, the sum to be insured was generally of a very

limited amount. The writer has been with him on

several of these canvassing visits, and could not but

admire Croll's patient and persevering plan of pushing

the business. His manner was quiet, earnest, and con

vincing. He was very serious and deliberate in the

matter, he had a remarkable knowledge of the

advantages of life insurance, and he readily and success

fully met objections when stated. The directors of the

Safety Society had not lost sight of such a serviceable

man ; by and by they offered him their agency in

Edinburgh on much better terms than he had from the

Provident in Dundee, and he at once accepted the offer.

So he left Dundee in the month of May 1855, and

removed to Edinburgh. He found, however, that this

city was the home of insurance, and that it was much
                        ""wparsopaonsaElsng" litshheroefficteh,ananidn
more difficult  to get                                                  Dundee.
Besides, the "  Safety                                                  although
8o LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the names of the directors were a source of strength, it

was a comparatively new office, and had not any
exceptional advantages to offer over those of old

established Scottish offices which had their chief places
of business, with resident directors and local influence, in

the city.

      In the spring of 1856, his father, David Croll, died at
the paternal home in Wolfhill, at the good old age of
seventy-five, having passed the allotted span of threescore

years and ten, and done an honest life's hard work.
      About this time took place the failure of the Western

Bank of Scotland, which threw thousands who were in

comparative comfort into penury, and seriously affected
commercial enterprise. Nothing so prejudicially affects
insurance business as a disaster like this, and Croll as
well as all other insurance agents felt this keenly. He
could not prosecute insurance business to any extent in
the evenings ; and, accordingly, after his work during the

day was finished, he utilised his spare hours in the
prosecution of his favourite study, philosophy. Now
he began his study of Kant, perhaps the profoundest and
most original thinker of modern times, of whom he says :

" With the exception of Edwards, no writer has made
such an impression on nay mind as Kant." No wonder

that this great philosopher should produce such an
impression on a purely philosophical mind ; the marvel
would have been had it been otherwise. The remarkable
thing is that he should link with this giant of modern
thought the name of Edwards. But it has to be borne
in mind that it was Edwards who shone out as a sun on
the darkness of his early mind, who appeared as a light
at the early dawn of his philosophic life, quickened all
his intellectual powers, and cleared to a large extent his
pathway for future study and investigation. The per
sistent study of philosophy in which Croll was now
engaged in his evening hours soon began to strain his
eyesight seriously, and brought on an ocular affection

which was accompanied by considerable pain. Since
RETURN TO PERTH IN 1850  81

infancy he had been more or less subject to a pain at
the opening of the head, which seemed now to transfer
itself to the eyes. He therefore resorted to a plan of
reading with the aid of a piece of plain coloured glass
placed on the book ; and this had the effect of mitigating

the pain in the eyes. It continued, however, to afflict him

not a little for several years, but he went on reading with
his coloured glass despite the pain.

     In 1856 the Directors of the Safety Insurance

Company, finding that not much progress was being
made by their office in the city of Edinburgh, thought
that Croll might be tried in a more industrial centre ;
and, accordingly, they asked him to go to Leicester,

where there was a large working-class population. One
of the directors happened to be a member of Parliament
for the town at the time, and it was believed that his

name and influence would work a charm on intending
insurers. Unfortunately, " the people of Leicester seemed
to think that one of the old-established Scotch offices was

fully as safe as the Safety." Notwithstanding all Croll's

patience and perseverance, very few proposals could be
got for the Safety ; and the months spent in Leicester
proved one of the hardest and most trying periods of his

life.

      After being about six months in Leicester, Mrs. Croll
became seriously ill, and the medical men consulted
recommended her to leave the place. This she did as
soon as she was able to be removed, and Croll returned
with her to Glasgow. There she lay ill for about a year,
but, under the careful nursing of her sister and the
assiduous attention of her husband, she at length recovered.

     Of course, Croll could not leave his wife in her

delicate state of health to go back to Leicester; and
indeed there was not much inducement to return. He

accordingly bade that town good-bye, and as the Safety
Company had already tried Scotland with too little
success to warrant their having an agent in Glasgow, he
left their employment. He, however, got an engagement

             6
82 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

readily from the Temperance Provident Institution, for

which he had formerly done good work. Paisley was
the place selected for his operations ; but the " Paisley
people " have always been rather difficult to deal with,

and, as a shrewd observer of human nature once remarked,
it is necessary " to keep your eye on Paisley." After six

or eight months' trial of insurance canvassing in this old

weaving town, Croll was obliged to give it up as a hope
less task ; and he " then formally abandoned the insurance

business altogether, after spending [in       a it]four and a half

years of about the most disagreeable part of my life."

Thus closed Croll's career as an insurance canvasser.

Any one who knew the man can only marvel that he

continued in  it  so long and proved comparatively so

successful. To the ordinary observer more unlikely

man for an insurance canvasser could hardly be imaginedit
than Croll. As he says, " To one like me, naturally so

fond of retirement and even of solitude, was painful
having constantly to make up to strangers." Yet how

bravely he struggled on in spite of his dislike of the work,

and his constitutional inaptitude for  it          His indomitable

                                           !

perseverance and manly independence alone made him a

fairly successful agent despite these drawbacks and         it
                                                         ;

need only be added here that he earned the respect and

confidence of the directors of both institutions in which

he served in this capacity, leaving the Temperance

Institution to the regret of all those connected with its

management.
               CHAPTER V

              LITERARY WORK

HAVING left Paisley, Croll returned to Glasgow in
              1857, but for some time failed to obtain any re
munerative employment. He could not be idle, so he

commenced to bring together some thoughts on the

Metaphysics of Theism. On this subject he had been

thinking seriously for several years, and the following

remarks by an able writer in the Christian News are
interesting in this connection :-- " We met Mr. Croll first

about the year 1854 in Glasgow. He was then deeply
interested in theology and philosophy. We foregathered

in an old book-shop, and had long talks over the doctrine

of the Will as explained by Edwards, and other
kindred topics which then occupied his attention. At

that time he called himself a ' moderate Calvinist,' and

under that designation published a pamphlet on Pre
              It was pronounced by the Rev. Dr.
destination.

Morison, no mean judge, ' an extraordinary production.

He also about that time published a pamphlet on the

bearings of geology and astronomy on the creation of

the world. Dr. Croll took a special interest in the

doctrine of the divine existence, and his first volume of

any size and pretension was The Philosophy of Theism.
This is a thoughtful work, and displays not a little
philosophical insight and acumen. It was eagerly dis

cussed by a knot of students who used to meet with the

author in the old book store. Tappan's works on the

Will and Cousin's History of Philosophy were in the

hands at that time of not a few who met with Dr. Croll.

              S3
84 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

The discussions and     talk were always  of the most friendly
                        there were few    tougher opponents
character, --though

than the author of The Philosophy of Theism. We think we
see him still, calmly laying down his propositions and

pressing home his arguments. If some of the more

impetuous youths would break in with a word, he would

              and then with outstretched hand would
listen to  it,
                     a
resume the thread of his argument and go on to the end.

In these days he was highly respected, honoured, and

loved, felt to be master of philosophic thought, and the

possessor of more than ordinary mental power. He was

a devoted student of Hitchcock of the United States, and

intended to republish his works in this country. The

prospectus of his Psychology was issued, but the work

never appeared. All the time, Dr. Croll was studying

the great scientific problems which engaged the time and

thought of savants. He revelled in these studies till he

mastered many of them, and advanced in certain direc

tions further than any of his contemporaries."

The Philosophy of Theism did not make its appearance
so easily as  indicated by the foregoing sketch. It
              is
                   a

                        it
                                       a
seems to have been rapidly composed, probably in three

or four months, but was the result of many years' hard

reading and earnest thinking. At first, Croll intended
merely to write few columns on the Dependence of

Theism on Metaphysics for local newspaper. He soon

found, however, that in the short space allotted for such

an article, nothing like justice could be done to the

subject. He therefore abandoned his original purpose,

and continued writing until he had produced a volume.

After was written, he was at loss what to do with it.
it
            a

                                   a
                                               a

                                               it
                                                                   a
He had not the means to publish at his own cost, and

publishers were chary of work on such peculiar sub

ject, which must necessarily have only a limited circulation.

He tried several publishers, who, though all satisfied of

the merit of the work, were not prepared to run the risk

of publishing work on such a subject by an unknown

author.
LITERARY WORK  85

     At last a firm agreed to take the risk of publishing

on the system of " half profits " after the expenses were

paid. Only five hundred copies were printed, and the

book appeared anonymously. It was favourably criticised

by the press, though Croll himself says it " attracted but
little general attention." The subject was one, however,

not calculated to attract much general attention, and it
is a very high tribute to the intrinsic merit of the work

that an anonymous book on an abstruse subject should
have received the notice it did, and that it sold to such

an extent. It not only paid all expenses, but left some

thing over to divide as profit. What that was we have

not been able to ascertain definitely, but when the
publishers remitted to Croll the sum of ten pounds as a

first instalment, he felt much gratified.
      The aim of the work is stated in the preface as

follows, " The direct object of the work is not to prove
the existence of God, but to investigate the method to be
pursued, in order to arrive at a proof of his existence.

     " In the first part we have attempted to show that a
purely d priori or a purely d posteriori proof of the
existence of God is impossible. We cannot, on the
one hand, arrive at a proof by means of d priori elements

alone without experience ; neither can we, on the other,

by means of experience, without d priori elements. The

only possible way, then, is by a method which combines
both. We have thus two elements in the proof, objects

or facts of experience, and d priori principles. But before

we can legitimately use these principles in our proof, in

opposition to the atheist, we must first establish their
validity. This we cannot do without having recourse to
metaphysics. But here a formidable difficulty meets us
at the outset; for metaphysics itself is a science, the
validity of which few atheists will acknowledge. And,

to add to our difficulty, theists themselves have generally
misunderstood or underrated this science. We are there
fore necessitated to enter into a vindication of metaphysics,

which forms Part II. We find that the chief objection
86 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

urged against metaphysics, is the fact of its present

imperfection when compared with mathematics and the

natural sciences. We are then led into an examination

of the essential difference between metaphysics and

mathematics, in order to show that, from the very

nature of metaphysics, it must succeed mathematics,

and that its present imperfect state is no proof whatever

of any essential defect in its nature. After this, we are

prepared to enter into the third, and last, part of the

work, a discussion of the method of proof. But before

proceeding far, we find that we must have recourse to the

principle of causality, and here, again, another difficulty

meets us ; for this principle is in about as unsettled a

state as metaphysics itself, and we are then led into a

long discussion, in order to fix precisely its nature and

import ; after which, all that remains is simply the

exposition of the method of proof."

      The Rev. Dr. Morison, of Glasgow, writes regarding

this volume : " I wrote a critique upon it for the Evan
gelical Repository, December 1857. In his volume Dr.
Croll says : ' I affirm that it is an absolute impossibility,

                is,
a thing which never was, or can be, namely, that the

will should determine its own acts.'
      " on my part affirmed and still affirm that the will
I                                                                        is
       I                                                                          is
self-determining. Dr. Croll held by Jonathan Edwards.
  on my part held more by Tappan than Edwards. My

criticism was severe, but did not break the friendship
                it
that subsisted between us, and which, am happy to say,I
                      :
continued unabated to the close of his life. The longer
                           I
I  knew Dr. Croll, the more admired him." The truth

of the foregoing observation regarding the severity of the

criticism not   tdhiestuforbllionwg intgheleirttefrri--endly  relations  well
illustrated by

                                                   21 NEW SNEDDON STREET, PAISLEY,

                                                                                         October 1857.

    REV. JAMES MORISON -- DEAR SIR, -- Referring to

The Philosophy of Theism, would have led to better
                it
                                                        a
                     LITERARY WORK                                   87

understanding in regard to its arrangement, had I stated
that the direct object of the work is the solution of the

following problem. Given an organic body, show how it

can be rationally proved that its cause must have been
a personality, endowed with intelligence, will, and sensi

tivity, --that the entire argument is contained in Part III.
Sections 1,2, 3,9, 10, n, 12, 13, 14; and that the

rest of the book was written, either in anticipation of
objections, or to pave the way to the argument. I shall

feel obliged if you will, at your leisure, read these sections
by themselves in the order I have marked them.

                                         I am, etc., JAMES CROLL.

The following letters from Professor Ferrier and Principal
Cairns may also be quoted as indicating the opinions of
the merits of the work formed by two distinguished

thinkers belonging to different philosophical schools :--

                                                      ST. ANDREWS, 1$th January 1859.

    DEAR SIR, -- I have read attentively the volume en
titled The Philosophy of Theism, and I am impressed with

the acuteness and power of coherent and independent

thought which it displays. The style is concise and, for
those who are at all conversant with the subjects treated
of, perspicuous. The main object of the treatise, to show
mainly the distinction between will as producing, and
intelligence as determining motion, is well made out. In

some form or other this distinction is essential to the

Theistic argument ; and I am not aware of any quarter
where it is more clearly stated than it is in this book.
There are many other topics touched upon in the volume

in a way which shows a thoughtful and original considera
tion of the subject : and I believe that all who are inter

ested in philosophical inquiries may read it with profit and

satisfaction. Even where they may not agree with the
                                           J.
book will assist in
                                                                it,
and clear.--Yours    rendering their  own  ideas more definite
                     faithfully,                F. FERRIER.

MR. JAMES CROLL,
88 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                                      BERWICK, izth August 1858.

     GENTLEMEN, -- About a year ago you sent me a treat

ise on The Philosophy of Theism, and afterwards wrote
requesting my opinion of it. I was obliged altogether

to decline a judgment, as my health was very much

broken, and I was not equal to my necessary duties. I

have since so far recovered as to study a little, and having
read the work with some care, though still without

critical accuracy, I venture to express my sense of its

qualities.

      I am much pleased with the advanced state of

intelligence displayed by the writer as to the exact
shape and pressure of metaphysical questions at the
present time. He has evidently read in many schools ;
and, what is still better, he is a vigorous and independent
thinker, who can grasp the essence of a subject, and
express it without either vagueness or pedantic nicety in
clear and comprehensible English.

      His work is a positive contribution to the theistic
argument, and I regard him as on the right track, for

the argument from causality, however decried by some,
is the only valid basis of philosophical theism, and there
is both ingenuity and solidity in the way he connects the
causal principle with the design argument, so as to reason
from the determinations of motion that make up organised

bodies. I think, however, that this trunk line of his
argument needs to be made a little more prominent, and

regret, though his digressions are both able and satis
factory, that they somewhat hide the main thread of

discussion. Nor, so far as I remember, admitting as

he does that the ordinary argument for the contingency

of the universe is invalid, has he supplied any other
proof of the non-eternity of matter with its present

dispositions and arrangements, so as to make way
for the causal principle and its consequences, as he
holds it.

     I am much interested by the intelligence and vigour
of his reduction of all science to metaphysical starting
             LITERARY WORK                                                  89

points, and also by the vindication of free will as an

ontological question from falling under the testimony of

consciousness. This is one of the most original things
in the book, and betokens a strong thinker. His

frequent references to Kant, so far as I remember, are

accurate ; only I think that Kant and he mean the same

thing respecting mathematical reasoning as founded on

sensuous imaginations. Kant does not mean that this

is d priori in the same sense as the categories of the

understanding, though he uses the word ; and the writer
does not mean, by calling it " empirical," that it could

ever be based on mere observation, without the ante

cedent intuitions of space which make observation
possible, and which, according to Kant, account for,

by necessitating, the harmony between d priori or

abstract mathematical truths and the actual world of

lines and figures.

     But I do not go into further details. I regard the

work as one of no ordinary promise, far above the great

body of similar contributions. The writer, I hope, will

produce something still better, and needs only to give

himself entirely to this topic or any other to secure

distinguished success.

     Again   tfhoarnmkiynglonygoudefolary,s--endI inagm,  me    the  work,  and
apologising                                               etc.

                                                          JOHN CAIRNS.

It is a remarkable testimony to the candour and

critical ability of Dr. Cairns that he should, from the

perusal of this anonymous volume, predict that the

writer needed only to give himself entirely to this topic

or any other to achieve distinguished success. This
expression of prophetic insight was wonderfully verified

in Croll's case, who afterwards achieved such distinguished

success, writing on very different topics.

Croll had forwarded a copy of The Philosophy of
                                   Barclay of
Theism to the late Principal       the following                     Glasgow
University, from whom he received
                                                                     letter :--
go LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                                     CURRIE, 6th May, 1858.

SIR,-- I beg to apologise for having delayed so long

to thank you for presenting me with a copy of The

Philosophy of Theism. It furnishes very satisfactory

evidence that you have thought deeply on what must

be admitted to be a deep subject.

     I very much sympathise with you in your desire to
have the benefit of a university education, and if my

influence  wciallninagvlyailusinedo. --btaIinainmg,  a bursary for you, it shall
be most                                              dear sir, yours faithfully,

                                                     T. BARCLAY.

JAMES CROLL, ESQ.

    This shows how anxious Croll was to have the benefit

ol a thorough systematic university education, a desire

which he was destined never to be able to have satisfied.
The book, however, had evidently secured the kindly
interest and sympathy of the learned Principal, who, as
will be afterwards seen, when opportunity offered, did not

hesitate to use his influence in furthering Croll's interests.

      The Philosophy of Theism, although it did not attract

much general attention, established conclusively the fact
that the writer was a man of considerable mental power,

who could express his thoughts in clear, forcible style.
The reputation thus gained led to his appointment on

the Commonwealth, a weekly newspaper published in
Glasgow, and chiefly devoted to the promotion of the

temperance cause. As Croll was an ardent abstainer,
this was a sphere in which he could, and did, work with
a will.

      In the spring of 1858 his mother, Janet Croll, died in
the old house at Wolf hill, at the advanced age of seventy-
seven. His brother David, who, as already mentioned,

was somewhat deformed, having now no one to look

after the home, left Wolfhill and went to reside with
Croll in Glasgow.

     About the middle of the year 1858, Croll met with an

accident which caused considerable pain and discomfort,
LITERARY WORK  91

as well as unfitted him in the future for much physical
exertion. He says : " One day, while suddenly exerting

my whole strength in using a joiner's plane in dressing a
piece of wood, something appeared to give way about the
region of the heart. Medical men have never been able
to detect what is wrong, But ever since then, though
my health and strength remained unimpaired, I dared
not lift anything, or attempt to run or even walk

fast."

      Notwithstanding this, he continued his duties in the
Commonwealth office. He remained in this situation for

about a year and a half. About the end of that period,
the directors of the Andersonian College, Glasgow,
advertised for a janitor, and Croll applied for the situation.
It appears that during his stay in Glasgow Croll had
spent some time at Thornliebank, where Walter Crum,
Esq., the Chairman of the Andersonian, lived. This
gentleman had casually come across Croll there, and

learned to respect him. Through his influence, aided, it
is said, by that of Professor Ferrier of St. Andrews and
Principal Barclay of Glasgow, Croll was appointed to the
humble post. He entered on his new duties at the end
of the autumn of 1859, and, within the walls of the

 Andersonian, found a quiet resting-place for several

years. " Taking it all in all," he says, " I have not been

 in any place so congenial to me as that institution
 proved. After upwards of twenty years of an unsettled
 life, full of hardships and difficulties, it was a relief to get

 settled down in what might be regarded as a permanent

home. My salary was small, it is true, little more than

 sufficient to enable us to subsist, but this was compensated
 by advantages for me of another kind."

       His duties in this institution were of a somewhat

 humble nature ; but they did not tax his mental powers,

 so that in leisure hours he was fresh for such intellectual
 work as he found congenial. " The Museum was open
 from 1 1 A.M. till 3 P.M., and as I had little or nothing to
 do with the arranging and classification of the specimens,
it        92 LIFE OF JAMES CROLLait,
   a                                a
         aand there were but few visitors, I had generally a few
          hours a day of a quiet time for reading and study." His
          brother David was of great assistance to him in the'
          performance of his duties. In fact, he superintended and
          performed most of the routine and mechanical work of               ;

          seeing the rooms cleaned, the fires kept up, and the doors

          opened and class-rooms aired.

               A student of the time writes :' " The first time I saw

          Mr. Croll would be as he stood at the door of the foot of

          the stair leading to the lecture hall in which the lectures

          to the evening classes were delivered, as I showed him
          my ticket as a passport for entrance. I mind that he

          never officiously demanded a sight of but simply gave
                glance when shown to him. Croll was very obliging.

          When a student wanted to hear any single lecture to

          which he had not class ticket, he readily admitted him
          with nod. This showed his strong sympathy with any
          real student thirsting for knowledge. Only to known
          student of the institution, however, was the privilege
          accorded, and that only for any single lecture,' so that
          the teacher really suffered nothing, while the anxious

          inquirer might profit much."
                Croll had evening as well as day duties to perform

          but the most irksome and disagreeable duty was that of
          collecting subscriptions from private gentlemen for the
          support of the institution. This was odious to Croll,

          perhaps even more so than insurance canvassing, as he
          was often met with the remark that his university could

          not support itself, should be given up. Yet not word
          of murmur escaped his lips, and the subject not even
          referred to in his Autobiography.

                During his period of janitorship he had access to the
          fine scientific library belonging to the Glasgow Philo
          sophical Society, privilege of which he availed himself.
          " Here also was the library of four or five thousand
          volumes in connection with the evening classes of the
          institution, and, further, the private library of the founder
          of the institution, consisting of over two thousand volumes."
            a it

                                   if

                                                                   is
                                                                          a
LITERARY WORK  93

The attractions of these libraries, containing a large
number of the most valuable works on physical science,
were so great as to draw off his attention to a consider

able extent from his philosophical and theological studies,
and for a time he resolved to devote his attention entirely
to the prosecution of that department of study. Accord
ingly, he resumed the study of physics at the place where
he had left off in former years.

     It will be remembered that when Croll was only about

fifteen or sixteen years of age, he studied " the laws of
motion and the fundamental principles of mechanics. In
like manner I studied pneumatics, hydrostatics, light,

heat, electricity, and magnetism," without any assistance,

as there was no one near him who could really help him.
These were the subjects of which he resumed the investi

gation now, in the congenial atmosphere of the Ander-
sonian Institution. As in earlier years he had never
burdened his memory with the mere details of the
physical sciences, but pressed on till he had grasped " the

laws or principles which they were intended to illustrate,"
so he still pursued the same plan. Croll could never
keep the results of his study bottled up in his brain for

his own selfish satisfaction, but was always, from his

earliest down to his latest days, ready and anxious to let
others have the benefit of his investigations. So now, no

 sooner had he made any discovery than he longed to
communicate it for the general benefit. He thought
 very little of the monetary reward he might receive for
 his scientific work, although he never enjoyed much of
 this world's wealth. Many important papers were
 gratuitously sent by him to various magazines, and even

 when he did receive fees for his articles, they were fre

 quently spent in reprinting separate copies to be sent to
 scholars at home and abroad. We may truly say that a
 more unselfish, a more generous man of science, a man
 more wholly free from the " odium scientificum " than

 James Croll never breathed.
       Dr. Morison writes, regarding Dr. Croll, under date
94 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

3rd September 1891 : " My acquaintance with Dr. Croll

commenced very soon after my removal to Glasgow in

1851. In these early days I had a large and lively theo
logical class. The subjects discussed thrilled into the souls

of not a few noble youths ; and, indeed, the influence of the

class exercises continues, in a subtle form, to the present

day, strong and sweet.
      " Dr. Croll found his way into this class not exactly as

a member, for he put no questions, but as an interested

spec"taWtoer  and listener.  know  each  other,  and  thenceforward
              soon came to

our intercourse grew apace, for I was able to assist him
somewhat in literary work. It was not that our thoughts

ran in absolute unison. They did not. But somehow

we loved one another with pure hearts fervently. Our
intimacy increased as time rolled on, and I not infre

quently found myself turning into his little room in the

' Andersonian,' that we might exercise a little fencing on

some of our favourite battlefields. Dr. Croll about that

period revelled among the new books that were laid, as it

were, to his hand in the ' University.'
      " He had obtained a humble position as bedellus of

that vigorous educational institute. He diligently improved

his opportunity, and struck on many new veins of ideas

which led him far and wide into the interminable fields of

science, pure and simple. He had been from early life

an omnivorous reader. But the new views of science soon

received from him the lion's share of his attention -- the

place of pre-eminence as regards his most thoughtful

thinking on the one hand, and his miscellaneous reading

on the other.
      " Ere long the consciousness of latent power grew

within him, and continued to grow, till an overmastering

conviction came upon him, to the effect that he too, as well

as others, had a service laid upon him in the way of

guiding some of the chief scientific currents of the age.

With a view to fulfil this mission, he read and wrote
largely on Molecular Physics. It was his first great
LITERARY WORK  95

effort, the beginning and inauguration of a bright scientific
career. Even as regards style of composition he reached
maturity by leaps and bounds. The style in which he
settled was conspicuous for dignity, manliness, and for

translucency."
                        CHAPTER VI

                        EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK

HAVING settled down quietly in the humble sphere
             of janitor of the Andersonian University in 1859,
where the duties, not of a laborious though mostly menial
kind, were largely performed by his brother, Croll found
the College a congenial home, as he resided on the
premises. To most men of mental ability the situation
would probably have been monotonous and irksome ;
but Croll, with his contented disposition and studious
habits, found himself planted in a comparatively congenial
sphere. For fifteen years previous to his going there,
he had been engaged in philosophical and theological
studies ; and he had already put the result of some of
these studies into systematic form. He found the
attractions of physical science and the facilities afforded
for its study in the Andersonian Library too strong to
resist; and, accordingly, he threw himself with character
istic vigour into that department.

      From 1 8 59 to 1 864 there is really little or nothing to
record regarding his personal life, as the due performance
of his daily duties at the University, and the equally
steady amount of daily scientific study, occupied him
from week to week and year to year with little variety.
He was fond of long walks in the country, and was a keen
observer and admirer of the beauties of nature. His
daily walks were most frequently taken alone, so that
what he observed might be noted down either on the
spot or immediately when he returned home. He was
essentially a solitary student and observer of nature, and

                                                                              98
                EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  97

did not care for his mental meditations being disturbed

by ordinary conversation. It will be remembered that

even during his boyhood he had studied physical science

with considerable success, and that in those early studies

his inclination was more to the mastery of first principles

than scientific details. So likewise now, when the

opportunity was afforded him of access to the best

scientific works in the Andersonian Library, the bent

of his mind led him to the study of first principles.

Having ascertained these on a given branch of science,

his object in all his studies was to advance that science

either by the further application of the principles known,

or more generally by the investigation and discovery of

some new principle.  Hence all the results of his

observation, investigation, and study, so soon as put into

shape, were speedily communicated to the scientific and
reading public, both through the medium of scientific

societies and the press. With characteristic courtesy

and kindly consideration, he was always ready to give

any scientific man the benefit of his studies, and to spare

no pains in communicating the results thereof, as will be

seen later on.

      In the subsequent part of this book it is proposed to
incorporate the gist of the numerous papers contributed

by Dr. Croll to various learned societies and publications.

A complete list of these works, with references to the

sources where they may be found, is printed in an

appendix ; and the numbers used in the following
account of them correspond to these in that list.

     In the early years of his scientific labours, Mr. Croll

published several very interesting contributions, which

showed that he was busily occupied in thinking out for

himself some of the great problems that were being
ardently discussed by the leading physicists in the
sixties. During the whole of his life he continued to

interest himself in his early studies, and occasionally
published a paper bearing on physical problems ; but for

many years he devoted his attention chiefly to the great

7
;98 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                "),problems of theoretic geology, and, in 1864, he began
 the brilliant series of solutions which make his name one
 of the most illustrious in the history of this science. In

 1865 he discussed, in the now defunct Reader, the
 physical cause of the submergence of the land during the
 Glacial epoch, and pointed out that the North Sea must
 have been invaded by land ice during that period.

       From that time onwards he produced in quick
succession a series of papers of the greatest importance,
 in which he dealt with the secular variations of climate,
more particularly during the Glacial period, and gradually
developed his theories of their cause. In ten years' time
he had so far elaborated and arranged his results that he
could publish Climate and Time, a book that was at
once recognised as an epoch-making work on theoretic

geology. A summary of this work, after four years'

further reflection, was published in the Encyclopedia
Britannica (Article " Geology and also in Sir Archibald

Geikie's Text-Book of Geology. Occasional physical

papers had appeared during the ten years devoted to
Climate and Time but after its publication they

became more frequent. All had some connection with

the ideas that had occupied his attention so long and so
profitably, and deal with such subjects as the Origin and
Age of the Sun, Nebulae, etc.

      Mr. Croll's papers are distinguished by remarkable
concentration of thought, joined to a very great lucidity
of exposition. They are, therefore, not less interesting
and intelligible to the general reader than valuable to
the special student.

     In order to make the account of Dr. Croll's scientific

work as brief and clear as possible, the papers have been
considered in six groups, within each of which chrono

logical order has, as far as possible, been followed --

             1. Early Physical Papers, 1861-1864.
             2. Age and Origin of the Sun. Nebulae.

                   Geological Climate and Chronology.
3.
                                                                      a

                                                                                                                  :
EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  99

             4. Glacial Epoch and Glaciers.
               5. Ocean Currents.
               6. Miscellaneous Papers.

      The most weighty contributions are those summarised

in Nos. 3, 4, and 5.

         i. EARLY PHYSICAL PAPERS, 1861-1864.

      Croll was a man who never went into anything
without adequate preparation, or adopted theories without

making the most thorough investigation possible and
applying the most rigid tests that could be devised.
Accordingly, before he wrote on any subject, he took all

the precautions which his mind could suggest to verify
any propositions he might advance. Thus we find that,
before he began writing on Physics at all, he went
through a course of reading, which to a trained student
would be considered tolerably hard work, but which to
Croll, with his weak eyesight and other defects, must

have been a prolonged mental effort. During the years
1860 and 1 86 1 he appears to have chiefly occupied
himself with the study and investigation of the results
of the researches of Faraday, Joule, Thomson, Tyndall,
Rankine, and others on Heat, Electricity, and Magnetism.
The immediate result of these studies was the publication
of his paper in 1861 on Ampere's experiment. It
appeared in the Philosophical Magazine in the month of
April of that year, and was entitled " Remarks on
Ampere's Experiment on the Repulsion of a Rectilinear
Electrical Current on itself" (No. 2).

     In May 1862 he returned to the same subject, and

wrote another paper entitled " Remarks on Ampere's
Experiment on the Repulsion of a Rectilinear Current
on itself" (No. 4), which appeared in the Philosophical
Magazine of that month. In October 1862 he wrote
an explanatory note on " Amperian Repulsion " (No. 7),
accompanied by an illustrated figure, which appeared in
the Philosophical Magazine of that year.
ioo LIFE OF JAMES CKOLL

      These communications by Croll throw much light on
the extent and depth of his knowledge of electricity.
Forty years previously, Ampere had discovered the
peculiar action of one current of electricity on another,
and also the laws which regulate such action. He found,
for example, that if two hoops are hung up beside one
another with their planes vertical, and so attached to
their supports as to be capable of rotating round a
vertical axis, and a current of electricity then passed
through each, the two hoops will rotate until they are

parallel to one another, the electric current flowing in the

same direction in both.
      From this Ampere proceeded to examine what action,

if any, a current has upon itself. He bent a piece of wire
into the shape of an elongated U, and then bent the curved

part so as to be in a plane at right angles to that of the
straight parallel portions. The wire thus bent was laid
upon mercury contained in two separate parallel channels,
so that one of the straight parts floated on the mercury
in each channel. In this way the straight portions of the
wire could move endways with great freedom, while
always connected together at one end by the curved part,
which formed an arch between them. When the two
portions of mercury were connected with the terminals of
a battery, a current passed from one to the other by way
of the floating wire, and it was found that, under these

circumstances, the wire always moved away from the ends
of channels with which the battery was connected. This

experiment led Ampere to believe that a current was
self-repellent ; and his experiment was held as establishing
this astonishing fact for many years.

      In 1 86 1, Principal Forbes, of St. Andrews University,
read a paper before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in

which he described an experiment seemingly at variance

with the self-repellent theory. His experiment was
similar to Ampere's in theory, with the exception that
the movable bend of the circuit was detached from the

rest ; and he found that this movable joint not only was
                EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK                  lol

not repelled, but was held strongly attached to the fixed

part of the circuit. He also threw doubt on the experi

ment of Ampere ever having been successfully performed,

or at least verified up till then.

     A paper of Croll's appeared in the Philosophical

Magazine (No. 2) at this time, showing, with consider
able subtlety, that, although Ampere's experiment were

successful, it would not prove that a current repelled

itself, as the experiment could otherwise be easily
explained. He showed, in addition, how this theory led

to manifest contradictions. He was therefore led to

adopt the theory propounded by Principal Forbes,

although here again he showed that the attraction of the

movable bend could be explained without assuming that

the attraction was caused by the moving current. Here

the matter rested until Maxwell showed that the experi

ment gives no proof of what force any one portion of

a current exerts upon another.

      In March 1862, Croll read a paper before the Chemi
cal Society of Glasgow on " The Relation of Chemical Com
bination to Specific Heat " (No. 3), in which he showed
that by applying heat to solids or liquids, part of it

raises the temperature and part works against mechanical

cohesion, the relative proportions of each being according

to their relative resistance ; and that, therefore, the
specific heat of bodies increases as the temperature

rises. The general principle
                        a       that, other things being
                                 is,
                                                       the greater its
                                                  is,
equal, the more easily fused a body

specific heat.

To the meeting of the British Association in 1862
                              paper on " The Cohesion of
Mr. Croll communicated

Gases, and its Relation to Recent Experiments on the
Thermal Effects of Elastic Fluids in Motion " (No. 5).

      In this paper, he points out that the deviations from

Boyle's law, seen in such easily liquefiable gases as

carbonic acid gas, can readily be explained by the
cohesion of their particles. He also holds that cohesion

explains why, in gases which deviate most from Boyle's law,
tos LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the co-efficient of expansion is greatest, the co-efficient of
expansion increases with the density, and, when com

pressed under the same conditions, most work is done,

and when expanded by heat, least work is done.

      Cohesion and Thomson and Joule's       EMxopteiornim. --entIsn  on the
Thermal Effect of Elastic Fluids in                                    these

experiments of Thomson and Joule, gases which had

been highly compressed in a vessel were allowed to

escape through a porous plug, and were then found

to have a lower temperature than when they were com

pressed. As the cooling due to the expansion of the

gas is not compensated for by the heat of friction, Croll

suggested that part of the heat must have been used in

overcoming the cohesion of the gas. He could not

suggest an explanation          as said, the temperature of
                       is,
the expanded gas              if,
                                         is
                         in some cases, highest.
      Cohesion and Carnots Function. -- Dr. Joule suggested

                                                i
                                                         T

                                                     EE
                                                         T
this    formula  for  Carnot's  function:    /&=  ----                where

                                                    +

TJ= Joule's equivalent,a     = co-efficient of expansion, and

    = temperature in degrees centigrade. Professor ThomsonE

noted that this does not always give the true value. As

the temperature of gas diminishes, the amount of heat

consumed by cohesion increases. But with saturated

vapours the reverse holds good, cohesion increases as the

temperature rises. Only for a perfect gas can the formula

hold at all temperatures. For imperfect gases and vapours

the function will deviate in opposite directions.

     At this time the great question discussed by physicists

was the dynamical theory of heat, and Croll made

several contributions to the controversy. In his paper,
" On the Mechanical Power of Electro-Magnetism,"

communicated to       twheheBnritaishcuArrsesnotciatiorneduince1d86f2rom(NoA.  6),
he contends that,                                                              to
B,
           B,

                                                          is
                                                                                                        is is
     although the heat evolved in the conducting wire

now x B2 instead of A2, the heat in the entire circuit

really  the missing heat being found in the battery.
If mechanical work be done, the heat given off in the
             EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK                        103

whole circuit, from the same current, will be diminished

by the thermal equivalent of the work performed, which

he shows to be derived from the electric current. This

he explains by supposing the molecules to have resistance,

so that when the one at the pole of the battery is set in

motion by chemical action, this disturbs the next particle,

and so on, giving the series of molecular vibrations which
we perceive as heat. In the electro-magnetic machine

the current generated by chemical action passing through

soft iron makes the molecules magnetic, and equilibrium

is regained by the mechanical work done. This will be

greater as the resistance producing heat is diminished,
and it also depends on the " amount of resistance offered

by the magnetic element as an outlet to the electric
       "
force        so that  the  harder  the  iron,  the  less  the
          ;

mechanical work. Hence the amount of molecular

resistance determines the amount of molecular work

producing heat, or mechanical work produced by electro-

magnetism.

      Croll next compared chemical and vital forces and
their relations to the potential energies of matter, in a paper
on " The Relation of Chemical Affinity to Vital Force,"

published in the Chemical News on 16th May 1863

(No. 8). Chemical change turns potential into kinetic
energy ; but heat cannot bring back the former condition,

nor can electric currents, for more potential energy is lost

in generating the current than is gained in electrolysis.

But vital agencies seem to separate atoms of strong

affinities, restoring potential energies from actual energy
of the sun's rays. Thus, as he shows, " the chemical

agent restores the potential energy by consuming actual

energy, viz. the sun's rays."

In 1 864, Croll wrote three papers dealing with the

theory of heat, the first (No. 9) being a short reply to
some objections raised by Mr. Gill to the dynamical
theory. In the second, on " The Nature of Heat
Vibrations " (No. I ), he explained these as molecular and
not molar, and concluded that the ultimate atom was
ro4 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

necessarily elastic, the heat-vibrations consisting of

alternate expansions and contractions of the atom itself.
      The last paper, on " The Cause of the Cooling Effect

produced on Solids     wboyrdTse:ns"ioPnrev(Nioou.s  1 2), may be sum
marised in his own                                   to the application

of tension, the heat existing in the molecules is unable to

produce any expansion against the force of cohesion.

But when the influence of cohesion is partly counteracted

by the tension applied, the heat becomes enabled to

perform work of expansion, and a cooling effect is the

result."

One of the first distinguished scientists who en

couraged Croll in his studies was the late Professor

Tyndall. Early in 1863, Croll had written to him

regarding his physical investigations, to which the

Professor replied : " Your letter was interesting to me

as an illustration of power to seize a definite physical

image --the molecules acting as hammers was capital.
I have no doubt that anything you send me will interest

me." Taking advantage of this kind note, Croll sent
him the paper on " Supposed Objections to the Dynamical

Theory     of Heat,"   1r8eg6a4r. d--ingDeawr hiScihr, --PrIofheasvseorforTwyanrddaeldl
writes:   " 10th Feb.

your paper to Mr. Francis, altering nothing therein."

Croll later   ofnollsoewnitngthreeplPyro:--fessor  a further  paper, and
received the

                                                                    i^th January 1865.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- It is both amusing and interesting

to me to trace the parallelism which has run between
your thoughts and mine on the subject of " negative

fluorescence" (I have changed this term to Calorescence).
The very experiment to which you refer, of rendering a

body hot by concussion, is the one which most influenced

my conviction that it was possible to produce incan
descence by invisible rays.

     It strikes me you are rather hard on the phrase " break
ing up long periods into short ones." In the case of
                EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  105

the hammer there is a conversion of the mechanical motion

into molecular motion, and in the case of the hydrogen

flame there seems to me to be a conversion of the long

periods into short ones. The fact, at all events, is that

you hit the mass with waves of slow recurrence, and that

you obtain, in return, from the mass, waves of quick

recurrence.

    Excuse the hurried scrawl.

    Do you wish me to send your note to the Philosophical
Magazine") If so, I would suggest one small and
                         Instead of saying " an abuse
unimportant alteration.

of  language,"  I would  say an  incorrect use of language.
    Yours very  truly,                      JOHN TYNDALL.
--

      2. AGE AND ORIGIN OF THE SUN. NEBUL/E

      In all questions of geological chronology the age
of the sun is of prime importance. The heat of the
sun cannot be derived from combustion, which is quite

inadequate to account for it. If the sun had contracted

from a nebulous mass extending far beyond the limits of
the present solar system into its present size, Professor
von Helmholtz had calculated that sufficient heat would
be generated for twenty million years. But Croll said
that geologists demanded a longer period than this to
account for the earth's development, and that biologists
asserted that hundreds of millions of years were needed
for the evolution of the present flora and fauna. Croll
considered the present rate of denudation, and deduced
from data obtained in the Mississippi valley and in
Europe, that the oldest sedimentary rocks are probably

about 90 million years old. If this be so, some source

of heat other than mere contraction of a nebular mass
must be found, so that the sun may have given out heat
for such a long period. Croll stated that 50 million
years' heat might arise from the collision of two bodies,
each half the mass of the sun, and moving at a speed of
476 miles per second before the collision. Only 274
106 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

miles per second of this speed would be accounted for by
the mutual attraction of the two masses, and the rest
must be assumed as due to the proper motion of the
bodies. Were this original speed to be greater, a greater
amount of heat would be generated. How the initial

velocity was acquired cannot be explained. Supposing
each sun thus formed to last 100 million years, and that
all the stars visible to the naked eye were such suns, a
star visible in our hemisphere would be formed only

once in 15,000 years, if the number of fixed stars be

constant ; and so the absence of a historical record is not
an argument against the theory. The permanent stars,
too, are those whose translation motion has been trans

formed in a large measure into heat. If only a part of

this motion were transformed into heat, the probabilities
are that only a temporarily visible star would be formed.
Supposing that a hundred such temporary stars were
formed for one permanent one, and that each on an
average was visible for a thousand years, only about six
such stars would be visible at present, and it might well
be that their greater velocity has not yet been detected.

      Croll urged (Paper 71) that the nebulae could also be
explained as a stage in solar evolution. Mr. Lockyer's
plausible theory of the evolution of the planets assumes
a temperature far too high to be the result of condensa
tion. This temperature cannot have been derived from
gravitation, and the collision of two bodies must be the
source from which it is derived. After the collision of
two bodies moving with a great velocity in space, there
would be an enormous mass of incandescent matter

spread over a very wide area ; and the known irregu
larity of nebulae would be accounted for by the chance
irregularity of this dispersion. Star clusters would result
from this widespread and irregular distribution through
space, condensation taking place round subordinate

centres. In reply to objectors, Croll urged that it was
perfectly legitimate to assume the existence of non-
luminous bodies in space, some of which have not yet
EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  107

received their light and heat, and others which have
spent them. The assumed velocity is quite a plausible

one ; and, if it has not been measured, that can be

explained by the fact that on this hypothesis the visible
stars are bodies whose motion in space has in great

measure been transformed into heat and light. In the
case when only part of the motion had been transformed,
Croll pointed out that the proper motion of the fixed stars

was not accurately known. Collisions, however, must be

extremely rare events.
                    CHAPTER VII

                          "CLIMATE AND TIME"

       3. GEOLOGICAL CLIMATE AND CHRONOLOGY

ABOUT 1862--63 considerable commotion was caused
           among geologists by the publication in 1863 of a
paper by Dr. Archibald Geikie, read in Glasgow, regarding
the Glacial epoch in Scotland. Doubtless Croll must have
read the paper ; for, in the spring of 1 864, he turned his
attention to the subject, and, without knowing at the
time what Herschel and Lyell had written on the matter,
it occurred to him that the change in the eccentricity of
the earth's orbit might probably be the real cause. The
subject to which he then turned his attention was the
change of climate during the geological epochs; and
what he, with marvellous philosophic, independent insight,
divined to be the physical cause was the change in the
eccentricity of the earth's orbit.

      Geological records furnish abundant evidence that
very different climates have existed in the same region
at different periods of the earth's history. There have
been many attempts made, both before Croll's time and
since the publication of his works, to give an adequate
explanation of the cause of these varieties of climate ; but
probably no one has done so much to place the theories
of these secular variations of climate on a scientific basis
as the author of Climate and Time.

      Before analysing the various papers which Dr. Croll
published on this subject, it may be well to summarise
very briefly the possible causes of climatic change, and

                                                                              108
"CLIMATE AND TIME"  log

then show, by an abstract of his works, how he arrived at
the results which have made his name so famous.

    Possible Causes of Climatic Change. -- The whole
solar system is moving through space. It may be that

different parts of space are at different temperatures, and

that the earth's temperature is thereby affected. Should

this be so, the globe as a whole would become colder, or

hotter, as the case might be. Of this spacial variation of

temperature, however, there is no proof.
      The great factor in determining climate is the sun.

Its influence may be modified in general by changes in
the earth's relations to it considered as a whole, or, in
particular, by local alterations on the surface of the

earth.
      The earth itself has some individual heat, which may

affect climate ; but, unless the crust be assumed to be of

unequal thickness, or conductivity, or both, this influence
will not vary from place to place, but will show a gradual
cooling or heating as time goes on. And this, like the
former cause, will generally not have local effects unless

there are remarkable variations in the earth's crust.
Such considerations may be put aside until it can be

shown that no other explanation is possible without

taking them into account.
      The relations between the earth and the sun are

known to be inconstant, and the limits of the varia
tions have been carefully determined. The track of the
earth's path round the sun is not a fixed ellipse, but one
of varying eccentricity, at some periods approximating to
the circle, but at others much more elongated. The
 mean distance of the earth from the sun is not constant.
 The inclination of the earth's axis of rotation to the
 plane of its orbit is not always the same ; and the lines
 of the tropics and those limiting the areas where
 perpetual day and night occur recede from or advance

 towards the equator or pole respectively, according as the
 obliquity of the ecliptic diminishes or increases.

       Our northern winter now happens when the earth is
i io LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

nearest the sun ; but times have been and will be again,

when the northern winter is in aphelion and the summer

in perihelion. The precession of the equinoxes succes

sively brings each season to all parts of the earth's orbit.

The surface features of the earth have not always

been identical with those of to-day ; and such changes
must be considered. The dry land is more readily

heated, and parts with its heat more easily, than the

ocean ; and thus the distribution of land and water
influences climate. Even the nature of the surface must

be considered, at least in any detailed reconstruction of

past climates ; for, not only is the elevation of the ground
of importance, but also its bareness, or the nature of its

covering of herb or tree.                   The question

     All these factors may modify climate.

to be settled, then, is not so much whether secular climatic

changes are due to this or that cause, but which of all

the causes may be considered of primary importance, and

which have merely a secondary influence.

      No dogmatic assertion can settle this, but carefully

considered calculations. It is the great merit of Dr.

Croll that he made use of the data at his disposal, and

worked out as precisely as they permitted the extremely

complex problems involved. In the following paragraphs

his methods and results will be briefly summarised, and

the significance he assigned to each of the possible causes

will be indicated.

    Mr. CrolFs Paper on Secular Variations of Climate.--

The first paper of this remarkable series of investigations

into the cause of secular variations of climate was pub

lished in 1864 in the Philosophical Magazine, and entitled
" On the Physical Cause of the Change of Climate during

Geological Epochs " (No. 1 3). In this he summarised

the theories already propounded, and declared them to be

insufficient to account for the magnitude of the results.

He next discussed the effect of changes in the

eccentricity of the earth's orbit, both directly and

indirectly, but showed that a lack of data prevented any
"CLIMATE AND TIME"  in

very definite conclusions being drawn. Regarding this
paper, Mr. Horne of the Geological Survey said, in an
obituary notice of Dr. Croll, read to the Scottish Geological

Society --

     " In connection with this memoir, it is interesting to

recall the views then held in this country regarding the
phenomena of the Glacial period. Notwithstanding the
highly suggestive paper of Agassiz in 1 840, in which he

showed how the roches moutonn/es, striations, and glacial
deposits indicate the former existence of land ice in

Scotland, geologists were slow in accepting his opinions.
For years, nearly every geologist in Britain clung
resolutely to the theory of the iceberg origin of the

drift. At length it was vigorously assailed by Professor

Ramsay, Dr. Archibald Geikie, and Mr. Robert Chambers.
From a careful examination of the evidences of ice-action

in this country, Canada, and the Continent, Ramsay felt

convinced that the theory was no longer tenable. In
like manner, Dr. Archibald Geikie, who in his early years

had accepted the old explanation, was compelled to
abandon it in 1861, after an extended series of observa

tions in different parts of Scotland. He prepared an

elaborate memoir on the subject, giving a detailed
description of the phenomena, and his reasons for
attributing them to the action of land ice. While this

memoir was in preparation, another eminent Scotch
glacialist, Mr. Jamieson of Ellon, arrived at similar
conclusions, from his own independent observations, and

Sir Charles Lyell also adopted the same explanation.
     " Dr. A. Geikie's paper was read in abstract to the

Geological Society of Glasgow in 1 862, and published

as a separate memoir in 1 863, appearing subsequently
in the first volume of the Transactions. When we
consider the date of publication of this elaborate memoir,
nearly two hundred pages in length, geologists will
readily admit that it is of special importance in connec
tion with the history of glacial geology in Britain.
There can be little doubt that it paved the way for
ii2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the final rejection of the iceberg hypothesis in this

country.
      " The cogent arguments advanced by Dr. A. Geikie in

favour of the former existence of land ice in Scotland had

doubtless a powerful influence on Croll's philosophic mind.

He evidently realised that the iceberg theory was doomed,

and that well-nigh twenty years had been lost by

geologists in this country, owing to their stubborn refusal

to adopt the suggestions of Agassiz. Accepting the

land-ice origin of the boulder clay and moraines, Croll

proceeded, with characteristic boldness, to grapple with
the question of the probable cause of climatic change.
To a man of his originality and power, the existence of

glacial conditions in temperate latitudes during former
geological epochs must have been a problem of absorbing

interest. Various theories have been advanced to

account for such alternations of climate. Some have

suggested that they might be due to a change in the
position of the earth's axis of rotation ; others, that the

earth may have passed through hot and cold regions of

space, while Sir Charles Lyell strenuously advocated the

doctrine that they may have been caused by changes in

the distribution of land and sea, on the assumption that
elevation of land about the poles would lower the

temperature of the globe, and that elevation round the

equator would raise it. Recent researches, however, are

rather opposed to the belief in such enormous terrestrial

changes, and seem to point to the permanence of

continental and oceanic areas from primeval time.

     " Owing to an early suggestion of Sir John Herschel
the attention of geologists was directed to the probable

effect of cosmical causes in producing climatic change.

In 1830, he showed that, during a period of high

eccentricity, the hemisphere whose winter occurs in

aphelion will experience a long and exceptionally cold

winter and a hot summer ; while the opposite hemisphere

will enjoy equable climatic conditions.  But he subse

quently held that the cold of the Glacial period could
          " CLIMATE AND TIME"                    113

hardly be due to the direct effects of high eccentricity,

because each hemisphere must receive precisely the same

amount of heat ; and, further, the deficiency of heat

resulting from the sun's greater distance would be

equalised by the excess of heat received during the short

but hot summer.

     " To Dr. Croll belongs the rare merit of showing that,

though glacial cycles may not arise directly from cosmical

causes, they may do so indirectly ! As already indicated,

his first contribution to the subject was published in 1 864,

but the development of his theory resulted in a series of

brilliant researches, extending over a period of eleven

years, to 1875. He was led to investigate the problem
of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit and its physical

relations to the Glacial period. By means of LeverTier's

formulae, he calculated tables of eccentricity for three

million years in the past and one million years in the

future, with the view of determining the periods of high

eccentricity which, according to his theory, were co

incident with cycles of extreme cold."

The publication of this paper attracted very consider

able attention among scientific men ; and the advanced

pioneers of investigation and research early recognised in

it evidence of a powerful and original speculator on

perplexing problems of the highest order. Among the

first to convey any recognition of this was the late Sir

Andrew    Ramsay, Director  of  the  Geological  Survey, who
wrote as
          follows: --

                                           PALL MALL, LONDON, K>//I August 1864.

    DEAR SIR,-- Though personally unknown to you, I
take the liberty of writing to say that I have just read

your article in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal on the
cause of the cold of the Glacial epoch, and I am very
much struck with your views. But I fear I must read it
more than once before I thoroughly realise it.

      In an article of mine in the Saturday Review ( 1 2th
July, I think) on Frankland's theory, I said that no one

                                                                                  -
114 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

had given anything like an explanation of the cause of

the cold. Had your paper been written then, I would

not have made so strong a statement.

     It does not matter to your argument, but I am not

sure that it is yet safe to assume a Cambrian Glacial

epoch. The Old Red one
                      it          believe, true, but has not
                                                    it
                           iIs,                                    is
                                 I                  have, however, as near
been proved to demonstration.

as may be, believed in for many years. Then there

the Permian cold period, and in the north of Italy there

is  perfect evidence of glacial erratics during part of the

Miocene epoch.

    If your theory be true, we may have at length some

hope of being able to measure geological time. This

occurred to me before had gone half through your
                      it I
paper, and   I   was  delighted   to                 find the statement so
plainly put  by you   at the end  of
                                                    it.--Yours very truly,

                                                    ANDREW RAMSAY.

    If you reply to this, will be best to address me,

Geological Survey Office, 28 Jermyn Street, London.

it,   We have not been able to trace Croll's reply, but
     afrom this time onwards till his death Sir Andrew kept

up more or less continuous correspondence with Croll.
     Following on this, Sir Charles Lyell had noticed the

paper and directed the attention of Sir John Herschel to
    whereupon the following interesting correspondence

took place.

                                        53 HARLEY STREET, lyth February 1865.

    DEAR SIR,-- asked Sir John Herschel to read your
        a

              II
                   I

                                                 a
paper (which found he had not done) which you were
so good as to send to me on the causes of change of

climate, and sent Sir John                          copy of the Philosophical

Magazine for August last, that he might look over.
                                                    it

    By singular coincidence, the copy which you sent

to him reached him on the same day as mine by post,
" CLIMATE AND TIME"                                    115

and he has sent me his answer to you as being equally a

reply to my queries.

     I enclose an extract of a letter which I have written

to Sir John after reading his to you.
     I am very glad that you have called our attention to

Leverrier's calculations, and regret that they seem to

afford no clue as to the probable duration of the intervals

if
                                    I

                                                       ;a

                                                                       I If,
between such maxima of eccentricity as are possible.

when these maxima do occur, the extreme climate which

they would cause continues for  lapse of years, say

50,000 or more, during which more than one complete

precession of the equinoxes would be gone through, you
might assume that the extreme of winter cold would

alternately visit both Arctic and Antarctic circles within
the range of one maximum. As understand at present

the astronomical results, they seem to me by no means

so promising as to you. The supposed geological proofs

of the recurrence of glacial epochs are contradicted,

think, by palaeontological evidence and the few and
exceptional cases of far-transported blocks of large size,

even they require ice to account for them, as in the

Miocene, Permian, and in the conglomerates of some older

periods, are far from being such as would require an

amount of cold making any approach to that of the post-

Pliocene Glacial period. The finest case of erratics, the

Miocene blocks of the Superga, were contemporary with

very warm climate in Europe.    And  their transport
it

           I

                    a
                             is

                               I if

                                                                          is
was due to ice, must, should think, have been pro
duced by some very local cause. Mr. Page's diagram

and theory referred to by you   not, think, warranted

by facts.                  fifth more solar heat during

     Your assumption that

summer would do so little to keep down the glaciers

contrary to Darwin's notion founded on the glaciers of the

Southern Andes, where he attributes their reaching the

sea in the latitude of Paris from mountains only 6200

feet high to the effects of an equable climate. Such

glaciers are only one of many examples to show the pre
ii6 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

dominance of geographical conditions in producing ice-
action, over astronomical causes. You will see in my
new edition of the Elements, p. 333, that a rich
reptilian fauna existed in Europe in the Chalk period.

I know of no cretaceous erratics implying cold. A single

piece of granite was found in the chalk near Croydon,
which, like the single pebbles mentioned by me at pp.
321, 322, may be explained without the aid of ice. You
will see that we now know too much of the Devonian
flora and its analogy with that of the Coal period (see p.
453) to suppose such contrast of climate as Mr. Page
introduces where he makes the Carboniferous in a warmer

and the Old Red in a colder cycle. Again, there is too
close an analogy between the Silurian and Cambrian

fauna (see pp. 569-573-575) to allow us to infer a
great distinctness of climate on palaeontological grounds ;
and I know of no attempt as yet to prove cold in the
Cambrian by any reliable signs of glaciation.

     You will perhaps have seen in my Bath address, of
which I hope you received a copy, that I have alluded
to the submergence of the Sahara as one cause of Alpine
glaciers. The address was already in print when my

attention was called to your interesting paper ; and, not
being an astronomer, I had not time to get up the

subject so as to allude to your paper on Leverrier's

calculations.

      I still think that my explanation of the predominant
influence of the position of land accords best with the
want of recurrence of decided Glacial epochs, for, as I

have always stated since 1830, it is fair to assume that
the present preponderance of land in high latitudes is

extremely exceptional, and may be supposed never to have
occurred since Cambrian times ; whereas the maxima of

eccentricity must, I presume, have happened over and

over again even since the commencement of the Miocene
epoch, unless my notions of geological time and the
rate at which species change are altogether wrong, or

unless the astronomical instances to which you allude
         "CLIMATE AND TIME"                                  \\j

are much rarer than I suppose you would conjecture them

to be.

     Your idea of the occurrence of winter when the earth

is in the perihelion of its orbit, so that the difference

between summer and winter temperature would be almost

extinguished, as explaining a Carboniferous flora, is an
excellent suggestion ; but, independently of the resem
blance between the Devonian and Carboniferous flora, the

latter alone endured, I think, far too long to be explained
by an hypothesis which requires, if I understand you

correctly, the coincidence of a certain state of inclination

of the earth's axis due to precession, and, secondly, a

maximum of eccentricity, and, thirdly, the occurrence of

winter when the earth was in its perihelion.
      The absence of land from polar regions might well

last for many millions of years and give rise to a climate

such as is indicated by the Devonian and Carboniferous

floras.

      We are as yet very ignorant as to the exact coinci
dence of formations implying similarity of climate of

corresponding date in the opposite hemispheres ; but the

evidence, so far as it goes, appears to me much more in
favour of such agreement than of such a discordance as

I presume your astronomical explanation would require.
Within the epoch of living species both hemispheres seem

to me to have been subjected simultaneously to great

cold. Geographical causes would seem to me favourable

to such a result ; for if I could transfer a lofty mountain

chain from some tropical region, and place it where there

is now a polar sea, it would not only make the glaciers

of Greenland and Norway larger, but would make the

Antarctic region colder than it is.

    If I have misunderstood the bearing of any of your

arguments, I should be obliged to you to explain, and I

shall take care in the   new edition of    my   Principles   fully
to cite your valuable                      me,  very truly,
                        paper. -- Believe

                        CHARLES LYELL.
ti8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Extract from letter of Sir Charles  Lyell to Sir John

Herschel, nth February 1865: --
I have been comparing my first and subsequent

editions of the Principles in which I cite your paper with
the last edition. I find that it was in the 3rd edition,
1834, that I first cited your paper of 1830; and all the

subsequent editions, down to the last or 9th, are reprinted

verbatim, with the exception of Arago's name being
introduced in reference to his opinion that " the mean

amount of solar radiation can never be materially affected

by irregularities in the earth's motion."

     I do not see how Mr. Croll could have been misled,

as you hinted in your letter to him, by reading my

abstract of the results of your paper so as to infer that

the possible eccentricity of the earth's orbit might not
materially affect the earth's climate ; for I have repre

sented you as saying that if the earth's orbit should ever

become as eccentric as that of Juno, etc., the winter and

summer temperatures would be sometimes mitigated and

sometimes exaggerated, etc.

     In all editions, from the 1st to the gth, I allude to

the precession of the equinoxes, without any reference

to you in the first two editions, because, although you read

your paper in December 1830, it did not appear in print

till several years afterwards. In my 3rd edition, 1834,

p. 163, I cited your paper for the first time; and I did

so because I thought it fair to insert what appeared to

me to be meant as a check to my reasoning on the excess

of eight days ; in commenting on which you observe

that, whatever be the ellipticity, the two hemispheres

must receive annually equal absolute quantities of light
and heat. It is true that in all my editions I quoted

you for these remarks on the precession of the equinoxes
in a different chapter from that in which I cite you for

your discussion of the possible effects of variations in the

eccentricity of the orbit. The two subjects were treated

of, the one in the 7th and the other in the 8th chapter ;

and if Mr. Croll had been dependent (which I cannot
" CLIMATE AND TIME"                                           119

suppose) on my version of your paper for his information
on a subject so important to him, I can hardly imagine

that he would have read one of these chapters and not

the other. The result of Leverrier's calculations (in
which I suppose we may assume there is no error) and
the application of it by Mr. Croll are most important,

and we must, of course, in the vast lapse of geological
times, allow for the frequent operation of the extremes

alluded to ; but the more I study the palaeontological
evidence, the more I am inclined to believe that there

have not been those fluctuations from hot to cold and

from cold to hot which would have occurred if the

astronomical causes of change predominated in their

influences over the geographical. The Glacial period
has, nearly all of occurred in what call the post-
if it,                                 I
Pliocene era; or, some fluctuations preceded, have  II

shown in my new or 6th edition of the Elements just

published, p. 198, that  a it  was only at the close of the

Pliocene period, or when small percentage (only about

five per cent) of the shells differed from those now exist

ing, that great cold came on (see also p. 204).               have

in all my editions given reason founded on the present
                     a
excess of land in high latitudes why the cold may nowa

be greater than for      long succession of preceding

geological epochs, where the distribution of the same land

was less abnormal. The coincidence of the extreme of

cold in the northern and southern hemispheres with the

period of the existing species of shells  in favour of
                                          is

                                                           ;
the predominant influence of geographical causes over

astronomical not that wish the least to undervalue the
:

             it I
latter, as they have of course been influential but we

are equally certain of the power of the varying disposition

of land and sea, and we know that the place of these has

changed enormously since the commencement of the

Glacial period, whereas has yet to be shown whether

the eccentricity has varied within the same time so as to

cause great cold in both hemispheres.
izb LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                 ANDERSONIAN UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                 l6th February 1865.

    SIR CHARLES LYELL, BART.-- SIR,-- I beg to thank

you for the long and most interesting letter which I
have had the honour of receiving from you.

     I shall study its contents most carefully, and in the
course of perhaps eight or ten days shall send you any

remarks on the subject which may suggest themselves to

my mind.
     I am also obliged to you for the copy of your letter

to Sir John Herschel, and glad to hear that he has sent
you a copy of his long and interesting letter to me. As

he has slightly misunderstood me on one or two points, I

have taken the liberty of enclosing a copy of my letter
of explanation to him.

      The copy of your address before the British Associa

tion, which you kindly sent, came duly to hand. -- I am,

Sir, yours respectfully,
                                                           JAMES CROLL.

                                                    COLLINGWOOD, dth February 1865.

SlR, -- I beg to thank you for the number of the

Philosophical Magazine you have been so good as to send
me, containing your paper on " The Physical Cause of the

Change of Climate in Geological Epochs." Sir C. Lyell

had also referred me to this paper, and I have been daily
expecting to receive from him a copy of it (which I had

not before seen), but none has hitherto reached me.

     At the time I wrote my paper of 1830 in the

Geological Transactions, the extent to which the change

of eccentricity in the earth's orbit might extend had

never been so much as conjectured. Lagrange's theorem

indeed proved that the limits could not be extravagantly

large;  fworill(aaslwIayhsavreetmaiennttihoeneLdioenl'ssewshhaerree)",  "Jupiter and
Saturn                                                                  of his eccen

tricity fund, 2 m V a e*. But such an amount of change

as would make it amount to 0-078, though not expressly
                "CLIMATE AND TIME"                        121

contemplated in that paper, is nowhere there assumed to

be impossible ; and indeed the influence of a much larger
conceivably possible change is speculated on, and that in

the very same manner as in your paper, viz. through its

influence, not so much on the mean annual temperature

(which would not, however, be quite inconsiderable) as
(owing to the equinoxial revolution of the apsides) in

alternately exaggerating and mitigating the violence of

the summers and winters.

I am quite at a loss to understand how, from any

thing said in  that paper, you                can have concluded (as in
your p. 1 29)  that, " owing to               my not having fully taken

into consideration certain conditions which affect climate,"
I " seemed to be of opinion that the general climate cannot
be much affected by changes in the eccentricity of the

orbit." I could almost suppose, on reading this, that you

must have taken your impression of that paper, not from

the paper itself, but from what Sir C. Lyell gives in his

Principles (edition of 1835) as a resume" of in which
he omits all mention of the equinoxial revolution of the
apsides, which forms so essential feature of it. But
I                                                      I:

                §                                          §, it,
                              c)                                             a

                          I

                                                    a
perhaps have myself only to blame for this since, in

subsequent work of my own (Outlines of Astronomy, 5th
edition, 1858,                                have myself attributed to
                369

Mons. Reynaud, both in my note on that                 and in

the preface to that edition, all that part of the speculation
and reasoning of my paper. In so doing have done

myself and Sir C. Lyell a most singular and unusual

injustice. Referring, in consequence of your letter and

paper, to my original paper of 1830, to see what really
                                                       I

did say, find the whole theory there quite distinctly
          I

                 /
                                          is
stated, and express reference made to Sir C. Lyell's

Principles  (edition of 1830), in which the equinoxial
revolution  of the apsides
                                              adduced as an influential
element.
            All this, at the time of my receiving M.

Reynaud's papers, shortly before the publication of my

5th edition, 1858, had so completely forgotten that       it

was actually with surprise that this morning, on re-read
122 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

ing my original paper, I find the whole of the reasoning

(as above stated) there delivered.
      From Leverrier's calculations which you cite, it now

appears that the possible maximum of the earth's eccen

tricity is 0'078. This is ample. I agree with all your

conclusions as to its possible and indeed necessary

amount of influence, especially as regards glacial

phenomena (which had not been brought on the tapis in

1830). Geology has now a fair stand-point and there

is no longer now any necessity to have recourse to such

suppositions as the passage of our system through hotter

or colder regions of space, or to outstanding remains of
central heat. The sun will suffice for all geological re
             Of course I have not been able to go
quirements.

seriatim into all your details of geological and climato-

logical reasoning, especially as regards the trade winds and

oceanic currents. On these, I presume, much will yet
remain to be said. But looking at the thing " en masse,"

we have in the secular change of the earth's eccentricity

got what     we wanted, which, though I    asleweanysprothvoeudg. --ht
             hardly expected ever to have
possible, I

I remain, sir, your obedient servant,

             J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

    P.S. --This evening's book post brings me a separate

copy of your paper, and three more on the tidal wave

and on heat. These, of course, are from yourself, and the
number of the Philosophical Magazine must be from Sir
C. Lyell. I shall read the others with all due attention.

                                                ANDERSONIAN UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                 I4/A February 1865.

    SIR JOHN HERSCHEL,-- I beg to thank you for your

long and interesting letter of the 6th inst., and am very

much gratified indeed to find that you consider the

conclusions arrived at in my paper to be correct. I am

sorry, however, to observe that you have somewhat mis

understood the main object aimed at in my paper. I
           "CLIMATE AND TIME"                               123

never, for one moment, thought of propounding any new
theory regarding the cause of the changes of ancient

climate. All that I proposed to do was, simply to

show, from the already received laws of planetary motion,

that the maximum eccentricity of the earth's orbit, as
determined by M. Leverrier, is sufficiently great to
account for every extreme of climatic change evidenced

by geology.

     I made use of the fact that eccentricity tends to

increase the difference between summer and winter

temperature in the one hemisphere, and to diminish the

difference in the other hemisphere. But I never enter

tained the idea of giving this out as an original thought.
I was perfectly aware that the fact was well known a
century before I was born. I referred also to the fact

that the precession of the equinoxes tends to transfer the
extremes of temperature from the one hemisphere to the

other. But this fact must also have been perfectly

familiar for long to the minds of astronomers.
     The greater portion of my paper was written before

I knew of the existence of your communication to the

Geological Society. It was when searching in Sir

Charles Lyell's Principles for certain facts regarding

the climate of the Carboniferous epoch, that I observed

for the first time reference made to it. But my remarks

regarding your paper were made after I had read it
carefully. I regret that I did not give an outline of it.
But as I did not consider that I was advancing any new

theory on the subject, a simple reference to it appeared

to me to be all that was necessary.
      I regret having used the expression, " Sir John
Herschel seems to have been of opinion that the general

climate of our globe cannot be much affected by the
                                             "
change in  the eccentricity  of  its  orbit      ;  and  I  beg  to

apologise for my mistake. I had been led to form this

impression regarding your opinion, from a statement

made in your Outlines of Astronomy, section 368.

In that section, when referring to the fact that the
     124 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

quantity of heat received by the earth between the vernal

and autumnal equinoxes is the same in both halves of

the year, whatever the eccentricity of the orbit may be,
you say, " The greater proximity of the sun in the smaller

segment compensates exactly for its more rapid descrip

     tion, and thus an equilibrium of heat
                       it                                    as were,
                                                            is

                                                                   is,
                                                                        it
maintained. Were not for this, the eccentricity of the

orbit would materially influence the transition of seasons.

. . Now the perihelion of the orbit situated nearly
it
    .at the place of the northern winter solstice, so that, were

     not for the compensation we have just described, the

effect would be to exaggerate the difference of summer

and winter in the southern hemisphere, and to moderate

it   in the northern, thus producing more violent alterna
                                  is
                                      a

                                             it

                                                        is,
tion of climate in the one hemisphere, and an approach

to perpetual spring in the other. As                         however, no

such inequality subsists, but an equal and impartial

distribution of heat and light accorded to both." In

short, you affirm that the change in the velocity of the

earth's motion always compensates for the change which
takes place in the eccentricity of its orbit. This idea,

more than any other, has, fear, tended to produce                           It a
                       It
                               I
general impression that changes of geological climate

could not have been owing to changes in the eccentricity

of the earth's orbit.  produced this impression on my

mind, until  I   was led to suspect the truth of your
                I
conclusion, and had therefore inferred that must have
                                            it

produced the same effect on your own.

       This compensating principle,  I  presume, does not

hold true in reference to temperature of climate.

simply holds true in reference to the total quantity of

heat received from the sun. But temperature depends as

much upon the amount of heat radiated into space, as
upon the heat received from the sun. Now this com

pensating principle does not hold good in reference to
the cooling of the earth, but the reverse. The southern

hemisphere, for example, has not only a colder winter

than the northern, in consequence of greater distance
                    "CLIMATE AND TIME"                                                  125

from the sun, but it has also a longer winter. And, on

the same principle, our winter in the northern hemisphere

   in consequence of our proximity to the sun, not only
is,

    It

                                                         is
                                                                          is
warmer than that of the southern, but shorter also.

Consequently our hemisphere   not cooled to such an

extent as the southern. Thus slowness of motion, as the

earth recedes from the sun during the southern winter,

goes entirely, in so far as cooling                                           concerned, to

aggravate the rigour of the winter in that hemisphere.

         seems to have dropped out of your recollection for

the moment, that, long before your paper appeared in the

Geological Transactions, Lagrange had undertaken the

laborious task of calculating the maximum eccentricity of

the orbits of each of the six older planets, and had

assigned 0-07641 as the superior limit of the earth's

eccentricity.

I        hope you   will excuse the free manner                               in     which  I
      I  expressed
have                my opinion, -- am, etc.
                        it I
                                     JAMES CROLL.

       SIR, --                           COLLING WOOD, ijth February 1865.           1
                am much obliged by your letter of the 4th.
              I
   am always thankful to have pointed out to me when
                is if
anything which ought to have known and referred toI

when writing on any subject has escaped my notice,

particularly        of real importance to the subject, and                                  it a

knowledge of which would have forwarded the object in

view. Such the fact you mention, that Lagrange had

actually extended the numerical computation of the

maximum eccentricity of the earth's orbit, and found

to be 0^0764 agreeing very nearly with Leverrier'sis                          is it
result. This new to me. Had known in 1830,1,

   should not have stopped short of drawing the same
I                                I
                                    I
sort of conclusion that you have done from Leverrier's,

instead of leaving the conclusion an open question.                                         I

should be very glad to be informed in which of Lagrange's

numerous writings this important calculation given or

its result mentioned. Neither was       aware that the
126 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

effect of eccentricity in exaggerating the contrast between

summer and winter in one hemisphere, and mitigating it

in another, had been pointed out a century before the

commencement of the present generation. It is not

unnatural that such a consideration should have occurred

to the astronomers and geographers of those days, but

that it had done so I was ignorant, or if I may have read

       had made so little impression as to have been quite

forgotten. A citation of the author of this would also
it,
   it
                                                                                 it
                                                                                             is is
be highly welcome, and in what work to be found.

As regards the way in which the equinoxial revolution

of the apsides reacts on this last mentioned effect,

no doubt very true that any astronomer reflecting on the

subject might have come to that conclusion. Nothing

more common in the history of invention and discovery

in every branch, than the fact that two well-known

truths, which when viewed in conjunction give rise to an

idea not suggested by either of them separately, do often

remain long time uncombined, and so unfruitful of their
       a
                                    is
joint result. There                     no doubt that anyone, at any

time since Newton, might have put these two things

together, and drawn the conclusion but, so far as am
                                        is ;
aware, Sir Charles Lyell was the first to do so. This
                                                    I
done, there came fresh item into the combination, viz. I
       a                                                    it I

the varying amount of the eccentricity. Anybody might,                        is

at any time within the last ninety or one hundred years,

have put the three ideas together, and the result would

have been what we now see. But, so far as am aware,

   was not done till the year 1830.it   that this cause (this
          am very far from asserting      alone to be resorted
    I
triple combination of periodicities)

to to solve the great problems of glacial action.  readily

admit the great influence of a different distribution of

land and sea appealed to by Sir C. Lyell, and

impossible not to speculate on the possible coincidence

in point of time of this fourth great and independent
element of alternate general heat and cold in the climate

of the whole earth with the other three each in its cycle
    "CLIMATE AND TIME"                               127

of periodicity, and with an eternity practically available

to work within, as a key to some of the great difficulties
of geological revolutions.

     I observe in reading your letter over again, I have
overlooked to mention your citation of a passage in my
Astronomy, section 368. The passage in question is
from the early editions of my Outlines, where it seems to

have been copied from the original Cabinet Cyclopedia

Treatise which was written in a great hurry, currente

calamo, and has been suppressed in the later editions. --

I remain, sir, your obedient and obliged servant,

                                            J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                   GLASGOW, 2yd February 1865.

    SIR JOHN HERSCHEL -- SIR, --You will find La-

grange's paper on the maximum eccentricity of the orbits

of the six older planets in the Memoirs of the Academy
    hBiserplianpefroron17" 8T2h.e   M. Leverrier refers to that paper
of                                 Secular Variations of the Elements

in

of the Principal Planets," which was published in the

Connaissance des Temps for 1843, additions. Reference

to it will also be found in the Comptes Rendus, tome ix.

pp. 371, 542, and in Professor Grant's History of Physical
Astronomy, pp. 1 1 6, 117.

     It is certainly remarkable that Sir Charles Lyell

should have been the first to record the obvious fact

that the summers of the southern hemisphere ought

to be warmer than those of the northern, and that in

course of ten or twelve thousand years hence the

conditions of the two hemispheres will be reversed.

    I have no doubt whatever that this fact, though

perhaps never noticed by any writer, was perfectly

familiar to your own mind long before Sir Charles

Lyell's Principles appeared.

    In fact, Sir Charles himself admits that he borrowed

the idea from astronomers. In his Principles, 3rd

edition, vol. i. p. 163, when referring to the pre
is8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

dominance of ice in the southern hemisphere over the
northern, he says : " Before the amount of difference

between the temperature of the two hemispheres was

ascertained, it was referred by many astronomers to the

acceleration of the earth's motion in its perihelion, in

consequence of which the spring and summer of the

southern hemisphere are shorter by nearly eight days

than those seasons north of the equator."

     At all events, you were evidently the first to show

how changes of geological climate might be caused by

c--haIngaems,  in the  relative  positions  of the earth to the sun.
               etc.,

                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                                   COLLINGWOOD, 3oM April 1866.

    DEAR SIR, -- Let me thank you for your papers on

the ice-cap and the eccentricities. I cannot help thinking

that we are at length brought (always supposing that

M. Leverrier's formulae and your calculations founded on

it are right) in possession of a glimpse of light in geology,

and that really and truly those notions which were a good

deal pooh-poohed when first put forth about geology

having anything to do with the perturbations of the

planetary system are beginning to bear fruit.

     Your speculations about the effect of gravitation on

a polar ice-cap are highly worth the most attentive

consideration. A change of level of 1000 feet, though

not enough for         all purposes,  will account for much, such
as the terraces        on the shores
                                      of Greenland, etc. -- Believe

me, dear sir, yours very truly,

                                            J. F. W. HERSCHEL.
           CHAPTER VIII

           ECCENTRICITY OF EARTH'S ORBIT, ETC

IN 1866 Croll prepared and published in the
     "  Philosophical Magazine (Paper 1 6) a table contain
ing     Values of the Eccentricity of the Earth's Orbit for a

million years past and a million years to come, at epochs

50,000 years apart"; and in 1867 (Paper 22) he
extended the tables between 70,000 and 1,000,000

years back, and from the present time for 250,000 years

back, giving the values of eccentricity for every 10,000

years. He also tabulated the relative lengths of summer

and winter, and his estimate of the fall in mean winter

temperature for these periods.

     By 1 868 he had studied the eccentricity of the

earth's orbit for the past 3,000,000 years ; and, in three
masterly papers on " Geological Time," published in the

Philosophical Magazine (Papers 27, 28, 29), he stated his

conclusions much more fully and categorically. It will
do fuller justice to Dr. Croll's views, if this series of

papers is considered together without adhering rigidly

to the chronological order in which the results were

published.                 of Eccentricity. -- First of all,

     Effect of Variations
what would be the effect on the climate of our earth

when the eccentricity of the earth's orbit was at a high

value ?

      Sir John Herschel pointed out the possible effects of
eccentricity on climate ; but Arago and Humboldt raised

objections to the theory which were considered adequate

        9
130 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

by the majority of geologists until Dr. Croll took up

the subject. He showed that changes in eccentricity

would certainly not affect climate directly by increasing

or diminishing the mean annual amount of heat received

from the sun, for this is inversely proportional to the

minor axis of the earth's orbit, and the difference

between the maximum and minimum values of this

axis are too trifling to produce any sensible modi

fication. But another effect of high eccentricity,

and one    which is of far greater importance, is the
resulting  difference in the relative duration of the
seasons.
           For instance, if the northern hemisphere had

its winter in aphelion when eccentricity was at a

maximum, the sun would be 9,000,000 miles farther

from the earth in our winter than it is at present, and

the direct heat of the sun would be one-fifth less in

winter and one-fifth more in summer than at present ;

whereas, if the northern winter occurred in perihelion,

with the same conditions of eccentricity, the sun would

be 14,000,000 miles nearer the earth in winter than in

summer, and the difference between winter and summer
temperature in the latitude of Scotland would be nearly

annihilated. Hence, although both hemispheres received

equal amounts of heat per annum, they would have very

different climatic conditions. The hemisphere which

had its winter in perihelion would enjoy a mild and

equable climate ; the other, which had its winter in

aphelion, would have a long and cold winter. Owing

to this increase in the length of winter, a greater amount

of heat would be lost by radiation, and thus the severity

of winter occurring in aphelion would be still further

intensified. At the end of this long, cold winter there
would be vast accumulations of ice and snow, which

would make the temperature of the ensuing short warm

summer much lower by chilling the air. Dr. Croll gives

three ways in which this would happen, (i) The air is

cooled by radiation from ice and snow more rapidly than
ECCENTRICITY OF EARTH'S ORBIT  131

it is heated by the sun. (2) An enormous quantity of
heat is consumed in the mechanical work of melting the
ice without raising the temperature. (3) Snow and ice
chill the air and condense its vapour into fog, which
intercepts the sun's rays. A considerable quantity of

the winter's snow might therefore lie unmelted all the

summer, and the temperature would then rarely rise

above freezing point.
      Exactly opposite effects would occur on the other

hemisphere which had its winter in perihelion. There

the shorter and warmer winter would prevent the ac
cumulation of ice and snow, and the lower temperature
of the summer would be compensated by its greater

length. One hemisphere would thus gradually be

cooled, the other would be gradually heated. These

effects would be further intensified, since the greater
difference of temperature between the poles and the

equator would cause the trade winds to be stronger on

the cold hemisphere. If this were the northern hemi

sphere, the median line of the trades would lie far south
of the equator, and the warm water of the tropics would

be carried across the equator into the Southern Ocean.
The strong trades would be compensated by equally

strong upper currents from the equator to the pole,
which, on reaching the Temperate and Arctic regions of

the cold hemisphere, would deposit their moisture as
snow, thus increasing the accumulation of snow and ice,

and intensifying the causes tending to produce complete
glaciation of the cold hemisphere. The deflection of the

equatorial oceanic currents would be the most powerful
of these causes. Dr. Croll supposed that, at the period of
high eccentricity 850,000 years ago, the Gulf Stream
could not have been more than half its present volume.

At that period the midwinter temperature of Scotland
would be 45°'3 F. lower than at present, owing to the
greater distance from the sun, while the Gulf Stream
would cause a further diminution of 14° F., giving a
132 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

total diminution of 59°'3 F. below the present midwinter
temperature of 39° F. Thus the midwinter temperature
of Scotland 850,000 years ago was-- 20°' 3 F. These

 results are due to the physical and not to the purely
astronomical effects of eccentricity. Further, the dense
fogs caused by the accumulation of ice and snow during
 the long and severe winter in aphelion would intercept

the sun's rays ; while, even if these reached the earth in

 full intensity, their heat would be consumed in the
 mechanical work of melting the ice, and so the tempera

ture of the air would remain at freezing point. If the

summer heat failed to melt the whole of the winter's ice

and snow, these would accumulate year by year, so that
the mean temperature of summer would ultimately never
rise above freezing point. Were the operation of these

causes unchecked, the cold hemisphere would in this

way gradually pass into a state of complete glaciation.
But the maximum is reached when the solstitial point

 arrives at aphelion, and thereafter a contrary process
commences. The original glaciating hemisphere begins
to grow warmer, and the warm hemisphere to grow
colder. This process too reaches a maximum in 10,000
or 1 2,000 years, when the precession of the equinoxes
 brings the solstitial point round to its perihelion. This
 glaciation of each hemisphere alternately would last as
 long as the eccentricity remained at a high value. If,
 then, when the eccentricity of the earth's orbit is great,

there is a necessary glaciation if the solstices occur in

 perihelion and aphelion, it is of great importance to
 know when these periods of high eccentricity happen,
 for, by a comparison of the astronomical and geological
 data, we can now determine more satisfactorily than
 hitherto the age of the Glacial epochs, and from these
 deduce the probable age of the various geological

 formations.

     Periods of High Eccentricity. -- It may be seen from

the table of eccentricity for 3,000,000 years back and
        ECCENTRICITY OF EARTH'S ORBIT                  133

for 1,000,000 years to come, calculated by Dr. Croll
from Leverrier's formulae, that there are three epochs of

remarkably high eccentricity during these 4,000,000

years. During the first, 2,600,000 and 2,500,000 years

ago, there were two periods of very high eccentricity,

separated, preceded, and followed by periods of low

eccentricity.  The second epoch had three maxima

occurring 950,000, 850,000, and 750,000 years ago,

with minima between.   The third epoch has yet to

come, and it will be 800,000, 900,000, and 1,000,000

years before its three periods of very great eccentricity

occur.

      Besides these epochs of very high maxima, there
have been three epochs of subsidiary maxima in the

past 3,000,000 years, and another will arrive   before
                                                recent
another million years have passed. The most      years
of these was between 240,000 and 80,000

ago.           Epochs  and their  Dates.-- Now  there  are
      Glacial

evidences of three ice epochs since the beginning of the

Tertiary times ; firstly, in the middle of the Eocene
period, secondly, in the Upper Miocene, and, most

recently, the Glacial epoch of the Boulder Clay. If

glacial conditions occur when the eccentricity is great,
then there is a possibility of correlating these ice epochs
with definite dates. The first point to notice is that,
with two great epochs of maxima and three subsidiary
ones, and evidence of only three instead of five Glacial

epochs, the coincidence is not complete. Does the
Boulder Clay Glacial epoch correspond to the second

great epoch of maximum eccentricity between 700,000
and 1,000,000 years ago, or to the most recent of
subsidiary maxima 80,000 to 240,000 years ago?

If to the latter, can traces of two other Glacial epochs

not be found ? When the dates of the most recent

Glacial epochs are fixed, the approximate age of the
other epochs and events of the earth's evolution can
134 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

be estimated. The correctness of the results arrived

at can be tested by considerations derived from quite

different data. A maximum age is fixed for our planet

by considerations of the origin and age of the solar

system. Dr. Croll studied the origin and age of the sun

very carefully, and his conclusions are discussed in a

subsequent section. He was disposed to fix the limit

at 100,000,000 years. Hence 3,000,000 years must

stretch far back into the geological history of the

globe.

     Of the shells of the Lower Miocene 5 per cent, have
changed since the Glacial epoch of the Boulder Clay ;
and, assuming the conditions of variation of species to

be constant, the period of the Lower Miocene may be

estimated as twenty times more remote than the last

Glacial epoch. Analogous considerations fix the Cam

brian period as 240 times more remote than the last

Glacial epoch. But if this latter occurred as long as

1,000,000 years ago, the Cambrian period occurred

240,000,000 years ago, a result which is irreconcilable

with the age assigned to the earth by the physicist.

it If,however, the last ice age corresponded with the last

                                        ;period of subsidiary maximum of eccentricity, between

240,000 and 80,000 years ago, the Cambrian period
began not more than 60,000,000 years ago.

     In order, however, to render this reasoning cogent,
   will be necessary first to show that other methods of

estimating the earth's age give harmonious results, or

else to show to what erroneous assumptions the discrep

ancies are due and, secondly, either to produce evidence

of three Glacial epochs since the beginning of the Tertiary

period, or else to account for the absence                      of such
                                                                of esti
evideGnecoelogoicfagl laCchiartoionno.logy.-- Ordinary methods

mating geological time Dr. Croll regarded as extremely
unsatisfactory. No reliable conclusion can be based on

the thickness of the stratified rocks, for many circum
GEOLOGICAL CHRONOLOGY  135

stances affect the rate of deposition.1 The palseonto-
logical method is useless until we know much more of

the rate and uniformity of organic change. A far more

reliable method, Dr. Croll considered, is the calculation
of the rate of sub-aerial denudation. The Mississippi,
which is a fairly typical river, has been shown to remove
one foot from the surface of the land in 6000 years, and

rough estimates show that Europe is being denuded at
about the same rate as North America. By this process of

denudation continents are cut up into islands, and these
into smaller islands, till the whole finally disappears.
During the Glacial periods denudation was probably

more rapid. At present the limited carrying power of

rivers allows disintegrated materials to accumulate as
soil, which protects rocks against weathering. But during
a Glacial period the presence of a thick soil under the ice
would increase the rate of denudation of the rocks over

which the ice moved, by greatly increasing the friction be
tween the ice-sheet and the rock. Still, even at the present
rate, 1000 feet of rock would be removed in 6,000,000

years, and thus it is evident that stupendous changes
can be wrought in a comparatively small period of time.

    1 Nolton Geological Chronology. -- Dr. Croll frequently expressed his distrust
of geological chronology and of the current estimates of the probable thickness
of the sedimentary rocks. In a paper published in the Geological Magazine,

1871 (No. 41), he suggested 100,000,000 years as the maximum age of the
stratified rocks, and 7000 feet as their mean thickness over an area equal
to that of the ocean, or 5000 feet over the whole area of the globe. This
estimate is based on the known rate at which the Mississippi carries sediment

into the ocean. Erroneous results must necessarily be obtained from observa
tions of the maximum thickness of sedimentary rocks, unless it be constantly

borne in mind that the greater part of the sediment carried down by rivers
would be deposited over a very limited area near their mouths, and com
paratively little spread over the ocean-bottom. The absence of a particular
formation in a given area would thus frequently mean that the area in

question had been distant from the coast and the mouths of rivers. In a

subsequent letter (Paper No. 42), Dr. Croll remarked that the rate of forma

tion might have been accentuated by such agencies as marine denudation,
submarine and other volcanoes, coral reefs, etc., but that none of these could

compare in importance with sub-aerial agents of denudation.
136 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

With regard to evidence of former Glacial periods,

Dr. Croll pointed out that it must necessarily be very

imperfect. All the traces of ice-action during the last

Glacial epoch which remain on the present land surface

will disappear when it is converted into a sea-bottom.

The polished and striated stones will be disintegrated,

the Arctic shells in low latitudes will have disappeared,

and the Boulder Clay will not be deposited as such, but
in the form of mud, clay, sand, and gravel. Hence it is

not surprising that little or no evidence of former glacia-

tion is found in the stratified rocks, except the existence

of erratic blocks in low latitudes. These can only have

been transported by the agency of ice. That icebergs

do not striate the sea-bottom, and that consequently no

striations can be expected in the stratified rocks, was

shown by Dr. Croll at great length. He concludes that

we have probably as much evidence of former Glacial

periods as will ultimately remain of the post-Tertiary

Glacial epoch. The paucity of organic remains in the

Eocene and Upper Miocene strata
   is                            on the whole,
                  is,
evidence in favour of glaciation.

     Indirect evidence, however, not wanting. A Glacial

epoch resulting from a high state of eccentricity would

consist of alternate warm and cold periods, each hemi

sphere alternately enjoying a warm and equable climate

while the other was in state of glaciation. This would
a

occur owing to the precession of the equinoxes, which

would cause each hemisphere in turn to have its winter

in perihelion. Thus, in order to substantiate the glacial

theory, we should require to show that warm and
                                 a

equable climate had at times prevailed during the period
of high eccentricity. Sir C. Lyell described the flora
of the Upper Miocene as sub-tropical. The same con

ditions of ice-transplanted blocks and sub-tropical flora

occur in the mid-Eocene periods as well as in the earlier

Cretaceous and still earlier Permian periods, and can

only be explained by the cosmical theory. There  is
THE OBLIQUITY OF THE ECLIPTIC                                                137

evidence of similar alternations during the last Glacial

epoch in the commingling of Arctic and sub-tropical fauna

in the cave and river deposits. Dr. Croll considered that,

had such evidence been lacking, it would have been

strong evidence against his theory, which affirms without

qualification the alternation of warm and glacial condi

tions during each Glacial epoch. As it all the indirecta is,

evidence goes to confirm his view, that Glacial epoch

occurred in the mid-Eocene period, 2,630,00010 2,460,000

years ago another in the Upper Miocene, 980,000 to
;
                         ;
720,000 years ago and the most recent, or Glacial epoch

of the Boulder Clay, 240,000 to 80,000 years ago, and

that the cause was a high state of eccentricity, and that

in each Glacial epoch the precession of the equinoxes

caused an alternation of warm and glacial conditions.

ClimIantfelu. --encAenootfhCehrancgoessmiicn  the Obliquity of the Ecliptic  on
                                              phenomenon, the obliquity
                                                                             of

the ecliptic, constantly varying, and Dr. Croll studied
is

the effect of this on the earth's climate and on the

level of the sea in two papers, published in the

Philosophical Magazine for June and August 1867
(Papers 24, 25). He maintained that its influence on

climate had been considerably under-estimated by the

majority of geologists and physicists. Laplace had

calculated that the obliquity would oscillate to the

extent of 22' 34" on each side of 23° 28', the obliquity
in 80 1. Dr. Croll estimated that, when the obliquity
1
                   1°

                           i° is

                                                                                                                                                      ;
was at a maximum, the poles^ would receive nearly
                            now received in lat. 76°. The
as much heat as

polar winter would hardly be affected by the fact of

the sun descending          22' 34" farther than at present

but the summer would be considerably modified. The

mean annual temperature would be raised 14° or 15°,

unless the polar regions were covered with ice and snow,

in which case the additional heat would be employed, not

in raising the temperature, but in melting the ice and snow.

The increase in obliquity would therefore considerably
138 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

modify the effects of high eccentricity on the glaciated
hemisphere which has its winter in aphelion, by diminish
ing the accumulation of ice, and would intensify the

warm climate on the hemisphere which had its winter in
perihelion. When obliquity was at its minimum, the
poles would receive less heat than at present. The
glaciation of the cold hemisphere would be intensified,
and the warmth of the other diminished.

       Eleven thousand seven hundred years ago the eccen
tricity of the earth's orbit was somewhat greater than at
present, but the obliquity of the ecliptic was near its

maximum. Consequently, on the southern hemisphere,
which had its winter in perihelion, the ice was rapidly
melted, causing a rise of sea-level and submergence of
land on the northern hemisphere. Dr. Croll calculated
that this rise at the latitude of Scotland would be about

twenty-five feet, and that the Carse clays were then
formed. Even greater effects may have been produced

in remote ages, if Sir John Herschel is right in suppos

ing that, when millions of years are taken into account,
the obliquity may oscillate to the extent of 3° or 4° on
each side of a mean state. Briefly, it may be affirmed
that, when both the eccentricity of the earth's orbit and
the obliquity of the ecliptic are near the superior limit,
the combined effect of both causes would probably

completely remove the ice-cap from the hemisphere
which had its winter in perihelion, thus causing a sub
mergence of land to the extent possibly of hundreds of

feet MonildthPeoolathrerClihmeamtiessp.h--ereIn. a paper on " The Cause of

Mild Polar Climates" (Paper 86), Dr. Croll argued that
oscillations of climate would still occur during Tertiary

periods.when eccentricity was great, even should there have
been no well-marked glacial condition at the time. The
very high temperature of which we have evidence in
the northern hemisphere during Tertiary times shows
that the conditions in the southern hemisphere were
             MILD POLAR CLIMATES                     139

unfavourable for the flow of warm equatorial currents

southward ; and the same cause which made the relatively
cold periods of the Tertiary times less intense increased
the warmth of the relatively hot periods. There were evi
dences of such oscillations in the commingling of tropical
palms and trees such as oak and elm. But he believed
that glaciation did occur at periods of high eccentricity.
Eccentricity, however, brings about glaciation only by
means of physical agencies depending on geographical
conditions, and the presence or absence of these geo

graphical conditions would determine the presence or
absence of glaciation at these periods. The evidence

against Tertiary glaciation was far from conclusive, and
that in favour of it would still be found. He believed that

evidence of glaciation during the Miocene period was
afforded by the conglomerates and erratics near Turin,
derived from the outer ridge of the Alps on the Italian
side. Similar evidence of glaciation in the Eocene period
is found in the Flysch of the Alps, which probably cor
responds with the high value of eccentricity 2, 5 00,000 years
ago ; while the Miocene glaciation was probably caused
by the high value of the eccentricity 850,000 years

ago.         Interglacial  Periods. -- Dr.  Croll's  last paper on

     Arctic
geological climate, " On Arctic Interglacial Periods,"

appeared in the Philosophical Magazine, January 1885.
He adduced evidence to show that warm Interglacial

periods had occurred in Arctic regions. Most of the

organic remains from these periods would be destroyed

in the severe glaciation which followed. In Siberia,

however, which was less severely glaciated, the remains

of the mammoth and Rhinoceros tichorinus are found.

The climate must at that time have been far milder than at

present, since these animals lived on long grass and the
foliage of trees. The larch and willow were also found
in Siberia, far beyond their present northern limit, and
the shells found also indicate a warm climate. The
140 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

mammoth ranged over Europe during a mild Interglacial
period ; but, as the cold came on, this creature retired
to southern Europe, returning northwards only as the
cold subsided. There is strong presumptive evidence
that the mammoth did not finally disappear till recent
post-Glacial times. Owing to the severe glaciation which
followed, there is less decisive evidence of Interglacial
periods in the American Arctic regions ; but the remains
of the mammoth have been found in ice cliffs at
Kotzebue Sound, and the remains of full-grown trees
in Banks Land, Prince Patrick's Island, and Melville

Sound. Professor Nordenskjold found in Spitzbergen
the shells of a mussel still living off the Scandinavian
coast, which afford something like indications of an

Interglacial period in these regions.

     Replies to Critics. -- In reply to Mr. Murphy, F.G.S.,

who had advanced the theory that the glaciated hemi

sphere would be the one which had its summer in
aphelion, Dr. Croll pointed out, in the Geological
Magazine, that the summer, though colder, would be
longer, and that there would be no diminution in the
total amount of heat received from the sun. Hence this

hemisphere would not be exposed to the influences
which produce glaciation through an accumulation of ice
and snow, too great to be melted during the summer,

-- a state of things which could occur only in the hemi

sphere which had its winter in aphelion.
       In 1 88 1, Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, in his work on

Island Life, took very much the same views of geological
climate as Dr. Croll, although he differed from him in
some details. Dr. Croll was prevented from considering
these modifications at the time; but, in February and
May 1887, he published a paper in the Philosophical
Magazine, entitled " An Examination of Mr. Alfred
Wallace's Modification of the Physical Theory of Secular
Changes of Climate." There Dr. Croll restated his own
view, and dealt with a variety of current misconceptions
ARCTIC INTERGLACIAL PERIODS  141

of its real nature. He showed that the only real modifi
cation introduced by Mr. Wallace was his suggestion
that, during the height of the Glacial epoch, the snow

and ice would not disappear where precession brought

the winter solstice round to perihelion, and that warm

Interglacial periods could not occur either in temperate
or polar regions, except during the commencement or
towards the close of a Glacial epoch. Dr. Croll showed that
glaciation resulted from three sets of causes, astronomi
cal, physical, and geographical. The latter he regarded

rather as necessary conditions than as causes, although,

had geographical conditions been such as to prevent

glaciation, obviously no glaciation would have occurred.
Dr. Croll showed at some length that, when the winter

solstice is in aphelion, it sets in operation many physical
causes the tendency of which is to produce an accumu
lation of ice and snow ; and that, when the winter
solstice is in perihelion, the tendency of these causes is
reversed, and they produce a melting of the ice and
snow which they had before produced. Mr. Wallace's
modification of the theory assumed that the astronomical
conditions might be reversed without a reversal of the
physical, which would thus still tend to produce and

maintain a glacial state. It overlooked the fact that the

heating of one hemisphere is largely affected by a trans
ference of heat from the other, which is thereby cooled.

 Hence, no change in geographical conditions is necessary
for the disappearance of the ice on the hemisphere with
the winter in perihelion. Mr. Wallace further suggested

that glacial conditions would be unaffected by any change

in the astronomical conditions, if the ocean currents re
 mained unchanged. Dr. Croll replied that they must
 necessarily be modified by the modification of the other
 physical agents. He showed by geological evidence that

 climatic conditions had undoubtedly oscillated precisely
 as the theory required during the last Glacial epoch.
 Below the Carse clays of a Glacial period lies a buried
142 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

forest of a warm Interglacial period. There was a fall

of sea-level, due probably to the preponderance of ice

on the southern hemisphere. The strata below the
buried forest bear witness of another rise of sea-level,

which Dr. Croll considered a proof of more or less severe

glaciation.  He adduced a variety of other facts in

support of his view. Palaeolithic man hunted the rein

deer in southern France ; and, at another period, the

hippopotamus and elephant ranged as far north as
England. The commingling of sub-tropical and Arctic

flora and fauna proves that strongly contrasted climatic

conditions prevailed at different periods of the Glacial

epoch. All the evidence, as shown by Dr. Croll, proved

that the last warm Interglacial period occurred between

two Glacial periods of extreme severity. If these Glacial

periods were due to eccentricity, then the intervening

Interglacial period must also have occurred during a

period of high eccentricity ; and Mr. Wallace's view, that
the ice would persist throughout a period of high eccen

tricity, would be disproved. Evidence is gradually
accumulating in favour of the existence of more than one

warm Interglacial period, in spite of the difficulty of
detecting traces of the more remote of them and the

comparatively slight attention given to the search. The

Glacial periods, though not astronomically longer than

the Interglacial, would be lengthened by the physical

effects of the gradually diminishing accumulation of ice
and snow. The last inch of ice at the end of one period

and the first inch at the commencement of another would

effectually chill climate. But the time required to melt

the ice would only shorten and not prevent an Inter

glacial period.
      Mr. W. G. M'Gee having expressed a doubt whether

the disappearance of ice on the warm hemisphere during

the period of high eccentricity could be accounted for
by the greater length of the summer, Dr. Croll replied
that the melting of the ice was chiefly due to the heat
EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  143

carried from equatorial regions by ocean currents which

were deflected into the warm hemisphere.

      Mr. Hill maintained that fogs retain nearly as much

heat as they exclude, and do not tend to lower the mean

annual temperature; and many objectors assumed that
the quantity of snow melted must be proportional to the
sun's heat. Dr. Croll replied that this is not so, for

Greenland receives from the sun every year more than

fifty times the heat necessary to melt the ice which
covers it. Glaciated South Georgia, in the latitude of

England, is another example, and the snowy peaks of
the Himalayas receive nearly all the sun's heat uninter-

cepted.
       Professor Newcomb had reviewed Climate and Time ;

but Dr. Croll asserted that his objections were based on
 misapprehensions of his views, and that the view that the
quantity of snow and ice vary as the heat received from
 the sun, is erroneous. Dr. Croll, it will be seen, utterly
 repudiates all cataclysmic theories of climatic change.
 He expressed his views on this subject in a paper on
 " Cataclysmic Theories of Geological Climate," in the

 Geological Magazine, September 1878, originally read
 before the Geological Society of London. Sir Charles
 Lyell accounted for climatic variation by changes in
 the relative distribution of land. Others suppose that
 some violent change in the obliquity of the ecliptic had
 brought the Arctic Circle down to the latitude of
 England. When this theory was disproved, changes
 in the earth's axis of rotation were assumed to account
 for the phenomena. This in turn had been given up.
  Gradually it was becoming recognised that the agents
  of change had been ordinary ones, like ocean currents,
 winds, clouds, and aqueous vapour. Of these the most
  important was the influence of ocean currents, and nothing

  had misled geologists so much as the utterly inadequate
  conception of the magnitude of their work. When this

  was properly recognised, it would be admitted that their
144 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

deflection into one hemisphere would alone almost

suffice to produce the glaciation of the other. The

cause of their deflection has been already shown,

and sufficient proof given of the alternation of the

warm and cold periods, which may be considered

as the great secular summers and winters of our

globe.      Paper on Misconceptions of his  Theory.-- On

     Final

January 23, 1889, a paper by Dr. Croll was read to the
Geological Society, on " Prevailing Misconceptions of the

Evidence we ought to expect of former Glacial Periods,"

which was subsequently published in the Quarterly

Journal of the Society. All evidence of former glacia

tion is necessarily imperfect ; for the old land surfaces

have perished, and, with them, almost every trace of the

action of ice. The entire stratified rocks of the globe,

with the exception of the coal beds and under clays, are

old sea-bottoms. Hence, the geologist cannot expect to

find boulder clay which is broken up into soft mud and

clay, or polished or striated stones which are carried into

the sea and there broken up and deposited as gravel,

sand, and clay. Even the absence of erratic blocks

would not prove that glaciation had not occurred, for in

a period of extreme glaciation the whole country is

under the ice-sheet, and there is no source from which

erratic blocks could be carried on the surface. The

Antarctic ice-sheet appears to carry no boulders into

the sea ; and when the sea - bottom surrounding the
Antarctic continent is elevated, no geological evidence of

glaciation will be found. Hence, in a region like Spitz-
bergen, where, a glacial condition is normal, the absence

of boulders would probably mean that the whole country
was buried under a sheet of continental ice. In low

latitudes erratic blocks would occur, having been trans

ported by icebergs and dropped into the sea. How un

convincing the mere absence of evidence                Dr. Croll
                                 a
                                                  is,
showed by pointing out that, in  million years, the
    EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORK  145

geologists of that remote future era will find little or no
evidence of the last Glacial epoch, of which we have
such overwhelming proof. The striated stones will be
nearly all disintegrated, the till washed away and
deposited as sand and clay on the sea-bottom, and only
a few erratic blocks will reveal the truth. Dr. Croll

urged that, assuming a Glacial period occurred every
time the earth's orbit reached a high state of eccentricity,
we have as much positive evidence of the glaciation as
could be expected.

10
                                                                      i

                      CHAPTER IX
      PERSONAL HISTORY --ACCIDENT IN 1865

V--;         was essentially a domestic man. At this

      time his household in the humble home at the

Andersonian University consisted of himself, his wife,

and his brother. They managed their domestic affairs

entirely within and by themselves, and lived to a very

large extent for, and on, each other. Croll, having been

bred a joiner, was frequently called on, in connection

with domestic matters, for the exercise of his craft in

some shape or other; and he was always ready and

willing to lend a helping hand, even though sometimes

that might be asked at a time when he was puzzling

his brains with some abstruse physical problem. On

one occasion, when performing one of those minor

domestic duties, he unfortunately met with an accident.

     One evening in July of 1865, after a day's writing,

he hurriedly bent down to put a few tacks into a carpet,

when he experienced a twitch in a part of the upper and

left side of the head. At the time it did not seem to be

a matter of much importance ; but it afterwards proved

to be the severest affliction that happened to him during

his life. Had it not been for this misfortune, all the

private work he was able to do during the twenty years

which followed would have been done in the course of
      it,

                                               A
                                                                  it
two or three years. The affliction in the head did not

in any way affect his general health, or impair his

mental energy. He could think as vigorously as ever,
but " dared not turn on the full steam."
                                          dull pain

settled in that part of the brain, which increased till
PERSONAL HISTORY  147

became unbearable if he persisted in doing mental work
for any length of time. He was, therefore, obliged to
work mentally very quietly and slowly, for a short period

at a time, and then take a good long rest. If he

attempted to do too much in one day, he was generally

disabled for a few days thereafter. Before this accident

he could concentrate his thoughts on a single point
and exert his whole mental energy till the difficulty

was overcome; but after this he never could attempt

to do so.

      Notwithstanding the very serious interdict which was
thus laid on the performance of prolonged mental work,
Croll not only wrote (as he says with characteristic
modesty) "about a dozen of papers of a longer or
shorter character within the following two and a half

years," but also opened up a subject entirely new to
himself, and threw light upon it even to the most
advanced scientists. During the very year, 1865, in

which the foregoing accident befel him, he wrote and
published three papers on " The Physical Cause of the
Submergence of the Land during the Glacial Epoch."
One of these " dozen of papers " he submitted to Professor

Tyndall, from whom he received the following letter :--

                                                                                9/A May 1865.

    DEAR SIR, -- I detained your manuscript for two

days, in order to make myself acquainted in a general

way with its contents. It was, however, posted to you

yesterday.
      The philosophic tone of the manuscript pleases me,

and there are numerous remarks in it to which I would
heartily subscribe. But I must frankly state my opinion
that what you say of gravity needs reconsideration.

      Gravity is in precisely the same category as all the
other forces. We cannot compare gravity with heat, but
we can compare it with the molecular attractions and
repulsions which produce the motion of heat, and every
difficulty urged against gravity may be urged against them.
148 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

If I had time, I would write to you at greater length,

but I would now simply say that in my opinion there is

nothing inconsistent whatever  pwreitshentthiedeapsrinocfipgleravoitfy. t--he
conservation of energy in our

Yours very truly,              JOHN TYNDALL.

Croll had for many years been making frequent

excursions into the country in search of glacial

phenomena, and had thus acquired an extensive and

accurate   knowledge of   Isnuterfragclaeciagleolpoegryio, dosr, --dtrhifet  in its
bearings  on Glacial and                                                     results

of which were partially embodied in these papers.

      These papers were followed in 1866 by other four

papers on the subject of Glacial Submergence, which

appeared in the Reader, the Philosophical Magazine, and

the Transactions of the Geological Society of Glasgow.

But while thus occupied investigating, and writing on so

abstruse a subject as Glacial Geology, Croll also found

time, notwithstanding his impaired health, during the

same year to conduct a series of investigations, and
write three papers on " The Astronomical Aspect of
Geological Science," on " The Eccentricity of the Earth's
Orbit," and on " The Influence of the Tidal Wave on the

Motion of the Moon." These appeared in the Philo

sophical Magazine of January, August, and November

1866.

      One of these papers was sent to Professor Tyndall,

who wrote as follows :--

                                                                       \yh May 1866.it,

    MY DEAR SIR, -- Almost all the luminous heat, and

a vast flux of non-luminous heat, manages to get from

the sun to the earth, so that a screen which prevents

this from falling on a properly absorbent thermometer
must, I think, make some difference whether close to the

earth or at great elevations. I do not in the least
understand Mr. Glaisher's observation, but I was rather

astonished to see the conclusions which he drew from
              PERSONAL HISTORY                                149

and which were put in a more definite form by Mr.
Wilson. I have the greatest respect for facts, but this

alleged fact  as you say, so opposed to all our otheris,
                  it
knowledge that would require far more evidence than

now exists to cause my mind even to entertain the

possibility of it. Probably at some future day we may

hear more about from Mr. Glaisher, but until then all
              it
attempts to                it      would in all
mere waste     account for         very truly,   probability  be

              of time. --Yours

                                    JOHN TYNDALL.

    PS.-- Instead of the shaded thermometer, one with         a

silvered bulb might be compared with the black bulb. The
difference would assuredly make itself felt, though here we

should have some loss by radiation from the black bulb.

      During the course of preparation of these papers
he had occasion to get books and information which
were not readily accessible to him in Glasgow, and he
therefore wrote to his friend Professor Foster, on which

the following correspondence ensued --
                                    I:
                        UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON, W.C.,I

                                                  2yd April 1866.

DEAR MR. CROLL,-- was very glad to get a letter
Ia
   II                              have not read Delaunay's or
               I
                               II
from you this morning.

Dufour's papers at all carefully, but will try to do so

in few days and send you the result.             will also try
to get you a copy of the Astronomer-Royal's paper,

which think can very likely do through De La Rue,

whom often see at the Chemical Society.

have been intending to write to you for some time,

to thank you for your last paper from the Philosophical

Magazine, and also to ask whether you have still one or
two copies to spare of your first paper on " The Causes of

the Climate of the Glacial Epoch."  I  was talking of         it
                                                                  a

little while ago with friend of mine, Whitaker of the
                      a
                          is
Geological Survey, who anxious to see your papers.
150 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

         GLASGOW, z6th April 1866.

Professor Foster.

    DEAR SIR,-- Many thanks for your kind offer to

procure for me a copy of the Astronomer-Royal's paper,
and also to give me an outline of Delaunay and

Dufour's papers.

     I am sorry that I cannot send you a single copy of
my first papers on Climate. They are all gone. In

order to make sure that there would be no scarcity in

regard to the last paper, I ordered a hundred copies ; but
I find that these also are all gone but two or three copies.

      Under another cover I have sent you a copy for Mr.
Whitaker. Mr. Grant is still with us, and in good health.
Your old friends and students are now and again inquiring

after your welfare.

     For as well as I like the Andersonian, I fear I shall

be under the necessity of leaving it. So much ex

posure to cold draughts during winter is making rather

serious inroads on my constitution. If any quiet indoor

situation, with easy duties and short hours that would

not interfere much with my studies, cast up, I shall

assuredly leave.

    If anything suitable should come under your notice,
perhaps you will let me know. -- I am, dear sir, yours

truly,   JAMES CROLL.

MY DEAR                     LONDON, 57 ALBERT STREET, N.W.,
                                           2Sth April 1866.

         MR. CROLL,-- I was very glad to have your

paper on the Glacial Submergence and Emergence to

send to Mr. Whitaker, as I am sure he will value it.

I send by this post an abstract of all I have found

in the Comptes Rendus about the retardation of the

earth's rotation by the tides. I hope you will be able to

make out what is intended, but if any of it is unintelligible,
or if you would like fuller reports on any points, you

must let me know. I send also a copy of De La Rue's

recent address on presenting the Gold Medal of the
          PERSONAL HISTORY                                              151

Astronomical Society to Adams, which he gave me a few

weeks ago. It contains a good deal bearing upon the

question. I have not yet seen him since I heard from

you, nor anyone else who was likely to be able to get

me a copy of Airy's late paper.

     You may rely upon it that, if I hear of any opening

which I think likely to suit you, I will let you know of
it. I hope to be able to send you in a day or two a
copy of my edition of Lardner's Electricity. I venture to

think I have improved the book, but it is a long way

yet from  bbeeinngowwahdaatysa. n--eBleemlieevnetamrye,  treatise on electricity
ought to                                                  very sincerely yours,

                                                         G. C. FOSTER.

          GLASGOW, May yd, 1866.

Professor Foster.                                        much obliged

    DEAR SIR,-- I am exceedingly

to you for your clear and elaborate account of all the

papers which have lately appeared in France on the

question of the acceleration of the moon's motion.

I am really sorry to think that I should have put you
to so much trouble. I am also much obliged to you for
Dr. De La Rue's most interesting paper on this subject.
I shall return it in a few weeks.

None of the writers seems to take notice of the

fact that the solar tide tends to diminish the moon's

mean distance, and thus produce a real acceleration.

There is one passage, however, where something of this

sort seems to be mentioned : viz. Delaunay's reply to

Bertrand, 29th January 1 866.                            that whatever
      Delaunay admits with Bertrand

retarding effect the moon exerts on the earth, the moon

\itself must be accelerated to the same extent, so that

of the apparent acceleration of the moon's mean motion
due to the action of the moon on the waters of the ocean

is a real acceleration.

     I cannot see how any real acceleration can result
from the principle adopted by those physicists. I send
i $2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

you a table containing the results of some additional

calculations ; and as you are on intimate terms with De
La Rue, I enclose under another cover a copy of my last
two papers for him, which you may hand to him if you

think that he would care anything about them.

I had a letter from Sir John Herschel. He considers

that the submergence theory is correct.

I am delighted to hear that your new edition of

Lardner is nearly ready. I have no doubt it will prove

to be the best text-book we have on the subject of
electricity. -- I am, yours very truly,
                                         JAMES CROLL.

                            UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON,

                                                                                       3.6th October 1866.

    DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I found yesterday at the Royal
Society the passage from Arago which you wanted. It is in

a paper of his in which he discusses whether the climate of

the earth can have been modified by any recognisable

astronomical causes. I daresay you would find it in
Arago's collected works if you are able to refer to them.

The translation is made in a hurry, and therefore often

not elegant, but I think you will find the sense correct.
      I am sorry you have had to wait so long for the

quotation, but yesterday was the first day I was able to

go to the Royal Society.
I was much interested in seeing the announcement

of the Andersonian courses   for this    winter  which  you
were kind enough to send                 haste,  yours  very
                            me. -- In

truly,                                   G. C. FOSTER.

      During the year 1867 he pursued the subject of the
eccentricity of the earth's orbit and the influence of the

tidal wave on the motion of the moon with characteristic

vigour, and wrote five papers connected therewith, which

appeared in the Philosophical Magazine. The earlier

papers  he submitted to Professor        Tyndall, who wrote  in
regard
        thereto as follows :--
             PERSONAL HISTORY                           153

                                                                                     lefh February 1867.

    MY DEAR SIR, --Your reasoning seems to me to be

quite fair. But I confess I should feel a greater interest in
the practical question if I were sure of the observations.

Is there any necessity for saying that the surface of

the moon exposed to the sun's radiation is colder than

the earth ? Is it necessary for your argument to assume

that the planetary envelopes are more pervious to the

radiation from the planet than to the radiation from the

sun ? If not necessary, I would not, if I were you, bring

these points so definitely forward. Your general principle

is perfectly secure, that an atmosphere forms a local dam

which elevates the temperature of the planet. I have

said a few words on this subject in paragraph 546, page

437 of the 2nd edition of      my        book on    Heat. Also in
the tract which I now send    you,       at pp. 45
                                                    and 47.--Yours

very truly,                              JOHN TYNDALL.

                                                                                     igth February 1867.

    DEAR SIR,-- I certainly think that the view you have

expressed is more in harmony with existing physics than

that expressed by Mr. Wilson. -- Yours very truly,

                                                          JOHN TYNDALL.

While doing so, however, he was neither neglecting

nor forgetting his glacial investigations. On the contrary,

he was pursuing these with the intensest earnestness and

characteristic thoroughness. He visited and inspected

all the glens, river banks, and seashores in the neighbour

hood of Glasgow, making careful notes of what he

observed bearing on the subject he was pursuing. Very

soon, however, he came to the conclusion that the short

sections found in glen, or river banks, or the seashore, were

of little  use in giving an   idea of    the time represented by the
surface                        in fact,   too short for any estimate
           deposits, --were,

to be founded on them, and that the entire thickness

could only be found out by the study of bores, or pit

shafts, which went to the rock-head.
154 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

To realise this idea he went to all the coal and iron

masters he knew or heard of, as well as to professional
borers ; and he got from them journals of the bores

which had been made ere they gained the rock-head.
Most of them gave the information readily, as he was
careful to explain that it was only the surface he cared

about, and did not want the portions that referred to the

minerals. Early in these investigations he found a
series of rock surfaces running in a line to the north-west
of Glasgow, where a deep yet narrow channel, or trough,

as he called  a it,  existed in the rocks, and was filled in

by the surface deposits. To this he makes frequent

reference in series of letters to Mr. Bennie of the

Geological Survey of Scotland.
      While collecting these bores, he gave copies of them

to Mr. Bennie, who sometimes went with him, or by him

self, to verify the exact places where they were put down,
or to ascertain the character of the deposits passed
through, as often the descriptions in the journals were

not definite enough for his purpose.

      Early in 868 he requested Mr. Bennie to make
what he could of the bores and, accordingly, he wrote
the paper referred to in the letters of that year. In that
paper Mr. Bennie could only refer to the trough as a
deep channel, probably of the sea, running across Scotland
in the line of the bores. Afterwards, however, Mr. Croll
              1
                                                      ;
                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                   a
himself took up the subject of the trough and, in

paper read to the Geological Society of Edinburgh, he
proved the trough to be the channel of two rivers which,

starting from near the middle of Scotland, ran the one
into the Firth of Forth and the other into the Firth of

Clyde.
      Croll's idea of ascertaining the thickness of the

surface deposits by the methods he thus took was as

original as was ingenious and shows how thoroughly
he made his investigations down to the minutest details,
thus laying solid foundation of facts upon which to
it
   a

                                            ;

                                     it

base his subsequent scientific inductions and generalisa
     PERSONAL HISTORY              155

tions. His discovery of the deep trough by means of

these bores, excursions, and investigations shows that
nothing he came across escaped his observation. He

was not a practical field-geologist (indeed this is almost
the only bit of physical geology he did), and yet he

showed himself a master in that comparatively strange
department, subsequent investigation only proving how

well the results he arrived at justified his early insight
into geological phenomena.

      The only other bit of physical geology he actually
performed was his excursion to the top of the Pentlands
for evidences of the passage of the ice-sheet over them.
These will be found in his paper on " The Boulder Clay
of Caithness," in his own terse and vigorous words. Mr.
Bennie also wrote a description of the same excursion, in
a paper to the Physical Society of Edinburgh " On the
Glaciated Summit of one of the Pentlands."

      Mr. Bennie made notes of some of the excursions
he had with Mr. Croll while pursuing his geological
investigations ; and he has kindly placed them at the

writer's disposal.

      The following is an account of an excursion with Mr.

Croll to Blairdardie Clayfields, 20th April 1867: --"Mr.

Croll having expressed a wish to see this place, we went

there to-day. The day was fair, but not bright, the sky

being full of loose watery clouds  which threatened rain
perpetually. However, the rain
                                   did not come, -- the

clouds being, I suppose, rarefied by the sun and made

retentive of the moisture they were charged with. As

Mr. Croll had a horror of rain, and would not go out in

it,  was frightened throughout the day by every dull

  I

blink that occurred. We went by 'bus to Whiteinch, and

thence by our natural powers of locomotion.
     " When we emerged from the houses, the country

burst upon us pleasantly and charmed us with its

beauty. The fields were sweet and green, the delicate

dawn of the revived light of the year. The thorn bushes
156 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

were everywhere half budded, and the sprightly yellowish

green of the young leaves was fine in every sense and to
all degrees. The trees were putting forth the ' tender

leaves of hope,' and the delicate green light which
Alexander Smith loved so much to see was flickering

among the branches.

     " I found Mr. Croll's ' crack ' good, quiet, undemon
strative, but full of pith and power. I cannot remember

half of what he said, but the impression that remained

was that he was a close observer and deep thinker on

those objects he had seen or those subjects he had

thought upon, but he was not cosmopolitan in the extent
of objects nor encyclopaedic in the range of subjects, as,

indeed, in this age, when knowledge fills the earth as the

waters fill the sea, nobody can be. One thing I

remember well : he told me of a small river about twice

the breadth of Kelvin which had cut a gorge in the

rough conglomerate rocks of the Old Red Sandstone some

where in Strathmore, about 36 yards wide, and 200 feet
deep, so clean and sharp cut that he measured the depth by

hanging a string and stone over the precipice and sound

ing it as the sailor fathoms the sea. The gulf, he

imagined, might have been made in some geological

period long past, when the river was larger and more

powerful than now ; for the present river was engaged in
cutting a smaller channel inside the larger one, and of

course in the bottom of                               rather curious illustration of
a
                                  a

                                          it,
                                                   a
geological sequence of before and after.
  " Coming to Blawart Hill, we ascended to have a look

at the country around, and realise its carse-like appear

ance  better than   wveerycoguoldod,h--avtehebycarwseallkyiinngg  through it.
      look-out was                                                at our feet,
The

parti-coloured as tartan plaid, while the lealands, the

stubble fields, and the ploughed soil, intermingled in

beautiful confusion and admirable disorder; while the

softly greyish-blue hills in the west, south, and north

ranged in the area fitly and well, and the soft bluish-

black clouds overhanging all, diversified with the sunshine
PERSONAL HISTORY  157

breaking through in parts, made the sky as piquant as
the earth.

     " We examined Blawart to see if it was in any way a

made hill. We found only that it might have been
helped a little that way by the Romans or the canoe-men
to make it a better outlook station ; but it was essenti

ally natural, the last part of a terrace which rose
above the lower ground to the west. We recognised the
edge of this terrace as an old coast line as we went
Blairdardiewards, and we got proof of it in a drain cut in
the rise of Blairdardie.

      " Blairdardie had been much talked about and visited

by the Glasgow naturalists, owing to an idea that had
been suggested that the stem and roots of Equisetce
found in the clay possessed a latent vitality which caused
them to bud and give off shoots when exposed to the

diggings ; and the work we set ourselves to was to
discover some proof of this supposed latent vitality. We
found some stems apparently imbedded in the clay, but

we could not determine whether they had been deposited
with the clay or not.

      " We now walked Whiteinchwards, quietly talking all
the way. Having Mr. Croll with us, our talk naturally
drifted in his direction ; and we discoursed of the
eccentricity of the earth's orbit and its climatic effects as

intelligently as we could, not knowing it so thoroughly
as we could have wished.

      " The only new thing that was elicited related to Mr.
Croll's share in bringing out the periods when the
eccentricity was great, and so, humanly speaking, dating
the last Glacial epoch.

      " Mr. Mahony quoted some London review or paper
in which Mr. Stone was alone spoken of as having
calculated the eccentricities, when Mr. Croll said in the

 quietest tone possible that it was an error, and that
instead of Stone the paper should have said Croll,
 meaning thereby that it was himself that had done what
 Mr. Stone was getting credit for. The cool, quiet way
1 58 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

in which it was done struck me, and I could not help
respecting Mr. Croll for it more than ever.

      " No passion was evinced, no jealousy was disclosed,

no chagrin even seemed felt by him at his honour being

given to another. But, as if he was simply correcting an
error in arithmetic or a lapsus lingua, he substituted his
own name for that of the other, and it was done. He

afterwards said that all that Mr. Stone had done was
that, at the request of Sir Charles Lyell, he had calculated
the eccentricity of the earth backwards, and found that
210,000 years ago it was so great that, according to
Mr. Croll's theory of the effects of such an eccentricity, a

Glacial period was probable then ; and that, after having
done so, Mr. Stone stopped calculating, and read the
riddle no further. Mr. Croll spoke of his having waited

eight months, to see if Mr. Stone would count more

periods, during which time he was idle, as it were at a
standstill for want of raw material of facts to manufacture

theory therefrom. At last he wrote to Sir Charles Lyell,
asking if Mr. Stone was working at the problem, and

received answer back that he had done nothing more, as
the work was difficult and the results to him unexciting.
Mr. Croll then commenced, became his own calculating

machine, and brought out one period, 8 5 0,000 years ago,
during which the eccentricity was at the greatest, which
he conceived was the date of the last great ice age. He

had afterwards calculated further and found out many

other smaller periods, which I cannot here catalogue.
He had also made forecasts of the future in the same

way, and found that it would be 800,000 years ere
another eccentricity would occur sufficient to glacialise
the earth as before. The only other thing elicited was
that, according to Mr. Croll, Leverrier had appropriated
without acknowledgment the discovery of a comet-like
orbit for the meteoric bodies which have a periodic term
of 3 3 years, giving it forth as his own entirely, whereas
it had been discovered or elaborated by a Roman
astronomer some time before.
         PERSONAL HISTORY                        159

     " We found our conveyance waiting for us at White-
inch, and were speedily hurled home to Glasgow by it."

    " Excursion with Mr. Croll to Paisley Clayfields. --We

went to Paisley to-day to let Mr. Croll see the glacial

shells in situ, he having a desire to verify their existence

by eyesight. We left by the 4.35 train.
      " We lost no time in making for our hunting ground.

As we passed Glen Street, Mr. Croll, with a wistful

look, said he once lived two years in that street, and
                               I asked him, how
liked it better than Glasgow.
ever, if he remembered if the folk of that time, twenty-

three years ago, 1843, spoke about the shells of the

clayfields, which, doubtless, were then as now disturbed

in working the clay. He said ' No, he remembered

nothing,' so that they were not a world's talk then as

now.

      " While examining some heaps of glacial shells we

found, I had to name and explain every shell to Mr.

Croll as I gave them to him, which was rather a pleasure,

as he was apt and appreciative.
      " We now made headway for Westmarch Claywork,

but were arrested on our way by seeing a pit in course
of shanking, close by the wayside. We stepped aside

instinctively, as we felt the full significance of such a sight

too well to pass it by unimproved. We soon saw that

they had passed through the brick clay bed and were

fairly in grips with the boulder clay, unmistakable    I

proofs of which were vouchsafed to us promptly.

soon realised its character by the striated pebbles

I'
                 '
              it,
                                     it,
                                                            ;
                                                  a
                                                                                 a
                                                                           I
amongst  and pouched           few as mementoes, and

induced Mr. Croll to do likewise. In no respect could

see any dissimilarity between this drift and that of the

old hills in Glasgow only in Glasgow there are no

rich shell beds above and to me that made difference,

as felt that the Paisley drift was thereby glorified.
     " We lamented that the working shankers were not

about, as from them we could have got definite depths
160 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

for all the beds. That, however, Mr. Croll tried to mend

by lifting a plank, looking into the abyss, measuring it

with his eye,  and making the depth from              the surface to
the water 1 8
               feet, --a short enough section,        I thought, and

barely enough to demonstrate the long time which must

have elapsed betweenwhiles ; but then, crowded as it is

with events, on second thoughts we realised the time

better that way than a mere mass of dead clay devoid of

events would have done. At Westmarch we found

several large Littorinas, etc., to bag, which was a
pleasure. I gave them all to Mr. Croll, as I wanted to

interest him thoroughly in the glacial shells.                                  He

answered completely to my hopes, and became geological

mad in mind and spirit, as a scoffer would say, and

shouted a jubilant ' Eureka ' over every new shell. It was

on this occasion that Mr. Mahony, who                 came            b--y   a   later
train, told us of the death of Mr. Walter             Crum,                 a   piece

of news which deeply affected Mr. Croll."

     " Excursion with Mr. Croll to Boghall and Daldewie, to

verify a story of a  --greTahterbeedweoffosuhneldls,   which a borer told
Mr. Croll occurred.                                   that some mistake

must have been made, as we saw none, and the farmer

to whom Mr. Croll appealed knew nothing of them. The

only thing interesting is a note describing our return and
our crack by the way. ' We now sought our straightest

way home down London Road and its continuations.

We   Cdrisocllo'surscerdacko,f--mhaenybetihnigngso,f  and I profited  much by
Mr.                                                   a higher grade  of mind

than myself, and of a higher range of study than mine.
I realised in my experience the maxim, " He that walks

with the wise shall be wiser " ; and I got a wrinkle in
geology which I shall be the better of in future. It

related to a measurement of geological time by denuda

tion rather than by deposition, because while the latter

must necessarily be irregular, the former was probably

constant, as constant as the rainfall was equal in quantity

year by year. He instanced the Mississippi : the quantity
              PERSONAL HISTORY                         161

of sediment it carried down had been measured and

found to amount to a foot in 1 300 years from the area

of drainage. Now, if we suppose the whole mountains

of the earth levelled and spread over the surface, they

would make it 1000 feet high, and denudation would at

the Mississippi rate wear down this 1000 feet in 1,300,000

years, a mere fraction of time compared with the illimit

able spaces of astronomy.

The following is an account of an excursion with Mr.

Croll to the  Allander   Swallow Bank, written by Mr.  Bennie,
September                " Mr. Croll had suggested a    trip to
              1 867 :--
this bank, to see if we could determine whether the stony

clay that tops this hillock was boulder drift or not,
because, if so, it would give a glacial character to the

great series of deposits we know to be associated with it.

Accordingly we went there to-day. Our route was by

'bus to Canniesburn, thence by parish road to Allander

and home by Fossil. Coming to Canniesburn, we went
along the ' Milngavie ' road half a mile or so, and

thence took up the road to Allander, which led us

eastward. We saw that the country was very hillocky,

large mounds rising on either hand, some of them very

prettily crowned with trees, others with wheat or corn,

over which the swallows sweep merrily like spirits at

play. I eyed them stealthily, as I did not like to break

in upon our talk with allusions to them.

We soon saw from our map that we were on the

track of the Roman wall, and went over a stile to look
at the remains of it. All we saw was a hollow trench

8 or 10 feet wide running along the ridge of a height

that overlooks the Allander. Very emphatic was the notch

i--unnlfteihlslesinggpruoirutpnoudsp,elwya,inthdbytohtneheesawsmahmeicehinsawtgrauesmntennothttatoefamsdialeydneurdeiatd--tuiocnimbl--aen,

the spade. I remarked that simple monuments were

longest lived ; ditches, or mound holes, or hummocks,

beating obelisks, towers, or temples in resisting oblitera

tion, and in preserving the remembrance of what they seek

11
162 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

to commemorate. For a millennium and a half this

simple ditch had testified of man's handiwork, while how

many elaborate buildings had in that time disappeared
' like the baseless fabric of a vision, and left not a wrack
          '
behind  !    But I was soon absorbed in the great

monuments that lay before and around us. The haugh

of the Allander lay at the foot of this height, some

hundred feet and more down. It was broad and flat ; it

was a ditch dug by nature, as clearly as the Roman wall

was dug by man ; and the hillocks were the wall she

built in some former period, when it suited her purposes

to gather together what she had aforetime scattered.
      " We now passed the deepest bore in Mr. Croll's list,

that made by the Summerlee folk in the farm of Millikhen,

some 355 feet deep, the particulars of which we have

sure, but as we cannot interpret the terms into geological

language, the information is not so satisfactory as we

could wish it to be. It is situated in a hollow between

two high hillocks, which rise above it some 5 o or 60 feet,
giving a probable depth of surface to this locality which

seems astounding and almost unbelievable, were it not

confirmed by other bores of proximate magnitudes. One

of these hillocks is planted with trees, rises very abruptly,

almost like a wall, and looks very picturesque in the

landscape.
      " Nothing further remarkable was noticed till we came

to the goal of our walk, the Swallow Bank at Allander
Toll. This I had seen many years ago ; but I had never

inspected it geologically, and so missed a good oppor

tunity of discovering something great in geology. Mr.

Croll had visited it some few weeks ago, and was struck

by the hardness of the red clay at the top, which he

thought might be boulder clay from its hardness. He

said he blistered his hands trying to extract a few

pebbles. He brought some of it home : I washed but
             I
could not think       it
                                                   I

                                                                               it,
                 boulder clay, as  had found no

striated pebbles in it. The sand was red, and unlike

that which   had been accustomed to wash out of
                      PERSONAL HISTORY                           163

Glasgow boulder clay. I therefore said I was afraid it

was simply a gravelly hillock.
      " The fine sand I got from him at the same time

needed no washing, so pure was it from dirt ; and I
riddled it as I got it. On inspection I found no life

remains in and saw was as like the fine white sandit,
                         it
                           it
of Windmill Croft as could be. The matter rested not

with these negative conclusions, as Mr. Croll said he saw

plenty of striated pebbles and this remaining in his
                                  ;

mind, resulted in our visit of to-night to make sure.            is a
     " The Swallow Bank consists of the end or side of

great hillock which overhangs the haugh of the Allander,

and composed of great bed of fine white sand with
       ; is           it             is
a great bar of red clay atop. The Allander has eatena
                         a
into the side of for many years, carrying away the  it

sand and, of course, the clay topples, and a sand cliff

it is  formed thereby. The river makes a half circle nearly

     at the base of the bank, and instrumental in making

       as steep as possible, and plain to the most uninitiated

mind. The swallows have found that the white sand

dry and warm, and they have holed                       with nests till

parts of are like riddle.ita
      " We first tried this white sand, and found
                                                        it       to be

distinctly and emphatically laminated, the laminations,

however, not being straight, but undulating as ripple
                                                        a
mark, eg.                   The sand was fine and soft andit,
                      .
agreeable to touch. We saw no pebbles or grit in only
                              it
the laminations darker and brighter. We next attacked

the clay atop, and found softer than when examined by

'one of us,' as we could cut into    it  easily and detach

     pebbles readily. We critically examined every pebble

as we took            out, but failed at first to find striae upon
       ;

                it
them, though we had little doubt they were of glacial

origin for all were more or less humpbacked, and that

so emphatically that was astonished at the persistency
                      I

in which this form turned up. Our hope of certainty

revived, and we thought we would be able to settle our

problem to-night.           now bethought me that might
                      I
                                                              I
164 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

settle the question quicker if I turned to the pebbles

that had weathered out and were still lying scattered

about. I therefore stopped excavating and commenced
gleaning; and I speedily had enough of well-marked

pebbles in my hand to settle the question. Some of

them were as decidedly striated as they could be, others
were very faintly marked, but still sufficiently so to
indicate the cause. We therefore had no hesitation in

coming to a decision that it was boulder clay ; although,
from the absence of limestones and other scratchable

rocks, the proofs were not so emphatic as our Glasgow
boulder drift gives to us. We tried to measure the
thickness of the stratum of boulder clay, and roughly
guessed it to be 12 feet. In some parts lower down, a
soft red clay like brick clay mingled with the stones.

Other places were visited ; but I shall not describe them.
      " We had a long walk home in the dark, but it was

not dreary, for Mr. Croll enlightened it with short
expositions of astronomical and other phenomena as
they occurred to him or me, and the time passed delight

fully by. I will not attempt a record of our crack, as I
feel unequal to it ; but one theory I may note which we
worked out in our crack. It was that the Glacial period

was not one simple and indivisible time, as we had been
in the habit of regarding it ; but that it was composed
of several periods, with great breaks between ; these
breaks being mementoed by the great beds of sand,
laminated, ripple-marked, or amorphous, as may be the
order of their disposition, giving evidence thereby that
they were formed during an unfrozen water period, as
decidedly as the boulder clay gives evidence that it was
formed during a period of ice. We brought home a
number of pebbles that we could not wash at the bank
and washed them at home. About half of them are
striated and the other half moulded by ice.

     " This would be the last excursion I had with Mr.
Croll ere he left Glasgow for Edinburgh to join the

Survey."
                         CHAPTER X

             APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

 IN order to give a connected account of the production
         of the paper on " The Physical Cause of the Change
of Climate during the Geological Epochs," which appeared
in the Philosophical Magazine in August 1864, and of
the brilliant series of original investigations and researches
embodied in various papers on the same subject which
followed on that, we have been obliged to depart to some
extent from the chronological order in the personal narra
tive. We now, however, resume the biographical sketch.

      Croll's papers on " Glacial Submergence and Climatic
Changes during the Geological Epochs," as well as his
other able and interesting papers on equally abstruse
subjects, had naturally attracted the attention of

distinguished scientists both at home and abroad. It is

a trite saying that a prophet has no honour in his own
country ; but Croll's case belies that saying to a certain
extent. Early in February 1867, the Geological Society
of Glasgow elected him as an Honorary Associate of the
Society. But more eminent men were beginning to
recognise the value and importance of his work.

      Among the first to express a favourable opinion of the
theory of the cause of the Glacial epoch, which he had
advanced, were Professor (afterwards Sir Andrew) Ramsay,
who was then Director of the Geological Survey of
England and Wales, and Dr. (now Sir Archibald) Geikie,
who had then been appointed to the Directorship of the
Scottish Survey on the reorganisation of the service.

At that time a large addition to the staff of that Survey

                                                                              166
166 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

was required ; and Croll was asked if he would be willing

to allow himself to be nominated for the Scottish service.

In the estimates to be laid before Parliament for the
year 1867-1868, it was proposed to make a large
increase to the grant for the Geological Survey. The
staff in Scotland was to be augmented and made a

separate branch of the service. If these arrangements

were approved by the House of Commons, a number of

new men would be required for the service.
      The new men, it was understood, were not to be in

the Civil Service, and therefore would not have any
Civil Service examination to pass, besides which, no
limitation as to age was to be specified.

      Although the new men were not to be taken, at least

at first, into the permanent staff, there was no doubt that
in actual practice they would be as permanent as the

others, more especially if they proved good men. The

proposal made was that Croll was to take field work

first, was not to be on the permanent staff, and was
not to be subjected to any examination. This offer was
in many respects a tempting one ; but as Croll was then
somewhat up in years, and suffered a little from the

mishap to his head, he did not see his way clear to

accept the proposal. Moreover, he felt that his health
was not adequate to field work, and, with characteristic

modesty, he did not feel satisfied that his qualifications
were equal to the scientific duties which would be

required for the proper performance of the duties of the

office, and he therefore reluctantly felt obliged to decline
this proposal. Sir Archibald Geikie, however, knew the

value of the man, and not only was anxious to secure

so able and conscientious a scientist for the Survey, but
also was desirous, after he had learned the nature of
Croll's situation at the Andersonian, to improve his
position, add to his comfort, and get him near to a good
library, where he could carry on his original work.

     It appears that Government intended to authorise

the new arrangements to begin with the new financial
APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 167

             with the 1st of April 1867 and was
ayear, that                            it
        it                                                              ;
                                                                   it
             a is,necessary, therefore, to lose no time in making the
                            a
necessary arrangements.

Out of the increased staff proposed to be given in

Scotland, was expected that would be necessary to

have one man stationed in Edinburgh to act as Secretary
and Accountant, and as the official representative of the

Survey at the Scottish headquarters. His pay would

begin at 7s. day and rise to 2s. (including Sundays
and month of holidays), with the prospect of rising
                                       1

                                                    it
ultimately to £5 SO year. The work, was expected,
would be very easy, and at first would consist in

forwarding letters to the geologists in the field, ordering

maps from Southampton as they were written for by the

field surveyors, keeping the accounts, and seeing that
each man's accounts went in properly at the end of the

quarter, and generally looking after the Survey in

Edinburgh and the wants of the men in the field. Dr.

Geikie, then, with characteristic kindness, wrote and

asked Croll  he would be willing to accept that
a

                   if
                                   it
appointment. This very materially altered the condition

of things. Croll, however, felt reluctant to undertake

duties which required much mental work, as, owing to

the state of his head, might materially interfere with

the private work on which his mind was so much set.
But, on the other hand, as his salary at the Andersonian

was so small, and his health at the same time suffered

    good deal during the winter months from the cold
draughts in the lobbies of the Institution, he felt that,

taking all things into consideration, he ought not to

lose the opportunity of improving his circumstances.

Contrary to original expectation, however, the new men,
or at least a number of them, were to be considered Civil

Service men, and the office for which Croll was intended

was one to be included in the Civil List. It was there

fore necessary that the entrance examination for the

Civil Service should be passed. This was serious        a
consideration for Croll, and he was very reluctant to
168 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

attempt it ; but " my Lords " were not inclined to make
any exception, at least on the score of exceptional
ability, fitness, or distinction in science. Croll was
therefore in the dilemma that he must either attempt an

elementary examination, in which he knew he was
almost certain to fail, or relinquish the chance of
improving his position by joining the Survey. He

elected to try the Civil Service examination. As he
himself expected, and as every sensible man, knowing

his constitutional nervousness, his early education, or
rather want of education, his utter want of experience
in examination ordeals, and his advanced age, could
have foretold, he failed in some of the subjects. No
shame to him that he should fail. The stigma was rather

that he should have been asked to undergo a boy's

examination. It makes a Scotchman's blood boil to

read that a man who had made such a reputation for

himself as to be practically pressed to accept a post on
the Geological Survey, and who was undoubtedly recognised
to be a man of genius, should be made to undergo the
humiliating farce of an elementary entrance examination,

only to be rejected for not being able to do at his time
of life what modern schoolboys could. As it was,
however, Dr. (now Sir Archibald) Geikie, greatly to his
credit, cast the rigid rules of Civil Service to the winds,
and insisted on Croll's appointment to the Survey. In
this he was most cordially and ably assisted by Sir
Roderick Murchison, who had also come to recognise
Croll's genius, and was anxious to secure his services for
the Survey. " My Lords," having taken into account
the special recommendations made in Croll's favour, as
Lord Kelvin pithily puts " accepted his great calcula
tions regarding the eccentricity of the earth's orbit, and
the precession of the equinoxes during the last

  0,000,000 years as sufficient evidence of his arithmetical

capacity, his book on The Philosophy of Theism and

numerous papers published in the scientific journals, as

proof of his ability to write good English," and
1

                                            it,
       APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 169

magnanimously authorised his appointment at once as a
member of the Geological Survey of Scotland without

any further examination, his salary to begin from the
day on which he joined the Survey. The result was,
that shortly afterwards he received his appointment,
accompanied by a Civil Service Certificate with the
privilege for his advanced age.

      Croll thereupon removed to Edinburgh, and entered
on his duties on the Geological Survey of Scotland on

2nd September 1 867. At first he and his wife resided

in lodgings, till they could look about for a house
adapted to their requirements in a suitable locality. As
already explained, Croll's appointment to the Survey
arose out of a reorganisation of the Service which took

place in 1 867, when the Geological Survey was disjoined
from that of England and formed into a separate
branch. The staff consisted of Director, District
Surveyor, two senior Geologists and six assistant
Geologists, with an office in Edinburgh. Mr. Croll was
selected to be office-keeper, with the rank of assistant

Geologist. A vacancy occurring in 1869, he was pro

moted to the rank of Geologist.

     The office work was--( 1 ) Ordering copies of the six-

inch Ordnance maps ; dividing and preparing these for
use in the field ; keeping a register of their allotment to
the several surveyors ; superintending their transference
from one to another, and their return to the office when
the ground was surveyed. (2) When the survey of any
area was completed, and the map ordered for publica
tion, dry proofs were obtained from Southampton and
given to the surveyors to have their work transferred to
them, one inch or six inches as the case might be,
and sent to Southampton to be engraved. When proofs
came back from the engraver, they were sent to the
various surveyors, whose work was on them, to be
checked (sometimes three or four proofs were necessary
ere they could be passed as correct), all which Mr. Croll
conducted. (3) Colouring of maps. The maps, when
170 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

engraved, were coloured by the surveyors, one copy as

original pattern copy, and one copy as colourist's pattern.

But as the colouring was done by hand, every copy as it

came back from the colourist had to be checked ; and
this work, which was done by Mr. Croll, was constant to

keep the stock ready for sale. Horizontal sections which

are coloured passed through the same processes as the

maps ; but vertical sections, not being coloured, only

passed through the processes of engraving and printing.

(4) Sale of maps. The stock of maps for sale was kept
in the office, under Mr. Croll's charge, and given out to

the agents on demand ; a record was kept in the ledgers,

and reports were made to the Stationery Office at the end

of each year. (5) Accounts of the Survey. The
expense incurred by the surveyors in travelling was

repaid by the Treasury each          qIunacritdeer,ntaalnedxpecnesretisfi--ed
accounts duly checked and sent.
                                    to be checked and sent
tradesmen's bills, etc. --also had

each quarter. (6) Stores. All the instruments and
material necessary for field work were supplied by the

office, and a record kept. (7) Colouring of MS. maps.

All maps not ordered for publication were copied and

kept for reference in the office. The colouring was

generally done by the surveyor who mapped the ground,

but often done by others who had time in the winter.

Mr. Croll also copied some, at slack times in the office

work.

With his usual characteristic modesty and brevity he
"Isays regarding these duties:
                                found, as I had expected,

that the duties of the office were not at all laborious,

either physically or mentally. They consisted simply in

attending to the various details of office work, namely,

conducting the correspondence with the men on the

field, the supplying them with the necessary maps,

instruments, and stores, correspondence with the engraver,

colourist, and Ordnance Survey, the checking of maps,

the keeping of the various registers, etc. etc. These

various duties kept me busy during office hours, without
      APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 171

producing mental exhaustion. The only thing I suffered

from was now and again having to write two or three

letters in succession. The Director, Mr. Geikie, I found
to be a most agreeable person. This was all along a
great comfort to me. During the thirteen years we were

together in the office, never as much as an angry word
passed between us." His duties as Resident Geologist
did not really require much acquaintance with the science
of geology, and this relieved his mind from having to
study a science for which he had no great liking,
and allowed him to devote his whole leisure to those
physical questions in which he was engaged. There
was, however, one department of geological inquiry
the physical questions of which he was engaged studying
at this time, and with which it was necessary that he
should be acquainted, namely, Surface Geology, or Drift
in its bearings on Glacial and Interglacial periods. He
had begun his studies in that department before he left
the Andersonian, and had made frequent excursions
into the country in search of glacial phenomena. These
studies and excursions, with the results thereof, will be
dealt with in the next chapter.

      Although the hours of business in his new occupation

were not long, -- being only from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., and

the work not laborious, he found that in the evening he

was not in such a fresh condition to begin his private
studies as he was when in the Andersonian. This at

times made him feel some small regret that he had left
that institution. These six hours of mental work,
comparatively light though it was, added to his private
 studies, began ere long to tell prejudicially on his head,
 and he had to adopt every means he could devise to
 husband his energies. He was thus obliged to adopt a
 mode of life which practically shut him off from all social

 intercourse.
       Shortly after he went to reside in Edinburgh, he

 formulated a scheme for the regulation of his life, to
 which he adhered pretty closely during the whole time
172 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

he was in the Survey. After being in lodgings in
Edinburgh for a short time, he took a small house at
Jordan Bank, Morningside, at the southern extremity of
the city. When he came home from the office, which
was generally about five o'clock in the afternoon, he took
dinner and rested thereafter for about an hour. He then

took a stroll into the country. A few hundred yards

beyond Morningside, the main road separates into two
branches, which branches, after diverging for about a
quarter of a mile apart, again unite about a mile and a

half beyond the place where they separated. His most
frequent walk was to go out by the one branch and
return by the other, which gave him a circuit of about
three miles. As he walked very slowly, and employed

the whole time in observation and study, he was generally

out of doors for one hour and a half, or two hours. At

other times he would make an excursion to the Braid
Hills or to Craiglockhart. As the beauties of nature,
especially in quiet retirement, had a special charm for
him, he found the outdoor walks helpful to study. He
rarely took a companion with him in these walks, as
doing so not only deprived him of the opportunity of
getting on with his studies, but the effort and excitement
of talking, to a considerable extent, unfitted his head for

mental work on his return.

     In these walks he generally carried a pencil in the one
hand and a bit of paper in the other, on which he jotted

down the ideas as they suggested themselves ; or other
wise made such jottings as enabled him either to keep a
record, or such a note as would recall them to his memory
on his return home. He then wrote out and expanded

these ideas more fully, and, to save his head, he obtained
the services of a young man for an hour each evening,
who either wrote for or read to him, as occasion required.
This generally ended the labours of his day. If, however,
he felt that he was still in a working condition, he would

continue his studies quietly for another hour.

     His niece, who stayed with him for some time about
      APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 173

this date, says : " He was very fond of long walks, and
often went alone ; but generally I accompanied him, as
my aunt was not able to walk any distance, and during
our walks, should any thought occur to him on any of
the subjects he was writing or thinking about, I had to
write it down there and then, and sometimes I would
grumble, as it was of no interest to me. He would add,

' Well, if you don't, it may never occur to me again.'
This has even happened sometimes in a tram-car. He

always carried paper and pencil when we went away any
distance or for any time. He could not be idle. While

I was chattering about general topics, he was busy all the
while at his own theories. Yet I never seemed to disturb

him, so intent was he. He was kind and generous to a

fault, and I found him a very agreeable companion. He

was an early riser. Early to bed, early to rise, was his
maxim. He had a most wonderful memory. He seemed

to me as if he never forgot anything. He was orderly

and very correct. He could go to his library at any
time for any book, paper, or pamphlet, as the case might
be, and without any trouble whatever lay his hand upon
it. He used to say he had a place for everything, and
everything had to be in its place. Never any confusion.

If we were going a journey on a holiday, all had to be

ready the previous night, so that there would be nothing
left for the morning. He had a great admiration for

 trees, and, indeed, nature in every form.
       " He was very much interested in Sir Thomas Dick

 Lauder's wonderful account of the Moray floods. When
 on a visit to Forres, we took him up the banks of the
 Findhorn to see some of the places mentioned on the
 Divie and the Norloch. He gave special attention to
 Randolph's Leap, where the Findhorn comes into such
 narrow space. He was in raptures with the scenery all

 down, and several times expressed his great astonishment
 at how nature had so obliterated almost every trace of
 the terrible destruction of flood.

       " He was a great admirer of Sir Walter Scott, and
174 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

was particularly fond of The Heart of Midlothian.
Although he had read this work previous to the time I

was there, he bought me the book and listened to my

reading it over again ; and, in order to interest me and

                           he took me to all the various
make me understand       it,
                            it

                                                      it,
places in Edinburgh in connection with such as Jeanie
Deans' cottage, and several old houses in the High

Street. He was very fond of visiting places of any

historical interest which  was in his power to reach."
                       CHAPTER XI

         INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY
   CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. BENNIE, 1867-1868

AS we have already seen, Croll was engaged in making a
           series of investigations into Surface Geology, or Drift
in its bearings on Glacial or Interglacial periods ; and that,
for this purpose, he had made many excursions round about
Glasgow, to river-beds, glens, and the sea-shore, personally
investigating the phenomena to be there seen bearing on
the subject. As he could not conveniently continue these,
so far as Glasgow and neighbourhood were concerned, he
got Mr. Bennie to follow them up and report results.
Croll himself, however, carried on the same line of
investigation round about Edinburgh ; and on this
subject the following interesting letters were written to
Mr. Bennie.

                                                  EDINBURGH, lliA November 1867,

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Many thanks for the papers

and circular with which you are so good as to favour
me. I have to thank you also for your letter of 2nd
inst. ; and I shall try to get the information about the
position of the shell referred to by Hugh Miller, but it
may take some little time, for I have as yet made no
acquaintance in Edinburgh, neither have I done anything
out of doors. The days at present are so short, that by
the time I get dinner over, darkness is on. When the
days become somewhat longer, which will not, however,
be for some months, I purpose to begin outdoor work
on the surface deposit around Edinburgh. Did Messrs.

                                                                             175
176 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Young and Armstrong observe the direction of the

striation on the rock at Beith, and the quarter from

which the ice appears to come ?         again how you are
                                         JAMES CROLL.
     I shall be glad to hear now and

getting on in the field.--Yours truly,

                                                       EDINBURGH, 2nd December 1867.

DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I have again to thank you

for a copy of the Herald and a notice of the Society's

next meeting. Mr. Geikie's lecture appears to be a very

interesting one. Things with me here are moving on in

their usual quiet way. I was down at Leith the other

day. A dock something like the one at Windmill Croft,

Glasgow, is being formed there at present ; about 1 5 or
20 feet of sand has been dug out, and the workmen are

digging into the boulder clay which underlies the sand.

The sand is full of shells down to the till. I collected

a dozen or two of them. When I get a little spare time

to examine the contents of my parcel, if anything of

interest casts up, I shall send it through. -- I am, yours

truly,                                  JAMES CROLL.

                                                              EDINBURGH, 17^ December 1867.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I am much obliged to you for

your long and interesting letter. I have taken a note of
what you have observed about the till over the gravel at
Langbank, and also of the useful information about how
to wash the clay and look for the shells. I have been at
Leith Docks to-day, and have collected a few things.

Shells are very abundant amongst the sand and gravel.
There is somewhere about 20 feet or so of fine sand at

the top, containing two or three thin beds of gravel. Below

the sand is a bed of gravel a few feet in thickness. At

the bottom of this bed, directly on the boulder clay,
shells are found in abundance. In a small box, which I

shall forward you at the shop to-morrow, you will find
a sample of the gravel and the shells it contains. The
shells are so abundant that I suspect that they are not
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 177

of much interest. But, however, you can look over
them ; and if you should happen to meet with anything

which is  of   value in  a--gYeooulorgsicatrlulpyo, int  of view, you  will
perhaps        me know.
          let

                                                         JAMES CROLL.

                                                           EDINBURGH, jth January 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I am much obliged for your long

letter with all the particulars of the nature of the deposits
in the Leith dock. The result that you have come to is
what I half expected. The shells appear to be far too
numerous to be of ancient date. It is not all lost

labour. It will afford you an idea of the general
character of the shells of the coast. Mr. Archibald

Geikie says that he visited the Portobello clay beds

along with Hugh Miller. He says that the shells were

in the same bed as the vegetable drift. The Scrobicularia

were found in the position in which they had died. The

place, he says, seems to have been an estuary in which

the tide advanced and receded. And the vegetable

remains had evidently been carried down by a burn or

water running into the estuary. If there is anything

further you would like to learn regarding the matter, I
shall ask Mr. Geikie. I shall be glad to hear from you

at your leisure.-- I am, yours truly,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                                         EDINBURGH, i^th January 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Many, many thanks for your

long and most interesting letter. I shall certainly write
to Mr. Dennistoun, and request him to send me all his
surface bores. I got a peep into the Bore Book the
other night, and have extracted a number of interesting
surface bores. There are some of the localities strange
to me, but I shall try and find their whereabouts and let
you know. I should like exceedingly well if you would
draw up a short paper on the subject of these deposits
which we have examined with so much interest of late.

              12
i;8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

The facts are so remarkable and striking, and, besides,

they have such an important bearing on the history of

the Glacial epoch, that they ought to be made generally

known amongst our geological friends. A short paper,
or a long one if you can find time, on the subject might

be the means of interesting some of the able and

energetic members of the Glasgow Geological Society

to direct their attention more exclusively to the surface

geology of the neighbourhood. Certainly there is not a

spot in the kingdom where the surface deposit may be

studied to better advantage than around Glasgow. I

intended to have a short paper myself on the subject

this winter; but I have again got so immersed in the

question of climate that the thing is impossible, and,

besides, you know the subject far better than I do. I

am   glad to learn  --thaYtoumrsy  good    friends in Glasgow  have
not  forgotten me.                 truly,

                                           JAMES CROLL.

                                             EDINBURGH, ijih January 1868.

     DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Mr. Armstrong has kindly

sent me a very interesting letter which he had received

from Mr. Craig, Beith, giving an account of hazel nuts

and stems which were found in the Boulder Clay. If

you have not seen the letter, by all means get a look at

it. I showed it to Mr. James Geikie. He believes that

the clay overlying the bed containing the hazel remains

is true till. He has often found beds of peat in the

Boulder Clay in Ayrshire, and he thinks that there is

perhaps not a valley in that county where evidence of an

old land surface in the shape of peat beds in the
true Boulder Clay may not be found, if it
examined. -- I am, yours very truly,       is properly

                                           JAMES CROLL.

                                                         EDINBURGH, z&th January 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I am delighted to hear that we

are to have a paper from you on the surface deposit around
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 179

Glasgow. You need not trouble sending through the

paper to me, unless you like. Only let me know before

it is read, and I shall write to the editor of the Herald

and request him to print it in full. Do not make any

allusion to me in your paper, further than merely to say

that I had been at a good deal of trouble in collecting

particulars as to the bores which led to the discovery of

the deep trough filled with sand and gravel and capped

with till, lying to the north-west of Glasgow. Beyond this
I have no merit in the matter. Everything else about the

subject I learned from yourself and Mr. John Young. If

you can manage to write out the paper without referring

to my name at all, so much the better. Express in the

paper our thanks to iron and coal masters, mining

engineers, managers of pits, borers, and others who have

so kindly allowed us to copy their journal of bores.

You may wax eloquent on this point if you choose. We
have just got in a cargo of six-inch maps. All the
Dumbarton sheets are in this cargo, I think. I shall look if
I can find the height of Garscadden House above the sea

level, and also that of the high ridge on which the Roman

wall is seen beside the deep surface bore at Millikhen

farm. If the surface deposit were removed all around

Glasgow, those two spots, so far as we yet know, would

be the deepest part of your sea loch which would then

be formed. Please to give us some of your beautiful

poetic musings on the banks of the ancient loch. Let

us have a panoramic view of Ben Lomond in the distance,

covered with perpetual snow, and long glaciers crawling
                                 I often in imagination
down the valley of Strathblane.
visit that strange spot; but, unfortunately, I cannot

describe what I see in that poetic style, in which

you so often indulge. I can feel as a poet, but
cannot write as a poet. I read with much interest
your musings at Craigielea. Near that spot I have

spent many a pleasant hour in retirement. There is a

strange episode in my life connected with that place.
That was in my metaphysical days, when I did not
i8o LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

know what a glacial shell meant. Mr. Neil Robson has

neither answered my letter nor                                sent   me   the  bores. 1
have written to Mr. Dennistoun.                                     am,  dear  sir, yours
                                                             --I

truly,                                                              JAMES CROLL.

                                                    EDINBURGH, zty/i January 1868.

   DEAR MR. BENNIE, --The surface of the bore at

Drumry farm is 68 feet above the sea-level. The

surface is 298 feet in thickness : consequently, were the

surface deposit all removed, the sea would stand here

230 feet in depth. The knowe on which Garscadden

House is built rises 78 feet above the bore. It is,

therefore, probable that the surface under the house is

376 feet in depth. The highest part of the road beside
the bore at Millikhen is 214 feet above the sea-level.
The bore itself however, in Stirlingshire and, as the
                          is,

                                   1
                                                                          :
                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                 it
                                                                                            is

                                                                                I
maps for that country are not to be seen at present,

do not know the level of the bore. Say that                                       80

feet below the level of the road this would make the

surface of the bore 34 feet above the sea-level, and the
bore 355 feet in depth of surface. This gives 221 feet
as the depth of the sea at this place, and 435 feet as the
probable depth of the surface under the Roman wall.
        I

                                                           1

                                                  I

                                                   I
                                                                               a
                                                               II
find that have got in all 90 bores.                                 have few that

you have not got, but they are not of much interest.

shall send them along with some others that expect in

a  week or two. Please to remember me to our friends

Mr.     Mth'Ceamr.t--ney   and Mr.   Mahony,                 when you     happen to
                          am, yours  truly,                        JAMES  CROLL.
meet    I

                                     is

                                                          1

                                           7
   One of the bores at Walkinshaw has 159 feet of
surface. The surface there
                                                             feet above the sea-level.

This would give 142 feet of water there.

                                             EDINBURGH, iyh February 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Never apologise for sending

Me long letter and as for the penmanship, shall let
   a

                                      ;

                                                               I
     INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 181

you know when I cannot decipher it. I am glad to

learn that Dr. Young did me the honour to criticise my
notions about the method of measuring geological time
from denudation. I may here state that my calculations
were based on observations made on the amount of mud

carried down by the Mississippi. The observations were
made about the year 1847 or 1848. The estimate I
adopted of the quantity of the mud has been found to

be too great. Since then, most elaborate investigation

and observation have been made by Humphreys and
Abbot for the American Government ; and the result
of their researches is embodied in a large folio volume
which Mr. Geikie showed me the other day. Calculating
according to the data thus given, about the thickness of
a sheet of paper is being removed off the face of the
American continent every two years. Surely this

estimate will satisfy you. It takes upwards of four

thousand years to remove I foot. But in 40,000 years i 0
feet would be removed. In 400,000 years i 00 feet would

be taken off, and in 4,000,000, 1000 feet, or the entire

continent, would be carried into the sea. Now, if the

general level of the country is being gradually lowered
at the rate of I foot in 4000 years, at what rate are the
valleys being deepened ? Surely a river will cut its
channel at a rate at least ten times greater than that of
the gentle rain which lowers the general level of the

country. If so, then our (the American at least) valleys

must be deepened at the rate of I o feet in 4000 years ;
i 00 feet in 40,000 years ; i 000 feet in 400,000 years.

A valley might be cut down from the top of Ben Nevis
to the sea-level in less than 2,000,000 years. I am

unable to perceive any flaw in the mode of reasoning.
The rate at which our rivers are carrying down the land

into the sea is the rate at which the country is being
denuded by sub-aerial agency. Ascertain the rate, and
you have not only a measure of the rate of denudation,

but also a measure of geological time. Of course, it is

assumed that rain and rivers existed the same in past
i8z LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

ages as now. I pointed out this to Professor Ramsay

several years ago, and he appeared to concur in my

opinion. I am happy to say that this view of the

subject has been adopted by our Director; and he has

been already using the argument with effect against

those who, like the Duke, despise the denuding power of
" gentle rain from heaven." The great objection to sub-

aerialism is that it demands too long time to do its work.

I am no prophet, but I shall venture to predict that,

before a twelvemonth is past, the complaint will be that

it does the job too hurriedly to allow monkeys to turn

into men. We have just ordered the Stirlingshire maps ;

and I shall be able in the course of a few days to give

you the height of Langbank above the sea-level. Pardon

me for having neglected to ask after the whereabouts of

Sandy Croft. I shall try and find out on Monday

whether he be a countryman of ours or not. Mr.

M'Lelland, the mechanic at the Andersonian, has my

small book out of the library. He should have returned

it long ago. Please to tell the librarian, Mr. Ferric, to

look after it. Please to remember me kindly to Mr.

Ferric. I am glad to hear of Mr. Mahony's discovery,

and also to hear that Mr. M'Cartney has taken unto

himself a wife. I am much obliged to you for directing
my attention to where I can find Professor
                                            yHoeuer'ssoopna.p--er.I
Hoping to have another long letter from

remain, yours truly,  JAMES CROLL.

    PS. -- I am truly sorry to hear that Dr. Young is so

poorly. Mr. Geikie's lectures at the Museum were the
best lectures I have yet heard on physical geology.

                                                  EDINBURGH, yd March 1868.is,

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- The Stirlingshire six-inch maps
are at hand this morning; and, from them, I observe

that the height of the road at Langbank west of farm,

123 feet; east of do., 131 feet. The 200-feet contour
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 183

goes round the hill in an oval form. Height on top of

hill 246*3 feet. Don't worry your life out about the

paper, if you are limited for time and busily engaged

otherwise ; but if you can find time to draw up some

thing on the subject, there is none that can do it better

than yourself. As soon as the days are an hour or two

longer, I hope to see a little of the country around this

place. By the bye, I hear that Professor Sir William

Thomson was giving you a lecture on the physical causes

that limit geological time. Perhaps you will oblige me

with a copy of the Herald containing an account of the

lecture, as soon as it appears. I am working at this very

subject  just   now, and have     got  some curious results.
Thanks   for   the prospectus of  the
                                       Society. -- I am, yours

very truly,                            JAMES CROLL.

                                                       EDINBURGH, yh March 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I am sorry to have to inform

you that our friend, Sandy Croft, who is in possession of
such a store of bricks, is a Welshman. His address is

Queensferry, Flintshire, Wales. --Yours truly,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                                       EDINBURGH, yh March 1868.

     DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Thanks for your letter of yester

day. So far as I can learn, Professor Thomson did not
advance anything new in his lecture. He is in no way
indebted to me for the idea of determining the tempera

ture of bores. When I heard that he was engaged at

this work, I sent him the journal of the bore at Fairfield.

The pamphlet is intended for yourself. Mr. James
Geikie got a few copies from the author to present to
geological friends. I am glad to hear that you are to

go into the subject of the ground deposits. I sent a copy

of Mr. Craig's letter to Sir Charles Lyell, and also a copy
of one or two of our curious bores. I enclose his letter

in reply. It will show how much he is interested in the
184 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

matter. You may return the letter along with the com

munication with which you have promised to favour me.
I need hardly say that I feel almost absolutely certain

that Professor Thomson's view in regard to the age of

the globe is much nearer to the truth than those of

geologists in general. I hope that Mr. Geikie's lecture

will satisfy you that denudation gives no warrant to the

ordinary notion of extravagantly long time. If geologists

would just condescend to calculate the rate at which the

country is at present being denuded, they would feel

somewhat surprised at the amount of change that must

be effected in any such small period as a million of years.

In this respect, physical geology and physical science

agree.     But perhaps your arguments,   when I receive
them,   will cure me of this geological
                                         heresy. -- I am,

yours truly,  JAMES CROLL.

                                                                   EDINBURGH, 28M March 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I had a talk with Sir William

Thomson this afternoon about the bores which he is
busily engaged with at present. I told him that you
could give him a good deal of information concerning

bores around the city, as you were so perfectly familiar
with the geology of the place. He stated that he was

anxious to get some one to assist in taking the measure

ments of temperature. I said that perhaps your engage

ment would prevent you being able to do that, but that,

perhaps, during the summer evenings, you might be
able to do something in the close neighbourhood of the

city. If it was to add a good few shillings a week to

your income, perhaps you might think about it ; but, of
course, you will know best yourself whether such a thing
would be suitable; only I thought there would be no
harm in him becoming acquainted with you. He is a
very kind-hearted man. The heart is not so hard as the
head. Somehow or other I love that sort of people.
By the way, how did you relish our Director's lecture?
He was telling me how splendid a meeting he had, and
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 185

the still more splendid discussion at the close. I trust

that he satisfactorily met your objections to Mississippi

cutting its banks. Many thanks for your long and

deeply interesting letter. I should have written you,

but I have been so very busy at home of late that you
must excuse me. I have not got time to read the small

book you were so kind as to forward ; but I shall do so

shortly, and write you regarding the matter of its contents.
I have received the second volume from Lyell, but I have

got little read as yet. I have read Professor Heer's

remarkable paper on the Miocene flora of the Polar
regions. I observe that he gives Mr. Stone the credit of

some of my work ; but this is of little importance. I

can easily see, from the nature of his remarks, that he

has not read any of my papers, at least not the last one.
I am working away just now on the probable date of

the Miocene period. Things are turning up better than
I anticipated they could possibly do. We have had a

most delightful winter here, plenty of wind, as you saw

by the Scotsman, and I can vouch that the Scotsman's

account was not extravagant. It was something fearful :

but we have had but little rain and a clear sky overhead.

You people in the West, who consider that you have a

vested right in all that comes from the Atlantic, rob

every cloud as it passes by, and won't let a single drop

come our way ; but, for my part, I do not care. When

is your paper to be ready? Mr. Geikie stated that

Mr. Dougall had found that the Clyde, at Rutherglen

Bridge, has, during the flood, g^ of sediment in suspen

sion. Is     it s^ in weight?                Is it         our  friend   Mr.
M'Dougall                                                       so, get
particulars  forofmthheimG.--eoloI gaicma,l    Society?     If           the
                                             yours truly,

                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                         EDINBURGH, ist April 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I have this morning sent you, in

a parcel by rail, about a dozen of striated stones, which
Mr. Young and I dug out of the Boulder Clay overlying
186 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the sand at the Swallow Bank at Allander Toll. They

are addressed to you at the Andersonian. They might

be of some use to you on Thursday ; if not, it is of no
consequence. Much obliged to you for your letter. I

shall write you again regarding your argument. The

thickness of the deposits, I am working at that subject

just now.     I shall write to  the Herald to give you a good
                                                   JAMES CROLL.
report.-- I  am, yours truly,

                                                        EDINBURGH, ^th April 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, --Your interesting manuscript
came to hand yesterday. I have not as yet had time to

read it carefully ; but, from the glance I gave  had
                                               II
no difficulty in seeing that    it it       most admirable paper,I iIt,
                                     is
                                         a                                    ;
and that, when published, will excite a great deal of

interest.     wrote to Mr. M'Allister to try to get the
I
        it I
Herald to publish entire.          also wrote to the editor
              it                I

but fear will be too long for them. The longer the

better for geology, however. If the Herald does not want

the MS., and you can spare for few days, shall
                                it
                                    it

                                            a
have an opportunity of studying carefully.       shall be
very busy till the end of the week.-- am, yours truly,
                                            I

                                               JAMES CROLL.

P.S. -- You need not return the stone which have sent.

                                                 EDINBURGH, gth April 1868.

DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- am glad to learn from Mr.
              I
                       I

                           J.
                                     I

                                                  I

                                                                      is

                                                           I
                                                                  if
M'Allister that your most interesting paper      to be

published in the Transactions, " On the Surface Geology

of the District around Glasgow, as indicated by the

Journals of certain Bores," by Bennie (Trans. Glas. Geol.
Soc., vol. iii. p. 133), and he requested me to send the

MS. to him when have read it.                  have had a long

and most interesting letter from our friend Mr. Dougall,

regarding the sediment of the Clyde.            shall see
Mr. Geikie knows anything about the shell
                                               beds. -- am,

yours truly,                                   JAMES CROLL.
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 187

                                                       EDINBURGH, lyh April 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE. -- Many thanks for sending me
the Heralds. Being on the outlook, I had to go to the

book-stall at the railway station and purchase a half-

dozen copies on Saturday morning. So, with your

supply, I am enabled to send my geological friends a
copy. I trust that you will allow me to pay for the

copies you sent. The abstract is admirably written, and

the editor deserves thanks for allowing so much space.

If Mr. Armstrong sends a report to the Geological Magazine,

would you please to tell him to make the slight addition
which I have indicated in
Herald. -- I am, yours truly,  the  enclosed slip from the
                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                    EDINBURGH, ijt& April 1868.

DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- In the hurry of sending off your

MS., I forgot to delete the sentence, somewhere near the

beginning, where you speak in a disparaging sort of way
of your own labour in some such way as this : " all I

have got to do is simply to state," etc. This is not

correct, and please to erase it. I asked Mr. Geikie about

Castlecary. He said     that he had never been      at the
place, and never heard                              truly,
                        anything about it. --Yours

                                    JAMES CROLL.

                                                       EDINBURGH, lTth April 1868.

    DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- By all means send copy to

Mr. Jamieson. Many thanks for your information
regarding Mr. Wunsch's experiment. I herewith, under
another cover, return the MS. About two years ago,
Mr. James Russell gave me details of three rather
important pit sections about Peep-o'-Day. You might
allude to these. They would tend to strengthen your
position, seeing that they were examined, while the

shafts were being sunk, by one who knows so much
about geology as Mr. Russell does. I enclose the
188 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

particulars    in  a slip, which you               can arrange as you
think best.        am, yours truly,                      JAMES CROLL.
             --I

I shall send a slip to Sir William Thomson.

                                                       EDINBURGH, zyh April 1868.

    DEAR BENNIE, -- Thanks for your two interesting
bores. I had no idea that the surface was so thick at

the place where they were made. In regard to the
Sumnerton bore, I am not altogether sure about its being
150 feet. You will remember that I got its depth from
the farmer. I called on Mr. Morton, the manager of the

pits. He said that no journal of the bore was made, as

the whole affair was so suddenly brought to an end by

the rush of water up the bore. It is probable that the

farmer's statement is correct, but perhaps it will be as

well not to state the depths positively in your paper.

The particulars regarding the bore at Skinflats I got
from one Robertson, a borer at Lambhill Bridge. I

intend, however, to go out some afternoon to Skinflats,

and try to get some more information on the subject.

Should I happen to be too long in looking after that

matter, drop me a note when your paper is ready for the

press, and I shall try to start off without delay. I am

obliged to you for the two nicely mounted copies which

you sent to me. It is a great pity that D. Baird did

not give us some more bores. He promised that he would

give me a great many bores, extending from Garscadden

all along by Bearsden Station, and not one of them under
forty fathoms. Those, so far as I can remember, are the

very words he used. The first part of a long paper on
" Geological Time " will appear in the next number of the

Philosophical Magazine. The purport of the paper is to

show  that  togetoimloge.y--anI damph,yysoicuarls  science  bear the  same testi
mony   as                                           truly,    JAMES   CROLL.

      Please to remember us to Mr. Nasmyth when you
meet him, and to old friends.
    INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 189

                                                   EDINBURGH, lyh May 1868.

    DEAR BENNIE, -- I was quite delighted with your long

and interesting letter. It was a real treat to follow you
in your various journeys. I am glad that you visited
Duntocher and ascertained all about the eruptions of

sand in the pit, and also that you paid another visit to

Blairdardie. It was a pity that you did not see Jolly.
When you go back again, if you do not see Mr. Jolly,

try to see young Mr. Robertson, the son of the proprietor.
He is a very nice young man. The granite is not to be
seen in the wall of Mr. Jolly's house, which is situated near
the row of huts down at Blairdardie beside the canal,

but, I believe, if I can remember right, in some houses built

at the very mouth of the pit out of which the boulder was
taken. I met Mr. Jolly and young Mr. Robertson at
the canal side, and had not time to go back and examine
the wall. I hope that, when you again visit the place,
you will be successful in seeing a piece of the stone,
and ascertain, if possible, whether it is granite or not. I
had a visit of Mr. James Russell, Chapelhall, yesterday.
He stated that 52 fathoms was the depth at which the
miner tapped the trough at Duntocher. I was very
sorry to learn from him that Dugald Baird has got into
bad health, and has been obliged to leave the super
intendence of the boring. This may explain why we
have not got any more journals of bores from him.

 Perhaps, in a quiet way, you might be able to learn who

is his successor. Stimulated by your example, I made
an exploring expedition to Portobello clay fields a few days
ago. Don't expect, however, to get a graphic description
 of my journey, such as you can give with such fine effect.
 Although I have the feelings of a poet strongly
 developed, yet I am totally devoid of that poetic genius
 which you evidently possess. However, I saw little in
 my journey that could positively stimulate the pen of the
 poet. The country around Edinburgh is very fertile,
 good ground for farming ; but, so far as I have yet seen
190 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

it is flat, tame, and uninteresting to one fond of woody

glens, dens, and deep-cut gorges. My first work, when I
visited the pits, was to look out for shells ; but I could

see none. The workmen told me that they were some

times found. One of them showed me the spot where

they say that the bones of a wolf were found, that had

been drowned during the flood, and buried amongst the

clay. They told me to call on John Ness, the foreman,
and he would tell me all about it. After some trouble I

found John Ness, a worthy man, and was glad to learn

from him that the story was perfectly true. It was

found, he said, among a tough blue clay, that they use

for making tiles of, about 30 feet below the surface. It

lay, he said, just in the very spot where it was overtaken
by the flood. As I did not want to betray my ignorance,

I made no remarks. On asking if they had preserved

any of the bones, I was glad to learn that they had been
all sent up to the Edinburgh Museum. When I came

to the Museum next morning, I found that Mr. Davis

had transformed the wolf into a common seal. The clay

from top to bottom is evidently quite a modern deposit.

I wrote to Mr. Geikie to ascertain the nature of the

remains found in it : and his reply is as follows :--

      " The shells in the clay at Portobello are not glacial :

they are chiefly Scrobiculurii piperata or estuary shells,

still living in the Forth at below low water. Fragments

of thorn, hazel, birch, oak, etc., also occur in the clay."

On leaving the clay pits, I visited some of the coal pits

to the east of Portobello, where the coal seams are nearly

perpendicular. I expect in the course of a week or ten
days to visit Skinflats district. I shall then report
progress. I would like to go out more than I do ; but
I have again got so involved in that interminable climate

question,   that  a--lmIosatme, vyeoruyrsmotrmuelyn,t  of my after hours is
spent at   home.
                                                                J. CROLL.

      I am glad to find that your paper has excited Mr.
Jamieson's attention.
    INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 191

                                                        EDINBURGH, ztfhjuly 1868.

    DEAR BENNIE, -- I have just received your long and,
I doubt not, most interesting letter, which I shall reserve

the pleasure of reading till I go home in the afternoon.
In one of my evening strolls, which have been rather few
of late, I met in with a most interesting example of
stratified bed of sand and mud in the Boulder Clay. It
covers an area of some acres, and the sand is being at
present dug out for building purposes. A covering of
till, varying from two to eight feet in thickness, full of

ice-worn and striated stones and large boulders, is
removed ; and then they come upon the stratified sand,
and underneath the sand lies the till again, resting on

the rock. On carefully examining one of the pits, I
observed pieces of wood, which at first I took for drift
wood, making its appearance in one of the beds of sandy
mud. To make sure that it was not the roots of a tree

that had grown on the surface, and had pierced through

the till above into the bed below, I carefully examined
the till above, but found it perfectly solid and continuous.
 The ends of the pieces of wood, which were nearly all
vertical, or inclined to an angle of say 70 or 80 degrees,
 all terminated at the top of the stratified bed. I soon
 convinced myself that those pieces of wood must have
 been there before the till at the surface was laid down.
 To make sure, I got old Mr. Peach out to examine the

 matter ; and he said that there can be no doubt whatever
 but the wood is older than the upper till. There is a
 boulder in the till, above the pieces of wood, more than a
 ton in weight. Mr. Peach declares that the wood is not
 driftwood, but the roots of a tree which grew there before

 the upper bed of till was laid) down. He thinks that
 the Boulder Clay is not the old land-ice till, but a water

  formation, and that the boulder had been carried probably
 by floating ice. I have a suspicion that he is wrong;

 but I will not pass an opinion until I see Mr. Geikie,
  who is to be home on Monday. The rock-head upon
192 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

which the till lies is polished  and striated, and that  in

hollows where an iceberg could   not reach. -- Yours,

                                           J. CROLL.

     I shall send the pieces of wood through to you

next week.

                                                               CUMBERNAULD, -Jth August 1868.

    DEAR BENNIE, -- I expected to have seen you when
in Glasgow, on my way back ; but, unfortunately, I had

to leave by the 5 P.M. train, and therefore could not call

on you. I was at Crofthead, and saw the spot where

the head of the ox was got, the head itself, and also the

other phenomena of the place which you describe so

admirably. James Geikie had visited the spot, and he
has sent a long account of it to the Geological Magazine.

He says that the silt in which the head was found is

probably that of an old fresh-water loch, as you have

concluded. He says that the till above is the same in

character as that below, the real old land-ice till. I

examined the rock to which you alluded ; and it certainly

looks as if the ice had moved northwards, but he (Mr.
Geikie) says that the ice in the whole of that district

moved southwards down the valley, which, however, is

almost a dead level, for the 400-feet contour line passing
from Crofthead to the loch along the side of the road.

     I left at the shop a few specimens of the wood found

at Edinburgh in the till. Professor Balfour has kindly

agreed to examine the wood. Try what you can make

of and we will see how the observations will agree.
I

       it,

                                    ;

                             I

                                                                                       ;

                                                     I
                                                               II
                                                                        II
sent you some of the sand in which the remains were

found. Mr. Geikie visited the spot. When see you,

shall give you all the particulars.  have tried every

possible test and am in the meantime unable to see

how the upper clay could have been older than the roots,

or whatever else they may turn out to be.  have just

had one day in the field here but in that short time
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 193

have seen enough to excite my curiosity. By all means

get out your paper on the Crofthead district.
      I really cannot say whether James Geikie has gone
                                      is of no consequence.
over the  ground  or  not ; but that        JAMES CROLL.
          truly,
-- Yours

                                            CUMBERNAULD, iy/l August 1868.

      DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- Thanks for your letter. I

am glad to see you are getting light on the history of

the deposit in which the ox's head was found. I have

gone over the ground from Kilsyth to Castlecary, and I

find it very interesting. The district is covered with

sand and gravel knolls of the Garscadden type ; and the

mounds are almost covered in some places with huge

blocks of trap rocks. The quantity of boulders lying

on the face of the country here is something remarkable.

The following are the dimensions of one measured

yesterday :-- Length, 1 3 feet ; breadth, 1 2 feet ; height, 9
feet. I have measured, I suppose, nearly 100 with the

tape line ; 30 feet in circumference, and from 6 to
8 feet in diameter, is quite a common size. You will

be very pleased to hear that our deep trough is not cut

off by the track at Kilsyth, but passes right through,

maintaining a depth of from 15 to 20 fathoms below
the level of the canal. Hurrah for the trough ! After

passing Kilsyth, it goes onwards and enters the Forth at

a great depth about Skinflats. If the weather is good

on Saturday afternoon, might you not take a run out ?

You might leave by the 5 P.M. train, and come off
at Castlecary station, where I would be waiting for you.

We would then walk back along the ground to Kilsyth,

and reach Croy station in time for you to see every

thing, and catch the train from Perth, which is due

about 9.36 P.M. My time-table is two months old; but

you   could call at the  station at  Queen Street, and   make
sure  about the trains,  and then    drop me a note.
                                                        If you

could not come on Saturday first, or if the weather

      13
194 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

should turn out bad, you might perhaps come on the

Saturday following. -- I am, yours truly,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

                            CUMBERNAULD, Kith AvgUSt l868.

     DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- On my return from Edinburgh,

where I have been for a few days, I found your letter.
I have been at Skinflats, and got the journal of bores.
I saw the pit to which you refer, and have traced out the

line of the trough from Kilsyth to Grangemouth. Had

I been at home, I would have sent you the particulars

ere  this, but as I shall   see you  on  Saturday,  I need not
go                          truly,
     into details. --Yours

                                         JAMES CROLL.

     Forty-five fathoms 3 feet is the deepest surface found.

                                                            CUMBERNAULD, 22nd August 1868.

    DEAR BENNIE, -- Lest your enthusiastic love for

geological science should have overcome your regard

for the laws of health, I went down to Castlecary at
5.43 P.M., but, disappointed as I was, I must say that I

was happy that you did not venture out, for, in such
weather, we could not have managed to have gone over
the ground before total darkness would have overtaken

us. I shall, however, be here for two or three days

longer. Could you not manage to get out some day in

the beginning of the week by the 5 P.M. train ? If not,

it can't be helped. Should you think of coming, drop

me a note in time. -- Yours truly,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

      Croll was not a mere reader of books or speculator
upon other people's outdoor labours. Whenever he was
engaged in anything which required personal inspection
outside, or verification by minute investigation of natural
phenomena, capable of being seen, he required to see it
     INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 195

personally. Whenever he had a holiday, it was invariably
employed in visiting the scene of some geological forma
tion. Thus, in August 1868, he spent his first Survey
holidays at Cumbernauld with Mr. Macdonald, his wife's
brother, and employed much of his leisure time in tracing
the trough in the neighbourhood, and in hunting up erratic
boulders in the fields thereabouts. He found many, and
had great pleasure in his observations of them. Mr.
Bennie writes regarding this holiday : " He invited me to

come and see them likewise, and on Tuesday, 25th

August 1868, I was conducted by him over the ground,
and here is a description of what I saw in a letter to my
friend Mr. Mahony.

     " I had a long walk with Mr. Croll on Tuesday last,

from Castlecary to Croy, and was introduced by him to

several hundreds, if not thousands, of new acquaintances,
since he came into this part of the country to spend his
holidays. Though holiday friends, yet they have been

long known in imagination at least to him, as they are the
natural offspring of the ice which he has been so intimate

with in mind for so many years, and certainly they are
worthy of their origin, being of the race of Anakim in
every sense. They consist of great boulders of trap, i o,
 1 2, or more feet in length or breadth, but their numbers

were even more remarkable than their size. In some

parts they actually covered the surface, and made it
useless for any purpose of agriculture ; and it was laid
down in grass or planted with trees, and often more of

the surface consisted of stone than either. At others

they occurred singly, in picturesque situations, though
some were not romantic, especially one which stood on
end i 0 feet in a bank of gravel which overhung a midden,
and to see it we had to look over a great bing of
' coo shairn,' etc. The country is very bleak and barren

from Castlecary to Croy, and looked bare, especially the
fields where the trap blocks were most numerous. I
noticed that the modest eyebright was very modest here,
not above one and a half inches from root to flower.
196 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      " Mr. Croll has been very successful in proving that
the deep trough of his discovery goes straight through

from sea to sea, and is not cut off by the trap at Kilsyth,
as was feared. It
                                      however, very narrow there, not
                                      is,

                                               I
                                                                                                         :
                                                                                        is
wider than 500 or 600 yards, yet the depth                                                                  nearly

about 140 feet."

Croll persevered in his investigations as to the bores

till he had probed the                matter    to the bottom, as                                           will  be
seen from the following               letters
                                               to Mr. Bennie --

DEAR                   MR.                    EDINBURGH, llth September 1868.

                            BENNIE, -- wrote to Mr. Stirling,

manager of Grangemouth pit, requesting him to preserve

specimens of all the beds beneath those we have already

got and he has answered my note stating that he will
;
do so.              also wrote to Mr. Mackay, the proprietor,
  I
      I
requesting some more bores but have not got any as
                                          ;

                                                  I

                                                                                        is
yet. am inclined to believe that our deep trough an

old pre-glacial river-bed, scooped out of the rock before

the time of the Boulder Clay. The watershed would be

at Kilsyth to the east, the water would run eastwards
                    :

along the trough to the Forth at Grangemouth; and,

west of Kilsyth, the water would run to the Clyde. The

trough enters the sea at Grangemouth, at a depth of

260 feet below the present sea level. Consequently,
                                               it

                                                                      if
was hollowed out by running water, must have been
it
     a
at time when the land stood at least 260 feet higher

in relation to the sea than at present. The thing which

convinces me that was scooped out by running water
                            if is it
this Deep as the trough at Kilsyth, the sea would
is

                 :

not flow through                      the land stood any higher than at

present; for the bottom of the trough at Kilsyth
hardly at sea-level. You will observe that, in the flat
                                               is
                                                                          is
carse land at Grangemouth, the trough          quite narrow.

The average depth of surface of the whole of the flat

country along the side of the firth and extending up in

the direction of Carron about 20 or 25 fathoms. Outis
     INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 197

of this flat, rocky surface a narrow trough has been
scooped out to a depth of more than 20 fathoms, away
inland for miles, in fact, right across the island. The
following would represent a cross section of the trough,
as it entered the Firth at Grangemouth, before the
surface deposits were laid upon the rock, or, in other
words, before the Glacial epoch.

Now it is apparently absurd to suppose that a sea ex

tending for miles on either side should take it into its

head to cut out a narrow trough like this and leave the

rest of the rock untouched. The  form  of trough  that  the

sea would make would be this --

       \

     I have always felt a little puzzled why the trough
should be so narrow all the way through if it was cut by
the sea when it occupied the Midland Valley. But if it

had been an old river, all is plain. Undoubtedly the

trough must have been used as a strait by the sea

when the sea-level was higher than the bottom of the
trough at Kilsyth. But on thinking over the matter for
a week past, I feel inclined to believe that the trough was
hollowed out of the rock by running water at a time

when the land stood higher than at present. Might not
this have been at the time of the forest of Cromer?
There ought, according to the area of drainage, to be a
far greater quantity of water running through the Midland
Valley to east than there actually is. The Bonny water,
which has a large area of drainage, would hardly drive a
good water-wheel. The water must find its way to the

sea through the deep surface of sand and gravel which
ig8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

covers the country. But probably before these sands

and gravels were deposited, a pretty large quantity of

water would be    running down the      optrionuiognh..--  Think               over
the matter, and   let me hear your                         I am,             yours

truly,                                        JAMES CROLL.

                                                     EDINBURGH, igth September 1868.

DEAR BENNIE, -- I send you, by book post, the office

copy of the Geological Magazine, containing the account

of the bores. When you have done with
            I                                                                you can

return it.                                                              it,
               am glad to find that you are busy at the

paper for the Geological Society. Do not allow yourself

to be influenced in any way by any opinion of mine

regarding any of the various points connected with the

subject. Never mind how much we may differ on any

particular point. Come out with your own views in the

strongest form.      am glad that Dr. Young going to
               I                                           a is
interest himself in the matter and am also glad thatI
                             5          II I
you promised to let him have a copy of the bores at;

your leisure.      shall write to Mr. Stirling, and request

him to send some more of and 7, and also to collect

samples from different parts. . . The red clay, No.                          a 7,
                                    I.
and the sand containing the shells were taken from

number of places. These two collected myself; but

the others were collected by Mr. Stirling and borer who

happened to be there at the time.             suppose that they
were all of one piece. It
                             is    pity that we cannot manage
                                a

to find out whether the trough actually runs into the

Clyde or not suppose that does. The quantity of
               ;                    it

                I

drift lying in the bottom of the Firth of Forth must be

very great.    I   have not  been able to get  the part of                   my
paper ready    for October                     yours truly,
                             number. -- am,

                                              JAMES CROLL.

                                                                  EDINBURGH, loth October 1868.

     DEAR BENNIE, -- send you the Geological Magazine

for the present month, as contains an absurd letter by
                     I
                            it
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 199

Mr. Craig " On the Bores of Crofthead." Mr. J. Geikie
is going to reply, I suppose. Mr. Craig evidently thinks

tbhluee.u--ppeI ramcla, yyonuorst , to be till, because  it is not tough and
                                                            JAMES CROLL.

     Method of   Determining Sub-aerial                  Denudation. --
                                                         -- In addition
Correspondence  with Mr. Charles Darwin.

to the luminous memoirs bearing on the theory explaining

the occurrence of an Arctic climate in temperate latitudes

in former geological epochs, Mr. Croll pursued other lines

of research, the results of which were published in

various periodicals, and subsequently incorporated in his

volume on Climate and Time. In the Philosophical

Magazine for 1850, Mr. Alfred Tylor published a paper

in which he estimated the amount of sediment brought

into the ocean by denuding agents. He inferred that

one foot removed off the general surface of the land

during that period would raise the sea-level three inches.

At a later date Croll approached this question, and

pointed out that the rate at which the materials are

carried off the land is measured by the rate at which

sediment is carried down by our river systems. Hence,

in order to determine the present rate of sub-aerial denu

dation, we have only to ascertain the quantity of sediment

annually carried down by the river systems. From the

estimates of the materials discharged by the Mississippi,

furnished by Humphreys and Abbot, he inferred, in

1868, that the rate of denudation is about one foot in

six thousand years. Taking the mean elevation of the

land, given by Humboldt at io00 feet, he contended

that the whole would be carried down into the ocean by

our river systems in about six million years, if no eleva

tion of the land took place. He further showed the

value of this method as a measure of geological time,

These views were embodied in several papers written in

1868, entitled "Paper on Geological Time," Part I.;

" Method of Determining the Rate of Sub-aerial Denu

dation," which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of
200 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

May, 1868 (No. 28); "On Geological Time," Part II.;

"Tables of Eccentricity ot the Earth's Orbit," which

appeared in the Philosophical  Magazine of August 1868

(No. 29); "On Geological       Time," Part III.; "Inquiry

into the Effects of Icebergs, Interglacial Periods, etc., with

the Suggestion that the Warm and Cold Periods of the

Glacial Epoch explain the commingling of Mammalia

of Sub-tropical and Arctic Types in the Cave and
River Deposits " (No. 30).

      These papers Croll seems to have communicated to

Mr. Charles Darwin, F.R.S., in a letter which, unfortun

ately, has not been preserved. Mr. Darwin's reply, how

ever, was carefully preserved by Croll, and the following

interesting and instructive correspondence thereupon

ensued :--

                               DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT,

                                                                                 ig//4 September 1868.

DEAR SIR, -- I hope that you will allow me to thank

you for sending me your papers in the Philosophical

Magazine, I have never, I think, in my life, been so

deeply interested by any geological discussion. I now

first begin to see what a million means, and I feel quite

ashamed of myself at the silly way in which I have
spoken of millions of years. I was formerly a great

believer in the power of the sea in denudation, and this

was perhaps natural, as most of my geological work was

done near sea coasts and on islands. But it is a con

solation to me to reflect that as soon as I read Mr.

Whittaker's paper on the escarpments of England, and

Ramsay and Juke's papers, I gave up in my own mind
the case ; but I never fully realised the truth until reading
your paper just received. How often I have speculated

in vain on the origin of the valleys in the chalk platform
round this place, but now all is clear. I thank you

cordially for having cleared so much mist from before

my eyes. With sincere respect, I remain, dear sir, yours

very faithfully,               CHARLES DARWIN.
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 201

                         EDINBURGH, zyd September 1868.

CharDleEsARDaSrwIRin,--, EIsqa.,mMd.Ael.i,ghFt.eRd.S.to find that you are so

well pleased with the two papers which I sent.
     I have taken the liberty of forwarding to you by

book post two other papers which may interest you,

which please to accept.

      I am sorry that it is not within my power to send
you a copy of a paper " On the Eccentricity of the

Earth's Orbit and its Relation to the Glacial Epoch,"

which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine for

February 1867; and "On the Physical Cause of the

Submergence of the Land during the Glacial Epoch,"

Philosophical Magazine for April 1866. -- I am, yours

very truly,              JAMES CROLL.

                                                                  DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT,

                                                                                                     November 1868.

    DEAR SIR,-- I have read with the greatest interest
the last paper which you have kindly sent me. If we are

to admit that all the scored rocks throughout the more
level parts of the United States result from true glacier

action, it is a most wonderful conclusion, and you

certainly make out a very strong case ; so I suppose I

must give up one more cherished belief. But my object
in writing is to trespass on your kindness and ask a

question, which I daresay I could answer for myself by

reading more carefully, as I hope hereafter to do, all your
papers, but I shall feel much more confidence in a brief
reply from you. Am I right in supposing that you

believe that the Glacial periods have always occurred

alternately in the northern and southern hemispheres,
so that the erratic deposits which I have described in the
south parts of America and the glacial work in New

Zealand could not have been simultaneous with our
Glacial period ? From the glacial deposits occurring all
round the northern hemisphere, and from such deposits
appearing in South America to be as recent as in the
202 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

North, and lastly, from there being some evidence of the

former lower descent of glaciers all along the Cordilleras,

I inferred that the whole world was at this period cooler.
It did not appear to me justifiable without distinct

evidence to suppose that the north and south glacial

deposits belonged to distinct epochs, though it would

have been an immense relief to my mind if I could have

assumed that this had been the case. Secondly, do you

believe that during the Glacial period in one hemisphere,

the opposite hemisphere actually becomes warmer, or does

it merely retain the same temperature as before? I do

not ask these questions out of mere curiosity, but I have

to prepare a new edition of my Origin of Species, and
am anxious to say a few words on this subject on your

yaouuth. o--ritPyr.ay  I hope   that you will excuse my                 troubling
                                me, very faithfully yours,
                       believe

                                               CHARLES DARWIN.

                                          EDINBURGH, 2nd December 1868.

CharDleEsARDarSwIiRn,,--EsUqn.,deMr.Aa.nother cover I send you a

rough abstract of my views on change of climate. Along
with that I enclose a copy of my papers on the subject,

so that you can refer to some points that I could not

well explain in the MS. without extending it to an

unsuitable length.

     I am sorry I cannot make you a present of the small

volume. You may, however, keep it beside you as long
as you wish, for I have another copy to which I can refer.

     Should you find any points not clearly stated, I shall

be delighted to afford you further explanations. And if

you find, as no doubt you will, some points where you

have reason to believe that I am in error, I shall take it

kindly indeed if at your leisure you will drop me a note

on the subject, expressing your opinion freely. It is in

subjects like          this,  so new and  so   ctohme ppliactaht,e--d,   one always
feels anxious           lest  he may go
                                          off                           I am, yours

very truly,                                    JAMES CROLL.
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SURFACE GEOLOGY 203

                                    DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT,

                                                                                 4/A December 1868.

MY DEAR SIR,-- As you may be anxious about the
book, I write to say that I have received the MS. and
            I

                          is
                                                                     it,
your note.  will soon read the MS., and as you do not

object, will perhaps keep the book till Christmas, as my

second son, who  a mathematician, and who was

extremely    interested by    your    last  bepaaptersh,omaen.--d                         who
wished to   read the others,  will  then                                                  Pray

believe me, yours truly obliged,
                                                   CHARLES DARWIN.

      Croll had written to Professor Tyndall for copy of
one of his articles, and received the following character

istically kind reply --
I
                                   :
                         I

                                    it

                                                a

                                                  I

                                                                             a
                                                                                            a
MY DEAR SIR,-- If had                             9/A November 1868.

                                    separate copy of that

article, would gladly send          to you.                                               will write

note to the sub-editor and ask him to send you the date.

     It gave me pleasure to hear Mr. Darwin express the

delight he experienced in reading one of your recent

papers.       had been staying with him for day or                                        two.

He is, for  him, exceedingly well. --Yours very truly,
I

                                                                a

                                            JOHN TYNDALL.

         am glad the notice in the Proceedings pleased you.
Are you Fellow of the Royal Society
I

          a

                                                                                       ?
                     CHAPTER XII

  4. PAPERS ON THE GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS

J[^TT^HE Glacial Epoch in Europe. -- Some of Dr. Croll's
             most interesting work is occupied with a consider
            ation of the path of the ice - sheet in North-

Western Europe during the last Glacial epoch. In his
series of papers on " Glacial Submergence," published in
the Reader for 1865, Dr. Croll first suggested that, during
the Glacial epoch, the North Sea was probably invaded

by continental ice.

     In 1869 he considered the special case of two buried

river channels which he had discovered through boring
operations made for mining purposes (Paper No. 34).
One extends from the Clyde above Bowling, across the
country by Kilsyth, along the valley of the Forth and

Clyde Canal to the Firth of Forth at Grangemouth. It
is filled with immense deposits of mud, sand, gravel, and

boulder clay. On the surface there is no trace of its

existence. All along the line of this trough the surface

of the country is covered with enormous beds of sand,
obviously of marine origin, indicating that at a recent
period the sea occupied this valley. The trough, how
ever, is certainly excavated, not by a sea filling the
valley, but by running water.

      This river channel enters the Forth, a few hundred
yards to the north of Grangemouth Harbour, 260 feet
below the present sea-level, so that at that time the land
stood some 300 feet higher than at present. This river,
which apparently belonged to the early part of the
Glacial epoch, may have corresponded to the Carron.
 PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 205

Grangemouth was probably not the mouth of the river,
but the place where it joined the river Forth of that
period, when the North Sea was in all probability dry
land, and the Forth, Tay, Tyne, and other British rivers
tributaries of the Rhine, then a huge river passing down
the bed of the North Sea and entering the Atlantic to
the west of the Orkneys. Further borings might reveal
the old beds of the Forth and the Rhine, and enable us

to estimate accurately the height at which the land stood
at that remote period. But this buried channel shows
that the sea-level was some hundreds of feet lower than

now, and that our island must have then formed part of
Continental Europe.

      The western part of this great hollow, from the water
shed at Kilsyth to the Clyde, is probably also an old
river channel, possibly the ancient bed of the Kelvin.

If so, the ancient river probably entered the Clyde 200

feet below the present sea-level, and the rocky bed of
the ancient Clyde must be buried 200 feet below the
surface. There are other examples of buried channels
both in Scotland and England. Probably all our British
rivers now flow into the sea over their old buried

channels, except where they have changed their courses
since the beginning of the Glacial epoch. Some of these
channels would be glacial, others pre-glacial in origin.

It is certain that many of them were used as water
courses during the warm periods of the Glacial epoch, for

they have been filled with boulder clay, re-excavated,
and finally filled up again with clay.

      In 1 870 Mr. Croll published an extremely important
and ingenious paper in the Geological Magazine for May

and June, entitled "On the Path of the Ice-Sheet in

North -Western Europe and its relation to the Boulder
Clay of Caithness." In this he attempted to trace the
path of the ice - sheet as indicated by the geological
evidence of the boulder clay of Caithness. The glacial
drift of Caithness consists of a boulder clay with ice-
scratched debris, together with sea-shells scratched and
206 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

ice - worn, which were evidently broken, striated, and

pushed along by the ice as the clay was formed. The

striae show that the ice came from the sea and not from

the interior, and their direction indicates that it was either

from Moray Firth to the south-east, or from the Atlantic

to the south-west. Dr. Croll accumulated evidence of

former glaciation to show that Scotland was covered with

an ice-sheet which buried the Ochil, Pentland, and other

ranges, whose flattened and rounded tops still bear

witness to the denuding power of ice. The North Sea,

unless it was then ten times deeper than at present, was

too shallow to permit an ice-sheet of this thickness to

float, and consequently the ice did not break off into

icebergs, but moved along the bottom of the sea as one

unbroken mass. The Scandinavian ice also entered the

North Sea. The deep trough south of Norway was soon

filled, and the ice was prevented from moving northwards

by the vast mass of polar ice moving southward. Had

Scotland been a low, flat country, the Scandinavian  ice
                                                     the
would have passed over it; but the pressure of       the

vast Scottish ice - sheet was sufficient to compel

Scandinavian ice - sheet to move round by the Orkney

islands. The median line of the two sheets was near

the Scottish coast. Where there was a low shore and

little pressure of ice from the interior, as in some parts of

the English coast, the Scandinavian ice crossed the

country. Another contingent of the Scandinavian ice

also went into the Gulf of Bothnia and filled the Baltic

Sea. A part of this moved southwards over North

Germany ; but the greater part kept to the bed of the
Baltic, turned to the right round the south end of

Gothland, crossed Denmark, and entered the North Sea

somewhere to the north of the Elbe. This is con

clusively shown by the direction of the striae and the
debris of Scandinavian rocks. This immense glacier

would have to find an outlet to the Atlantic through the
English Channel, or press in between the shores of

Scotland and the great glacier from Gothland and North
PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 207

west Europe. Consequently, the Scottish ice -sheet,

after entering the North Sea, was obliged to turn abruptly

north and cross Caithness, which lay in its path, depositing

there the shells, oolitic fossils, and chalk flints from the

North Sea which are now found in its Boulder Clay.

That it was the Scottish and not the Scandinavian ice

which crossed Caithness is shown by the total absence

of all Scandinavian debris. The Scottish ice deflected

northwards by the Baltic glacier, and the Scandinavian ice

deflected northwards by the Scottish ice-sheet, moved on

round by the Orkney and Shetland Islands into the

Atlantic. Scandinavian debris appear in these islands,

and striae pointing in the direction of Scandinavia. Thus

Scotland, Scandinavia, and the North Sea formed one

immense tableland of ice, 1000 to 2000 feet above the

sea - level, which terminated in the deep waters of the

Atlantic by a perpendicular wall of ice, extending

probably from the west of Ireland away in the direction

of Iceland. From this barrier icebergs rivalling in size

those now met with in Arctic seas would constantly

break off and float away.

      Mr. Croll published a paper in the Geological
Magazine for January 1871, on the " Transport of the

Wastdale Granite Blocks." He explained the transport

of these blocks across the Pennine Range to the east by

supposing that the ice-sheet of Scotland overlapped the

high grounds of the North of England. The Wastdale

boulders, which are neither ice-marked nor rounded, and

which are found on the surface of the Boulder Clay, and

                   it,              havmeobreeoenverc,arreiveiddeonncet--heatso, p   of
                                 is,                                                for
not  imbedded in        must
the  ice - sheet.  There

example, the presence of hard red chalk from the

Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Wolds in the Cotswold Hills,

and of chalk debris from the Yorkshire Wolds in the

Midland counties of England --that a great ice -sheet

extended south-west from Yorkshire across the centre of
England. In his paper on the " Boulder Clay," Dr. Croll

supposed that the ice which entered the North Sea from
2o8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the East Coast of England and Scotland all passed round
the North of Scotland ; but in this paper he admitted

the probability that, on meeting the Scandinavian ice,
part of the North British glacier was deflected southwards,
and crossed England. The ice which passed over Wast-
dale Crag moved in the direction E.N.E., and did
not cross the chalk of the Yorkshire Wolds, while the
ice which bent round to the south by the Wold came
from the district lying to the south of Wastdale Crag,
and did not carry any Wastdale granite with it.

      Mr. Croll summarised his views on the ice-sheet of
Northern Europe and America in a short paper on the
" South of England Ice-Sheet," published in the Geological
Magazine, June 1874. The ice of Greenland was too
thick to float in the surrounding seas, and moved over
the North American continent in one continued mass.
The North Sea, as already shown, was filled with land
ice from Scandinavia and Britain, which passed round
the Orkneys and Shetlands into the deep trough of the
Atlantic. The North of England must have been

covered by an ice-sheet, and ice-markings would probably
be disclosed by an examination of the Pennine range
under the turf. Dr. Croll suggested that the ice which
crossed England from the north-east to south-west was a
portion of the great Baltic glacier, one or two thousand
feet in thickness, which entered the Atlantic in the
direction of the Bristol Channel.

     Glacial Submergence. -- In 1865 and 1866 Dr. Croll

published an important series of papers in the Reader on
the " Physical Cause of the Submergence and Emergence
of the Land during the Glacial Epoch." He suggested
that the submergence of land on the glaciated hemisphere
was due to a rise of the sea-level caused by the influence
of the weight of the ice-cap on the earth's centre of

gravity. If the northern hemisphere was undergoing

glaciation, the centre of gravity would be shifted some
where to the north, causing a rise of the sea-level on the
northern hemisphere and a sinking of the sea-level on
 PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 209

the southern hemisphere. This, as Dr. Croll pointed
out, could not happen if both hemispheres were glaciated
at the same time, and he claimed the submergence of
land as a strong argument in favour of his theory that

glaciation prevailed on each hemisphere alternately, and
occurred at periods of maximum eccentricity of the earth's
orbit. As already shown, both hemispheres could not in

that case be glaciated at the same time, and the conse

quence would be a submergence of land during the cold
periods, and an emergence of land during the warm

Interglacial periods.
      Mr. Croll's views provoked considerable comment,

and the objection was brought forward that the period of

maximum glaciation could not have been the period
of maximum submergence, since the Boulder Clay shows
that the rocky surface of the land must have been
covered by a gigantic sheet of ice. Mr. Croll replied, in

the Reader, I4th October 1865, that the land with its
covering ice-sheet might have lain under the rising sea,
for, if the ice were of sufficient thickness, its pressure on
the surface of the land would be nearly thirteen times
greater than the pressure of the water to get under
neath it. He suggested independently that the land ice

would gradually encroach upon the sea, and that a
shallow sea like the North Sea was probably filled by
land ice from Scandinavia and the British Isles. Another
critic objected that the conversion of the ocean into ice
would lower instead of raising the sea-level. Mr. Croll
thought that this would be balanced by the melting of ice
on the warm hemisphere, and that the accumulation of

ice on the cold hemisphere would also tend to raise the
sea-level by confining the ocean within smaller bounds. But
he attached considerable weight to this objection, with
out withdrawing his opinion that, however caused, there
was a submergence of land during the cold periods of

the Glacial epoch and an emergence during the warm
periods. He pointed out, however, that as most
probable, the centre of the earth in molten condition,

           14
is
        a

                    if,
                               is
210 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

this would considerably affect the changes in the earth's
centre of gravity and increase the total submergence.
Even after allowing for the fall of sea-level due to the

conversion of the sea into ice, there would remain a

considerable rise of sea-level during the cold periods.
     In April 1866 Mr. Croll published a short paper

(Paper 1 9) on the same subject and under the same title
in the Philosophical Magazine, to which Sir William

Thomson added a short note on the mathematical aspects

of the theory. In it Dr. Croll attempted to calculate
the effect, on the centre of gravity of the earth, of the

transference of an ice-cap, of given magnitude, from one

hemisphere to the other, and the consequent effect on
the sea - level, which, he showed, would rise on the

glaciated hemisphere.

     In 1 874 Mr. Croll restated his theory of oscillations of
sea-level during the Glacial epoch (Paper No. 57). He
took his data from the condition of things at present

existing at the Southern Pole, and showed the effects

which would follow,      owing to high eccentricity of
                     is if,
the earth's orbit, all the ice were transferred to oneis

hemisphere. Continental ice moves in consequence ofis
                                             a
pressure acting from the interior, and the larger the

surface, the greater the thickness of ice needed to produce
the requisite pressure. Little known of the Antarctic

Continent, but in Greenland the ice rises steadily towards

the interior, and there good reason to suppose that the

northern ice-cap must be at least nearly two miles thick.

The Antarctic Continent  about twelve times the area

of Greenland, and hence the thickness of Antarctic ice

must be far greater than that of the Arctic ice-cap.

Antarctic icebergs have been found rising from 700
to 1000 feet out of the sea, showing that the edge of
the cap must be over mile thick. The submergence
of land during the Glacial epoch can be readily accounted
                     a
                                                      is
for, admitted that continental ice may accumulate
to mean thickness of two miles, which very probably
the case on the Antarctic Continent. During the Glacial
a if

      it
           is
  PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 211

epoch, however, all the ice was accumulated on a single
hemisphere. The centre of gravity was consequently

shifted towards the heavier or cold hemisphere, causing a
rise of the sea-level on that hemisphere. But a still

greater rise might occur either before or after the period

of maximum glaciation. If the ice melted on the warm

hemisphere more rapidly than it formed on the cold, the
rise of sea-level on the glaciating hemisphere would be
due to two distinct causes : first, to the displacement of
the centre of gravity ; and, secondly, to the increase of the
waters of the ocean by the melting of the ice on the
warm continent. The displacement of the centre of
gravity towards the ice-cap would be far greater if the
centre of the earth is in a molten state. Dr. Croll
suggested that if the extent of the general submergence
of the Glacial epoch was known, and also the present
amount of ice on the Antarctic Continent, it would be
possible to determine whether the interior of the earth
is in a fluid condition or not. In the same paper Dr.
Croll pointed out that oscillations of the sea-level would
help to account for the geographical distribution of plants
and animals. For instance, Asia and America might be

connected, so that plants and animals could pass from
one continent to the other.

    Antarctic Ice and Glacial Epoch. -- In 1879 Dr. Croll

published a paper on the " Thickness of the Antarctic Ice
and its Relations to that of the Glacial Epoch" (No. 73).
Sir Wyville Thomson, director of the scientific staff of
the Challenger, had expressed an opinion that the
Antarctic ice could not exceed 1400 feet in thickness.
This, if true, would of course disprove Dr. Croll's theory.
Sir Wyville Thomson maintained that when the ice is
1400 feet thick the pressure on the lowest layer is a
quarter of a ton to the square inch. Hence there results
a constant system of melting and regelation, the water
passing down from layer to layer till it reaches the floor
of the ice-sheet and works out channels for itself between

the water and the land.
212 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Dr. Croll pointed out that numerous instances of ice

bergs nearly a mile in thickness, and much geological
evidence, would disprove Sir Wyville Thomson's state
ment, that ice at the temperature at which it is in contact
with the earth's crust in the Antarctic regions cannot
support a column of itself more than 1400 feet high
without melting. Mr. Croll showed that this assumed
the temperature of the column to be 32° F. The
temperature of the great mass of the ice-sheet is more
probably 10° or 12° below freezing point, the amount of
heat derived from all possible sources being practically

infinitesimal. No experiments have been made as to the
thickness of ice which could support its own weight
without melting at this temperature, and it is therefore
impossible to say what amount of pressure would be

necessary to lower the melting point to any assigned
temperature. With regard to the effect of pressure in

melting ice by compression, Dr. Croll showed that if the
bulk of the ice were only 2° below freezing point, the
total amount of heat generated by compression during
1 0,000 years would not raise the temperature of the ice
to melting point. Hence Dr. Croll's theory remained
unassailed. The rest of the paper is occupied in a

demonstration that the ice at the South Pole may well
be twenty-four miles thick, although Dr. Croll is content
to accept only a fraction of this estimate. Inadequate
conceptions of the magnitude of continental ice had led
to the misunderstanding of geological evidence, which

otherwise would clearly show that, during the last Glacial
epoch, Northern Europe was buried under an ice-sheet of
enormous thickness, which filled the shallow seas, and

buried hills 2000 feet or more in height. Hence the
thickness at the centre of dispersion must have been many
times as great, and the total weight of the ice accumulated

on a single hemisphere quite sufficient to account for the
submergence of land in the manner already described.

    Physical Cause of Motion of Glaciers.-- In April 1 869

Mr. Croll contributed a short paper on " The Physical
  PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 213

Cause of the Motion of Glaciers " to the Philosophical
Magazine, and a second paper on the same subject to
the Philosophical Magazine, September 1870. The ice
of a glacier, though hard and solid, moves with a
differential motion, the particles of the ice are displaced
over one another, or, in other words, the ice shears as it

descends. It had been generally assumed that the mere

weight of the glacier was enough to shear the ice.
Canon Moseley, F.R.S., after careful investigation and
experiment, showed that for the ice to shear as it was
supposed to do, a force thirty or forty times the weight
of the glacier would be required.

      Mr. Croll's own view was that the glacier descended
molecule by molecule, each molecule losing for an instant

its shearing force, and descending by its weight alone.
Heat applied to a molecule of ice at 32° does not raise
the temperature of the molecule, but is consumed in work
against the cohesive forces binding the atom into
crystalline form. The energy exists in the dissolved

crystalline molecule as a tendency to reassume the

crystalline form ; and when the molecule is allowed to

re-crystallise, energy is given out again in the dynamical

form of heat. This heat is employed in melting the
next adjoining molecule. It must be observed that the
crystalline molecule is melted for an instant only. When
a molecule B takes energy from A in the form of heat,
A instantly reassumes the crystalline form. B is now

melted, but reassumes the solid state immediately the
next molecule, C, takes heat from B. This process goes
on from molecule to molecule till the energy is trans

mitted through to the opposite side, and the ice is left

in its original solid state.
      This being established, every difficulty about the

descent of a glacier disappears ; for a molecule in the
fluid state loses its shearing force, and descends by its

weight alone. All it requires is space to advance in, and

this it has, for, in passing from the solid to the liquid
form, its volume is diminished by about one-tenth. Nor
314 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

does it return to its original place on resolidifying; for
the molecules in front of it have been similarly affected,
and so each molecule resolidifies a little below its original
position. Each molecule of the glacier consequently
descends step by step, as it melts and resolidifies ; and
hence the glacier, considered as a mass, is in a state of
constant descent downwards.

      This explains the formation of crevasses. Suppose a
change of inclination from 4° to 8° in the bed of a glacier.
The molecules on the slope of 8° will descend more
rapidly than those above on the slope of 4°. There will
therefore be a state of tension at the point where the
change of inclination occurs. The ice on the slope of 8°
will tend to pull after it the mass of the glacier moving
more slowly on the slope above. The pull being continued,
the glacier will snap asunder as soon as the cohesion ol
the ice is overcome. The greater the change of inclina
tion, the more readily a crevasse is formed.

     As the supply of heat is greater in summer than in
winter, the molecules will pass oftener into the liquid
state in summer, and also the glacier will descend more
quickly during the day than during the night.

      This theory of glacial descent also explains why a
glacier can move off a slope almost horizontal, or off the
face of a continent perfectly level.

     A short paper on the same subject in the Geological

Magazine, August 1876, deals with a misunderstanding
of Mr. Croll's explanation.

      In the debilitated state of body in which Croll was
during the year 1869, he yet managed, by his marvellous
conservation and concentration of energy, as well as by
his unique saving of time, to do a considerable amount
of independent investigation over and above his daily
work in the office. During the year 1 869 he wrote
papers on " The Physical Cause of the Motions of Glaciers,"
which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of March
1869, and in Scientific Opinion on April 14, 1869 (No.
 PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 215

31); on "The Influence of the Gulf Stream," which
appeared in the Geological Magazine of April 1 869, and
in Scientific Opinion on April 21 and 28, 1869
(No. 32); on "Mr. Murphy's Theory of the Cause of
the Glacial Climate," which appeared in the Geological
Magazine of August 1 869, and in Scientific Opinion on
September 1, 1869 (No. 33); and "On the Opinion
that the Southern Hemisphere loses by Radiation more
Heat than the Northern, and the Supposed Influence

which this has on Climate," which appeared in the

Philosophical Magazine, September 1869, and in Scientific
Opinion on September 29 and October 6, 1869 (No. 34).

     It is truly wonderful how, after a day's work at his
office, Mr. Croll was able to carry on any independent
investigation at all. But it is still more wonderful,

considering the disconnected and spasmodic manner in
which he was compelled to do this, that he was able to
embody his results in the series of clear, logical, and
precise papers which he published during this year.
These papers bear no trace of any incoherence or want
of connection ; on the contrary, they exhibit an amount
of sustained mental vigour and consecutive, clear, logical
thought, which, to the reader, would rather indicate a

vigorous bodily and mental state, capable and indicative
of a continuous and connected mental effort.

      The following correspondence with Mr. Darwin is

highly interesting :--

                                DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT, S.C.

                                                             it):' ft January 1869.

MY DEAR SIR,-- I write one line to say that I am

ashamed of myself for having kept your book so long,

partly for my son's sake, and partly for my own sake, as

I have not yet come to the place where I want to quote

it. If I hear from you, I will send it at once; if I do not
       I
hear,      will keep it for about ten days  more, and will then
send   it  registered, so you shall get it
                                            safe. --With sincere

thanks, yours very faithfully,  CHARLES DARWIN.
216 LIFE Of JAMES CROLL

                                                          DOWN, BROMLfiV, IvENT, S.C.
                                                             yst January 1869.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- To-morrow I will return registered
your book, which I have kept so long. I am most

sincerely obliged for its loan, and especially for the MS.,
without which I should have been afraid of making
mistakes. If you require
                             the MS. shall be returned.
                          is it,
Your results have been of more use to me than, think,
                              I                                 I

any other set of papers which can remember. Sir C.

Lyell, who staying here, very unwilling to admit the
is
greater warmth of the southern hemisphere during the
  I
Glacial period in the north but, as have told him, this
             is           ;       I

                  Iconclusion, which you have arrived at from physical

considerations, explains so well whole classes of facts in

distribution, that must joyfully accept it. Indeed go
                                                                is
                                                                   is

                                                                                 I
so far as to think that your conclusion strengthened

by the facts in distribution. Your discussion on the

flowing of the great ice-cap southward                          most interest

ing. suppose that you have read Mr. Moseley's recent

discussion on the force of gravity being quite insufficient

to account for the downward movement of glaciers. If

he right, do you not think that the unknown force may

make more intelligible the extension of the great northern

ice-cap? Notwithstanding your excellent remarks on

the work which can be effected within million years,
                                     IIa
                                                           I
am greatly troubled at the short duration of the world,

according to Sir W. Thomson, for require for my

theoretical views a very long period before the Cambrian

formation. If would not trouble you, should like to
it

hear what you think of Lyell's remarks on the magnetic

force which comes from the sun to the earth. Might not

this penetrate the crust of the earth, and then be con

verted into heat? This would give somewhat longer
is
                                                             a
time during which the crust might have been solid, and

this the argument on which Sir W. Thomson seems
chiefly to rest. You seem to argue chiefly on the

expenditure of energy of all kinds by the sun, and in

this respect Lyell's remark would have no bearing.
PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 217

My new edition of the Origin will be published,
I suppose, in about
your liking to have     two months ;    and, for the chance of

                        a copy, I will   send one. --With my

very sincere thanks for all your kind assistance, I remain,

yours very faithfully,                  CHARLES DARWIN.

     I wish that you would turn your astronomical atten

tion to the consideration whether the form of the globe

has not been periodically slightly changed, so as to
account for the many repeated ups and downs of the
surface in all parts of the world. I have always thought

this cosmical cause would some day be discovered.

                        EDINBURGH, tfh February 1869.

Charles Darwin, Esq. F.R.S.

    DEAR SIR,-- Your favour, with book, came duly to

hand ; and I am glad to hear that some of the papers
had been of a little use to you. I am very much pleased

to hear that you consider the facts in distribution

favourable to some of the views expressed in my paper

on " Climate." ,,

I have not as yet been able to overtake that part of

the question relating to the condition of the hemisphere

whose winter occurs in perihelion. I have no doubt that

when this part of the subject has been fully discussed,

Sir Charles Lyell will agree with me : the facts in favour

of a warm climate are so numerous and strong.

     It is a pity that Sir Charles should have made those

remarks on the " secular loss of heat in the solar system,"

vol. p. 213. He must have done without due

consideration of that point. If there one thing more
ii.                                         is
        it
              is                               it

than another in physics regarding which we have absolute

certainty,        that the solar system losing its store of
                                        is

energy. We not only know this fact, but we have a

means of determining the actual rate at which      it      losing
                                                       is

its power. 3,869,000 foot-pounds of energy in the

form of heat are radiated off every square foot of the
218 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sun's surface per second. In other words, the quantity
of energy thrown off into space by the sun is equal to
a 7000 horse-power engine working on every square foot
of its surface. And, when we reflect that all this

prodigious expenditure has been going on during count
less geological ages, we may well ask the question, what
is the secret of the sun's great strength. Gravitation
only affords up to the present time 20,000 years' heat.
There must be some other source in addition to that of

gravitation. It is strange that that other possible source

did not suggest itself to Sir William Thomson and other
physicists when working at this question. It is perfectly
obvious that the sun, or rather the matter which composes
the sun, might have been in possession of heat prior to
condensation. In this case it is difficult to say how old

the sun may be, for we do not know what this original

store may have amounted to. In my paper I assumed a
certain relation between the amount of original heat and

that produced by gravitation, namely, 234 to 95 (Phil.
Mag., May 1868); but, as I stated, I may be wrong.
It may be more than this, or it may be less. This

proportion gives 70,000,000 years.
      The introduction of this new element changes the

entire conditions of the problem, and I have no doubt

that the whole matter will have to be re-considered, and

it is quite possible that we may yet be able to get
considerably more than one hundred millions of years,
although very much beyond this we are brought to a
limit by other considerations.

     As regards determining the age of the earth's crust
from the surface cooling of the globe, I am not altogether
satisfied with the plan. It would no doubt do if we had
proper data to go by, but I don't think we have got
these yet. I think that you may quite fairly assume a

very long period before the Cambrian formation, even
according to Sir William Thomson's theory ; for, suppos
ing the earth to have originally been in a molten con

dition, a solid crust would very rapidly form, and if this
  PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 219

crust would not break up and sink, the globe at the
surface would be cool and suitable for life, although a
short way down below the surface the heat was intense.
This results from the slow rate at which the crust is able

to conduct the heat from within.

      It is some years since I read Sir William's paper on

the secular cooling of the globe, but I think he states the

above as his opinion ; at all events, I heard him once

say, in a lecture on the subject, that, supposing the earth
to be in a molten state, in a few thousand years you
could walk on its surface and hardly be sensible of the
heat from within.

      Electricity and magnetism used to be my favourite
study, but for the past four years I have been paying
little attention to what was going on in that department.

A relation between the spots of the sun and the mani

festation of electric phenomena on the earth does not
necessarily imply any transmission of electric force from
the one body to the other. One thing is certain, that it is
but an infinitesimal quantity of the forces of nature that
ever assumes the electric or magnetic form. Electrical
phenomena are very imposing, and this is the reason

why so much is attributed to them. A thunderstorm

is something very striking ; but Faraday has shown that
more electricity is evolved in the silent decomposition of
a few grains of water in the cell of a battery than would
be required to produce the most violent flash of lightning.

     It is owing to high tension that electricity makes

such a display in passing from the statical to the
dynamical state ; but when you estimate the amount
of energy thus displayed in foot-pounds it is often very
little.

      The quantity of energy in the form of electricity
coming from the sun, if there be any at all, is certainly
trifling compared with what comes in the form of heat.
I believe that no physicist will call this in question.

     Your suggestion as to the possibility of a cosmical
cause for the ups and downs of the crust never occurred
220 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

to my mind. I can see no possible way at present how

the thing can be, but I shall certainly ponder over it.

I have never heard of Mr. Moseley's papers. My

curiosity is very much excited, and perhaps you will be

so kind as to let me know when the paper appeared.

Edinburgh, with all its books and learning, is miserably
behind in scientific literature. Since I came here, I

hardly know what is going on in the scientific world

around. One can get plenty of good solid books on

science, but the current news and literature of the subject

are not to be found anywhere. Edinburgh, I fear, is

falling behind.

     I need hardly say that a present of a copy of the

Origin of Species from its author will be esteemed worth
a dozen copies out of a shop. I trust you will make out

to read this    rather long affair, written  hurriedly to catch
                am, yours very truly,
the post. -- I

                                             JAMES CROLL.

P.S. -- Keep the MS. sent, it is of no use to me.

                                                                  DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT, S.C.

                                                                            6th February 1869.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I am very much obliged for your
long and to me extremely interesting letter. It is con

solatory to me that you are inclined to give a little more
age to the world. I read Mr. Moseley's article in
Scientific Opinion about three or four weeks ago; I have
had the house searched, but cannot find the copy. The

article was given as extracted from the Proceedings of
the Royal Society ; but I have looked in the two last
numbers which I have received, and it is not in them.
Hence, I suppose, the author or secretary sent an abstract
beforehand, and I suppose it will appear in the next
number of the Proceedings. The article interested me,
though I could not follow all the reasoning, as I hear he

is a sound man.

     I was reminded of my crude notion that the cause
PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 221

of elevations, volcanic phenomena, etc., was cosmical, by

my son telling me about Captain Clark's paper in

Philosophical Transactions, which you probably know,

on the globe being a little flattened at the equator, that

this stands in relation to relative position of continents

and oceans. It would be a great gain if some one could

show a  cause of   the  many    changes   of level  in the crust
of the                    very   sincere  thanks,   believe me,
        earth.--  With

yours very faithfully,

                                        CHARLES DARWIN.

                                EDINBURGH, lyh February 1869.

Charles Darwin, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.

    DEAR SIR,-- I am much obliged to you for the copy

of Scientific Opinion you sent me, containing an abstract of
Canon Moseley's admirable paper on the motion of glaciers.

     I have a curious incident to tell you regarding the

matter. The reading of the abstract thoroughly con

vinced me that the generally received theory of glacier
motion, which I believe is that of Tyndall, must be

given up, and that some other explanation must be

sought. Strange to say, this conviction had hardly got

time to settle down, if I may so express myself, before

what I fully believe to be the true cause suggested itself.

The cause is so simple, so beautiful, and obvious that I

wonder that it should have escaped observation so long.

I have drawn up a short account of the matter and have

sent it to the Philosophical Magazine. I have requested

Dr. Francis to  send me   two   copies  oonfe.p--rooIf,aamn,dywouhresn  they
come to hand              send    you                                   very
                 I shall

truly,                                    JAMES CROLL.

                                DOWN, BROMLEY, KENT, S.C.

--MY DEAR SIR,                                        24/£ February 1869.

                          I am very much obliged for the

proofs, which have interested me greatly. I cannot pretend

for a moment to form any judgment, but your view seems

to me very ingenious. If accepted, it will be a most
222 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

satisfactory    and  great   step   in our knowledge  of glacier
movement.            haste,  yours  very sincerely,
              -- In

                                    CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                        EDINBURGH, zydjune 1869.

CharDleEsARDaSrwIRin,--, EPslqe.a,seM.tAo.,acFc.eRp.tS.of my warmest thanks
for the copy of the new edition of your Origin of Species,

which you were so kind as to present me with. I trust
that you will not consider me vain for saying that I am

very much gratified with the complimentary way in which

you have referred to my papers. I am particularly in

terested in the section on alternate glacial periods in north

and south. I had no idea of this application of the theory
when engaged on the subject, or I might have brought
out the point more clearly than I have done, that when
the northern hemisphere, for example, is under a Glacial
period, the line of highest temperature will not be at the
equator, but will lie a very considerable distance to the
south of the equator. And again, when the Glacial

period is transferred over to the southern hemisphere,
the line of greatest heat will move over to as great a

distance to the north of the equator. Your idea that the
temperate climate plants will move up the mountain side
while this line of greatest heat is being transferred from

tishenaotnueralh. e--miIspahme,reyoutorsthveeroythterru,lyis, most ingenious, as it

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

     As the result of his outdoor geological investigations
Croll was fortunate in discovering two remarkable buried

river channels, belonging to a Preglacial and Interglacial
age, and some other singular facts bearing on the history
of the Glacial period. These researches were continued
after he went to Edinburgh with equal success, the
particulars of which were given in Climate and Time,
and in one or two papers contributed at the time.
  PAPERS ON GLACIAL EPOCH AND GLACIERS 223

      He embodied the results of these in a paper, written
also during the year 1 869, on two river channels,
between Forth and Clyde, buried under drift belonging
to a period when the land stood several hundred feet
higher than at present (No. 35), which appeared in the
Transactions of the Geological Society of Edinburgh during
that year. His health engendered a dread of going out
in doubtful weather, and prevented him conducting much
outdoor investigation on a prolonged scale, but this
discovery shows what he might have done had he been
possessed of the physical strength necessary for field
study.
                    CHAPTER XIII

           5. PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS

CEAN Currents, Gulf Stream. -- Nearly twenty of

   Mr. Croll's scientific papers are devoted to the

examination of the influence of ocean currents on

climate.   In the   Geological  Magazine for April     1 869 he
published           (No. 31)    " On the Influence of
           a paper                                     the Gulf

Stream." He adopted as the basis of his calculations the

data given by Mr. A. G. Finlay, who estimated the breadth

of the stream at 50 miles, its depth 1000 feet, its
velocity 4 miles an hour, and its temperature on leaving
the Gulf 65°. From these figures Mr. Croll calculated
that 133,816,320,000,000 cubic feet of water were

conveyed from the Gulf daily, and that the total quantity

of heat transferred from equatorial regions by this

current is equal to all the heat received from the sun

by 3,121,870 square miles at the equator, or by

6,873,000 square miles of the Arctic regions. The

frigid zone contains 8,130,000 square miles. Therefore

the quantity of heat transferred from tropical regions by

the Gulf Stream is nearly equal to the amount of heat

received from the sun by the entire Arctic regions. The
Gulf Stream alone probably conveys more heat to the

Temperate and Arctic regions than all the aerial currents

blowing from the equator. Aerial upper currents, in

fact, tend to dissipate rather than to transfer the heat

they receive from the earth. Even at the equator they

are nowhere below the snow-line, and are cooled to the

temperature of freezing point. Their heat is radiated off

into stellar space and lost. On reaching temperate

regions they descend, become warmed by contact with

                                224
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS  225

the Gulf Stream, and blow over our country as warm
south-westerly winds. From these considerations Dr.
Croll concluded that to raise the mean temperature of

the whole earth, water, and not, as was generally supposed,
land, should be placed along the equator. Land could
only effect heat transference by aerial currents which,

as already shown, obtain all the heat they convey to
Temperate and Arctic regions from warm ocean currents

which would be absent if land were substituted for water
at the equator. Aerial currents are an effectual means
of dissipating the earth's heat into space. Air in contact

with water is less rapidly heated than air in contact
with land, and thus the presence of water at the equator
also tends to raise the mean temperature by checking
the dissipation of heat by aerial currents and permit
ting it to be transferred to higher latitudes by ocean

currents.

     In the years 1870 and 1871, Dr. Croll published a
remarkable series of papers in the Philosophical Magazine
"On Ocean Currents" (Papers 3, 5, 36, 39, 44). Only

the general conclusions reached can be stated, and it is
impossible to give any idea of the brilliant handling,

the wealth of illustration, and the amount of knowledge
which they display. The more important portions,
in a somewhat condensed form, will be found in the

section of Climate and Time which deals with ocean

currents.

      Dr. Croll began by examining the influence of the

Gulf Stream, a typical ocean current. It has already

been shown how vast is the quantity of heat transferred
by this current from the equatorial regions. Our climate

is largely modified by warm south-westerly winds, which
derive their heat from the warm waters of the Atlantic.

The Atlantic, if deprived of warm currents, would be

unable to supply the necessary heat to the south-west
winds. Assuming the heat conveyed by the Gulf Stream
to be only half the amount already calculated, it is still
equal to all the heat received from the sun by 2,062,960

             15
226 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

square miles of the temperate regions. The total area

of the Atlantic within the temperate zone is about

8,500,000 square miles, and consequently nearly one

fifth of the entire heat of the Atlantic is derived from

the Gulf Stream. The mean annual temperature of the

Atlantic is 56°, or 295° above the temperature of space,
which is usually estimated at -- 239°. Hence, if the Gulf

Stream were withdrawn, the temperature of the Atlantic
would be lowered one fifth of 295°, or 59°, giving -- 3°

as its temperature.      Currents         on  Climate. -- Dr.  Croll

     Influence of Ocean
proceeded to show the magnitude of the work done

by ocean currents, by a variety of illustrations. Under

existing circumstances the difference in temperature

between the equator and the poles is 80°. Assuming

that the proportionate quantity absorbed by the atmo

sphere is the same in both cases, the quantity of heat

received direct from the sun at the equator is to the

quantity received at the poles about as 1 2 to 5 . Were all
heat-transferring agencies withdrawn, the temperature of

the equator would be 374°, and that of the poles 156°,

above the temperature of space. That the temperature
                                               is,
of the equator would be 135° F., and that of the polesis
-- The influence of ocean currents thus to reduce
is
the difference of temperature from 218° to 80°. In the18
          3°.
             latitude of London the temperature as determined by

             the sun's heat would be 249° above the temperature of
             space, or 10°. The actual mean normal temperature

             in the latitude of London    40°, and the actual
               is
                                 is

                                           is
             mean temperature of London        10° above the

             normal. Thus the actual rise of temperature at

             London, over and above all lowering effects resulting

             from Arctic currents, 400.1

                    The glacial shells of the Clyde bed show that the climate of Scotland

             has undergone far more change since the last Glacial epoch than the climate
             of Canada. The glacial cold of the two countries was probably nearly the

             same, and the subsequent disproportionate rise of temperature in Scotland
                 due to the return of the Gulf Stream, which was deflected from our
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS                                                                227

      The influence of ocean currents on temperature may

also be shown in the following way. A variety of con

siderations suggest that the mean annual temperature of

the ocean ought to be greater than that of the land in

equatorial as well as in temperate and polar regions.

Actual observation shows that in tropical regions the

mean annual temperature of the ocean is below, that of

the land above, the normal. The explanation                                             is,that in

tropical regions the ocean    deprived of heat by warm                                             it
                              is
currents, and further cooled by the compensating polaris
is
             iscurrents. From the consideration that the temperature
                 a
                        isof the sea should be higher than that of the land,
                           a
follows that the southern hemisphere, which contains a

larger proportion of sea, should be warmer than the
northern hemisphere. But the actual mean temperature

of the southern hemisphere              lower than that of the

northern, circumstance undoubtedly to be explained

by the fact that the warm currents of the southern hemi

sphere set northwards, and that these are compensated

by cold under-currents from the northern hemisphere.

There thus constant transference of heat from the

southern to the northern hemisphere, quite sufficient to

account for the lower mean temperature of the southern

hemisphere.

The influence of currents on climate                                                    obvious.
                                        is,
Owing to the spherical form of the earth, too little heatis

received at the poles, and too much at the equator.

The function of the two great oceans    by means of

currents, to render both habitable by transferring the

excess of equatorial heat to temperate and polar regions.

This work they accomplish not directly, by radiation, but

indirectly, by heating the aerial currents which blow as

warm breezes over the land.

shores during the Glacial epoch. Canadian winters are not modified in the
same way by this current, and are cooled by the Davis Strait Polar Stream.
The mean temperature of the Gulf of St. Lawrence the same as that of
Iceland, and consequently glacial shells are not extinct. -- Dr. Croll, 7Va«f-

actions the Geological Satiety Glasgow, 1866.
of
                                of

                                                                                    is

                                                            J.
228 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

    Ocean Currents in the Glacial Epoch.-- If all the

ocean currents were deflected into one hemisphere,

that hemisphere would have a very high mean
temperature, while that of the other would approach
freezing point. Dr. Croll proceeded to consider the part
played by ocean currents during the Glacial epoch. He
gave a full and lucid statement of his own theory, that
the Glacial epoch resulted from the physical effects of a
high state of eccentricity of the earth's orbit (see sec. 3,
Geological Climate). The trade winds from the cold
hemisphere would be far stronger than those of the warm
hemisphere, since there would be far greater difference of
temperature between the equator and the pole. Hence
the median line of the trades would be in the warm

hemisphere beyond the equator, and these strong trades
would impel the warm waters of the equator into the
warm hemisphere, thus further cooling the cold hemi
sphere, until it reached a state of more or less complete
glaciation. The cause of secular changes of climate is
the deflection of ocean currents, owing to the physical
consequences of a high degree of eccentricity of the
earth's orbit.

     Theories of Cause of Ocean Currents. -- Before ex

plaining his own views as to the cause of ocean
currents, Dr. Croll proceeded to examine various
other theories. Of these, the most important are
those which attribute movement of the ocean to the
influence of gravity resulting from difference of density.
Lieutenant Maury and Dr. Carpenter are the best
known advocates of this view, the former holding
that difference of specific gravity would produce
currents, the latter that no currents would be produced,
but a general movement of the ocean from the equator

to the poles.
      Mr. Croll first examined the views of Maury, who

attributed the difference in specific gravity to two causes:
first, the difference in temperature, the equatorial water

being expanded by heat, and consequently lighter, and
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS               229

the polar waters contracted by cold, and consequently

heavier ; secondly, to difference of salinity, the waters of

the equator being salter and consequently heavier. Mr.

Croll pointed out that these two causes would obviously

tend to neutralise each other, and to prevent currents.

Lieutenant Maury's theory could not in fact claim any

scientific value.

Dr. Carpenter was a more important antagonist, and

the controversy between the two opponents lasted for

some years, and was conducted with singular power on

both sides. Dr. Carpenter, in the course of dredging

expeditions in the North Atlantic, found great masses of

warm water which he referred, not to the Gulf Stream,

but to a general movement of the ocean polewards, of

which the Gulf Stream was a peculiar case modified by

local conditions. Dr. Croll first attempted to calculate

the effects on the temperature of the ocean, if any such

general oceanic movements existed. The amount of

heat conveyed by a general movement of the ocean

could hardly be less than that conveyed by a single

current like the Gulf Stream. Taking the lowest

probable estimate of the volume of the Gulf Stream, the

heat conveyed by it is equal to all the heat received from

the sun by 1,600,960 square miles of the Atlantic in the

torrid zone. If the general oceanic movement conveys

only the same quantity, the total amount of heat con

veyed into the Atlantic in temperate regions is equal to

all the heat received from the sun by 3,201,920 square

ffmiles of the Atlantic in the torrid zone, or of the heat
received from the sun in that area. Now the quantity of

heat received in the torrid zone is to the heat received at
ffthe equator as 975 to 1000; and, if
                                       of these 975
parts of heat, or 405 parts, are removed, there remains to
the ocean in the torrid zone 570 parts of heat. The
Gulf Stream, as already shown, conveys into the Atlantic
about \, or, more exactly, \\% of the amount of heat the
Atlantic receives from the sun. Allowing for the general

oceanic movement, the amount of heat conveyed into the
a230 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL
                          is,
Atlantic in Temperate regions would be twice this, or

J8§ of the heat received from the sun. The Temperate

zone receives proportionately 757 parts of heat from the
sun, and to this must be added the quantity transferred
from equatorial regions, 757 X J8§, or 3^7 parts, giving
a total of 1 1 24 parts. That is to say, the Atlantic in
Temperate regions would possess 1 1 24 parts of heat, and
would be warmer than the ocean in the torrid zone ; or, if

only half the heat transferred went to raise the tempera
ture in Temperate regions, the rest going to Arctic regions,
the Atlantic would still have 940-5 parts of heat in
Temperate regions, against 570 in equatorial. Similarly,
it might be proved that the Arctic Ocean would possess
766 parts of heat, and would consequently be warmer
than the Atlantic in tropical regions. From this it is

obvious that there can be no such movement as supposed
by Dr. Carpenter, since there is not enough heat in
equatorial regions to supply such a current. Even the

 Gulf Stream is not supplied only from the northern

 hemisphere, and could not be so supplied without
 rendering the Atlantic in the torrid zone as cold as the
 Atlantic from the Tropic of Cancer to the North Pole.
 Yet, obviously, in any general oceanic movement, it may

 be assumed that the hot water moving towards either

 pole is derived from the equatorial regions of that

 hemisphere only.
       Mr. Croll next criticised the supposed motive force,

 granting for argument's sake that such a general oceanic
 movement did actually exist. The waters of the ocean
 at the equator were expanded by heat, and the height of
 a column of equatorial water would be higher than a
 similar column of water at the pole. That the surface
 of the ocean would slope from the equator to the pole.
 This state of things, in which longer column of lighter
 water of the equator balanced a shorter column of

 heavier water at the pole, would constitute static

 equilibrium. At the same time, however, the molecular
 equilibrium of the ocean would be disturbed, and con
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS  231

sequently the molecules of water would tend to roll down
the slope under the influence of gravity. This again

disturbs the static equilibrium, and there is therefore a
constant tendency to restore this. Neither complete

static equilibrium nor complete molecular equilibrium

would ever be attained, but there would be a constant

endeavour to attain both. The result would be a double
circulation, a movement of warm surface water polewards,
and a corresponding under-movement of cold water
equatorwards. Dr. Croll argued at great length, from

mathematical and physical laws, that the maximum

possible slope would be insufficient to produce any

appreciable movement, so that, if such a movement

really existed, the motive force must be something more
than the mere force of gravity, which, as he attempted
to show, would be quite inadequate. No theory based
on difference of gravity could explain, for example, such
a current as the Gibraltar current, where the difference
of level between the Atlantic and Mediterranean could

not be more than r2 feet. Still less could the current

into the Baltic, the entrance to which is in some places
only fifty to sixty feet deep, be thus explained.

      In 1872, Mr. Croll wrote several letters to Nature in
support of his theories, in reply to various objections
raised in the course of the correspondence on the

question. They dealt chiefly with the physical diffi
culties of any theory of oceanic circulation based on

specific gravity.

      In 1874, he continued the subject in a paper on

" Ocean Currents," published in the Philosophical
Magazine for February (Paper 52). Both he and Dr.
Carpenter agreed that ice-cold water is found at the
bottom of the ocean in intertropical regions, and that it
must have come as an underflow from the pole. Mr.
Croll, however, regarded this as due to compensating
currents from the pole, and due to the influence of wind ;
Dr. Carpenter, as part of a general underflow of the

ocean from the poles to the equator, and due to gravi
232 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

tation. Mr. Croll pointed out that there are many cold

surface currents from the pole, which would consequently,
ex hypothesi, be flowing uphill against the influence of

gravity. Of these he gave numerous examples, which

he affirmed were true currents and not part of a general
oceanic movement, which would take place, if it existed

at all, in the opposite direction. Such surface cold

currents were easily explained by the wind theory, since

the current would always take the path of least resistance,

remaining on the surface so long as winds were favour

able, and descending when they became antagonistic.

The rest of the paper is devoted to an examination of

the mechanics of Dr. Carpenter's theory.
     In the Philosophical Magazine for March 1874, Mr.

Croll explained his own views in an article entitled
" Ocean Currents. The Wind Theory of Oceanic
Circulation " (Paper 5 3). The currents of the ocean are
caused by winds, not, however, as often incorrectly

stated, by trade winds only, but by the total system of

prevailing winds. All the seas and oceans, excepting a

few small inland sheets, are really members of one great

system, and any great change in one would modify the

condition of all the others. Similarly, all the prevailing

winds form one great system. The direction of the

currents produced depends, first, on the general system of

the prevailing winds, and, secondly, on the conformation

of sea and land. A chart compiled from the standard

authorities shows that without exception the direction of

the main currents of the globe agrees exactly with the

direction of the   prevailing    winds.    Sfoollocwominpgl,e--te   is   the
agreement, that,  given any                                             The
                               two of the                          i.

conformation of sea and land ; 2. The general system

of prevailing winds ; 3. The general system of ocean
currents ; the third might be deduced approximately,

a priori. Currents, as already stated, take the path of

least resistance. The Gulf Stream, for example, passes

under the polar stream on the west coast of Spitzbergen,

and this polar current in its turn passes under the Gulf
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS  233

Stream near Bear Island. The current in each case

continued a surface current as long as the prevailing

winds permitted. Under-currents are usually compen

satory, as, for example, the under-currents of the Gulf

Stream compensating for the water impelled northwards
by that current. Dr. Croll alluded briefly to the light
thrown on the cause of the Glacial epoch by the true
understanding of the relation between winds and cur
rents, and showed the part played in secular changes of
climate by the modification of the trade winds, owing
to the physical effects of a high state of eccen
tricity, and the consequent deflection of the equatorial

currents.

      Mr. Croll next published a short article in Nature,
May 21, 1874 (Paper 54). Dr. Carpenter had pointed
to a polar under-current in the North Atlantic, 3600
miles in breadth, and 1500 fathoms thick, which, he
maintained, was too vast to be merely the reflux of the
Gulf Stream, a comparison of sectional areas showing it
to be about 900 times greater. Mr. Croll in reply did
not admit that it was a current, since there is no evidence

that it is in motion, and the sea-depths, below the

stratum heated by the sun, are ice-cold. But, even were

it a current towards the equator, its volume would depend
not only on its sectional area, but also on its velocity, so

that it might still be the reflux of the Gulf Stream. But,

as return under-currents as well as surface currents are

due to winds, it is not correct to talk of this mass of
water being set in motion by the Gulf Stream.

     A paper on the " Physical Cause of Ocean Currents,"

published in the Philosophical Magazine, June 1874,

only requires to be noticed (Paper 56). It pointed out

a number of exceptional cases, for which the gravitation

theory offered no explanation.
      In 1875, Mr. Croll contributed to the Philosophical

Magazine for September an important paper entitled

"The Challenger's Crucial Test of the Wind and
Gravitation Theories of Oceanic Circulation." A slope
234 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

from the equator to the poles is essential to any

gravitation theory.  The results obtained by the

Challenger show that the surface of the Atlantic is

lower at the equator, and rises by a gentle slope to

about the latitude of England. Therefore, it cannot be

gravitation which impels the surface water of the North

Atlantic from the equator to the pole. This, Dr. Croll

showed by calculating from the Challenger's data the

height of three columns of sea water, two in the mid-

Atlantic and one at the equator, the result being

that the equatorial column was the shortest of the

three.

In the Philosophical Magazine for the following

month, October 1875, Dr. Croll published a paper on

the same subject (Paper 60). The supporters of the
gravitation theory had objected that Dr. Croll failed to

account for the presence of ice-cold water in the ocean

depths, which cannot be due to the comparatively

insignificant polar under-currents. He replied that, since

the sun's heat can only warm a stratum of the ocean,

and the heat from the earth's crust is practically unap-

preciable, an extremely small current of polar water

would keep the ocean depths ice-cold.

Dr. Croll discussed two other trifling technical points

in two letters in Nature, October 7 and November 25,
and concluded his examination of the theory of ocean

currents by a paper in the Philosophical Magazine,

December 1875 (Paper 63). Dr. Carpenter had disputed
Dr. Croll's estimates of the columns of Atlantic water,

published in the Philosophical Magazine for September

1875, and urged that the results would be neutralised by

the inferior salinity of the equatorial column. The extra

salinity of the North Atlantic had been shown by the

Challenger to extend to no great depth, and Dr. Croll

consequently met the objection by pointing out that the

Challenger had found scarcely any difference in specific

gravity between the polar and North Atlantic columns.

Hence Mr. Croll maintained that, using Professor
PAPERS ON OCEAN CURRENTS  235

Hubbard's tables for the expansion of sea water, the
surface of the Atlantic in lat. 38°, to be in static

equilibrium, must be 3 feet 3 inches above that of the
equator, and 2 feet 3 inches in lat. 23°. Hence there
was no alternative but to admit that gravitation could
not be the cause of a surface current to the pole, and
that the true cause must be the influence of prevailing

winds.
                        CHAPTER XIV

                 6. MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS

IN 1 864, Dr. Croll published a paper on "The Influence
       of the Tidal Wave on the Earth's Rotation," and
on " The Acceleration of the Moon's Mean Motion "

(No. 9).     In  1 866   he  again took up this subject, and
wrote a   paper  on "         Influence of the Tidal Wave on
                        The
the Motion of the Moon " (No. 20). In these he con
cluded that diurnal rotation of the earth will some day

cease. He also argued that the moon and earth are

approaching each other, and some day will fall together,

which is contrary to current ideas.

     The   following letter to Dr.    Croll    froofminteSrirestJo:--hn
Herschel,  dealing with this matter,  will be

                                                            COLLINGWOOD, i^th August i866.

     DEAR SIR, -- I beg leave to thank you for your

paper from the Philosophical Magazine for this month, on
" The Influence of the Tidal Wave on the Moon's Motion."

At the same time, I hope you will excuse me when I
say that I am obliged to demur to most of your
reasoning, and to some of your conclusions. I will

waive, for the present, the question as to the validity of

the assumption that the heat generated by the friction
of the waves is at the expense of the vis viva of the

earth's rotation. Granting this, for argument's sake, I am

unable to see upon what sound dynamical principle you
conclude that such an expense of vis viva will in any
way affect the orbital revolution of the moon and earth

about their common centre of gravity. I cannot under
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                       237

stand how, or in what sense, it is the vis viva of rotation

(meaning rotation of the earth on its axis) that keeps the
two orbs separate from each other. I always thought

that it was not the motion of rotation of one or both

bodies about their own axis, but the motion of bodily

translation through space, under the mutual control of

their joint attractive forces, which caused them to describe

ellipses round each other and so not to come together. I

have always considered, for instance, that, if the earth

revolved on its axis a hundred times as fast as it does,

or did not revolve on its axis at all, the length of the

year would be unaltered, and so of the sun. So also of

the earth and moon in their monthly revolution. I

believe, too, that every one who has considered the

subject of orbital motion (including yourself on more

mature consideration) will admit this to be the case.
     No change in the time of rotation of a sphere arising

(if possible) from internal causes, or if from external, from
the application of any forces whose resultant is not in a

direction opposed to the motion of translation through

space, can affect the momentum of the sphere, however

it may alter its total vis viva. The direction and velocity

of its motion of translation must therefore remain

unaltered, however its total vis viva, which is the sum of

the vis vivas of translation, rotation, and intermolecular

movements of every other kind, may vary, and upon this,

and this only, its orbital motion depends.

      Permit me to remark on your illustration by two

balls connected by a rod and revolving. If you retard the

motion of the ball representing the earth, as for instance,

by applying your finger against  it,  no doubt the effect

you speak of will take place. But to make the cases

parallel, you ought to suppose your two balls revolving
in gimbals at the two ends of the rod, and your force

should be applied so as only to retard the rotation of

one of them in its gimbal, without, at the same time,

acting on the rod, as, for instance, by applying cold and

freezing the oil that lubricates the axes in the gimbals.
238 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

is   As before remarked, the total  vis viva (?) of the earth
                                    the vis viva of bodily
    the sum of three things --(1)
translation through space ; (2) the vis viva of its bodily
rotation round its axis ; and (3) that of all the molecular
                                    independently of its
movements going on within        it,
                                                              is
motion or rest as a mass. Its total momentum                      that of

bodily translation only, that of the other two species of

movement being, each of them, nil. Now, according to

all dynamical theories, both fmv* and fmv are

invariable, except by the action of external force and
                                                                  ;
(for the reason last stated) no change in mv can arisef
indirectly through the application of forces which go to                 is

change only the two last portions of fmv*.

    Granting, lastly, that the frictionally evolved heat

solely evolved at the expense of the total vis viva of the

earth (an assumption in my opinion very open to ques
tion), and knowing a priori that
                                    it       cannot be at the
                                         it
expense of the portion due to translation, there are still

two other sources from which        may be drawn, the

rotatory source and the intermolecular. Now, consider

ing the sort of movements in which we fancy we have

reason to think heat consists, for one should feel much
                             I

more inclined to derive frictional heat from the latter than

from the former of these two stores. However,                     if  any

one choose to assume the contrary, see at present no
                                    I

distinct and clear grounds for denying its possibility.

     But, after all, the primary question still returns. Is

the heat generated by the friction of the " tide waves "

produced at the expense of the earth's total vis viva
                                             is
When water
                                                it

                                                           a

                                                             f
it                           heated by being shaken up in bottle,

                         is
does the heat come out of the water, i.e.        produced at

the expense of the inherent vis viva of that water, or does

    come out of the agitating mechanism, the external

source of power? There       is  the bottle of hot water,

quietly standing on the table, where         it  stood before

cold. Its movement of translation through space, and
              MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS           239

of rotation on its axis as part and parcel of the earth,
are the same. But it is hot now, and was cold. It has

gained, not lost vis viva, and that has come to it from

without.

Now is it certain that that may not be the case when

heat results (if it does result) from lunar attraction ?
And, again, is it certain that any whatever increase in

the total heat of the earth is produced by the friction of

the tide wave ?

    Hoping you will excuse these observations, -- I remain,

yours truly,             J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

In considering the climate of our globe past and

present, an essential factor is that of the relation between

the heat received by the earth, to that radiated out from

it into stellar space. The temperature of space is of

great importance, and various attempts have been made

to estimate it. M. Pouillet assigned a temperature of
-- 224° F. and Sir John
                         Herschel one of   --If2t3he9°heFa.t  or
222° above the absolute  zero, -- 461° F.                     of

the stars be as feeble as their light, it is extremely un

likely that the absolute temperature of space can be so

high as 222°, and it is very probably little above absolute

zero. Dr. Croll argued (Paper 78) that the rate of
radiation at the outer confines of the earth's atmosphere

would be nearly proportional to the absolute temperature,

and would diminish with the deepening of the atmosphere,

and the increase in its density and volume, and the

amount of water vapour. In high latitudes, as well as at

high altitudes, ice and snow can more readily accumulate,

as most of the heat received from the sun is rapidly

radiated off into space. But in high latitudes excessive

humidity may have the same effect, the clouds and fogs

cutting off so much of the sun's heat, that the winter's

snow and ice are not melted in summer (Paper 79).
      Mr. Croll examined M. Adhemar's theory (Paper

33) that the radiation during the seven or eight days'
excess of the southern over the northern winter was
240 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sufficient to cause the accumulation of Antarctic ice.
But radiation from land is more rapid than radiation
from water, and hence the great preponderance of ocean
in the southern hemisphere renders the rate of radiation

much slower than in the Northern, where land is accumu

lated. In this way the influence of the slightly longer
winter is more than counterbalanced. The true cause
of the accumulation of Antarctic ice Dr. Croll found in
the deflection of the more important warm ocean currents

northwards across the equator, by which means the
southern hemisphere is deprived of a vast quantity of heat.

       Ocean and aerial currents have also a very great

effect on the temperature of the air at the equator. If

temperature were determined solely by the intensity of
the sun's heat, the maximum temperature at the equator
would occur in January, when the earth is in perihelion.
Owing, however, to the distribution of sea and land, the
northern hemisphere is more cooled in winter and more
heated in summer than the southern ; and the mean
temperature of the air over the surface of the earth is
higher in July than in January. The trades of July,
especially those of the northern hemisphere, are con
sequently warmer than those of January, and, therefore,
the mean temperature of the equator is also higher in
July than in January (Paper 76).

      Mr. Croll was always greatly interested in meta
physics ; and this is shown in several of his papers, but
more particularly in those on gravitation and molecular
motion. His discussion of the latter (Paper 49) is a
vigorous attack on purely materialistic explanations.
Recent progress in physical science, he considered, was
concerned almost exclusively with quantitative relation
ships of energy ; and here, not less than in the natural
sciences, little or no attention had been concentrated on
the real problem, the investigation of " the objective idea
in nature " as distinct from the forces which are working

it out.
      Another ingenious investigation relates to the dis
    MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                              341

placement of the earth's centre of gravity by a polar ice

cap, resulting in submergence. This suggestion was first

advanced by M. Adhemar, in his work Revolutions de la

Mer, in 1842, but when Croll published his views on the

subject in the Reader, he was unaware of Adhemar's
conclusions. In connection with this question Croll

estimated the probable thickness of the Antarctic ice-cap,

and computed the rise in the level of the ocean, resulting

from the transfer of an ice-cap two miles thick from the

southern to the northern hemisphere. According to the

method which postulates the rise at the Pole to be equal

to the extent of the displacement of the earth's centre of

gravity, he inferred that the rise at the North Pole would

be about 380 feet, and the rise in the latitude of Edinburgh
would be 3 1 2 feet. By this means he endeavoured to
account for the submergence during the Glacial period,

instead of ascribing it to a subsidence of the land.

Following up the idea of the existence of Continental

ice-sheets during the Glacial period, he suggested that

the Scandinavian and Scotch ice-sheets coalesced on

the floor of the North Sea, moving westwards towards

the Atlantic, thereby accounting for the marine shells and

boulders of Secondary rocks in the Caithness Boulder

Clay.

     In connection with the movement of Continental

ice-sheets and glaciers, he was led to investigate that

perplexing question in physics, viz. the physical cause of

glacier motion. He reviewed the various theories which

had been advanced to explain this phenomenon, indicat

ing various objections to them. He ultimately advanced
an ingenious explanation of his own, which may here be

briefly summarised from his statement of the theory in

Climate and Time.                              It is com
      Ice is not absolutely solid throughout.

posed of crystalline particles which are not packed so

closely together as to exclude interstices. They are

united to one another at special points determined by

their polarity, and on this account they require more

16
242 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

space. It will be obvious, then, that when a crystalline

molecule melts, it will not merely descend by gravitation,
but capillary attraction will cause it to flow into the
interstices between the adjoining molecules. The moment
that it parts with the heat received, it will of course
resolidify, but it will not solidify so as to fit the cavity
which it occupied in the fluid state. For the liquid

molecule in solidifying assumes the crystalline form, and
of course there will be a definite proportion between the
length, breadth, and thickness of the crystal, and
consequently it will always happen that the interstice in
which it solidifies will be too narrow to contain it. The
result will be that the fluid molecule in passing into the
crystalline form will press the two adjoining molecules
aside in order to make sufficient room for itself between
them. The crystal will not form to suit the cavity, the
cavity must be made to contain the crystal. And what
holds true of one molecule holds true of every molecule
which melts and resolidifies. This process is therefore
going on incessantly in every part of the glacier, and in
proportion to the amount of heat which the glacier is
receiving. This internal molecular pressure, resulting
from the solidifying of the fluid molecules in the interstices
of the ice, acts in the mass of the ice as an expansive force

tending to cause the glacier to widen out in all directions.
      The lateral expansion of the ice from internal

molecular pressure, according to Dr. Croll, explains how

rock basins may be excavated by means of land ice. It

also removes the difficulties experienced in accounting
for the movement of ice up a steep slope. Nay, further,
he called attention to the fact that the ice which passed

over Strathmore must have been over 2000 feet in

thickness. An ice -sheet 2000 feet thick exerts a
pressure on the rocky floor of upwards of 5 1 tons per
square foot. When we reflect, he contended, that ice

under such enormous pressure, with grinding materials
lying underneath, was forced by irresistible molecular
energy up an incline of one in seven, it is not at all
                 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                                     243

surprising that the hard lava would be ground down and

striated. It also helps us to realise how the softer

portions of the rocky surface over which the ice moved
should have been excavated into hollow basins.

      The papers on the movement of glaciers Croll had
sent to his friend Professor Foster, who wrote the

following letters thereanent :--

       16 KING HENRY'S ROAD, REGENT'S PARK ROAD, N.W.,

                                                       2lst February 1869.

    MY DEAR CROLL,-- You must think me a very
inattentive correspondent, for I believe I have had for a

long time two letters of yours unanswered, and it is very

long-suffering of you to write to me again. But the

truthI           have never yet found time to consider your
        it iIs,
last paper carefully enough to enable me to make any

criticism upon worth your having. was, however, very
                 it             it
                        it,        I
                                         I
much interested in and, so far as was competent to form

an opinion of your reasoning, seemed to me all sound.

       am not sure that clearly see what your idea in
                             I

the paper you sent me the other day is. So far as                                         I

make out, you attribute the movement of glaciers to

what one might call waves of fusion going through the

whole mass, each part being in its turn melted and

solidified again. This no doubt would produce move

ment, but do not feel to have a clear conception of how
       I

             it

                                                                                     ?

                                                                                     it,
you suppose to take place. Is not your notion some

thing like James Thomson's (Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. viii.,
I8S7), only that he attributes the fusion to pressure, and

you to heat propagated through the mass

     In the first part of the paper, when you speak of the

transmission of heat through ice without melting you

seem to me to refer to radiation, but the kind of

mechanism by which you suppose the process to take

place would correspond better with conduction. The two

phenomena, whatever may be the mechanism of them,

are certainly distinct, and as rule the bodies which
                                a

conduct best (e.g. metals are those which allow the least
244 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

radiation to take place through them, and vice versa) eg.

glass, rock-salt, transparent things generally.

     I  hope you    like your work in     Edinburgh     and  find
your    present   position satisfactory.               me,   very
                                          -- Believe

sincerely yours,                          G. C. FOSTER.

                            UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON,

    DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I                 i6lh November  1865.
return it by this post. It
                            have read your             paper, and
                            seems all right            and good ;

the only points that occur to me are as follows, p. 7 :
" As the ice continued to accumulate . . . the

..."melting power of the summer sun would consequently

diminish.
Is not this, to some extent at least, putting cause

for effect ? does not the ice accumulate because the

melting power of the sun is diminished ?                   not " by
                                                            already
      Same page, lines 4 and 5 from bottom.            Is
lengthening the ice - accumulating period              "

included in effect under i. "By allowing the ground to
cool . . . etc." ? I would say " 2. By shortening the

ice-melting period," leaving out the first clauses. Near

the end of the paper there seems perhaps to be a little

repetition from about page 1 2 ; and the calculations

about the summer and winter temperature depending on

change of eccentricity, etc., from page 9, though quite

clear enough for me to be able to follow them, would

require more care for their understanding than most

readers would give. No doubt the whole matter

necessarily requires thought on the part of the reader,
but I think it is worth while to try to put it a little more

easily. For instance, it would help       when numbers
                                          1
                                             1

                                              if,

                                                                                           1
are mentioned, they were accompanied by statement of

what they mean, thus, bottom of p.        and top of p. 2,

a reader would easily miss the meaning of the numbers

222 and 230. --Yours very truly,

                                          G. C. FOSTER.
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                           245

                     UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON,

DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I have            I2th November 1867.

                                 been much interested in

reading your remarks on the theory of gravitation, but

fear I may have caused you inconvenience by keeping

the papers so long.

Does not the difference between your view and that

involved in the way in which the theory is commonly

stated turn, to a considerable extent, on the sense
attached to the word " force," and on what it is to which

we take the law of Conservation as applicable ? Do you
not use " force " in two senses when you talk of the force
or dead pull of gravity and the force = vis viva of a
falling stone ? The distinction has of course often been
pointed out,-- see specially J.
                                 1R8. 63M, a--years  in Phil.  Mag.
xxv. " Mech. Equiv. of Heat,"                                  quite
                                                     you are

well aware. Vis viva is never generated by dead pull

or dead pressure unless the pull or pressure does work,

i.e. causes displacement of its point of application. And

I think it cannot be said that there is such a thing as
Conservation of Force, if we understand by Force mere

dead pull or pressure. What the law of Conservation
does apply to is " energy," which we may define nearly
enough as " capacity for producing physical change."

The energy of a raised weight is thus the product of the

gravitation pull upon it X distance through which this pull

can act ; in other words, energy = a force x a length.
Hence force is only a factor of energy and is not of itself
included under the law of conservation. And I think

all kinds of potential energy are expressible in a similar

way, as products in which one factor is a force, dead pull

or pressure. E.g. energy of fuel = force of affinity for
oxygen x mass of fuel.

     I don't write this because I suppose I am telling you

anything new, but I do not see that in the paper you

sent me you have given these considerations sufficient

weight ; in fact, I think there is a little confusion between

force and energy.
246 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

     I am afraid what I have said will not be of much
use to you, but I am just now unable to write more. If
you think I can help you at all by further discussion, I

hope I shall hear from you again about the matter, and

of course about anything else where I can be of any
assistance. -- Believe me, always very truly yours,

                                                                    G. C. FOSTER.

     In 1870 he seems to have been in fairly good health,
and mentally he was very busy. He wrote and published
the results of two speculations on " Ocean Currents," Part

I.,  which dealt with ocean currents in relation to the dis

tribution of heat over the globe, and appeared in the

Philosophical Magazine   of February 1870.        This   paper
was closely followed by  Part II., which dealt  with "  Ocean

Currents in Relation to the Physical Theory of Secular

Changes of Climate," and appeared in the Philosophical

Magazine of March 1870; and Part III., which was on

" The Physical Cause of Ocean Currents," and included

an examination of Lieutenant Maury's theory, appeared

in the Philosophical Magazine of October 1870.

     Though speculating and writing so much on the

abstruse subject of ocean currents, he still devoted a

share of his leisure time to geology; and wrote two
papers on " The Path of the Ice-sheet in North-western

Europe, and its Relations to the Boulder Clay of Caith

ness," which appeared in the Geological Magazine of May

and June 1870, and were afterwards reprinted, with a
slight rearrangement of paragraphs, in Climate and

Time, chap, xxvii. He also continued his investiga
tions regarding glaciers, and wrote two papers on " The

Cause of the Motion of Glaciers," which appeared in the

Philosophical Magazine of September 1870. (A short

abstract of the same, by the Editor, appeared in the

Geological Magazine, December 1870.)
     Being so much engaged with the investigations

necessary for and the writing and publishing of these

papers during the year 1870, he had not much time for
            MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                     247

correspondence ; but that these papers were attracting the
attention of the most distinguished scientific men there
can be no doubt. Accordingly, Croll received numerous
letters on the subjects treated of by him ; and the follow
ing letters from Mr. Alfred R. Wallace and others will show
the interest taken in Croll's speculations at this time.

Unfortunately Croll's replies have not been preserved.

            9 ST. MARK'S                CRES. , REGENT'S PARK,  N.W.,
                                        i.\tk March 1870.       having
James Croll, Esq.  --  I  must
     MY DEAR SIR,                       apologise for not

written before to thank you for having kindly sent me
copies of some of your papers. The last one on " The Old
River Channels " was exceedingly interesting.

You will see that I have made use of your tables of

eccentricity in a paper in Nature ; and if you have still
any copies of the papers containing those tables, I should

much like to have them, for though I have a very scanty

practical acquaintance with geology, I am exceedingly

interested in all the wider problems with which it deals,

and one     --groIupremoafin,whdiecahr  you have done so much        to
elucidate.                              sir, yours very faithfully,

                                        ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                                                                 HOLLY HOUSE, BARKING,

                                                                                          2S//4 September 1870.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q.Thanks for your paper on " The Cause of

Motion in Glaciers," which I have read with much interest,
though I cannot say I am quite satisfied your explanation
is the correct one. The fact that glaciers do move in

winter when thickly covered with snow, seems entirely to
upset your theory of molecular changes caused by heat,

as it does that of Canon Moseley. It seemed to me when
I read Canon Moseley's paper that his first error was in

considering that the fractures of ice in a glacier are
248 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

shearing at all, in his sense of the word. If I take a

piece of ice A, and by contrary and parallel pressure at

    , a and b cause it to fracture all along

A. the line a b simultaneously, so that one
               half  ojf
    v  ..                   it is  moved into the position
               ^^          exert   the shearing force as un

derstood by Canon Moseley ; but if I take the same or a

similar piece of ice B, and by pressure at c with b as

a fulcrum cause a fracture on the line a b, bringing

               the outer half into the position a1 b1,

B.     ^--^--  will it not require  a very  much                             less
               than the shearing    force?   Now                             the

               uneven bottom and sides of glacier
           ''-

                                        a
                                                                          a
               must supply number of fulcra, and the

constant motion of the glacier in an uneven bed must

cause unequal tensions and compressions, producing

numerous points and lines of least resistance, and to cause

a fracture at some point a line of least resistance extending

over a few inches or feet, a mass of ice many hundreds

of feet thick may act by its weight. Thus a number of

small fractures and dislocations may be produced in
succession at the ever-varying lines of least resistance by

    weight of ice which would be quite sufficient to fracture
a

                                                        ?

                                               is

                                             it

                                                            is

                                                                                                                              ?

                                                                                     it
by shearing or in any other way the whole mass at once.

If molecular changes caused the motion of glaciers, then
why should there be so many fractures as there are If

the weight of the glacier  insufficient to produce fracture,
whence come crevasses
                           If sufficient under favour

able conditions to produce the great fissures which some

times run for a mile and widen into crevasses, surely

can produce the smaller cracks and fissures, which,

continually occurring at every changing line of least

resistance, and being soon obliterated by regelation, will

suffice for the slow and viscous-like motion of a glacier.

It would be very important to watch the interior of a

plank of ice while bending as in Mr. Matthews' experi

ment, and see whether this occurred by minute cracks or

by molecular change. This could be done by means of
             MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS       249

a beam of light passed through it and condensed on a

screen.

The cause of the greater motion by day than night,

and in summer than in winter, seems simple enough, the

action of running water beneath the glacier and in its

fissures forming a buoyant cushion for it to move on, and

keeping its parts to some extent free.

Can it be proved mathematically that the force of

gravity is not sufficient for the continual readjustment of

the equilibrium of the parts of a glacier by repeated small

fractures along lines of least resistance, the weight of
large portions of the glacier acting successively to effect

these fractures and readjustments of small portions of it ?

The parallel and simultaneous fracture of a mass of ice
termed shearing can never, I think, occur in nature, but

angular fracture, produced by unequal pressures on two

sides of a fixed point, must be continually occurring.

The fact that glaciers are most crevassed and fissured
where the greatest change of form occurs, whether by

passing through a narrow gorge or down a steep incline,

plainly indicates that it is by means of fractures, and not

by molecular changes, that the viscous-like flow of a

glacier is produced.

     I was sorry you were not at the British Association
meeting. I exhibited a large diagram drawn from your

tables of eccentricity, and explained its bearing on climate
and the rate of organic change. It excited some interest

and caused a pretty good discussion, but a Russian

mathematician maintained that all calculations of eccen

tricity and precession for more than a few 10,000 years

were so uncertain as to be of no value whatever, and I

wanted you to answer him, as I am not sufficiently
acquainted with the subject. -- Believe me, yours very

faithfully,  ALFRED R. WALLACE.

      About this time Croll was invited to lecture at the

Royal Institution, as appears from the following letter.
Unfortunately, the state of his health, the pressure of
2So LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

other duties, and his shrinking modesty led him to decline
this flattering request.

                                                   84 BROOK STREET, 2oih November 1870.

    SIR, -- At the wish of the managers of the Royal

Institution, I write to ask whether it would suit your
convenience next summer to give a short course of three

lectures on any geological question, or on ocean currents,
or any other subject. The 23rd and 30th of May and the
6th of June at three o'clock would be the lecture time,

                                                HENRY HOME JONES.

Pursuing his investigations into glacial geology, he

made an excursion to Allermuir, one of the Pentland

range, which is thus described by Mr. James Bennie, of
the Geological Survey of Scotland,
Physical Society of Edinburgh, on   in a  paper   re1a8d83to:--the
                                    18th
                                           April

    "ON THE GLACIATED SUMMIT OF ALLERMUIR,

                                  PENTLANDS.

      " Some time during the spring of 1870, Dr. Croll told
me that he intended going to some of the higher slopes
of the Pentlands, to see how far up the ice-markings of

the Glacial period extended, and asked me to help him.

I readily agreed, and one bright morning we started for
that purpose, duly equipped with compass, hammer to

take chips, spade to dig for clay, and bag to carry the
samples of each collected.

      " We went through the fields to Swanston, going round
the farmhouse, up a defile, passing by the old village of
Swanston, and so on to the flanks of Caerketton. The way

was pleasant, and the suggestive talk of my companion

made the walk delightful and piquant. Among other
things we discussed the why and wherefore of our mission.

      " Dr. Croll said he had been trying lately to account
for and explain the condition of the Boulder Clay of

Caithness, on the theory that it was, like all the other
boulder clays of Scotland, the product of land ice.
         MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                         251

This theory he had applied to every circumstance and

characteristic of the Caithness Boulder Clay, and found

that it accounted     for them  emxcoereptiosantailsfaocntoer--ily    than any
                      the very                                      the occur
other;-- nay, that

rence of fragments of marine shells throughout its entire

mass -- was not against its theory, but in favour of it --

indeed, a main proof of its truth.
      "  Cthaaitnhntehsisr,tyhefeestaida,bobveeinsgeaa-levloewl--, flcaotulcdounnotrtyp--rodliuttclee
more

land ice of its own to glaciate it ; but that very circum

stance made it possible to be invaded and glaciated by

land ice from other regions. That ice he supposed to be

the ice which flowed outwards from the eastern slope of

Scotland into the North Sea, or rather, the hollow now

known as the German Ocean, but which at that time

could scarcely be called a sea, but rather a mer de glace,

the ice having poured into it from the highlands on its

eastern and western sides. That ice would be certainly

many hundreds of feet, perhaps some thousands of feet

in thickness, and would have no difficulty in filling to

overflowing a basin which we know from the present

depth of the German Ocean to have been only 200 or

300 feet in depth. The ice-streams coming from opposite
directions would meet and press against each other with

a force proportional  sidteo--ththeatimpulsfreomeacthhe  had. The     ice
from the eastern                                           highlands
                                                                       of
Sweden and Norway -- would be far greater in amountis,
                                  it

                                             it,

                                                     if
                                                                     it
and power than that which flowed in from the western

side, from the highlands of Scotland, just as the area

and height of the Scandinavian mountains surpass those
of Scotland. In consequence of the superior volume and

force of the Scandinavian ice, the ice which streamed out

from Scotland would be pushed back upon itself, and

forced to heap itself up against the land, and, the land

was low, to override and pass over  carrying with

all the debris of mud or stones had originally, or had

picked up by the way. This theory was confirmed by

the stones found in the Boulder Clay of Caithness. Many
252 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of these were known, by the researches of Mr. Dick of
Thurso and Mr. Charles Peach, to consist of chalk flints
and fragments of Oolitic limestone, which had come from
the southern shores of the Moray Firth, and which could
only be carried to Caithness by ice flowing from thence,
and crossing over the basin of the Moray Firth, from

which also it could easily get the shells so abundantly
scattered through the Caithness Boulder Clay. This was
the theory which Dr. Croll applied to the solution of the
problem, and it fitted into all the circumstances of the
case so completely, that he had no doubt of its truth.

      " But it was with only one consequence of this state of
things that we are concerned at present. This was, that
the Scottish stream of ice, having been met by one

greater in volume and force than itself, would be dammed
back, or heaped up, as it were, till it rose to a height
almost equal to that opposed to it ; and, of course, as the
Scandinavian ice was many hundreds of feet in thickness,

the Scottish ice would be almost as thick, and would be

 piled up upon the land till it overtopped the highest hills
on the eastern slope of Scotland. Now, if such a result
had taken place in the Glacial period, evidence of it might

yet exist on the sides or slopes of, say, the Pentlands, and

 it was to search for such that our excursion was projected.
 This idea, given with all the force of language and aptness
 of illustration of which Dr. Croll was capable, imparted a
 zest to it which inspirited me to brave the stey braes we

 had to surmount to verify it. My companion proposed
 that we should go first of all to the very top of the hills,
 and if we found them glaciated, that would prove at once
 that the ice had reached that height at least. We there
 fore set ourselves to climb the two highest peaks of the
 east end of the Pentlands, called Caerketton and Aller-
 muir, respectively 1 600 and 1 6 1 8 feet above the level of
 the sea. We ascended Caerketton first, but found the
 top a mass of stony cUbris, recently made by the
 weathering of the rock of which the top consists, a

 volcanic breccia which frosts could easily split and
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS  253

divide. We looked for glacial striae on some of these

fragments, but found none.
     " We then descended into the hollow between the two

hills, and climbed up to the top of Allermuir. We found
the top to be only a few square yards in extent, partly
in grass and partly bare rock. We turned to the rock

first, and saw that it was a hard red porphyrite, quite

capable of receiving and retaining striae, and we eagerly
looked over the exposed surfaces. At first we found

nothing, the surface was too fresh, having been recently
formed by fracture from weathering. We then examined

the fractured pieces lying loosely about, and very soon

found some which had unmistakable striae upon one

surface. These, we concluded, had formed the original
surface of the hill-top very recently. Looking round, we
saw signs that the hill-top had been purposely bared, the
turf having been taken up to be built round a signal pole

for triangulation. Encouraged by this success, we then

sought the original surface in situ, and putting the spade

into requisition, we soon uncovered a portion, and found

it smoothed and as finely striated as it could possibly be.
On the very top of the hill was a small space, perhaps a

square yard or so, which showed not rock, but earth.

 Into this I struck the spade, and dug till I came at the
depth of a foot or so to the rock. The earth I turned
 up was full of small pebbles, and might be considered a

kind of boulder or stony clay. A portion was immedi

 ately bagged for washing and examination afterwards.

 The rock surface beneath the earth was, as I have said,

 finely smoothed and striated, and having cleared and
 dusted two or three square feet, the direction of the striae

 was taken by compass, and made out to be a few degrees
 north of west. From the mouldings of the surface we

 concluded that the ice which had polished and scratched
 it had come from the west and gone to the east. On
 examining the rock we had just bared, we found it

 cracked in various directions, doubtless by recent
 weathering since the turf had been removed, and with
254 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

little difficulty we loosened a small portion of
      it                                                                                                                          and
                                   is
                                                               a

                                                                                 it,

                                                                           I
lifted up and bagged it. This was afterwards set in

Portland cement, and now on the table for the inspection

of the members. [It may be seen in the Edinburgh
Museum of Science and Art.]

      " Having thus successfully accomplished our mission,

shovelled the earth back into the hollow again, my heart

humming Eureka, not loud but deep, befitting the

occasion. As a fierce north wind was blowing strongly

over the hill-top, we slipped down few yards on the

south side of the hill, out of the wind and into the sun,

which was shining brightly and pleasantly warm, and

discussed our lunch and the facts which our discovery

proved. The summit of Allermuir, my companion at

once concluded, could have been glaciated only by ice

that had overridden it. That fact there could be no

gainsaying, -- ice in motion being the only agent in

nature capable of polishing and striating rock surfaces
                                           If ice, then in what
such   as we had     just uncovered.   or
form        Was                            berg -- or coast ice
The                sea ice -- in floe  --
      answer was,                          the reasons for which,
                   No, decidedly no;
      ?

               it
                  it it

                        it is
                                     a

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                      is
                                                                                      it

                                                                                                                                 ?
as Dr. Croll had studied the question thoroughly, he

readily recited to me, and which may be found set forth

at length in the twenty-seventh chapter of his work on
Climate and Time. Land ice was then suggested -- not,

however, as glaciers formed on hill slopes and flowing

down valleys as in the Alps, but land ice in the form of
                                    coafsetheofcoGurneteryn,la--ndh, i--ll
a sheet, covering  the whole  face                                                                                                and
valley alike, as     seen in  the                                                                                                 and

flowing like       from  centre of dispersion outwards to

the sea on all sides of Scotland. The centre of dispersion

in Scotland would, of course, be the highest part of --

the group of its highest hills, the Grampians, and the

high land surrounding them. There the snowfall then,

as the rainfall now, would be greatest and as the snow

accumulated and became, as its habit       under pressure,

glacier-ice, would flow outwards on every side towards

the lowest levels could find. On the western side, the
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                     255

slope being short and steep, it would speedily reach theit
                  it,
sea, but on this, the eastern side, the slope being low and
long, and the country wide, the greatest outspread of ice

would necessarily occur. At first, in the beginning of

the Glacial period, the ice-sheet would not be very thick,

but as the glacial conditions became more intense, the
greater quantity of snow that fell in the longer winters
would have less heat to melt as well as less time to be

melted in the shorter summers, and the ice would grow
thicker and thicker, and flow farther and farther outwards,
year by year, till not only spread over all the low
grounds, but even invaded the North Sea, till its advance
was checked by the stream of Scandinavian ice coming
from the other side, as already explained. The obvious
result of such check should be to cause the ice streaming
out from Scotland to be banked upon till swallowed

up and over-rode, first all the lower, and finally all the
higher hills on the eastern slope.

      " Such seemed to us the only method by which we
could suppose the top of Allermuir to have been glaciated,
and the stony clay to have been deposited in the little

hollow on its highest point."
a
                                           it,
                                                     it
                       CHAPTER XV

PERSONAL HISTORY -- CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C.

   LYELL, PROF. FOSTER, AND MR. A. R. WALLACE

IN 1871 Croll was very unwell ; and, at the urgent sug
       gestion of several friends, he consulted Dr. Warburton
Begbie, the eminent Edinburgh physician. He had been

suffering long from a mysterious pain in the head, which

always came on when he used any mental exertion.

During this year the pain was much more frequent and

aggravated, but Croll was inclined to bear it patiently

and work away for short intervals when he was free from

it. He had occasionally consulted a family physician,

who treated the matter more as a stomach derangement.

Croll's friends, however, saw that that was mere trifling

with the matter; and, after much persuasion, he agreed

to see Dr. Begbie. The genial doctor received Croll

after his usual kindly manner and prescribed for him.

The treatment afforded some relief, for which Croll was

truly grateful ; and he ever after spoke of Dr. Begbie in

the highest terms. This enabled him to go through a
good deal of work this year. He wrote a paper on " The

Transport of the Wastdale Granite Blocks," which

appeared in the Geological Magazine of  January 1871.
He also wrote a paper on " The Method   of Determining

the Mean Thickness of the Sedimentary Rocks of the

Globe," which appeared in the Geological Magazine of

March 1871, and another on "The Mean Thickness of

the Sedimentary Rocks," which appeared in the Geological

Magazine of June 1871.
      He opened up a new subject, and wrote two papers

on " The Age of the Earth as determined from Tidal

256
  CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 257

Retardation," which appeared in Nature, August 24,

1871, and in the English Mechanic of September i,

1871.
      Dr. Carpenter had advanced a totally different theory

of ocean currents from that held by Croll ; and, accord
ingly, he returned to the subject of ocean currents, and
wrote a paper on " The Physical Cause of Ocean
Currents, containing an Examination of Dr. Carpenter's
Theory," which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of
October 1871.

      The reception which this last paper met with may be

gathered from the following letter by Sir Charles Lyell:--

                                           73 HARLEY STREET, LONDON, W.,
                                                               2&th March 1871.

MY DEAR SIR,-- At the end of your paper in the

Philosophical Magazine tor October 1870, you promise

a continuation on the effect of Trade Winds on Currents.

I ordered all your papers published in the Philosophical

Magazine to be sent to me as they came out, and I

have accordingly received them from the publisher, in

addition to the author's copies which you have had the

kindness to present to me ; but I cannot find that I have
received any Part IV. of the " Ocean Currents," and

shall be obliged to you to let me know whether this part

is in print. At present I continue to believe that the

Gulf Stream has far more to do with the conveyance of

great bodies of warm water to temperate latitudes of the

Atlantic and to the North Polar Seas than Dr. Carpenter
allows.-- I am, yours very truly,
                                   C. LYELL.

     The following letter from Mr. Charles Darwin shows
in what esteem he held Croll, while Croll's reply is

characteristically candid and modest.

                                                             DOWN, BBCKENHAM, KENT,

                                                          Ifjth July 1871.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Mr. Youmans of the United States

is very anxious to get a series of small monographs

             17
258 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

written by the most competent English authors on

various subjects, to be published in the United States

and I suppose in England. Mr. Youmans is in some

way connected with the great firm of Appletons in New

York. He has asked me to name some of the most
competent men, and I have thought that you would

excuse my giving your name, and this note as a kind of

introduction. I should add that I do not know on what

subject he wishes you to write. I do, however, know

that some very good judges think highly of his scheme.

Pray excuse the liberty which I am taking, and believe

me, yours very faithfully,                CHARLES DARWIN.

    P.S. -- Many thanks for some interesting                    papers

which you kindly sent me some time ago.

                                          EDINBURGH, vjth August 1871.

CharDleEsARDaSrwIRi,n--, EIsqam.  F.R.S.  obliged  to you  for  your  letter
                                   much

of I pth ult., which I received through Mr. Youmans.

      This gentleman wished me to write a small treatise
on Geological Time. But I explained to him that, in

the present state of the question, nothing satisfactory

could be written on which would be of any service to
                  I
general readers.          believe he felt satisfied that the
                       it,

better plan was to let this subject lie over for some time

to come.

    I  have been doing little for some time back, owing

to pain in the head, but expect to have long paper
                                  I                        a

    the October number of                                           I
in   Dr. Carpenter's theory               othf eOcPehailnosoCpuhricreanl ts.M--agazainme,
on

yours most sincerely,                              JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll was always painfully anxious that his;
speculations should be based on the most accurate data.
From the defective nature of his early education, he was

not so familiar as he might otherwise have been with the
details of mechanics and physics and consequently, in

verifying his data on these subjects, he was from time to
  CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 259

time obliged to ask the revision of them by experts on
these subjects. In this and many other respects no one
ever proved to be a reader more interested or a friend
more faithful than Professor Foster, F.R.S., of University
College, London. From 1862, when Professor Foster
was lecturing at the Andersonian University, Glasgow,
where he had then met Croll, down to the date of Croll's
death, he had been a constant correspondent, continually
assisting him in checking his data and fortifying him
with references to the authorities on which Croll was
writing. From the kindly way in which Professor
Foster always responded to Croll's requests on these
matters, the latter felt that he had always a friend to
whom he could apply for assistance in the matters under
discussion, and who would readily respond without
considering it a trouble to do so. It is not too much to
say that without the assistance which Croll received from
Professor Foster, he would not have been able to over
take nearly so much work as he did, or to have done
nearly so much as he did, and with such accurate results.
The following correspondence is only one of many
illustrations of the kind of service which Professor Foster
rendered to Dr. Croll.

                                                               EDINBURGH, lst September 1871.

Professor Foster, F.R.S.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- I have received to-day the proof-

sheets of the next part of my paper on " Ocean Currents."

It is chiefly devoted to an examination of Dr. Carpenter's

theory.

      I should like exceedingly much, could you do me the

favour to glance over the sheets and point out any errors
in my Mechanics which you may happen to observe.

     If Dr. Carpenter be right in this matter, certainly

my mechanical notions are far wrong. Of course any
remarks which you may happen to make I shall regard
as strictly confidential and a special favour from an old

friend.
       In case you may happen to be on the Continent on
260 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

your holidays at present, I shall not send you the proof
till I hear from you. Excuse the trouble I put you to.
-- I am, yours sincerely,
                                               JAMES CROLL.

           16 KING HENRY'S ROAD, REGENT'S PARK ROAD, N.W.,

                                                            September 1871.

MY DEAR CROLL,-- I went to University College

yesterday for the first time during eight weeks (having

only returned here from Lancashire the day before), and

found your letter of the 1st September awaiting for me,

nothing having been forwarded to me since Grant left

for his holiday just before your letter arrived.

    If I had received your letter in time, I need scarcely

say that I should have been extremely glad to try to
give you any assistance in my power, and I was very

much pleased by receiving your letter, as it shows that

you believe as much.

     I was greatly disappointed not to see you while

I was in Edinburgh last month at the British Association.
I spent a good while one afternoon trying to find your
office, but I knew so little of the town that the answers

I got when asking directions did not do me much good.
I fancy now, however, that I must have passed the door
twice. I felt sure I should be able to make another
attempt, but the last day or two I was so much engaged

that I had to come away without doing so.
     After leaving Edinburgh, I was in Arran for a

fortnight with my wife and two babies ; since then we

have been    at   mCyrolfl,a--theBre'slievine  Lancashire.     With kind
regards to  Mrs.                               me always,   very sincerely

yours,                                               G. C. FOSTER.

                              EDINBURGH, rjth November 1871.

Professor  Foster,  F.R.S.    should           long  ere    this  have
           DEAR
     MY             SIR,-- I

acknowledged the receipt of your kind letter.

I am sorry I did not see you when you were in

Edinburgh. I have been off duty for a month or two

previous, owing to pain in the head which prevented me
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 261

from doing any mental work, and had just returned to

the office the week previous to the B. A. meetings. I

could not on this account, with a clear conscience, ask

for leave of absence to attend.

     I was glad to learn from your letter that your family
and yourself are well, and I am happy to add that

Mrs. C. and myself are enjoying the same great blessing

at present. I observe from your note that Grant is still

with you. Please to remember me to him, and I will

be glad to see him when he may happen to be in

Edinburgh.

      When you find leisure to read my reply to Dr.

Carpenter, I need hardly say that I shall feel glad to

get your opinion on the subject in a few lines. You

may rest assured that I shall never follow Dr. C.'s

example, and blab out to the world what my scientific

friend may think of my views. If they cannot stand

without  --suIchams,ubytoeurfrusgem, olsett  them    go  to the four winds  of
heaven.                                      truly,         JAMES CROLL.

The Rev. Mr. Fisher having written for a reference

to some of  his  papers,  Croll              wrote   the  following  letter in

reply :--

                                             EDINBURGH, aSth August 1871.

Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Parts I. and II. are stitched under
one cover. The first of Part III. you have, and the next

portion of it will be published in the Philosophical
Magazine for October next, but when I shall get to the

end I know not. I am getting tired of the subject.
     I am glad the newspapers which I sent were of

interest to you. I intended to have been in the country

in August, but my illness in spring disarranged my plans.
     I did not, however, attend any of the meetings or

excursions of the British Association. There are several

reasons for that. OneiIs,                    had exhausted my holiday
                         iIs,

                               I
time, and could not well leave the office. My chief

reason, however, was that                    dislike all such public

displays. The truth       have very little sympathy with
262 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the leading idea of the British Association, viz., that

science is the all - important thing. I don't believe

anything of the kind. There are more noble and

ennobling studies than science. You can hardly expect

one who has devoted twenty years of the best part of

his life to the study of mental, moral, and metaphysical

philosophy to have much sympathy with the narrow-

mindedness of the British Association.

Philosophy is just as real a part of human knowledge

        I

                                  a
                                        is,

                                  I
                                                                   I
as science ; and the time          trust, not far distant

when this will be universally recognised.

     Had my house been     little more commodious,

should have been delighted to have seen you in
Edinburgh. -- am, yours truly,
                                                                      JAMES CROLL.

                                   HARLTON, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                      1st September 1871.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- It was careless in me to give you

the trouble of telling me what          ought to have re
                        I
                                   I
membered, that the two first numbers of your treatise

are bound together. But am not sorry that my care

lessness was the means of eliciting a letter from you.

I      am much pleased to find that you think much as                               I
    II
do about the self-assertion now so much in fashion in the

scientific world.      think, however, this                           more notice
                    I

                                                                 is

able among the pure naturalists than among the physicists.

think Darwin has upset some not over strong minds,

and cannot but fear that the moral effect of his doctrines

will be injurious.  I  noticed your letter in Nature about

the retardation of the earth's rotation by the tides.
The Astronomer-Royal (Airy) once explained to me his

opinion that the tides can have little effect in the open

ocean on account of the great meridional divisions caused

by the large continents, and that                                     only that portion
     It

        is
                                                        it
                                                                  is
of them which can get round such capes as the Horn which

can directly affect the rotation.

        strikes me that, in channels where the scour of the

tides   great, the friction must act equally in opposite

directions at the flux and reflux, but that portion of the
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 263

motion which is converted into heat must cause a loss of

energy somewhere, and no doubt part of it must come

out of the rotation. I must confess that I do not under

stand your letter in Nature. Possibly that arises from

my not having seen the discussions to which you refer as

having taken place at the B. A.
     I have always understood that the internal arrange

ment of the materials of the earth can be proved, by the
law of the variation of gravity upon its surface, to be

                          it                                                     there
                                              a

                                                               If,
intimately connected with its external form.

fore, solidified when        was of different form from
     a it it
what has now, the present form being due to denuda

tion, discrepancy between the law of internal arrange

ment and the external form would be betrayed by

observations on the pendulum. But                           there be this
                          I

                                         ?

                                              if

                                                         is,
difficulty, would the idea suggested in the paragraph at
the bottom of page two of my tract " On the Elevation
of Mountains " be of any help
                               That                           would change

of velocity in rotation so far alter the pressure as to allow

of redistribution of the surfaces of equal pressure and

density
     if
          ?But this introducesadifficulty on the other side.

For the degree of pressure due to changes in the

velocity or direction of rotation were competent to induce

liquefaction and consequent changes in the distribution
of the materials, would not the attraction of the moon and

sun also be capable of destroying the rigidity In other
                        ?

                                  it

                                          is
                                                            is

                                                                              ?
words, does not the rigidity of the earth, according to

Thomson's view, prove that its rigidity                                        not due to

pressure, and therefore that   not throughout, as he

thinks, at or near the melting temperature for the
                          If you have time to think of
pressure at each depth

what have said, give me your opinion, and also as to
     I

whether you think the question worth propounding in a

letter to Nature or elsewhere. But fear Nature soars
                               if
                                  I

                                                            it
above my level, and would not put in a communication

from me. They would, however, you enclosed                                       for

me.

     Should you wish to see what Archdeacon Pratt says

about the internal arrangement of the strata of equal
264 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

density and pressure, I will send you the book. -- Believe

me, very sincerely yours,
                                                                  O. FISHER.

                                                              EDINBURGH, gM September 1871.

Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- No doubt what you say regarding

the internal arrangement of the strata of equal density
is all correct. And probably an argument from this
could be made out to show that the earth must have
solidified when rotating at its present rate. But all this
has nothing to do with Sir William Thomson's argument.
You will find on examining his original paper read to the
Glasgow Geological Society, and also his reply to Huxley,
that he does not make the least allusion to the internal
arrangement of strata. Your idea does not appear to
have entered his mind. His entire argument is of an

entirely different character. It is neither more nor less

than this: If the earth solidified some thousands of

millions of years ago, it must have solidified at a time
when it was rotating at a far greater rate than at present,
and consequently at a time when its equatorial diameter
must have been much greater than it is now ; and if so,
 the land at the equator must have now been standing
 several miles above the sea. Or, in other words, the
 present form of the earth ought to be exactly what it was
 at the time of solidification. This is his argument. Now,
 if it can be shown, as I have endeavoured to do in my
 letter in Nature, that denudation would lower the
 equatorial land as fast as the sea would sink in con
 sequence of decrease of rotation, Sir William's conclusion
 that the equatorial lands ought to be sticking out of the
 sea goes for nothing.

       By all means draw up an argument on the subject,
 and send it to Nature, or Geological Magazine, or some
 suitable source. But you will require to take care that
 your readers do not confound your argument with Sir
 William's.

       In my letter in Nature I had nothing to do with the
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 265

question whether the earth is actually  losing rotation. --

I am, dear sir, yours very truly,       JAMES CROLL.

      In 1872 the pain in the head returned on the
slightest mental exertion, and Croll was obliged again to
consult Dr. Warburton Begbie, under whose treatment
he remained during the greater part of the year with

some benefit. Temporary relief, however, was all that
could be afforded by the use of palliative measures.
Still, Croll was able to attend to his office duties and go
through a considerable amount of independent investiga

tion and literary work after his business day was over.
He returned to the subject of Ocean Currents, and wrote

a paper which appeared in Nature on 1 1 th January
1872. He replied to some criticisms by Mr. Ferrel on
his theory of Ocean Currents in Nature, 21st March

1872, and followed this by proof that ocean currents
are not due to gravity, in Nature, 25th April 1872. He
again replied to Mr. Ferrel's objections in Nature, 2 5th
July 1872. He returned to one of his former physical
studies and wrote a paper on Kinetic Energy, which
appeared in Nature, i5th August 1872. He likewise
wrote a reply to Professor Everett and Mr. Wallace on
Oceanic Circulation, which appeared in Nature on 3rd
October 1872.

      In addition to these physical papers, notwithstanding
his impaired state of health, Croll returned to his

favourite study, metaphysics, and wrote a paper entitled
" What determines Molecular Motion, the Fundamental

Problem of Nature," which appeared in the Philosophical
Magazine of July 1872.

      Professor Ramsay of the Geological Survey, who, as
Croll stated, was almost, if not the very first distinguished
man of science to recognise Croll, and lend him a helping
hand, remained a faithful friend to the time of his death.

He was a constant correspondent, and, as was character
istic of his kindly nature, never lost any opportunity of
doing Croll a good turn. In January 1872 he proposed
266 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Croll as a fit and proper man to receive the proceeds of
the Wollaston Fund for that year. Some objection to this
proposal was made on the ground that Croll's researches
did not involve any personal outlay. The following
letter, thoroughly characteristic of Sir Andrew's best
manner, shows the energy with which he laboured to
bring his proposal to the favourable issue which it happily
reached.

                                                LONDON, llth January 1872.

MY DEAR GEIKIE, --Yesterday, in the Council of the
Geological Society, I proposed Croll as a proper man to

receive the Wollaston Fund for the year. . . . The

President and others hailed my proposition.                            One

objection raised was that Croll's researches involved no

personal expense. Prestwich and I thought that of no

importance ;   but, nevertheless,               if you   can tell  me  any
thing on that                                  doubly
               score, I shall be                        armed --

" And on the top of opportunity,

   Quell the base scullion rogues, whose envy dull
   Would squash the light of Genius, and instead

   Display a dirty, spluttering farthing dip,
   And swear that 'tis the sun."

...So look alive, my pigeon, and help in this good cause.
       I can do nothing till my third edition of Physical
Geology and Geography is in the press. I am now at the
last lecture of it. I will turn it into chapters. It will

be nearly twice as long as it was, and so much modified

(nIewhobpoeoki.m--prEovveerd)sintcheartelyit,  may  almost be said to be    a

                                                           A. C. RAMSAY.1

     At the anniversary meeting of the Geological Society
of England on 6th February 1872, the President,
Professor Prestwich, in handing the balance of the pro
ceeds of the Wollaston Donation Fund to Professor

Ramsay for transmission to Dr. Croll, said --

      " The Wollaston Fund has been awarded to Mr. James

                  1 Sir Archibald Geikie's Life of Sir A. Ramsay.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 267

Croll, of Edinburgh, for his many valuable researches on

the Glacial phenomena of Scotland, and to aid in the

prosecution of the same. Mr. Croll is also well known

to all of us by his investigation of oceanic currents and

their bearings on geological questions, and of many

questions of great theoretical interest connected with
some of the large problems in geology. Will you,

Professor Ramsay, in handing to Mr. Croll this token of

the interest with which we follow his researches, inform

him of the additional value his labours have in our

estimation, from the difficulties under which they have

been pursued, and the limited time and opportunities he

has had at his command."

Professor Ramsay thanked the President and Council

in the name of Mr. Croll for the honour bestowed on him.

He remarked that Mr. Croll's merits as an original

thinker were of a very high kind, that he was all the

more deserving of this honour from the circumstance that

he had risen to have a well-recognised place among men
of science without any of the advantages of early scientific

training, and that the position which he now occupied had

been won by his own unassisted exertions.

     Professor Ramsay  communicated the gratifying intelli
gence to Croll in the
                       following simple, kindly letter :--

                                                          LONDON, Vjth February 1872.

MY DEAR CROLL,-- I have the pleasure of sending

you a cheque for the proceeds of the Wollaston Fund,
which I received for you yesterday at the annual meeting

from the President, and for which I returned thanks in

your name. I wish it was more, but it is all they had.
It is customary for the person to whom this honour has

been awarded to acknowledge the honour in a letter

--addBreesliseevde  to the President and Council.  I write in haste.
                    me, yours very sincerely,

                          ANDREW RAMSAY.

      Croll's reply has not been preserved, but it would no
doubt be characteristically modest and grateful.
268 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      He was busy with his investigations on ocean
currents, and wrote to Professor Foster for some informa

tion, from whom he received the following reply :--

                                        16 KING HENRY'S ROAD, LONDON, N.W.,

                                               lyh April 1872.

    MY DEAR CROLL,-- I am exceedingly sorry to have

been so long in answering your letter of the 26th March
and returning your MS. It arrived just at the beginning
of our Easter holidays, when I went away from home for
more than a week. I intended to take your letter and
paper with me, and to write as soon as I got away, but
unfortunately overlooked them at the moment of starting,

and left them behind.

     If I rightly understand your argument, it is that,

were water frictionless, it would, when transferred from
the equator, supposing it to have been at rest there
relatively to the land, to a place of given latitude, possess
an eastward velocity equal to the difference of velocity
due to the earth's rotation at that latitude and at the

equator respectively, and that the difference between
actual eastward velocity of the water at any latitude, and
the eastward velocity due to this cause, may be taken as
affording a measure of the resistance encountered by the
water in passing from the equator to that latitude.

      This seems to me unquestionable, but in arguing
from it to the force needful to produce the observed
velocity towards the poles, is it quite right to regard the
resistances to motion as equal in all directions ? Of
course this is so, so far as fluid friction is concerned, but
would not the trade winds oppose motion eastwards more
than motion polewards ? On the other hand, centri
fugal force would oppose poleward motion, but not east
ward motion. How far this is important I don't know,
but the centrifugal force per pound of matter due to

the earth's rotation is at the equator = 0'HI3 pound-
foot-second units. A pound of water transferred to

latitude 60°, and keeping the same eastward velocity as
at the equator, would have twice this centrifugal force,
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 269

and the component of the centrifugal force at 60° which

acts tangentially to the meridian towards the equator is

half the whole amount, or, in the case supposed, it would

be ^|   X   2x     0-1113 = 0-1928 unit per pound of
matter  or  yiyth
                   of its weight, nearly. Of course the

effect of centrifugal force in opposing motion polewards

is very small near the equator, but increases more and

more rapidly as the latitude increases.

     It might be said that the water which arrives at say

latitude 60° does not come solely from the equator, but

partially from latitudes between 0° and 60°. This would
of course diminish the eastward velocity due to change
of latitude, but if it came from anywhere near the equator,

it is plain that the velocity would be nearly the same as

if it came from the equator itself.
     I have ventured to suggest in folio 2 two very

slight verbal changes, and have marked a few words in
folio 3 which seem not quite clear. Near the top of
folio 2 you allude to the relative propelling and deflect

ing energies, but I do not see any previous allusion

to the distances traversed parallel to meridian and

equator.

      I hope my  long delay  will   not  hamvuechca.--useYdouyrosu  great
inconvenience.               it    very                              very
                  I regret

sincerely,                               G. C. FOSTER.

      Several of Croll's discoveries were ascribed occasion
ally to other people, and Mr. Carrick Moore, having
unwittingly ascribed a computation made by Croll to

Sir Charles Lyell, wrote the following honourable letter :--

                                                  113 EATON SQUARE, 6th May 1872.

    DEAR SIR,-- I am quite sensible that I have done

you injustice in speaking of the computation as having

been made by Sir C. Lyell, instead of by you. If there

is any opportunity given me, I will rectify it. On the
main subject of my letter to Nature Sir Henry James
writes to me that I am unquestionably right, and, strange

as it sounds, the accurate Humboldt and the accurate
270 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Herschel had each made an important oversight. -- I am,

yours truly,                                    JOHN CARRICK MOORE.

The following letter sufficiently explains itself:--

              i SAVILE Row, BURLINGTON GARDENS, LONDON, W.,
                                           28M May 1872.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q.,AGs etohloegticimale  Survey.      meeting  of  the
                                                for another

British Association approaches, we are mustering promises

of papers for the Geographical section.

Mr. Galton, who will preside over the section, hopes

to have some papers on the subject of Oceanic Circulation

and Currents.

Dr. Carpenter will, doubtless, take a leading part in

the discussion of the subjects ; but, as it is not desirable
that he should carry everything his own way, I trust you

will be able to attend the meeting, to give your views,

which have now become standard. I need not say that
I shall be delighted to learn from you that you will

contribute a paper on any subject which may properly

come under the Geographical section. -- Believe me,

very truly yours,                               KEITH JOHNSTON.

      Croll having written that his health would not permit
him to attend the meeting, Mr. Galton wrote urging him

to attend.

                                                                     RUTLAND GATE, S.W.,
                                                                   l2thjune 1872.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q. Mr. Keith Johnston, whom I asked to

write to you about a paper on Currents, in Brighton, has
shown me your reply. I write still with some hope, that

you might be induced to come for this reason. It is

probable that Dr. Carpenter will allude at some length
to Ocean Currents in his address. He tells me he is
not quite sure yet whether or no that will be one of the

subjects in but can hardly doubt that in the end
it,

        I
                                                                         it
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR C. LYELL, ETC 271

will. He assures me that he will willingly engage in

any discussion on the subject in Section E. I have also

asked Sir William Thomson, who will also be prepared

to speak. It seems to me, and, I think, speaking on
general grounds, you will concur, that if the discussion

is to take place, it ought to be done as well as possible,

and I should therefore much regret if so noted and able

an expositor of the theory of Ocean Currents as yourself

were absent.I
                 If,

                                        a
                                                 a

                                                           a

                                                                         I
                   on second thoughts, you were inclined

to come, would suggest that recapitulation in a few

words   of your chief arguments     einffectivsehomrtanpnaepre. --r woaumld,
bring  in the discussion in very

faithfully yours,                   FRANCIS GALTON.

                                    THE DELL, GRAYS, ESSEX,
                                             4/h August 1872.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q. Your note sent to Dorking has been re

directed here from London. The paper you are so kind

as to send me may not arrive, so perhaps you will send

me another. Mr. Herbert Spencer will be found at the

Athenaeum Club, Pall Mall, and Mr. George Mivart at                         7

North Bank, Regent's Park, London, N.W.                     interest. --
         shall read your paper with very great
I

Believe me, yours very faithfully,

                                ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                                    N. MANSIONHOUSE ROAD,
                                  4
                                    2lrf November 1872.
                                      I
James Croll, Esq.  --  Let  me    thank  you              for " What
      DEAR SIR,                                         is

determines Molecular Motion."            have read your

papers with great pleasure. The present                     fully equal

to your former memoirs. The outstanding thoroughness

and scientific honesty of your discussions, and the great

ability you have shown in illustrating them, won my

admiration long ago. Believe me, very sincerely yours,

                                              J.            JUKES.
                       CHAPTER XVI

    PERSONAL HISTORY GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE

CROLL had evidently very much overworked himself
            during the year 1872, and that to such an extent
that he was quite incapacitated for anything beyond his
office duties during the whole of 1873. During the latter
year the pain in his head was so constant and so
aggravated that mental work was quite impossible. He
struggled manfully through his daily duties, but was glad
when the hour arrived to liberate him even from these.
He again had recourse to Dr. Warburton Begbie, who
received him with his usual kindliness, and tried a
different course of treatment, with some beneficial effect.
That eminent physician was, however, himself in com
paratively poor health. He told Croll when he consulted
him that he was then suffering from a somewhat similar
ailment, and ere many months elapsed he had passed
away. He died on 25th Feb. 1876, and Croll felt, as
many did, that he had lost a friend as well as a physician.
The pain still continuing, and rendering, on many
occasions, sleep almost impossible, he consulted Professor
Sanders in the end of the year. The Professor directed
his attention chiefly to the securing of sleep for Croll ;
and by medicinal treatment, dietary, daily walking in the
open air, and total abstinence from mental work, sleep
was restored towards the end of the year. From the
want of sleep and stomachic derangement he was, how
ever, very weak, and unable to do any private work all
this year. Regarding all his reading, and during this
period particularly, from the short hours he could read, he
had to adopt the plan of marking on the margin of the
page and underlining with pencil the portions to which

                                          m
    GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                273

he might have occasion to refer. Had he not adopted
this mode, his reading would not have been of much
advantage. Notwithstanding these precautions, however,

the head grew gradually worse, so much so that he had
frequently to apply for sick leave for a month or six
weeks at a time; and in 1873 he was disabled for duty
for nearly nine months. For two or three years prior to
the publication of Climate and Time, it was with the

greatest difficulty that he could manage to put together
in one day as many sentences as would fill half a page

of foolscap. In fact, the appearance of the volume was
delayed for two or three years on that account. During
all this time the mind was as vigorous as ever. It was

pain in the head, and pain alone, which stopped all
progress when he attempted mental work. He frequently
thought he would be obliged to resign his situation in

the Survey; but as he had not completed his tenth year
of service, and would therefore not have been entitled to

any superannuation, he was strongly urged by his friends
to try and struggle on.

      Croll, having sent his papers on " Ocean Currents " to
Mr. Clements Markham, received the following acknow

ledgment :--

                              21 ECCLESTON SQUARE, S.W.,
                                    1st July 1873.
James Croll, Esq.
     MY DEAR SIR,  --  I  am  very  much  obliged   to you
for sending me your papers on " Ocean Currents," which
I am reading with great interest. I should be extremely

obliged, also, if you could send me a short memorandum

on the importance of investigating the currents and

temperatures of the sea at different depths, in the seas

within the hitherto unvisited area round the North Pole.

We are preparing a statement of the various results in

different branches of science, to be obtained by exploring

the unknown area. An investigation of the currents

will be one of those results, and your views on the

18
274 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

importance of such researches, and on the question of
practical consequence which would be solved by them,
would be very valuable to us. Yours very truly,

                                                CLEMENTS MARKHAM.

     He was asked to read a paper at the Victorian
Institute, on " What determines Molecular Motion," in the

following letter :--

                                              VICTORIAN INSTITUTE, i&thjunc 1873.

JameDsEACRrollS,IRE,s--q. At a recent meeting, the Council con

sidered the questions to be taken up next session, and a

strong wish was expressed to have some purely scientific

papers ; and amongst those they were desirous of asking

to kindly give papers, your own name was specially

noted. The question taken up in your much-admired
paper, " What determines Molecular Motion," it is felt,

would, should you kindly consent, be a most valuable

one to be discussed in a paper.

     I may add that, should you not be able to be present,

the paper would be read by one of the Council or any

one named by yourself; you would have a report of the

discussion thereon, that you might make a reply if

necessary. Authors of papers get twenty-five copies,

and as many more as they wish, at the cost of printing,

generally twopence a copy. I send a list of some of our

members and our annual address. Several F.R.S.'s have

recently joined, and sixty-six have been added to our

number during this first half of 1873. -- I remain, yours
                         J. PETRIE.
respectfully.

October or December will be time enough for the paper.

      The state of Croll's health compelled him to decline

this invitation.

     In 1873 he was invited to assist in the Geological

iDnegpalerttmteer n:--t of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the follow
              GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                     275

          Encyclopedia Britannica, 6 NORTH BRIDGE, EDINBURGH,

                                               2yt& August 1873.

DEAR SIR, -- May I take the liberty of asking

whether you have any leisure to assist in the Geological

Department of the above work. If you have time, and

are willing to     help, may I ask you to favour    me with a
call here any
                   day between eleven and three     o'clock. --

Yours truly,                           THOS. S. BAYNES.

Croll's health here again, and the demand on his

time otherwise, precluded him from contributing articles
as desired, but in the article " Geology " his theory of

Climate and Time is embodied and acknowledged by Sir
Archibald Geikie.

The period of rest from extra mental exertion

beyond his ordinary office duties during the year 1873,

restored Croll's health considerably, and enabled him to

enter with renewed vigour on his independent scientific

work early in 1874. He returned to the subject of

Ocean Currents, and wrote a paper entitled " A Further

Examination of the Gravitation Theory of Ocean Cur

rents," which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of

February  "1W87in4d.  This was followed  by a paper dealing
with the              Theory of Oceanic  Circulation," which

appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of March 1874.
He also wrote a reply to Dr. Carpenter on Ocean

Currents, which appeared in Nature, May 21, 1874.
Two further papers on " The Physical Cause of Ocean
Currents " appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of June

1874, and in the American Journal of Science and Arts

of September 1 874. These were followed by two papers
on "The Physical Cause of the Submergence and

Emergence of the Land during the Glacial Epoch," which

appeared in the Geological Magazine of July and August
1 874. He also wrote a paper on " The South of England
Ice-Sheet," which appeared in the Geological Magazine of

June 1874.         papers on  " Ocean  Currents  "  had  attracted
      Dr. Croll's
276 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the attention of Professor Haughton of Dublin, who
wrote him the following letter. Unfortunately, Dr.
Croll's reply has not been preserved, but the papers asked
for were sent almost by return of post.

                                                             TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN,
                                                                llth March 1874.

    DEAR SIR, -- I have read from time to time your

papers on " Ocean Currents " in the Philosophical
Magazine, and entirely concur with you in rejecting Dr.
Carpenter's absurd theory of a general oceanic circula
tion caused by the relative heat of the equator and

poles. His theory will not receive the support of any
person acquainted with the elements of physics and
mechanics. In the Philosophical Magazine (March, p.
172) you remark obiter that "the greater part of the

water evaporated in inter-tropical regions does actually

fall as rain in those regions."

   I doubt greatly if this be true on the ocean surface.
Our rainfalls are taken on land, often in the neighbour

hood of lofty mountains, and so we come to exaggerate

the tropical rainfall.

     At St. Helena mid-ocean observations made at my

request, 1861--1864, showed

Annual evaporation from ocean surface           82-98 ins.
                                                18-85 ,,
     ,, rainfall  ,,                        ,,

                  Difference                . . 64-13

     I forward by post a copy of my book on Animal
Mechanics, of which I beg your acceptance. If you

could send   me a copy of                   ywoouur ldpapoebrlisgeo, --n  Eccentricity
and Ocean     Currents, you                                               Yours very

faithfully,                                 SAMUEL HAUGHTON.

     Dr. Croll, knowing the interest that Captain Nares,

the  fAolrlcotwicingexlpeltotreerr,:--took  in ocean currents,            wrote  him
the
GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE  277

                                                       EDINBURGH, zyd April 1874.

    DEAR SIR, -- I have much pleasure in forwarding

you the volume, which, I trust, may both interest and
please you for an hour now and again, during your long
winter nights. In chapter xvi. I have given some
details of a class of facts connected with the Arctic

regions which have, unfortunately, been too much over
looked, viz., evidence of a warm condition of climate in
Greenland during very recent post - Tertiary times.
According to theory, we might expect that during the
warm periods of the Glacial epoch, Greenland was com
paratively free of snow and ice ; and the probability is
that the ancient forests, found by M'Clure, Warham, and

others, flourished during that period. Might I take the
liberty of suggesting to you, when in those regions, to

be on the outlook for any evidence bearing on that point,
such, for example, as remains of trees, plants, or shells

which could not now live in such a climate. In chapter
xviii. I have given all the facts which I could find
relating to warm conditions of climate in Greenland
during earlier geological epochs. Yours truly,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll was not a mathematician. He made his
marvellous and intricate calculations by a process of
mental logic of his own. He always wished, however, to
have these verified by mathematical calculation. On one
occasion he had made a calculation as to the light or

heat received in a year from the sun, and asked Professor
Tait to test it. The Professor wrote in reply, giving the
geometrical formulae, and added, " which is what you

make it. At your leisure and mine I should like to

know how you got this result."
      The year 1875 was a period of exceeding activity

with Croll. In that year appeared his great work, entitled
Climate and Time in their Geological Relations : a

Theory of Secular Changes of the Earth's Climate,

published by Daldy, Isbister & Co., London. This work,
278 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

which is fully noticed elsewhere, created a profound

impression in scientific circles both at home and abroad.

No scientific work of equal importance or interest had

appeared anywhere for many years. Whether his views

were accepted or rejected, friends and foes alike bore

testimony to the striking originality, the wide philosophic

grasp, and the marvellous faculty of inductive generalisa
tion displayed in the book. His first paper on " The

Physical Cause of the Change of Climate during

Geological Epochs," which appeared in August 1864,

followed by two other papers on the subject, during the

next ten years, effected an entire revolution in the method

of interpreting glacial phenomena. As already explained,

Croll's ill health greatly retarded the publication of

Climate and Time. His theories regarding glacial

questions were, however, well known to scientific men

from his published papers, as also from The Great Ice
Age of Professor James Geikie (also of the Geological
Survey of Scotland), who adopted and expounded them

with his characteristic clearness and accuracy. The

views so ably expounded by these authors, regarding the

former extension of land ice in the northern hemisphere

during the Glacial period, have been generally accepted,

and now form part of the common stock of geological

knowledge all over the world.

But the theory of the physical causes of secular

changes of climate developed by Dr. Croll, and the

researches on which that theory was based, gave rise to

prolonged controversy. Though one of the most modest

of men, Croll was a keen controversialist. Numerous

replies to his antagonists appeared in the pages of Nature

and the Philosophical Magazine, as well as elsewhere.
The first, entitled " Climate and Time," appeared as a

letter in Nature on August 26,       1875. This was
followed by a paper entitled " The  Challenger's Crucial

Test of the Wind and Gravitation Theories of Oceanic

Circulation," which appeared in the Philosophical

Magazine, September 1875, in the American Journal
     GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                 279

of Science and Arts, September 1875, p. 222, and in
the  British Association
     Another paper on     Reports,   1875.
                           " The    Wind    Theory  of      Oceanic

Circulation," in which objections to the theory were

examined, appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of

October 1875, and m tne American Journal of Science
and  Arts, January
     Another paper  1876,  "pO. c5e8a.nic
                      on                   Circulation,"    being a

reply to Dr. Carpenter, appeared in Nature, October 7,

1875, and was followed by a further paper, entitled
" Oceanic Circulation, Expansion of Sea Water as

determined by Professor Thorpe," which appeared in

Nature, November 25, 1875.

     These papers were followed by further remarks on

the Crucial Test argument, which appeared in the

Philosophical Magazine of December 1875.
     He sent copies of his    work on Climate and
to  Dr. Petermann and Mr.                                    Time
former being as follows :--  Crookes, -- Croll's letter     to the

Dr. Petermann.      have,  with      EDINBURGH, zist April 1875.
                                    much pleasure, sent you
    DEAR SIR,-- I

by to-day's book - post a copy of my new book on

Climate and Time, which I hope you will accept.
     At pp. 220--225 I have detailed some curious results,

which you might glance at. I need hardly say that a

notice in your valuable journal will be esteemed a special

favour. I may mention that an American edition appears

simultaneously with the English. I am much obliged

to your kindness for the valuable papers you send me

now and again, which interest me and my friends here
very much.-- Yours sincerely,
                                            JAMES CROLL.

                             Quart. Jaurn. of Science, LONDON,
                                           zyd April 1875.
James Croll, Esq.,
     MY DEAR SIR,   --    Thank     you    very  much for your

book on Climate and Time. Although I have not yet
28o LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

had time to read it through, I have read sufficient to
convince me of its intrinsic value, and I shall make it

the basis of an article for the next number of the

Quarterly.

     I should be very glad if you could write a paper on
" The North Pole," for the next number. Now that
your book is complete, you will, I hope, have sufficient

time at your disposal, and a paper from your pen on a

subject of such   present interest is   sure to be     received
with pleasure by  the readers of my                   am, dear
                                       journal. -- I

sir, very sincerely yours,

                            WILLIAM CROOKES.

      Croll had rather a fastidious taste in the matter of
binding and general appearance of books, as is shown

by the following letter to his publishers :--

                                                      EDINBURGH, 2$th April 1875.
Daldy, Isbister & Co.

    GENTLEMEN, -- I am glad to find that the somewhat

defective appearance of the volume has been accidental.
I have little doubt that the alteration which you propose
making will improve its appearance very much.

     I am also glad to learn that you intend to use every
means possible to bring the book prominently before the
public, and I trust it may have a steady if not a rapid

sale.

     I have already distributed all my copies. A number
of them I gave to influential men connected with the

press, who would likely on my account give it a notice.
If, however, you could favour me with, say three copies

owbitlhigetdh.e--imYopurorvsedtrucloyv, er for my own library, I shall feel

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

      Croll had sent a copy of Climate and Time to his
fast friend Sir Andrew Ramsay, from whom he received

the following letters :--
            GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                           281

                GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF ENGLAND AND WALES,

MY      DEAR    CROLL, --                        I  !4ih May 1875.        to one of
                                                     have written

the Times reviewers, asking him to come and see me,

which he will do, but what may come of of course
                                                             is              I
do not know.            also sent an extract from one of your                      I
        a                                                      II

                     I                                               it,
notes to Mr. Tylor, who may, perhaps, see that he has

come day behind the fair.

     In p. 267 of your book, see you state that give
the total thickness of the British stratified rocks at about
                                                    I
14 miles, and in p. 361 at 72,000 feet.               I                 presume that

this thickness  is      quoted from Darwin's first edition of

the Origin of Species, to whom gave the thicknesses of
all the English formations, and this statement has been

often quoted. Many of the quoters (and think Darwin
himself) are under the idea that that the thickness of
these formations at some place or places. But never
                                                                          I

said that, for there are many unconformities, and much

of the country was now and then dry land when later

formations were being deposited.

     At p. 267, in treating of land surfaces, you say that

hardly one  is  to be detected in all these formations.

There were, however, plenty of land surfaces in Britain
and elsewhere, at various times. For example, when the

Old Red Sandstone, the coal measures, as you state,

the Permian and the New Red series, were being de

posited also during the Oolitic, Purbeck, Eocene, and
It
Miocene times.I;        have seen what considered to be
                                                         ;I
                    I

                     I

                                    it
                                             is
roches moutonnees under the Old Red but, as general
                                                                          a

rule, the old land surfaces are so old that all traces of

the effect of the ancient glacial action has been removed.

exists, however, in Africa under the Permian boulder

beds, and the underlying rocks are moutonneed and

grooved, and, believe, the same                          is  the case in Central

India.  also think                               not quite right to say that the

entire stratified rocks of the globe, with the exception of

the coal beds and underclays, consist almost entirely of a

series of old sea-bottoms.                       I  feel sure that there are far
282 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

more formations than is generally supposed that were
deposited in the interior of Continental areas, e.g. great
part of the Cambrian, all the true Old Red, Permian, and
New Red (with a Muschelkalk episode), and almost

all of the Miocene, and, I believe, much of the Eocene

formations.

     I see that they are finding Miocene boulder beds in

Bavaria and elsewhere, with glacial scratches on the

stones.

     I hear that my Rhine paper, which was translated

into German, has been read over all Germany, at least

so Dr. Hoffman told me. I have never had time to

write out my pre- Miocene Alps, and the amount of

denudation they have subsequently undergone, but I

lectured on it at the Royal Institution.-- Yours very

sincerely,                     ANDREW RAMSAY.

                                   GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF ENGLAND AND WALES,

                                                     lyhMay 1875.

    MY DEAR CROLL,-- I am surprised that none of

your critics, that I have read, mention that in the Antarctic

regions there is a very respectable Glacial epoch going on

now, and that the reason thereof is explained by your

theory in all its details. In one of my last lectures of the
course just finished, I specially dwelt on this point, and,
indeed, I have done so for some years. The argument

in your favour, derived  from  that point alone, is very
                                    ANDREW RAMSAY.
strong. --Yours truly,

Having received a copy of a Memoir from the Rev.

O. Fisher,  M.A., Croll  acknowledged  it in the following

terms :--

                                                        EDINBURGH, rjthjune 1875.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Many, many thanks for the copy

of your valuable and interesting memoir which you have
kindly sent. You go too deep for me. It must have

cost you much thought and labour. I have got my book
             GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                                 283

off hands ; and, as I am getting tired of geological
subjects, I think I shall turn to my old favourite study
of philosophy after I get a long rest.

     I am still almost wholly disabled for work by my

old complaint in the head.      well. -- With kind regards,

     I trust you are keeping
I am, yours very truly,

                                      JAMES CROLL.

      The  wfoitlhlowDirn.gCacroprernetsepronisdeinncteeresrteinlagtiv:--e to  his  con
troversy

                              EDINBURGH, lyh September 1875.

Professor Foster, F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- I send you a copy of my paper

read before the British Association.        I should like

exceedingly well to have your opinion as to the correct
ness of my result. Of course I shall make no public

use of what you may say, it is simply for my own
satisfaction. The point I wish more particularly to have

your opinion on is this :-- Assuming that my computation
from Muncke's table is correct, and that column A is

longer than column C for equal weights, must not the

North Atlantic be above the level of the equator ?

And if it is so, how can there possibly be a surface flow

like what is assumed in the gravitation theory ?
     I intend applying for admission into the Royal

Society. If you can see your way clear to give me a

little aid, it will be esteemed a very special favour.
Apologising for troubling you so often, I am, yours

most truly,

                                      JAMES CROLL.

              12 HILLDROP ROAD, LONDON, N., isf October 1875.

James Croll,  Esq. Edinburgh.   been  away  from  home, and
     MY DEAR
               CROLL,-- I have

so did not get your letter and enclosed paper (for which
284 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

many thanks) till Wednesday. I have since read the
paper and Dr. Carpenter's reply (Nature, September 25).

      As far as I can understand the matter, the question

raised in your paper is rather complex, and the data do

not seem sufficient for a decisive answer. I do not see

any proof of your assumption, bottom of p. 4 and top of
p. 5, that the pressure at bottom of column C is the
same as the pressure at the same level in column A,

which is what I understood you to take as the foundation

of your calculations of the height of the columns. Of
course, if the water were at rest, the pressure must be

the same at all equal levels, but then, from some cause

or other it is in motion : why, therefore, assume equal

pressure at this particular level rather than at any other ?

I suppose there is no question about a general poleward

flow near the surface and a general equatorward flow

lower down. At some intermediate depth therefore there

must be no flow either way. If the depths of the

stationary strata in the two columns respectively can be

determined, I should say we ought to assume equality of
pressure at these depths. It would, I should think, be

instructive to form a diagram of pressures at the various

depths for different latitudes, as those of columns A and
C. I mean diagrams where ordinates should show
depth and abscissas pressures. If the curves for

     different latitudes are super

     posed, as in the sketch, they

     would show at a glance whether

     there is a force urging water

     from one column into the other

     or not. Thus, assuming equality
     of surface level for illustration,

soo both curves have the same start

600  ing-point 0, denoting atmo
     spheric pressure. To begin
with, the pressure increases fastest in A (being colder

for the first 100 fathoms) but afterwards faster in C
(colder after first 100 fathoms about). The pressure
          GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE  285

would of course be from the column whose curve lies
outside to the other. The points of equal pressure
(intersection of pressure curves) cannot, that I see, be
determined from the data. Your assumption (see above)
is equivalent to making the curves intersect at level of
bottom of column C. The temperature soundings, with
determinations of expansions, determine the shape of the

curves, but not their absolute position.

     Though I thus think your conclusions not fully
established, I by no means see much force in Carpenter's
objections. His " trough experiment " that he thinks

so much of is simply silly. Let him try how much
circulation he can get with a difference of temperature at

the rate of \\$ degree F. per mile of his trough, which I
suppose would not be very far from the average variation

in the ocean. Nobody doubts that water can be made to

circulate by heating one end and cooling the other : the

only question is whether the heating and cooling which
occur in the Atlantic are sufficient to cause circulation to
the extent that actually exists. For my own part, I
don't believe it. No doubt this is a co-operating cause,
but I have also very little doubt that the wind is a much
more active cause. It also seems to me very silly to

appeal to Froude's experiments as bearing perceptibly on

the question. Relatively to the forces brought into play
in them, the viscosity of water may well be negligible,

and at the same time it may be considerable enough in

comparison with the forces producible by differences of

temperature.

     I shall be greatly pleased to support your candidature

at the Royal Society in any way in my power. --Yours

always very truly,

                                                                    G. C. FOSTER.

     MY                                           HARLTON RECTORY, CAMBRIDGE,
yourself
                                                                      24//( September 1875.

          DEAR SIR, -- The question in dispute between

          and Dr. Carpenter appears to me far from
286 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sCloiamnmgpeblerr,.id--geI,Wt--hhoeiutnghmt uI stthhaebtearhdaet  Dr. Carpenter lecture at

                                                                  least two years ago if not

                                                                  held that the existence of a

cold stratum at the bottom of the Atlantic and its

approach towards the surface near the equator proved

his theory to the exclusion of yours. I saw that it was
a consequence of yours as well as of his, so I came to the

conclusion that he had not proved his theory as against

yours, and I think so still. But whether his gravitation

theory apart from a wind theory would account for a

circulation of water is another question. For my own

part, I do not believe it would account for the existing
phenomena, though I am not prepared to go the full

length with you, and deny that it would cause any

circulation. This I think at any rate is clear, that if

there was not a cause in operation besides temperature,

the strata of water ought to be bounded by plane

surfaces between the regions of descent and ascent.

Your diagram in the paper you have sent me shows

this is not so. There must therefore be some dis

turbing cause at work, which cannot well be other than

wind.

     I do not think, as far as I can see,-- and this occurred
to me before reading Carpenter's letter in Nature, --that

you are justified in assuming that the surface of the
ocean would be absolutely level between the sections A,

B, and C, were the temperatures the same at the like

depths, so that you cannot conclude for certain that the

levels are in fact such as the difference of temperature

would make them, as if they would be truly horizontal,

barring those differences. Hence, as a matter of fact, B

may still be lower than C and A lower than B.
     On the whole, I suspect you are right in considering

the wind the chief cause of the currents of the ocean, but

that Carpenter's theory may still be so far true, that if

there was no wind a slow circulation would still go

on.

     I have given you my notions, but they are merely
               GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                  287

crude ones. The question depends too much upon

niceties for   me to be at  isallonpeosintiovte.easiTlyheseattrlgeudm.--enBt elfireovme
the viscosity    of water

me, sincerely yours,

                                    OSMOND FISHER.

      Did you happen to notice Mr. W. Green's letter in
Nature this week ? According to him, the stones at the
bottom of a building ought to be hotter than those at

the top.

    September 27. -- I open my letter written on Saturday

night to answer yours received this morning. I know
nothing of Mr. Henderson's whereabouts, but I should think

that a parcel addressed to him either at S. John's Coll.,
Cambridge, or at the County School, Guildford, would be

sure to find him. But I will inquire at the College the
next time I go into the town, which will probably be on

Wednesday, and see whether the porter knows his

address. But I feel pretty sure I shall only get the
address I sent you before.

     I am very sorry that I cannot feel as sure as you do

about the level of the Atlantic. The fact
               I                                                     have very
                 if

                             is
                                               a

                                                        is

                                                    I is iIs,

                                                                   it
little knowledge of the laws of fluid motion. If the

ocean was in equilibrium, its surface must be horizontal

and the strata of equal density and temperature
horizontal also. It
                            evident the latter  not the case,

and therefore suppose the other not so either. But

I  do not know this influences motion.          can conceive

a tidal wave advancing up a river and the water flowing

right over its crest all the while, in which case may be

said to flow up hill on one side of the wave and down

hill on the other. In fact, this actually occurs in every

ripple caused in the surface of stream by an unevenness

of the bottom.

     The following letter shows     to some     extent                 how
Croll stood pecuniarily about this
                                    time --
                                    :
288 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                                EDINBURGH, Sth November 1875.

     SIR,-- In reply to Circular No. 910 from the Science
and Art Department, October 1 3 ult., I have to inform

you that with the exception of my regular salary, I have

not received a single farthing from any source whatever,

either public or private, since I entered Her Majesty's

Service.

Croll's labours had now for a considerable time been

recognised by all the leading men of science, and among

those anxious to recognise these was the late Professor

Heddle of St. Andrews. He had brought Croll's name

forward in 1873 for the Degree of LL.D., but had

to delay his request in deference to his colleagues con

sidering Croll too young for the honour. Croll was

then  fifty-two years, an age  not   usually considered  juvenile.
The   following letters speak   for
                                      themselves :--

                                                                 ST. LEONARDS, ST. ANDREWS,

                                                      zyd December 1875.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I have to acknowledge receipt of

many of your deeply interesting and powerfully reasoned

papers.

     I have for some past years considered your work so

deserving of public recognition that two years ago I
recommended you to our Faculty of Arts for promotion
to the degree of LL.D. in our University. Your claims
were even then admitted, but I was requested to defer
my motion on the grounds of your juvenility. I again

this year brought you forward, and our faculty has

unanimously and cordially agreed to recommend you to

the Senate for that degree, so that the matter may be

considered as settled, unless you yourself decline. I have

      I
                      I
                             I,

                                             is,

                                                                            I
to mention that there          however, a diploma fee of
£lO, os., which fear we cannot remit. For myself,

have had more than usual freedom in bringing you

forward, seeing that unfortunately for myself, have not
              GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE                                     289

the pleasure   of your personal  inacaqullayinotuarncev,iewasn,d--twhhaitchI
do not quite   agree with you

perhaps enables me all the more to admire the originality

of your mind,  otfhescieconutirfaicgeredo-ftaypoeuisrm.a--rguTmreunlyt,   and your
independence                                                             yours,

                                 W. FORSTER HEDDLE.

                  Crolts reply to Professor Heddle.

                                                                            Zifh December 1875.

    The announcement that your University proposed to
confer on me an honour the highest to which any scientific
man can aspire, certainly takes me by surprise. I hope

you will not deem it affectation when I say that I do not
consider that I have done anything deserving of such an

honour, and that I must look upon it more as a reward to

a self-taught man for a long and persevering struggle

against difficulties, than for any positive results which he

has as yet been able to achieve.

     Allow me to offer to you personally my warmest
thanks for the kindly interest you have taken in this

matter.

19
CHAPTER XVII

CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN

WHEN Croll had finished Climate and Time, he
              resolved to abandon not only his climatological
studies, but physics in general, in order to be able to

resume those investigations into the philosophy of evolu

tion, which he had laid aside at the time that he entered

Anderson's College. He found, however, that this was

a resolution to which he could not adhere. Notwith

standing the care he had taken to express his views in

the clearest manner he could, these views on many

points were very much misapprehended. He therefore

found it necessary to endeavour not only to remove

those misapprehensions, but to enter at much greater

length into some of those difficult points which had

perhaps been too briefly discussed in the volume. The

consequence was, that, owing to the state of his head

obliging him to write so slowly, and other circumstances,

it was not till 1885, or ten years after the publication of

the volume, that he managed to shake himself clear of

this great question which thus engaged his attention for

upwards of twenty years.
     In 1876, Croll wrote a paper entitled " Remarks on

Mr. Burns's Paper on the Mechanics of Glaciers," which

appeared in the Geological Magazine of August 1876.
This was followed by a paper on " The Transformation of

Gravity," which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine of
October 1876. A short abstract also appeared in the
pBaripteisrhonAstshoeci"atTioindalReRpeotratrdoaftion187A6.rgumHeentalsfoor
                                                                             wrote a
                                                                             the Age

of the Earth," which appeared in the British Association

Report of 1876, in Nature of September 28, 1876,

290
CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 291

and in the American Journal of Science and Arts,
December 1876, p. 457.
      Croll having communicated  his paper on " Oceanic
Circulation " to Mr. Jansen of
interesting correspondence took  the Hague, the following

                                 place between them :--

                                                         THE HAGUE, i-jth January 1876.

James Croll, Esq., of H.M. Geological
               Survey, Edinburgh.

     DEAR SIR,-- I am exceedingly obliged for your

kindness in sending me copies of your papers, " The
Challenger's Crucial Test of the Wind and Gravitation
Theories of Oceanic Circulation," for which please accept

my sincere thanks. I have read them with great interest,
but I did not find a test of both theories. The wind

theory was not tested at all, otherwise I think you would

have found that there is as much difficulty to prove that
the winds are the cause of oceanic circulation as any

other force.

    If the computations of different expansions in three

columns of sea water, observed by serial temperature

soundings in the Challenger, give right to suppose that
the North Atlantic, to be in equilibrium, must stand at a

higher level than at the equator, it appears to me that
such a higher level would make it more difficult for the

winds to drive the Gulf Stream and its much larger so-
called offshoot, not only against the Mexican, northern,
and partly against the N.E. trade winds through narrow
straits and channels, but also up hill against an incline,
and all this display of force derived only from the
propelling power of the excess of the S.E. over the N.E.

trades. If the propelling power is so great, how much

greater must then the propelling powers be of the westerly

winds, and how tremendous the currents created by
them, and where are they ? I do not know. But I can

point to the Mozambique current, which is all the year

round in the same locality, and flowing in the same

general direction, notwithstanding the N.E. trades are
pushed back by the S.E. trades, and these converted into
292 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the S.W. monsoon in our summer months. According to

the wind theory, this warm river ought to shift its positionis
                it
with the monsoon in the Indian Ocean, which it does not.
                               a is,
      The Japan current according to the same theory,

caused by the propelling powers of the excess of S.E.
over N.E. trades. But here the S.E. trades are during
one half of the year driven back by the N.E. trades,
which are converted into N.W. monsoon in southern lati

tudes. How                   possible that the Black Japan current,

flowing constantly in a N.E. and E. direction against

the N.E. trade and N.W. monsoon, can have been created

by the S.E. trade in that season of the year  ?

do not think that the long narrow trough of the                     is
I
Atlantic    a fit place to investigate the causes of
            is
                          a
oceanic circulation, and certainly not for drawing general

conclusions from few observations made in it.

     The researches into the phenomena of the sea are of

very recent date, and our empirical collection of facts

as yet too small to investigate their antecedent causes
with any hope of success.

Theories, at present, can have no other aim than to

direct and stimulate observations in every ocean, all over

the world, from which we may hope to find at last the
different causes by which this wonderful machine, the

ocean, enabled to perform its manifold duties.
      Then, no doubt, will be found that the winds are
is

                     it
                                    it
among those causes, but perhaps more as distributors
and mixers of surface water, as carriers of vapour, dis
pensers of rain, and propellers of ice, than as creators and
propellers of currents, which they are undoubtedly in some

measure, but that measure, be great or small, has never
been approximately ascertained by the advocates of the

wind theory, and this ought to be done to enable them

to draw their conclusions from the systematic discussion

of facts.
     With renewed thanks for your very valuable and

interesting papers, remain, with the kindest regards,
                             I

yours faithfully,

                                              JANSEN.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 293

                    THE HAGUE, 6th Fetruary 1876.

James Croll, Esq.,  Geological Survey, Edinburgh.       2 1,
     MY DEAR SIR,
                    -- For your kind letter of January

and for the reprints wherewith you have obliged me,

please to accept my sincere thanks. I am in possession
of your admirable work Climate and Time, which I have

read with the greatest interest and pleasure, but in which,

I am sorry to say, I did not find any test of the wind

theory of oceanic circulation. Your kindness in sending

me some reprints of articles embodied in your above-

named splendid work, encourages me to give you the

reasons why I have not found in your work a proof that

the winds are the cause of oceanic circulation. I can

do this with great impartiality, being not a partisan of
any theory of oceanic circulation, which I think of not

much value, being based more upon scientific specula

tions than upon facts ; and not having the required

empirical facts, we are unable to test them.

My experience and studies combine to make me

believe, suppose, or guess, that the ocean is as much

necessary for the winds to help them through the

circuits of their circulation, as the winds are necessary to

help the ocean in performing its circulation, but I do not
think that we have collected a sufficient number of

different observations upon which to establish, or by

which to test, a theory which shall explain all the

phenomena in the circulation of sea and air.
     I have not yet seen any theory of oceanic circulation

to which I adhere, and I hardly expect that I shall live

long enough to see a satisfactory solution of this " question

tres fyineuse" as it was called by the great thinker

Laplace. The only opinion with which I agree is that of

Maury, viz., that a current like the Gulf Stream could not

be impelled and maintained by a force due to the im

pulse of the trade winds. You think (p. 211)" this is a
somewhat weak objection. It seems to be based upon a

misconception of the magnitude of the force in operation.

It does not take any account that this force acts on nearly

the whole area of the ocean in intertropical regions."
294 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I have been surprised to read this opinion from an

advocate of a wind theory, wherein no account at all is

Iftaken of  the force of the wind, because you  say (p. 212):
            winds be the impelling cause of     currents, the
" the

direction of the currents will depend upon two circum

stances, viz. (1) the direction of the prevailing winds,
including of course under this term the prevailing winds

proper and the trade winds, and (2) the conformation of
land and sea." According to this view, it does not

matter what the force of the different prevailing winds

may be, we have only to look towards their direction, and

to the conformation of land and sea, to determine the

directions of the currents, and doing this, I think it

would lead to conclusions against, and not in favour of, the

wind theory. It seems to me that the force of the wind
has not been taken into account in your expost of the wind

theory as much as was done by Maury, when he rejected it.

Never have the force and direction of the trade winds

in the Atlantic been more thoroughly investigated than

was done by Maury, and by this investigation he was
led to the conclusion that the Gulf Stream could not be

due to the trade winds, and that the winds in general

were inadequate to be the cause of the circulation

of the ocean. After coming to this conclusion, he

searched for other causes, which he brought to light to

direct and stimulate research, and which you have sub

mitted to a scientific test. By this test you were led to

the conclusion that the gravitation theorists are wrong.

But if your conclusion is accepted, it does not follow

from it as a natural consequence that the wind theory is

right, as your argumentation seems to imply. It ought

to be proved, and that you have not done.

Although you call it a weak objection, you agree with

Maury that the impulse of the trade winds is inadequate

to impel and maintain a current like the Gulf Stream, but

you start a new wind theory, according to which the

oceanic circulation is due to the impulse of all the winds
of the globe acting upon the surface of the ocean within

and without the tropics all over the world.
         CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 295

      This new wind theory is based upon the fact that
(page 213) " in every case, without exception, the
direction of the main currents of the globe agree exactly
with the direction of the prevailing winds. There could
not possibly be a more convincing proof than this general
agreement of the two systems as indicated by the chart."

      After reading your criticism of the theories of other
savants in your excellent work Climate and Time, and
your logical deductions from facts, I do not think that such

a proof would have been convincing to you, if this wind

theory had not been your own.

     If we make a proper distinction between the general

drift of the ocean and certain definite currents in the
ocean, then I should think that an agreement between the
directions of those currents and the directions of the pre
vailing winds over them, is no proof at all that they have
been caused by those winds, as I hope to show further on
in discussing the wind theory.

     If both the systems of circulation of the atmosphere

and of the ocean are due to the same general cause, the

differences in temperature at the poles and under the
equator, it would of course be natural that there should
be some analogy between the direction of aerial and

oceanic currents ; but if that could be proved, it would

certainly be wrong to deduce from that analogy that the
winds are the cause of the currents, or that those are the

cause of the winds. But even if your conclusion is

accepted, that only the winds and not the ocean currents
are due to those differences of temperature, then still I

cannot see in the circumstance that there are some ocean

currents having the same direction as the prevailing

winds over them, not even if all the ocean currents had

the same direction as all the prevailing winds over them,
that this should be a convincing proof that the whole

oceanic circulation is caused by the winds. It may be

a sufficient inducement to collect facts for a test to get a

convincing proof that the whole oceanic circulation is
caused by the winds, but as long as those facts are
wanted, we may suppose, on more or less plausible
296 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

grounds, that the winds are the cause of oceanic circula
tion, but it will never come up to a semblance of a proof.

     To get the materials for such a proof, we ought to look
into the great workshop of nature, to observe how the
winds are making currents, and to do this, to please you,
I will think myself for a moment a wind theorist, and
will try to explain your theory with the light of my

experience.
      We know that the winds act mechanically upon the

surface of the ocean by raising a sea of more or less
height according to the force of the wind. Those billows
foam and are blown down, throwing a great deal of water

from the crest into the trough of the wave. If there is no

wind to raise a sea, the existing sea becomes a swell, and
by the height of this swell and its rate of translation or
progression, a certain amount of work derived from the
impelling force of the wind is carried " far as the breeze
can bear the billow's foam."

      That the sea, or the swell, let us say the waves, are
indeed the vehicle of the impelling force of the winds
upon the ocean may be seen in the Arctic regions. When
the edge of an ice-pack is reached, and a swell coming
from the ice is met with, it is a sure indication that be
hind the pack there is open water upon which northerly
winds have been playing, raising seas and leaving a swell
carrying the stored-up impelling force of the wind to
wards the ice, which prevents the progress of the undula
tions, but, by concussion, the stored-up force is propagated
underneath the ice, and as soon as it reaches open water,
the swell is formed again, and it continues its undulations
in the direction it has received from the winds. No force
applied by the wind upon the ocean in any part of it is
lost ; it is stored up in the height and rate of progress of
the undulations of the waves, which are the vehicles in
which the impelling force of the wind is immediately carried
away to any distance in no time from pole to pole, if not
impeded by land or any other interruption in its progress.

     It is a remarkable fact that, although we see every

day before our eyes how the waves, with their height and
CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN  297

rate of undulation derived from the impelling forces of

the winds, throw their water, here high up on a sandy
beach, there fifty or a hundred feet upon the slope of a

rocky coast, and, in other places, breaking holes and caves
in softer rocks, we have never availed ourselves of all these
opportunities to measure the impelling force of the wind

carried by the waves in the direction in which they move.
      This direction, the height and rate of progress of the

undulation of the waves, the rotation of its molecules, and
the general drift in the layer of water which undulates,
are altogether the results of all the forces of the winds
which have contributed to their formation. Other winds

may raise a sea upon a swell, they may promote or retard
the progress of its undulations or divert it from its former
direction, but the remaining waves will be again the
resultant of all the forces of the winds which have con

tributed to its formation. It may be that by the change
able nature of powerful winds in some localities, for

instance, between latitudes 40° and 60° south, different
swells from S.W., W., and N.W. will constantly remain
and never disappear, of which each in turn will

predominate with its foaming crest according to the pre
vailing gale, but finally there will remain certain waves

carrying the stored-up energy from all those gales in the

resultant directions to other regions, leaving, in its track
less quick undulations, nothing perceptible behind, but
the general drift of the ocean following the undulation of

the waves in the same direction, but at an incomparably
slower speed. Perhaps this general drift is caused by
the breakers blown down into the trough of the waves and
by their fall moving the water in the direction of the

wind and of the wave. All this I leave to the physicists
to explain. I deal only with the facts which I have
observed in the great workshop of nature, where I have
seen the winds and the waves at work, and then I come to

the conclusion that the impelling force of the wind given
to the ocean is nowhere to be found except in the height
and rate of progress of the undulation of the waves and
creating a general drift by the tumbling down of their crests.
298 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      We know that in a gale or hurricane, a sea may be
raised 40 feet high, 20 feet above, and 20 feet below the
level of the ocean, but after the gale there will remain a
swell of no greater height than about i 0 feet above and
below the level ; and in regions where there is never, or
very seldom, a gale of wind, it will not be of half that size.

      Let us for argument's sake suppose that the average
height of all the waves on the surface of the ocean is 30
feet above and below the level, which is a most extra

vagant figure, and undoubtedly more than twice too high,

but speaking now as a wind theorist I must be on the
safe side. Then the consequence will be that the surface
of the ocean is not deeper disturbed by the wind than
to a depth of 30 feet, and although I admit that the
impelling force of the wind is carried by the waves all

over the world, still, my conscience as a would-be wind
theorist cannot swallow the idea that this very thin layer
of the surface of the ocean sets the whole ocean in

motion, and directs and regulates its circulation.

     It is true what you say, that, comparing the depth of

the ocean, from two to three miles, with its immense sur

face, it must appear to be a shallow pool, but even in this
shallow pool a layer of 30 feet is so infinitesimally small
that the undulations of the waves cannot even be compared
with the ripples which the wind makes on the surface of
our shallow ponds, the water of which, according to the
wind theory, which makes no difference between fresh and
salt water, must also be put in circulation by the agency of
those ripples. This, of course, can be verified very easily,

but I fear that this test will not give a satisfactory result
for the wind theory. Knowing that a wind theorist is
not so easily thrown from his hobby, I will set this objection
aside, to go a little deeper in this investigation. There
fore I admit that the waves are the vehicle of the
impelling force of all the winds on the globe, which have
contributed to their formation, and that they disturb only
a very thin layer of the surface of the ocean, but all over
its immense surface. I also admit that the winds on the
high sea give their impelling force to the waves, which
        CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 299

by their undulation run immediately away with that force,

stored in their height and rate of translation in a result

ant direction, and causing only a very slight movement
in the sea water, called general drift. I admit that this

is all what the winds do. They make no currents on the

high sea far from the land, and the objection that such a

very thin layer, to which the translation of the waves

is confined, cannot cause the circulation of the whole

ocean is apparently well founded. But what becomes of

the waves and the general drift, when they encounter

land in their way ? To give an answer to this ques

tion, we ought to look again into the workshop of nature.

When the general drift finds a resisting body in its

way, it presses against        it,and     if               will not move, the
                                 a
drift takes the direction of the coast line, and by theit it
                                      is            a
pressure against      it,      current formed along the coast of
                         a

small dimensions, having                little more speed than the

slow general drift, the water of which current acquires

some definite properties which give                        greater cohesion,

by which  it   it is  kept together and prevented from being

dispersed. Consequently, will continue its course along
                               it

the coast, and the current will increase in size as long as

it      pressed by the general drift against the land, but
    is

from this cause     a is it    not probable that any current will
                           is
acquire great dimensions       ;          depends upon the angle

                                  it

between the direction of the general drift and the coast

line. If those directions are parallel, there will not be
                                                           is
current, but will be formed and increased according to
                                                                   if a
the obliquity in which those directions meet each other.

        In the same manner the waves strike the shore,

their direction       more or less oblique to the coast line.

By so doing, part of their stored-up force                 spent,

another part rebounds by concussion into the sea, and

by the continual action and reaction six and more times

every minute, all along the coast, the current made by

the general drift considerably increased, and a definite
                      is
                                                   is
                                                        a
current will appear, which, moving along the coast,

receives continually new support as long as the waves
break upon that coast. If this
                                                           correct view of the
300 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

way in which currents are made, then although the winds

are the prime cause of them, their immediate cause is

the land. Without land there would be no currents,

and where they are made by the land, the waves, which

have so largely contributed to make them, must have

lost in the current a great amount of their stored-up

impelling force derived from the winds, and cannot remain

so high as they were, nor their rate of undulation

unaltered, both having contributed to form the current.

    If this is true, then the waves must be highest, and

have the greatest rate of undulation, where there is no

land to make currents. Where there is much land and

the longest coast line, there we must find the greatest

and most numerous currents in the ocean, and conse

quently waves less high and with slower rate of progress,

because it will be more difficult to raise a sea in a

current than in the general drift, or where there is no

drift at all. This may be the reason why the most

irregular, nasty seas may be observed in a gale on the

limits of those definite currents. Where there is the

greatest surface of water with no land in                                                 there we
is
                         is
                             a

                                                          a
                                                                               is

                                                                                     it,
must find the highest waves, all other influential circum

stances being alike, with the quickest rate of undulations

and few or no definite currents, which are made, not by

the wind, but by the land. Herewith we set the

argument aside, that where the strongest winds are met

with, as in the southern anti-trades, we ought to find the

largest currents. We can only expect to find them

where there  long prolongation of coast line, and

where, by an unceasing accumulation of the stored-up

impelling force of the wind,  current                                                   formed and

maintained, which received its directions from the

conformation of the land.

Consequently we ought to find more currents pro

duced by the land in the northern than in the southern

half of our globe, and this ought to be the case for all

the other causes from which sea-water may derive its

motion, because the land makes currents, and because there

more land on this than on the other side of the equator.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN                                            301

Where there is land south of the equator, we find on

every west coast a definite current, and always a cold

current, and besides that, we find all along those coasts

a greater surf by the breaking of the waves, than on the

opposite east coast. It shows plainly that the direction

of the waves, namely, the resultant directions of the

impelling force of all the winds which have contributed

to their formation, is oblique to the coast line, and

being so, a current is produced which would not be

there if the general drift and the waves were not oblique

to the coast line. Now according to this explanation
                          is if,
of the wind theory, the impelling force of the winds in

high southern latitudes         carried by the waves and the

general drift to the west coast of the southern continents,

by which that stored-up force     is  taken from the waves,

and put in a definite current along the coast in south
                                      a

and north direction,  it  must be evident that the S.E.

trade winds, which blow over that current nearly at right

angles to the direction of the swell from the anti-trades,

cannot be a convincing proof that those S.E. trade winds

are the cause of those currents.

Even there was an agreement between the direction
a

  if

                                                       is
                                                                    a it
of the currents and that of the winds over them, would

not be proof that the winds which blow over current

have anything to do with the cause of it. But on the

west coasts of southern continents the prevailing winds

blow from the land, and the prevailing waves drift and

currents press on the land. There between them no

agreement at all, and we have to go to the east coast to

search for the effects of the sea created by the S.E. trade

winds over the swell from the anti-trades which runs to

the west coast, let us say in a S.W. and N.E. direction

or thereabout. If we consult the wind charts, we find

that the prevailing winds in the southern anti-trades are

from N.W. how            then, that the resultant direction of
;

             is
               it

                                                     ?

                                                                                    is
the impelling force of all the winds as indicated by the

swell along the west coasts of southern continents

from S.W. to N.E. or thereabout       The answer must be

because in high southern latitudes the S.W. or southerly
302 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

gales are more powerful, and store a greater amount of
impelling force into the waves than all the other pre

vailing winds together. This may be, and probably is

so, but we don't know it exactly by observation ; but

whereas the waves, with few exceptions, are made only

by the winds, we have good reason to infer from the

fact that there is a swell in some direction, that this is

the resultant direction of all the forces of the winds

which have contributed to its formation.             then, weis If,

find in the South Atlantic swell running from S.W. to     a
                         a                                              is
N.E. or thereabout, towards the west coast of Southa

Africa, making, in conjunction with the general drift, a

current along the coast, that swell and the general drift

        have been made by the winds in high southern latitudes,

        and these winds are the prime cause of the current

along the coast of Africa, and not the winds which blow

          it,
                     is
over and the convincing proof which you have found
in " the agreement of the two systems as indicated by

the chart," not only no proof at all, but                      strong

argument against your own wind theory.

          The undulation in thin layer of the surface water

is is is  the vehicle by which the impelling force of the winds

          transmitted, but except the general drift, no water

        transported by the waves, and whereas the general drift

          very slow, and at the surface of the ocean receiving

constantly the influence of the sun's heat, how can the

circumstance that all the currents along the west coasts

        of southern continents are cold currents be explained by

        the wind theory? Is all the cold water which abounds

        in the South Atlantic the result of the impelling force of

        the wind transmitted in a very thin layer of the surface

of the ocean             Here, at the fountain-head of the Gulf
              it ?
                  is

                                             it is

                                                         a if
        Stream, the wind theory must be tested, and you are

        able to give a convincing proof that the cold current

along the west coast of Africa             due to the winds in

        high southern latitudes, and that  receives          constant

        supply of impelling force from the waves in its long

course directed by the coast line, then you ought to

explain how              possible that such a current, impelled
   CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 303

by a force which does not disturb the surface of the
ocean to a greater depth than thirty feet, is not only able
to drive it across the Atlantic through the Carribean Sea

and the Gulf of Mexico, but to make its exit through
several narrow straits in the North Atlantic, and there

becoming a powerful current extending over a thousand
miles, with a depth of 200 fathoms.

     I have tried, by looking into the workshop of nature,
to give an idea how a wind theorist may think ocean

currents are made by the winds and by the land, so as

to draw your attention to all the facts which are required

for a convincing proof that the winds are the cause of
oceanic circulation. This letter has grown much longer

than I intended to make so that only hope you will
                         it,

                                    II
read these last few lines in which ask your pardon for
troubling you with my views on this subject, which

deserve a better treatment and more time than at present

   can bestow upon it.I    Again thanking           you  for all the
papers you have sent                               most  faithfully,
                        me, -- am, yours
                         I

                                                   JANSEN.

   Croll's reply to Mr. Jansen.

                                                                       l#h February 1876.

   MY DEAR SIR,-- am much obliged to you for your
   I
                     II
long and interesting letter, and its many suggestions,

which have perused with much profit and pleasure.        it
                                                            is I
quite agree with what you say in reference to the

imperfection of our knowledge of the phenomena of

oceanic circulation.     believe, however, that we know

quite enough to enable us to conclude that oceanic

circulation must be due either to gravitation or to the

winds, or to both combined. With the exception of that

derived from the earth's rotation, all other forces are

infinitesimal when compared with these two. But

well known that rotation cannot be the impelling cause

of oceanic circulation. Rotation                   simply a deflecting
   is
                   if

                                               is
cause, that to say, any other cause produce motion

of the water, no matter in what direction, rotation, as has
304 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

been demonstrated by Mr. Ferrel, will deflect the water

to the right on the northern and to the left on the

southern    hemisphere.    As  there can be only these two
            gravitation
causes --                and   the winds -- I think it is

perfectly obvious that if it can be proved that gravitation

is insufficient, then it necessarily follows that the wind

must be the cause.

I also quite agree with you that the first and

immediate effect of the wind acting on the ocean is to

produce undulations or waves ; but if the wind is con

tinuous, the horizontal component of the wind's force will

generate a forward or progressive motion of the water.

This is a result which necessarily follows from dynamical

principles, but the point which is so much disputed is

this : Will this surface flow extend to any considerable

depth ? The prevailing opinion is that it will not, and
that the wind can only generate a mere surface drift. I,

however, wholly differ from this opinion. An important

element pointed out in Climate and Time, pp. 135, 136,

seems to have been overlooked. The same may be said

in reference to undercurrents, in Chap, xiii., and in the
small paper which I sent you on " Objections to the Wind

Theory." I hope I have given physical reasons why the

wind can produce deep under-currents, and this will

account for the cold  polar  water  infoteurnedstiunngdeler tttehre,--eqYuoautorrs.
Again thanking you      for  your

sincerely,                          J. CROLL.

                 Mr. Jansen's reply to Dr. Croll.

                                                 |THE HAGUE, ijth Februaiy 1876.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- I would not have troubled you again

with my views upon your wind theory if I had not
received your letter of the I4th, wherewith you have

obliged me, and wherein I read, " If the wind is continuous,

the horizontal component of the wind's force will generate
a forward or progressive motion of the water. This
is a result which necessarily follows from dynamical

principles."
    CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. JANSEN 305

     I do not think that the wind can get hold on the water
to drag it forward, and if it does give a progressive
motion, it must be very, very slight, and not to be
compared with the progressive motion derived from the
breakers tumbling down in the trough of the wave.
Both combined have never exceeded in the strongest

lasting gale 2 knots, and in general in southern lati

tudes, far from land, it will be on an average only i

knot.

      From Java to Natal we find on an average a
difference between the dead reckoning and observation
of true position of 8 degrees in longitude. The passage
is made between twenty and thirty days, giving /g or ^0
of a degree in those latitudes as the daily average of
surface currents produced by the continuous action of the
trade winds, if not by other causes. With these facts
before you, please make a Gulf Stream with them. I

have not overlooked pp. 135, 136, nor the under
currents in Climate and Time, but as under-currents

can't be made direct by the wind, you may not use them

in your argumentations before you have proved that

the surface currents of which they are the consequence,

are caused by the winds.

     You think that it is perfectly obvious that if it can

be proved that gravitation is insufficient, then it necessarily

follows that the wind must be the cause. Your work

Climate and Time is written to show that, although the

eccentricity of the earth's orbit cannot produce a direct
effect, it must have an indirect one. I think so too in

regard to the causes of oceanic circulation, which may

be more indirect than direct, and in the present state of

our knowledge about the currents, which I see with

great regret in Climate and Time to be very imperfect,

no one has a right to advocate any        theory,  than  to

stimulate research. -- Yours most truly,

                                          JANSEN.

so
                   CHAPTER XVIII

                               PERSONAL HISTORY

IN 1876 Croll was awarded the proceeds of the Mur-
        chison Fund, by the Geological Society of London,
in recognition of his distinguished services to science.

      On 1 8th February 1876, the retiring President,
Sir John Evans, F.R.S., in presenting the balance of
the Murchison Geological Fund to Professor Ramsay,
for transmission to Dr. Croll, addressed him as

follows :--

     " Will you convey to Mr. Croll the balance of the
proceeds of the Murchison Fund, and at the same time
express the hope of the Council of this Society, that it
may prove of service to him in the prosecution of those
studies with which his name has been so long and so

honourably associated.

     " His researches on Ocean Currents, on Glacial
Phenomena, on the bearing of the latter on Geological
Time, and of both upon Climate, were generally known

and appreciated, even before the appearance last year
of his work on Climate and Time, in which the results of
his studies are so carefully and ably expounded.

      " The author of that book would-be the last to regard
the subjects of which it treats, as being all now definitely
settled, and requiring no further investigation ; and it is
in the hope that his inquiries into the phenomena of
glaciation, and into the physical causes conducing to
extreme modifications of climate may be still further
prosecuted, as well as in recognition of the valuable past
labours of Mr. Croll, that the fund which I place in your
charge has been awarded to him."
PERSONAL HISTORY                                     307

    Professor Ramsay in reply said : " Mr. President, --

In returning thanks on behalf of Mr. Croll, I have no
need to enlarge on the merits of a man so well known to

geologists by his numerous memoirs, and now especially
by his remarkable work, Climate and Time ; and though,
on a range of subjects so wide, it is not to be expected
that there should be no opponents to some of his views,

there can be no doubt that the ability which he has
displayed commands the universal respect of men of
science and the adherence of not a few."

      The gratifying intelligence was communicated to

Croll in the following terms by the Secretary :--

GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY, BURLINGTON HOUSE, W.,
                     yh Febmary 1876.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I  have  much  pleasure  in informing
     MY DEAR SIR,

you that the balance of the proceeds of the Murchison

Geological Fund was awarded to you by the Council of

this Society at their last meeting. The anniversary

meeting of this Society will be held on Friday the 1 8th

inst., when it is hoped that you will be able to be

present.-- Believe me, yours faithfully,

                                      W. L. DALLAS.

      Croll was unable to be present to receive this honour

in person, partly from the state of his own health and
partly from the death of his brother. He wrote a

characteristically modest and grateful letter thanking the

Society. He thus writes in his Autobiographical Sketch :

"In February 1876, my brother, who had been staying

with us ever since my mother's death, died suddenly
from heart disease. In this same month the University
of St. Andrews conferred on me the degree of LL.D.,
an honour which I felt at the time somewhat doubtful as

to the propriety of accepting. A few months afterwards

I was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London.
I may also mention that in the same year I was chosen
3o8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

an Honorary Member of the New York Academy of
Science. I was afterwards chosen an Honorary Member
of the Bristol Natural Society, the Psychological Society
of Great Britain, the Glasgow Geological Society, of the
Literary and Antiquarian Society of Perth, and of the
Perthshire Society of Natural Science. I had the
honour of receiving from the Geological Society of
London the balance of the proceeds of the Wollaston
Donation Fund in 1872, the Murchison Fund in 1876,
and the Barlow- Jamieson Fund in 1884."

      He was apparently anxious that the little bit of
family graveyard at Cargill should be made as decent as
possible, and that an appropriate stone should be put up,
as appears from the following letter.

Mr.  SJaIRm,e--s  Croll.                        CARGILL, zyh April 1876.
                                            that you sent me to put
                  I got   the  inscription

on the tombstone, and I send it to you as you wished to

know it for the putting on of your brother's name, and I

saw Mr. Farqueson about the border stones. He has no

objection if you don't encroach on other ground. So I

have got the stones forward and dressed and ready to

put up. If you would send me the inscription you want

put on the stone as soon as convenient, I will try and

get  it done as    soon as     I possibly   can, and in so doing
you  will oblige,              truly,         JOHN FENWICK.
                   -- Yours

     He sent a copy of his book, Climate and Time, to

Sir Wyville       Thomson, who              wrote  acknowledging,  as

follows :--

                                          Challenger, ASCENSION, 2nd April 1876.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I am greatly obliged to you for

your most interesting book, which did not catch us up
quite so soon as it ought to have done, on account of a

slight change in our route. At all events, whatever

conclusion we may come to ultimately, we have brought
                  PERSONAL HISTORY                                 309

together a vast quantity of material. I will get it put
into shape and published as soon as I possibly can. In

the meantime, the reports published by the Admiralty

give nearly all that is required. I have just sent to the

Royal Society a notice of the great cold indraught into

the Atlantic, which is between the coast of South

America and the middle rise. The section of the cold

stream under i° 5' is 800 square miles. The effective
part of the Gulf Stream is 6 square miles in section.

The debateable part of this affair must wait till we

get home now --sufficient for every day is its work.

I have no doubt whatever that the cause of this great

indraught from the Antarctic Sea is an excess of

evaporation in the North Atlantic. Everything seems

to support that view. Down to 500 fathoms, all the
difference of temperature depends upon the direct or

indirect influence of wind currents, below that you have

the temperature of the water of the Northern Sea. Such

is my present rough notion. I hope to send you shortly
the first volume of my rough journal, which I mean to

publish with tables, etc., at once. -- Believe me, very truly

yours,                                           W. THOMSON.

P.S. -- We shall be home about the 20th of May.

      In 1876 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society of London, one of the highest honours attainable
by a man of science, and which was highly appreciated

This was intimated to him in the following terms :--

                   HYDROGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT, ADMIRALTY,

                                     llth April 1876.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I  have    just  left  a  Council  meeting  of
     MY DEAR SIR,

the Royal Society, and am exceedingly pleased to acquaint

you of your selection as one of the fifteen candidates for

election by the   --geYnoeurrasl  body. Accept   my best wishes
on the occasion.                  faithfully,       F. EVANS.
310 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Croll was always ready to give any assistance in his
power to any scientific man, and the following application

at once received his sanction :--

                           56 LUDGATE HILL, LONDON,

                                           2&thJune 1876.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q. We are just putting into the printer's

hands a new edition of The Great Ice Age. In it Mr.
Geikie wishes to use the chart of " Ocean Currents,"

which appears in Climate    and Time.      We presume      you
will have no objection to                  sincerely,
                           this. -- Yours

                           DALDY, ISBISTER & Co.

      Croll's work was getting to be known all over the
civilised world. The following letter from an Italian

correspondent is interesting: --

                                                                      ROME, 6th August 1876.

MY DEAR SIR, -- I have just this moment received

your kind letter, accompanied by your manuscript upon
the " Outline of the Theory of Secular Changes of

Climate," and I have no words to thank you for so great
and important a work. I do not doubt that the note

made by you and inserted in my translation of Lyell's

Principles of Geology will give a very great importance
to the esteemed work of the English geologist, and the

Italian readers will be grateful to you for the great

trouble you have had the kindness to take.

     At this moment I am making my preparations in

order to go for some months to the country at Eocea
                      family, and I regret very
(Piedmont) with my                                  much not
to have time to read  your interesting " Outline "
                                                    because I

leave Rome this evening. In passing by Turin I shall

not fail to pay a visit to my publisher and insist upon his

immediately commencing the printing of my work. As

soon as he shall have decided to print              will inform you.
I
                                              iIt,
feel myself greatly obliged to you also for the
                   PERSONAL HISTORY                                              311

translation that you have had made of my small paper,

and for the interest that you take in it. My intention

in writing this small paper was only to make known the

effects that the discharges of artillery could produce in

the atmosphere, and the meteorological changes that

might result. Time only will prove if my observations

are true, and I feel very much obliged to all those who are

so good as to take some interest in that physical question.

     I thank you also very much for the interest that you

take in my health, and I am happy to tell you that I am

perfectly recovered. I am obliged to go to Piedmont

in order to arrange my affairs in consequence of the

death of my father ; and if I can oblige you in any way,

I beg you to write to me at Eocea till the end of

October. Meantime, I am, with very great respect,
                                                                      L. GATTY.
yours very truly,

      The following letter from Mr. Herbert Spencer is
very interesting from a philosophical standpoint. Un

fortunately Mr. Spencer has not preserved Croll's reply.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q. I was       38 QUEEN'S GARDENS, BAYSWATER,

                                                lyh October 1876.
                                 much gratified the other day on
reading your article in the Philosophical Magazine. I

was the more gratified because I found in it verification

of a view for which I have myself contended. When
preparing the last edition of First Principles, I had a

prolonged discussion with         my friends    Tyndall and Hurst,
who wished me to modify          certain views
                                                I had expressed, --

views which, in consequence of our discussion, I elabor

ated more fully. They failed to convince me that I was
wrong, and I failed to show them that I was right. Now
I am glad to find that I do not stand alone in the view

I took, that the conception of potential energy, as

a
                                            it,
                                                      is
                                                                   a
scientific men at present hold        not legitimate con

ception, and that in fact a force cannot be transformed

into relation of positions in space.
3i2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I should like to send you a copy of the last edition

of First Principles, in which I have contended for this

view, but I don't like to forward it until I am sure of

your   address. Would you        kindly let me know    to  what
place   I may safely send it ?
                                -- Faithfully yours,

                                          HERBERT SPENCER.

      The meeting of the British Association was now about
to be held in Glasgow, and Dr. Morison, having invited

Croll to stay with him, received the following reply :--

                                                                  EDINBURGH, lyth August 1876.

    DEAR DR. MORISON, -- Many, many thanks for your
very kind offer. Had I been coming through to the meet

ings, I should have been so delighted to stay with you.

I shall have a paper in Section A. but will not

manage to be present. The older I grow, the more dis

inclined I feel to go out to public meetings of any sort.

I have not been at a scientific meeting for upwards

of half a dozen of years. The real truth          is,  there a
                                                           is
cold materialistic atmosphere around scientific men in
                                                                  ;
general, that don't like.                mix but little with them.
       is,                      I

             it I

                        is
There however, indication of reaction beginning to
                                         is a
take place towards something more spiritual in science

and the day,                to be hoped, not far distant when

religion, philosophy, and science will go hand in hand.

Before the cold weather sets in, shall be delighted
                                               I

to come    --thrWouigthh   to Glasgow  I and spend an afternoon
with you.                 kind regards,    am, yours ever truly,

                                                  JAMES CROLL.

     In 1876 Croll paid flying visit to London, anda
wrote the following letter to his colleague, Mr. Horne of

the Geological Survey, who had returned from spending
his holidays in Shetland, where he had obtained evidence
proving the westerly movement of the ice during the
Glacial period.
                             PERSONAL HISTORY           313

                                                           EDINBURGH, 2&A November 1876.

     MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have got back from London

after an agreeable journey.                     The British Quarterly

Review has come to hand. Have you sent off your

letter to Nature yet ?--" The Glaciation of the Shetland

Isles" (Nature, vol. xv. p. 139). Skertchley's discovery
is making some little noise in London, I believe, and of

course a number are of       opinion  that it cannot be Inter-
                                                 JAMES CROLL.
glacial. --Yours truly,

      Professor M'Farland of America having written a
paper on the " Curve of Eccentricity of the Earth's
Orbit," and communicated a copy to Dr. Croll, the follow

ing interesting correspondence followed between them :--

                                                                    EDINBURGH, Stt August 1876.

Professor R. W. M'Farland.

     DEAR SIR, -- I have read with much interest your
paper in the American Journal of Science on " Curve of

Eccentricity of the Earth's Orbit." Please to accept my

best thanks for the very great amount of labour you
have bestowed on my table. I am delighted as well as
surprised to find that it contains so few errors. You
refer to one case where the error exceeded '00 i . Would

you kindly inform where the error is ? If it be the value

for the period 900,000 years ago, you will find from the

enclosed letter in Nature that it is a typographical

error. Does your calculation extend from the present
date back i , 1 00,000 years ?

     I am much pleased to observe that Mr. Stockwell's
curve agrees so closely with that of Leverrier. Apologis
ing for troubling you, I am, yours most truly,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                             COLUMBUS, STATE OF OHIO, U.S.,
                                           z4//1 August 1876.

Mr.  SJaImR,e--s YCoruolrl,  of the Geological  Survey  of Scotland.
                             very kind note     of the   8th inst. was

received three or four days ago. At the earliest oppor
314 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

tunity I reply,answering your queries and explaining pretty

fully the causes which have led to this correspondence.

I send herewith a catalogue of our college, but since

that may miscarry, I put in the letter a leaf containing

a list of the Faculty. Our President, you see, is Mr. Orton,

who in this country has a very good reputation as a

skilful geologist. If you have seen the Ohio Geological

Report, his name is already familiar to you. Late last

fall he procured your work on Climate and Time, and

one day in speaking of he said was very interesting,
                                      it,
                                               a

                                                       it
                                                                it,
                                                                             a
and that when he had finished reading he would hand

to me. Stepping into                                book - store                few days
I it
                 I

                                   a
afterwards, saw copy of your book, and, looking over

the synopsis of the chapters, was so struck with that
                                      a                                         it

                                         I
                                                 it
did not care to bide the time of President Orton, but

purchased at once, and read                          with ever-increasing

interest and delight. In few days, then, the book was

again the subject of conversation, and our President

inquired whether thought the astronomical calculations
                           I

could be depended on, and so, he thought you had
                                      I
                                          if
struck the path which would finally lead to a solution of
the Glacial problem. As write now, tons on tons of

worn, rounded, polished, striated boulders of all sizes,

from           few  pounds weight to that            of a ton or two, are
lying      by the   side of the street before
is                                                   my door,--the street
          a
being lowered --granite, syenite, every kind of old

rock, whose native bed hundreds of miles to the north
                                      is
or north-west, far beyond Lake Erie. The Glacial ageis,                             it is

thrust in one's face every day, and we meet with
whether we will or not. It
                                                    then, but natural that the

matter of which your book treats should frequently recur

in conversation. But to return to the question.                                     I

remarked to President Orton that had no doubt the
                                      if
                                             I

                                                       I
figures were right, but that he wished, would re

compute some               of the values, and see.   About                      Christmas,
then, began                   spending a couple of   hours
iIt,                                                                            a day --as
     I

                        it,
my duties would permit. Becoming much interested in

       concluded to go over the ground pretty thoroughly,
          PERSONAL HISTORY                                                     315

a7n5d0,00c0o,m--puatelwdaysbadcikvwidairndgs     350,000   years, --           forwards
                                              your longer                      in many
                                                           intervals,

cases computing for intervals of                         5000     --yeaarnsd,  especially
near the maximum and minimum                             points,               in one or

two instances for intervals of I 000 years. This occupied

me till the beginning of April. Then came Mr. New-

comb's critique on your book in the April number of the

American Journal of Science. I did not like the criticism,
it seemed too much  in the  style of                     one who sees no
nor brightness nor  glory   in the                                             beauty
                                                         sun --sees only        spots.

The impression left on the general reader would be, I

think, that little confidence should be 'placed on the

mathematical part. He in part neutralises this, but the

larger portion of the impression would perhaps remain as

above indicated. Mr. Stockwell, a very careful and

laborious mathematician, worked out the perturbations of

the planets, eccentricity, etc. The work is in vol. xviii.,

1873, of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. You

probably have access to it. Mr. Newcomb commended that

work. It contains part of the results printed in 1 867, in a

small volume on the moon's mean motion. The small work

contains the value of the eccentricity for 1 ,000,000 years.

    It occurred to me that if Stockwell's work was good,--

and he    cterretaatinmlyentd, i--spliat ycsougldreadto  labour and    skill   in his
masterly                                                  no harm    to put     yours

side by side with the part on the eccentricity, and to

...tabulate the extreme variations in solar distances as
drawn from his treatise and from yours                                         in order

that whoever should see light in Stockwell's curve, might
also see more than moonshine in yours. I therefore set

the curves side by side from his initial point (175,000

years back) forward to the date 1 5 0,000, in advance,
and gave in round numbers the table of variation in

solar distances. In short, whoever upholds Stockwell

must be careful how he criticises you. My article in the

Journal was made as brief as possible.
      Further, I have reduced the work to the same scale,

and compared the curves onward to 825,000 years.
3T6 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I think it will be conceded that Stockwell's formulae

are more trustworthy than Leverrier's, yet see how the

curves run on, almost identical in form, and differing

chiefly in the value of ordinates at particular times. I

send the two from 150,000 to 825,000.

     Since April I have extended my computation 500,000

years ahead of the date then reached (750,000 in advance),

stopping at 1,250,000. I purpose to go back in the

other direction as opportunity shall be afforded. I have

in all computed for 1,600,000 years. Now as to

differences. The one which I deemed in error by over
'00i is + 150,000. Your figures are -0353, mine -0335.
I have looked over my calculation several times and can

find no error in it ; and it occurred to me that the

figures might easily have changed places. From 35
to 5 3 is not a difficult process.

      Two numbers, 170,000 and 220,000 marked S in

your table differ by more than -00 I , but as those numbers
are from Mr. Stone, I had no reference to them. For

+ 300,000 you have '0158, -- my figure barely reached

'0068, and as you sometimes find considerable fractions

over, this too was omitted. The only point since my

communication was sent to the Journal (April, although it
did not appear till June) is your last number, 1,000,000 ;
you make it -0528, I find '0333. For 950,000 you
have -0086, I have -0088; and for 975,000 I have

'0217. I have computed many points along this place,
and I think your figure wrong. As a specimen of your

chart and my work I give the following :--

          Chart          M'F.

  50,000  '0173           '0173
100,000                  '0191
          'oigi           '0335
150,000                   '0247
200,000   '°353           '0287
          '0246           '0168
250,000   '0286
300,000                   '0098
350,000   '0158          '0429
400,000   '0098           '0231
          '0429           '0525
450,000   '0232
500,000   '0534           '0401
550,000   '0259          &c.
600,000   '0395
          &c.
  &c.
        PERSONAL HISTORY                                        317

This is about the usual way all through.

      Thanking you for your kindness, allow me in con

clusion to express sympathy on your behalf -- the envelope

seemed to say that while we write and think and speak

ofafllyetoarsusbhyerteh.e--mIillaiomn,   few  and short  are the days which
                                        very  truly and  with great respect,

yours,                                        R. W. M'FARLAND.

                                                          GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, EDINBURGH,

                                                                                  8th November 1876.

R. W. M'Farland, Esq.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I am exceedingly obliged to you

for your long and interesting letter of the 24th August,
which I should have acknowledged ere this. I have,

however, been almost knocked up for some time past by

pain in the head, a complaint I have suffered from, more

or less, for several years back.

     I am delighted to observe that you have extended

your calculations much beyond what you published in

the American Journal ; please to accept my many thanks
for the particulars of these calculations which you have
sent. I am also gratified to find that your figures agree
so closely with my own. I have preserved all the MS.
of my calculations, and when my head gets a little
stronger, it will be interesting to go over those referring
to the period in which you found I had been slightly in
error. When you finish your computations, might it not
be a good thing to publish your table of values in the
American Journal of Science? Your short paper in that
journal has been referred to by several of our leading
scientific journals here. The computation must have cost
you a very great amount of labour indeed.

      I was gratified to find that you were so well pleased
with my book. The theory, I am glad to say, is at
present exciting a very considerable amount of attention

in this country, and is being gradually adopted by our

leading geologists.
       I am much obliged to you for the prospectus of your
3i8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

college, which you sent, and which I have read with

much interest.

After you have finished your computation, I shall be

glad to' be favoured at your convenience with a copy of

your results.

     I feel grateful for the words of sympathy which closed

your letter.      I mourn the death of a          brother suddenly
removed from                                      most truly,
                  among us. -- I am, yours

                                             JAMES CROLL.

                  OHIO AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE,
                               COLUMBUS, O., 1st January 1877.

Mr. James  Croll, Geological Survey, Edinburgh.     was
     DEAR
           SIR, -- Your note of November 8th

received in due time, and should have been answered

sooner,  bduuttiems,y--tismo emuhacsh  been much taken up with my
regular
                                       so that I have not yet recom

menced computations. Mr. Stockwell's formula (which

is identical with Laplace's, as given in the translation by

Bowditch, Mec. Cel. vol.               book       section 56, with
                  is
                                 ii.

                                              I 7,
elements computed for 1850) contains 28 terms, and

the computation   very laborious.                   propose to use

subsidiary formulae, so that the work shall be executed

more rapidly. When the computation has been extended
backwards in this way to say 350,000 years, will send
                                                    I

                                                                     ;

                                                                   I
you the curve on the same scale with yours.

     Mr. Dana, chief editor of the American Journal of
Science, has requested me to furnish him with whatever

may think of general interest in this line, or others and
when have thoroughly reviewed the work already done,
p.
and extended the computations backwards, so as to
       I
include those old Glacial epochs, propose to offer theI
                        a
table for publication.
                                       I
     Did you ever see                  little work published by Mr.

Stockwell about ten years ago, in which he examined
Mr. Adams's work on the acceleration of the moon's

motion?           copy the points made by Mr. Stockwell,

12.
                  PERSONAL HISTORY                                           319

" And we propose to show --

" First. That Mr. Adams's solution of the problem is

incorrect ;

     " Second. That if his solution were correct, the results

are not applicable to the problem ;
      " Third. That his integral, depending on the tangential

force, is equivalent to the correct integral increased by a

constant quantity ;
      " Fourth. That the tangential forces produce neither

non-periodic terms, nor periodic terms with variable

co-efficients ; and

     " Fifth. That the principles enunciated by Mr. Adams
as the basis of his solution, when correctly developed,

lead to precisely the same result as the more simple and

apparently less general method of Laplace."

     It  ifsroemntiryeolyurs,p--ossIiblme eathnatmwy hefonurtthhe   fourth   --figuthree
                                                                   decimal,
differs

correction  may   have   to be   aplopgliaerdithtmos.m--y           table, not to
            used   six  decimal                                    Wishing that
yours. I

you have recovered from the indisposition of which you

spoke in your last note, and that you may yet live many

years, to the advantage of science and of your fellow-men,

I am, with very great respect, your obedient servant,

                                 R. W. M'FARLAND.

In 1877, Dr. Croll opened up a new field of inquiry,

and, betaking himself to astronomical problems, he wrote
a paper on the " Probable Origin and Age of the Sun,"

which appeared in the Quarterly Journal of Science for
July 1877.

     The speculations of physicists regarding the limit of

geological time prompted him to investigate the question

of the probable age and origin of the sun. Accepting

gravitation as the only conceivable source of the sun's

heat,  he reviewed   the two     forms in   which this theory                had
been                 first, the   meteoric    theory advocated                 by
       presented,--

Meyer, and, second, the contraction theory, expounded

by Helmholtz. Even if we postulate 100 millions of
320 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

years as the limit of geological time, he maintained that
gravitation will not account for the supply of the sun's
heat during so long a period. According to the fore
going theories, it is assumed that the matter composing
the sun, when it existed in space as a nebulous mass, was
not originally possessed of temperature, but that the
temperature was developed as the mass condensed under
the force of gravitation. He suggested that the nebulous
mass might have been possessed of an original store of
heat previous to condensation. Proceeding to consider
how the sun's mass could have become possessed of
energy in the form of heat previous to condensation, he
argued that it was readily explained by means of the
dynamical theory of heat. " Two bodies, each one-half
the mass of the sun, moving directly towards each other
with a velocity of 476 miles per second, would by their
concussion generate in a single moment 50,000,000
years' heat." He further contended that we are led
from physical considerations regarding the age of the
sun's heat to the conclusion, that the geological history
of our globe must be limited to i 00 millions of years.

      His papers attracted the attention of the Astronomer-
Royal for Scotland, who wrote the following letter to

him :--

15 ROYAL TERRACE, EDINBURGH,
             2nd February 1877.

DEAR MR. CROLL,-- Will you kindly allow me to

ask in your researches touching the eccentricity of the
I
        I if,

                            a
                                                                      it
                                                                              it
                                                                                           is
earth's orbit, which have become classical long since, you

had occasion to compute the obliquity of the ecliptic, and
can you in that case supply me now, without trouble to

yourself, with note of what you made for the epoch

of 4000 years, or 4050 years before the present time?
  shall be happy to explain afterwards what
                                                                                               wanted
for.-- remain, yours very truly,

P. SMYTH.
                  PERSONAL HISTORY                                                     321

                                       JORDANBURN, yd February 1877.

MY DEAR SIR,-- Mr. Stockwell, in his Memoir on

the Secular Variation of the Elements of the Orbits of
the Planets, published about four years ago, discusses

the question of the obliquity of the ecliptic, and gives

a table of its amount for 8000 years past and future.

According to this table, p. 196, the obliquity 4000 years

before epoch 1850 was 23° 57' 42-6".

     As Mr. Stockwell's Memoir may interest you, if you

have not already seenit       have sent you my copy.                                   I

                        iIt,
am in no hurry for back.

        believe Mr. Stockwell's table the best thing weIis

have on the subject. -- am, yours most truly,
                  I

                                                      JAMES CROLL.

DEAR         MR.  CROLL,--    15 ROYAL TERRACE, EDINBURGH,
                                            Zth February 1877.

                               beg to apologise for not
I
             I

                                  I
                                               I
having yet thanked you for your obliging note and

effective answer, touching the obliquity of the ecliptic.

had hoped to have written on returning the quarterly

pamphlet ere this, but though                     have been prevented

hitherto, still hope soon to do so, and remain, yours

very truly,                                           P. SMYTH.

      Croll wrote to Mr. Herbert Spencer for a reference
to a passage in one of his works, but Mr. Spencer has
not preserved his letter. Mr. Spencer's reply, however,

gives a key to Croll's inquiry, and as follows --
                                                  is

                                                                                    :

                            37 QUEEN'S GARDENS, BAYSWATER,

--MY DEAR SIR,                               24/A February 1877.

                       The passage you refer to, you
will find in First Principles, section 182, and extends

over pages 532-5. The conclusions drawn, however,

though like the one which you name in respect of the

genesis of enormous heat by the collision of celestial

   21
322 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

bodies meeting and destroying one another's great

velocities, has in view another issue. Instead of the

formation of bodies thus raised to high temperature, and

continuing thereafter to radiate heat for long periods as

suns, the argument is rather to the effect that the heat

evolved by such collisions, taking place with the enormous

velocities eventually acquired by stars gravitating into

clusters and coming into collision, will have the effect of

dissipating   the matter they   anreebfuolormusedfoormf i.n--toTtrhuelygaysoeuoruss,
state, and   eventually into a

                                HERBERT SPENCER.

      The following correspondence with his friend, Mr.

Osmond Fisher, is interesting :--

MY DEAR      SIR,-- No  doubt          HARLTON, CAMBRIDGE,

                                          yd March 1877.
                                you have observed the

article in this month's Geological Magazine by Mr.

Carpenter, in which he seems to have inserted your name

with Mr. Murphy's. I cannot quite make out his argu

ment, but there seems to be something to be got out of

it. Shall you reply to it? I have an old note about

Phillip's paper on " Mass," taken from the Reader, 1 8th

February 1865. This was a notice of a paper at the
Royal Society, 26th January 1865.

      Mr. James Geikie has been to see our glacial beds, and

pronounces some of them true till. I am hardly disposed
to agree with him, though I admit there are some things

about the deposits that look like it. He also agreed

with Mr. Skertchley that they had found interglacial
flint implements. But I went over the ground one day
with Skertchley and Belt, and I thought the case was,

what is called in your part of the world, not proven.

All that could be said was, that the implements occurred

in a brick earth, and that there was a similar brick earth

in the neighbourhood to be found beneath boulder clay.

One section on which Skertchley chiefly relied, when I
                     PERSONAL HISTORY                               323

             it

                  ;

                       it,
came to examine certainly did not carry the weight he

assigned to for what he thought to be boulder clay was,

as verily believe, only the top of the chalk rock covered
I

with dirt, for so turned out when dug into with my
                     it              I

                                                         it

knife. Excuse this from an unoccupied invalid, and believe

me, very truly yours,                      OSMOND FlSHER.

Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.             much             l$th March 1877.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- am                     obliged to you for
             is
                          is

                                  I
sending me the account of your journey to Skertchley's

ground. Mr. Skertchley's argument,                understand
                                     is

                                             if

                                                  I

                                                                     is
                                                                             it
right,       that the brick earth in which the implements

were found           the equivalent of those found in the

neighbourhood between two boulder clays, and there

fore interglacial. To those who are familiar with the

intercalated beds in Scotland, this would be a very

natural inference for nothing more common than to
                     ;

find the same bed in one place between two boulder

clays, and at another place the upper clay absent. If

the two brick earths, the one between the two boulders

clays and the other not, overlaid with clay be in all other

respects the same, the probability                that the two
                                           is

                                                     I
belong to the same series. But, of course, till more

information  I       obtained on the subject, Mr. Skertchley's

conclusions can hardly be regarded as proven.is              presume

this the view you take of the matter.
     I I is
           have sent off your paper to Mr. James Geikie.
            have now determined to shake myself clear

altogether of Geology, and devote all my leisure time to

subject began some twenty years ago, but had to
a
        it   aside when     got immersed in the climate
lay                      I

business. If my head would only permit, want to go
                                                  I

                                                                          is is
into the abstract question on the determination of
                                                             It
molecular motion and its bearing on Theism.

the kind of study    I   feel most   at home in,  and  the   field
almost entirely new.                 very truly,
                         -- Yours

                                           JAMES CROLL.
324 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      The following letter from Mr. Darwin shows how

Croll's work was appreciated :--

                                DOWN, BECKENHAM, SURREY,

                                                                             qth August 1877.

     MY DEAR SIR, -- I am much obliged for your essay,
which I have read with the greatest interest. With
respect to the geological part, I have long wished to see

the evidence collected on the time required for denudation,

and you have done it admirably. I wish some one

would in a like spirit compare the thickness of sediment

ary rocks with the quickest estimated rate of deposition

by a large river, and other such evidence. Your main

argument with respect to the sun seems to me very

striking.

     My son  George desires me  to thank you for  his  ict.o--py,I
             how much he has    been interested   by
and to say

remain, my dear sir, yours very faithfully,

                                CHARLES DARWIN.

      The following letters to his colleague on the
Survey, Mr. Horne, lifts the veil as to his daily work and
shows the interest he took in the work of his colleagues.

                                                       EDINBURGH, 2$th April 1877.

     MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have sent by book-post

Sheet 6, 7, 8 (Nairn). Hume has sent to the office a
small box for you. Shall I forward it? Peach has
gone back to Melrose some time ago. Major-General
Cameron, C.B., F.R.S., Director - General, Ordnance
Survey, is the man you should apply to for information.
You will see by to-day's Scotsman what miserable
weather we have had for some time past. In your paper
on " Shetland " lay special emphasis on the distribution
of the stones in the drift and their relation to the under
lying rocks, which can only be satisfactorily accounted
for by land ice. Nine geologists out of every ten will
               PERSONAL HISTORY                                                325

prefer the theory of floating ice rather than admit that

the North Sea was filled with land ice. The Director

is in Fife, along with his students, where he will be till

the end  of the week if he can   Imnvaenrangeess.t--o wYoeuatrhsertruthlye,
storm.   I have ordered i and 3

                                      JAMES CROLL.

                                                   EDINBURGH, lothjuly 1877.

MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have enclosed a packet of

paper in your parcel which is sent on to-day. I could

not manage to get your book out of the College Library

yesterday ; but if I see the Director to-morrow, I will
try, and if I succeed I shall post it to you. I am

not surprised at what you say about certain critics.

But they must all come round in the longrun. You

will require to look sharp, or perhaps they will have

their views on Shetland out before you, which would be

a pity. While I am writing, a letter has just come from

Mr. J. Geikie. He says, beyond all doubt Harris is
            efrrormaticsthefrommaiSnklayne.d--; iYceourrseatcrhuilnyg,  up to
glaciated                                                                      1650
feet, with

                                      JAMES CROLL.

                                                              EDINBURGH, zSth November 1877.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have paid your account to
Johnston, who will return you the receipt. I am glad to
hear that your paper is so far advanced. But I would

not place much faith in the opinion of geologists in

general about the height of the land during the Glacial

epoch, unless the reason was given ; for the opinion is

often based on the preconceived theory that the height

of the land was the cause of the cold. In the particular

case to which you refer, it is quite possible that Erdmann

may be right.    I have just sent to  the railway people                       to
come for your                             JAMES CROLL.
               box. -- Yours truly,
               CHAPTER XIX

CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR J. D. HOOKER,
                MR. A. R. WALLACE, ETC

DURING the year 1878, Croll wrote a paper on " Le
          Sage's Theory of Gravitation," which appeared in
the Philosophical Magazine of January 1878, and in the

American     Journal of Science  and Arts,   February   "1T87h8e
(No. 70).     This was followed  by another   paper on

Age of the Sun in Relation to Evolution," which appeared

in Nature    on January 10, 1878 (No. 71).          He   con
tinued this  subject, and wrote a paper entitled  " The  Age

of the Sun in Relation to Evolution," dealing with the

motion of the stars, which appeared in Nature in April

1878 (No. 72). Thereafter he wrote a paper dealing
with the origin of nebulae, which appeared in the Philo

sophical Magazine of July 1878 (No. 73).

      He returned to his geological studies, and wrote a
paper on " Cataclysmic Theories of Geological Climate,"

which appeared in the Geological Magazine of September

1878, while a short abstract was published in the

American Journal of Science and Arts, November 1878,

p. 387 (No. 74).
      This was practically his year's independent work,

beyond his Survey duties. Mr. Croll was deeply interested

in the results of the examination of the glacial phenomena

of Shetland by Messrs. Peach and Horne during their holi

days in 1878, as the following letters clearly show :--

     MY DEAR                                      EDINBURGH, "jth May 1878.

by book-post.  HORNE,-- I have sent on your map-case

                In reference to your query about the ice,

                                                £26
CORRESPONDENCE                                                        327

the principle which determines the path of an ice particle
                                                                         It
ipsusthheisd--btyhefoprcaertifcrloem   behind is very simple indeed.
                                                                      least
                                      will always take the path of
resistance, whether that path be round the edge of the

hill, or over the top of it. In the case to which you refer,

sometimes the path of least resistance may be round the

sides of the hill, and at other times it may be over the

top of the hill. Without knowing the physical conditions

of the hill, with its surroundings in the midst of ice-fields,

it would be perfectly impossible for any one to predict

whether the path of least resistance lay straight up

the sloping face of the hill, or round its sides. When the

striae show that the ice has moved straight up over the

hill, this proves that it had less difficulty in doing that,

than it would have had in going round the sides. And

when the striae show that the ice had taken the round

about road, this is evidence          that  it did  it to avoid the stey
                                                     JAMES CROLL.
brae. --Yours truly,

                                                         EDINBURGH, iqthjuly 1878.

     MY DEAR HORNE,-- Peach gave me an outline of

your wonderful discoveries. They are very remarkable,
and prove beyond the possibility of a doubt that the
Scandinavian ice-sheet passed over the Shetlands. The

facts will rather annoy geologists in general who ignore
the possibility of ice of such magnitude. You will find

in my paper in the Geological Magazine, and in the

chapter on " Climate and Time," everything which I know
of regarding the glacial phenomena of Shetland. Prior
to the appearance of my paper in the Geological Magazine,
I do not think the idea that the Scandinavian ice filled

the German Ocean ever entered any human being's mind.
That the Shetland and Faroe Islands should have been

glaciated by ice from Scandinavia was a conception
which I hardly expected would have been so well received
as it has been. By the way, it was in one of my papers
in the Reader, about a dozen of years ago, that the idea

was first suggested. I think I have the article at home,
328 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

should you wish to see it. I forget if any special re

ference was made to Shetland. It is a good idea to put

in your paper a chartshowing the path of the ice in North

western Europe. Would it not be a good idea to make a

volume    of    ytooutrhemGaeteorloiaglsic,alanSdocsieimtyp. l--y   give  a very          full
outline  first                                                     Yours   truly,

                                            JAMES CROLL.

MY DEAR                                       EDINBURGH, 20th December 1878.

                      HORNE,-- The map and lines are

engraved on one plate. The map from which the plate

was taken was not one of Johnston's. I really at thisit,
moment forget where I got but perhaps may find
                                                                   I
out, and let you know. In the paper on the Antarctic                        I

ice, in the forthcoming number of the Quarterly Journal                                 it
                have a section on the relation of the
of Science,aI
Antarctic ice to that of the Glacial epoch; and, toI

illustrate some points bearing on the physics of the

question, have inserted my map with the lines, but

without the colour. When go home to-night, shall
                              I

post you copy of the map have none of the coloured;
copies, but this may serve your purpose. You should
                               I

make a strong    effort to    get out your                         paper as early         in
the session as                Yours truly,
                possible. --

                                                                   JAMES CROLL.

      The  following  interesting  cCorrroelsl p--ondence                 took            place
between    Sir D.     Hooker and
                J.

                                   I
                                                                                   :

                                                                                       a
                                    ROYAL GARDENS, KEW,

DEAR MR. CROLL,--                                      6th November 1878.

                                 thank you much for your

valuable contribution to Geological Climate, just received

and read with great interest.

The subject has been brought up again by most

ingenious paper, by Count Saporta, on the old Polar
vegetation, " L'Ancienne Vegetation Polaire," Extrait des

Comptes Rendus du Congres internat des Sc. Geograph.,
                CORRESPONDENCE                                       329

Paris, apparently presented in 1875, printed in 1877,

and not received here till autumn 1878, which is attract

ing so much attention amongst palaeontologists that

I must deal with his essay in my address to the
Royal, though I should do this only in the way of a

review of its contents. Saporta is a master in Vegetable

Palaeontology.  He seeks to eliminate the contracted

seasons of the poles by a greater diffusion of sunlight

before the orb was condensed, and lays great stress on

the uniformity of temperature being due to aqueous

vapour, but has not hit upon your explanation of the

latter, namely, the connection of the trade winds with the

precession of the equinoxes.
     I do not suppose that either solar or terrestrial physics

will stand the strain of Saporta's hypotheses, or rather

speculations, but I am not qualified to deal with that
question. Too much stress is laid, I think, by you and

ootfhseursnliugphot n--wIhcaotulId  said  at the R. S. a propos      of the want
                                     not  have meant to imply        that the St.

Petersburg Polars were matted down in absolute darkness

for six months, though                    thpeeyriocde,r--tainnloyt  are deprived   of
direct sunlight for a long                                           that the want  of

sunlight during the Arctic winter would not be very pre

judicial to plants in general. What I said was, that it

need not be prejudicial to dicotyledonous plants with

deciduous leaves. The great difficulty is to account for

the survival during Arctic winters of forests of evergreen

dicotyledons, hence much depends on the evidence of

such having existed in the Polar regions. This, again,

depends on the importance attached to the apparent fact

that many laurels characterised the flora, and that the

laurels of those days were, like those of this day, for
the most part evergreen. I am not at all convinced that

they were so, but am not prepared, without further

examination of them, to affirm the contrary.

      Have you seen Dyer's lecture on Plant Distribution,

as a field for geographical research? It is the best

the condition of geographical botany which I
330 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

have seen, and he arrives at one of Saporta's conclusions

by a very  dailflfersetanrttedrouftreo,mnamtheelyn, ortthha.t--thEevevregveetraytiotnruloyf
the globe

yours,                   J. D. HOOKER.

                         EDINBURGH, i^th November 1878.

Sir  Joseph D.  Hooker, C.B., D.C.L.
     MY DEAR
                SIR,-- Allow me to thank  you      very much

for your letter of the 6th inst. and paper which you

kindly sent, both of which I have read with great interest.
     I am delighted to observe that you are devoting

attention to that perplexing question of the existence of

a warm condition of climate in Polar regions in former

epochs. I shall be looking forward with much interest to

your address. I am sorry I should have expressed my

self somewhat incautiously in reference to your remarks

at the Royal Society meeting. The fact
I Ia                                                                               had for
                 I

                                                 a
                                                                              is,

                                                        I
gotten your exact words on the subject, and had taken

your views second-hand from some remark made at the

Geological Society, by one of the members, at the close

of discussion on the subject of Polar climate.

        am much obliged to you for directing my attention

to Count Saporta's and Dyer's articles, both of which

were unknown to me.

palaeonatmologvye. --ry  far behind in everything  relating                        to
                          am, yours very truly,

                         JAMES CROLL.

     In 1879, Dr Croll wrote paper on " The Thickness
of the Antarctic Ice, and its Relations to that of the

Glacial Epoch," which appeared in the Quarterly Journal
of Science of January 1879 (No. 75). Though he was
unable, from the state of his health and the pressure of
his other duties, to comply with the request of Professor

Baynes to contribute articles on geological subjects to
the Encyclopedia Britannica, yet at the urgent request of
Sir Archibald Geikie he wrote an outline of " The Theory
of Secular Changes of Geological Climate" (No. 76)
                CORRESPONDENCE             331

for his article " Geology " in that work, which was after

wards embodied  in Sir Archibald Geikie's  T" eIxntt-eBrogolkacioalf
Geology, 1882.  He also wrote a paper on

Periods," which appeared in the Geological Magazine of
October 1879 (No. 77); and another entitled, "Why
the air at the Equator is not hotter in January than in

July," which appeared in Nature on i7th December
1879, and in the American Journal of Science and Arts,
February 1880 (No. 78).
     At this time he received the following instructive

letter from Mr. Agassiz, of America, relative to his

theory of ocean currents :--

                                               CAMBRIDGE, MASS., \yk May 1879.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- During the two years I have been

cruising in Gulf of Mexico and West India, the problem
of the Gulf Stream has of course greatly interested me.
From what has been accomplished the past winter by

the Blake (Commander Bartlett), I am satisfied that

we must look for the great supply of heated water to the
northern hemisphere, not so much to the Gulf Stream
proper, as it is measured by the amount of water passing
through the Straits of Yucatan and finally emerging
between Cape Florida and the Bahamas, and the
immense mass of water pushed by the trade winds

against the wall forming the islands between St.
Thomas and Trinidad, and which, failing to find a passage

through the comparatively shallow channels between them,

as we have only between Sombrero and the Virgin Islands
a deep channel I 000 fathoms, while not one of the other

channels can be said to average more than 300 fathoms,
and in many cases peaks and ridges of 40 fathoms are
not uncommon ; the other deep channel existing
between Martinique and West Indiana, and for a small
distance having a depth of 800 fathoms. Now, of
course, of this immense body of water banked up against
this wall of islands, but a small part forces its way into

the Caribbean Sea ; the rest must go north along the
332 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

eastern bank of the Bahamas, until it is deflected again

easterly by the prevailing westerly winds of that region.

Then, of course, a body of water 1500 fathoms deep and
20° in latitude cannot find its way across the wall closing

the Caribbean Sea.

I hope in a few days to be able to send you the

preliminary report of the work done last year, and should

be glad of any criticisms you may find time to make. I

hope shortly to publish some of the temperature sections

also, and define the  condition  of things  better that way.

--Yours truly,

                                            A. AGASSIZ.

Mr. Croll, having sent some of his recent papers to

Professor M'Farland of  America,  gave  rise  to  the follow

ing correspondence :--

                      OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS, O.,

                                                                   3&th March 1879.

JameDsEACRrollS, IREs,--q. I write to acknowledge the receipt of

pamphlets from time to time sent by you. I thank you

for the favours, and allow me in return to say that your

statements touching the South Polar ice-cap seem to

leave nothing further to be said. It certainly appears to
be established, if anything can be established, by the

orderly array of facts. Some of Sir W. Thomson's

assertions seem to me to be wild, and to have been

hastily made. From the early part of the spring of
1878, I was so much engaged that I could not find

time for further computations on the eccentricity of the

earth's orbit. On 1st January of this year I resumed

the work, and devote part of an hour every day to it.

To-day I     finished the work for 2,000,000      years by
                                                   I had a
Stockwell's  formula --time previous to 1850.

year or two ago extended it forward to 1,250,000 years.

My intention  is,     opportunity allow, to cover the time

                if

from 3,000,000 anterior to 1,250,000 years posterior to
             CORRESPONDENCE                                  333

1850, calculated both by Stockwell's and by Leverrier's

formula at intervals of 10,000 years, and in specially

interesting cases to divide the period into smaller portions,

then to make a drawing of the two curves, and a table

of eccentricities and longitude of perigee.
     But the work is vast, and I am not sure that I can

have the work finished before 1st January 1880.

I have no doubt that you will find a very interesting

set of facts in the matter of the coal seams and their

intervals apart, as found in the Hocking River Valley, in

the south-east quarter of Ohio.                                   I

      When my work    is   done,   I   shall  have the pleasure,
hope, of sending you    a   copy.      Very   respectfully,
                                   --

                                       R. W. M'FARLAND.

                                       EDINBURGH, 2istjune 1879.

Professor M'Farland, A.M.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- I am very much obliged indeed

for your kind letter of 28th March. I would have
acknowledged receipt long ere this, had I not been

suffering a good deal from pain in the head.

     I am delighted to hear that you are still persevering

in your laborious undertaking. When your calculations

are finished, they will be of very great interest and value.

I shall be looking forward with much interest to the

publication of your results.

I am very much gratified that you are so well

pleased with my paper on the Antarctic ice.

Professor Orton very kindly sent me a copy of his

memoir on the Hocking River Valley coal seams. The

facts narrated were very remarkable. -- I am, yours very

truly,                                        JAMES CROLL.

      Mr. Alfred R. Wallace having written an article on
" Glacial Epochs " in the Quarterly Review, the following

interesting  correspondence   took     place  between Croll  and

him :--
334 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                           GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, EDINBURGH,

                           6th August 1879.

AlfreMdYR.DEWAaRllacSe,IR,E--sqI. need hardly say that I read

with intense pleasure the article on " Glacial Epochs " in

the Quarterly Review, which has been very much

heightened by learning this morning from Mr. Fisher

who the author is. The article will do more for the

theory of C. and T. than anything which has yet appeared

on the subject. From your special knowledge of climate

in relation to geographical distribution, as well as from

your extensive acquaintance with all branches of natural

science, I had long felt somewhat curious to learn your

real opinion as to the bearing of the theory, and I

certainly am not a little flattered as well as delighted to

find it so favourable. I am glad to have this opportunity

of expressing to you my best thanks.
     I had a letter from Mr. James Geikie a few days ago,

telling me how delighted he was with the article.

I am glad your article has set Mr. Fisher to the

study of that important and much overlooked subject, the

temperature     of space.   I hope he will  make  something
                am, yours  most truly,
out of it.-- I

                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                       WALDRON EDGE, DUPPAS HILL, CROYDON,
                                                           lol/i August 1879.

JameMsYCrDoEllA, REsqS.IR,--Your kind letter was very welcome

to me, especially as it also conveys to me Mr. James
Geikie's approval of my article. Well knowing my
want of practical acquaintance with the phenomena of
glaciation, I feel that it is presumptuous in me to write
judicially on so complex a subject. My excuse is
that for many years the question has been one of the
intensest interest to me, and I have taken every

opportunity of studying the chief writings bearing upon it.

I can only hope that I have fallen into no serious errors
             CORRESPONDENCE                           335

or misstatements such as dabblers in subjects that don't

belong to them are always liable to. I shall take it as
a favour if you will point out without hesitation any

statements, whether of fact or of theory, that you think

require correction, as the chief part of the article will be

embodied in a chapter of a work I am now preparing on

the causes which have affected the dispersal of animals.

Perhaps you can ascertain from some of the

Edinburgh meteorologists whether there are any con

nected observations of the amount of solar radiation on

or near the equator, so as to show how far the difference

of the sun's distance at perihelion and aphelion makes
itself apparent. It appears to have no effect on the
temperature of the atmosphere, but it certainly ought on

the direct radiation, and it would be a most important

guide to know what effect it really has. I am a great

admirer of the late Mr. Belt's writings, and long held to

his view as to the causes of glaciation, but on fuller
consideration gave them up. I am still, however, greatly
fascinated by his theory of the blocking up of the

drainage of continents by ice to explain the wide spread

of loess and gravel. The ordinary explanations seem
utterly inadequate if the facts stated in Belt's papers are
anywhere near true. I can hardly accept, however, the
mid-Atlantic glacier from Greenland to the Bay of

Biscay. Might it not be possible that the confluent

glacier of Norway, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales blocked

up the North Sea and English Channel ? This, with

some elevation of the land and some lowering of the
                    almost as much "                  " as
ocean,  might give                       damming up   very
seems   needful in   Europe. -- Believe    me, yours

faithfully,

                    ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                                                                  EDINBURGH, i2th August 1879.

AlfreMdYR.DWEAaRllaceS,IR,E--sq.Your article gives such a clear

and correct account of the theory in all its bearings, that
336 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I am really unable to suggest any alterations. With

the exception of, perhaps, what you say in reference to

the Antarctic ice, I don't remember, when reading the

article, of differing from you on a single point. But the

Antarctic ice is a point of so little importance in relation

to the theories, that it is hardly worth while making any

allusion to it. I have in a recent paper gone more fully
into the subject of the Antarctic ice. When I go home

to-night, I shall send you a copy. I fully agree with you

that we have no evidence of there ever having been a

North Polar ice-cap. I agree with you also in attributing

the loess to the damming back of the Rhine and Elbe,

or to land ice filling the English Channel and North Sea.

See Geological Magazine for June 1870, p. 277. The
observations of Messrs. Peach and Horne on the glaciation

of the Shetland and Orkney Islands, which I hope will

shortly be published, prove beyond all doubt that these

islands were glaciated by land ice from the North Sea

coming from Scandinavia.

     I shall call on Mr. Buchan and see if he can give me

any information as to observations made at the equator.

The point to which you refer, like that of the temperature

of space, I fear, has been much overlooked by physicists.
     I am delighted to hear that you intend bringing out

a work shortly on that interesting subject, the dispersal

of animals, and  that the      leading idea of your     article  is
to be embodied                am, yours ever truly,
                 in it. -- I

                                        JAMES CROLL.

                   WALDRON EDGE, DUPPAS HILL, CROYDON,

                                    llth October 1879.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I      know  so  little of meteorology
     MY DEAR SIR,

that I should prefer not to write to Nature on the
subject. If you or Mr. Buchan would do so, it would,
I am sure, receive more attention.

     I should think Quito would be the best place for
such observations, as I fancy the atmosphere is pretty
           CORRESPONDENCE                            337

clear all the year round, and there must be some European

residents who could make such observations if instructed.

But could not valuable results be obtained at some

of our regular meteorological observatories, such as

Bombay, by taking a series of black bulb observations

in July and January at equal altitudes of the sun, and

with equal transparency of the air. The latter factor
might, I should think, be determined sufficiently by

observing the colour of the sky, as uncondensed vapour is,
I believe, quite diathermous to direct rays. Of course, to

make the observations comparable, the temperature of the

air should also be equal, but a correction for this might

probably be arrived at.

Am I not right in supposing that observations made

at any latitude in July and January, with the same

altitude of the sun, the same transparency of atmosphere,

and the same temperature of air, ought to give the results

we require, and though the extreme differences of air

temperature in our latitude in July and January might

prevent any good results being obtained, that would not

be the case within the tropics.

Neither at Bombay nor at Batavia, where there are

regular meteorological observatories, do they seem to

make a single observation of direct sun heat. Mr.

Buchan would be the proper person to call attention to

this, and  to show the interesting  wpohuylsdicalheplprobtleomssolwveh.i--ch
a series   of such observations

Believe me, yours very faithfully,

                                 ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                   WALDRON EDGE, DUPPAS HILL, CROVDON,

                                                   November 1879.

James Croll, Esq.  CROLL,-- I have been  expecting  with
     MY DEAR MR.

much interest to see your promised communication to

Nature on the cause of the absence of change in the

temperature of the equator at aphelion and perihelion.

22
338 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I sincerely hope ill health may not be the cause of your
silence on the subject. This, however, is not what I am

now writing about. In the last few pages of my article

in the Quarterly I touch very briefly on the great difficulty

of the alternation of climate theory, the total absence of

all indications of severe cold in the Arctic or Temperate

regions, from the Miocene backward throughout all

geological time. It is a difficulty that must not be
shirked ; for if the theory be the true one, I believe that

some indications of the fauna and flora of these constantly
recurring cold periods must exist, and can be found if

sought for, especially during the later Secondary or
earlier Tertiary formations. Your connection with the

Geological Survey will probably enable you to direct me

where to look for such indications with the best chance

of finding them,-- I mean in what works ; or you may

know some geologist who has worked at some extensive

group of deposits in such detail as to be able to give the

required information directly. It seemed to me that

ifwhat is to be expectedthat in any extensive series

                                          is,
                                              is a

                                                                it

                                                                    ; if
of conformable strata of, say Eocene or Cretaceous age,

there ought to occur at tolerably regular intervals a

series of beds somewhat distinct in lithological character,

and in which the usual fossils of the formation are either

absent or partially replaced by dwarfed forms. Such
beds might sometimes be very thin and insignificant,

owing to the scanty deposition during an epoch when

the bed was completely glaciated.

    If any one such case can be found, either in this

country or in a more northern latitude, would give an

immense support to the theory. You probably know

there are any of the geologists of the Survey who hold

the theory firmly and have looked out for such evidences

or, not, you can no doubt refer me to some one who

can give me information on the subject, or to some work

which gives the details of series of beds and their

fossils where such evidence likely to be found.
     Do not put yourself to any inconvenience to reply
         CORRESPONDENCE  339

to this letter until it is quite agreeable for you to do so.

-- Believe me, yours very faithfully,

                                               ALFRED R. WALLACE.

MY DEAR  MR.            --EDINBURGH, zyh November 1879.

              WALLACE, Many thanks for your

letter. I shall send my letter to Nature in the course of
a few days. I would have done so sooner, but the head

has been troubling me a good deal of late, and besides,

I was half expecting that some meteorologist would

remove this difficulty, as it is more apparent than real.

The conclusion Mr. Fisher draws from Pouillet is perfect

nonsense, and Mr. Hill's deductions from Dulong and
Petit I do not believe to be correct.

In reference to the evidence ot cold periods prior to

the Miocene age, I think we have pretty good physical

evidence of the existence of glaciation back to at least

the Cambrian, if not to the Laurentian period. A great
many of the facts I have detailed, as you will remember,

in Chapter xviii. of Climate and Time ; and in Chapter
xvii. I have given what appears to me to be good

evidence why we have not more physical indications of

former Glacial periods.

     Regarding the palaeontological evidence I know but
little. I suspect that few palaeontologists ever dreamed

or expected to find glacial animals in palaeontological

times. Perhaps, if they had been on the outlook, they

might have found such evidence. Physical geologists never

found physical evidence until they began actually to look

for it. And I have little doubt that when palaeontologists

begin to search for evidence, that they will find it.

But in regard to far back periods, could we tell with

certainty the class of animals that would indicate glacial

cold ? Of course I do not know, but you no doubt can

tell whether such should be the case or not. We have

in the Palaeozoic times well-marked zones where life is

scarce if not absent ; this, of course, is not positive proof
of cold, but it is a strong presumption in favour of it.
340 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Professor Geikie says that, in the 2nd edition of Dana's

Manual of Geology, there is something about palaeonto-

logical evidence of cold periods during the Palaeozoic age.

     I shall ask Dr. James Geikie if he knows of any.

      By the way, there is a very interesting article by

Peach and Horne, two of our men, in the present number

of the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, on the
glaciation of the Shetlands. It is one of the most

remarkable memoirs which have yet been written on

glacial ice. It shows, beyond all doubt, that the North

Sea was filled with land ice from Scandinavia. Lately,

they visited the Orkneys and gave them a thorough survey

for drift, and found that these islands have likewise all

been overridden by North Sea ice. And just now one

of our men engaged on the Survey to the north of

Aberdeen has found evidence that the North Sea ice

passed  up on the land at     that  place, bringing  with it
broken  and glaciated shells  from   the bed of the
                                                     sea.-- I

am, yours truly,                    JAMES CROLL.

                                                                EDINBURGH, 2nd December 1879.

    MY DEAR MR. WALLACE, -- I sent your letter to
my colleague, Dr. James Geikie, and asked if he would

be so good as to favour me with his opinion on the
subject. This he has done in the enclosed letter. I

observe that, like me, he does not place much weight

on the fact that palaeontologists have not recognised

evidence of the existence of ancient Glacial periods. I

think the difficulties in the way of detecting far back

cold periods have not been fully realised either by
geologists or by palaeontologists as a rule. So strongly

was I impressed with this, when engaged on the subject
in Climate and Time, that I devoted a chapter to the
details of those difficulties. Just consider how difficult,

for example, it will be for the geologist of the future to
detect traces of our last Glacial epoch a million of years
hence. By that time all the boulder clay will be denuded
off the surface of the land and washed into the sea.
           CORRESPONDENCE                                  341

The glaciated surface of the rocks will be disintegrated,

and perhaps not a scratch left. Our raised beaches with

Arctic shell beds, from which so much information has

been obtained regarding the Arctic condition of our

climate, will all be removed, and the shells mixed up

with those now lying in our seas in such a manner that

it will be difficult to say whether the strata formed from

our present sea-bottoms will indicate a warm or a cold

condition of climate. Now what will occur in reference

to our recent Glacial epoch, has actually occurred in

reference to all the Glacial periods of the past.

You need not return Dr. Geikie's letter. I have sent

on my letter to Nature. I hope it may appear next week.

By the way, an American geologist, Professor Orton,

thinks that he has found evidence of coal beds of Inter-

glacial periods in the Carboniferous strata of Ohio in the

Hanking Rock district. See      Geological Survey of Ohio,
                                             JAMES CROLL.
vol. iii. 1878. --Yours truly,

      The following letter  to Dr. Morison  shows Croll's  great
desire to see the Swiss     mountains and
                                            glaciers :--

DEAR  DR.  MORISON, -- I          8 JORDAN BANK, EDINBURGH,
                                           21st February 1879.

                                am delighted to have a

letter from you again. Mrs. Croll and I have long been

looking for a visit from you. The first time Mrs.

Morison and you are in Edinburgh, be sure and arrange

to come out to Morningside and spend an afternoon with us.

     I am glad to hear that you had such a pleasant trip

to the Continent. There is not a spot in the globe I

have a greater desire to see than Switzerland and its

mountains ; but, somehow or other, I have never managed

to get so far from home. When we meet, we shall have
a talk over the matter. I hope we
                                            shall have the
pleasure of reading an account of your
                                            journey. --With

kind regards to Mrs. Morison, I am, yours most truly,

                                            JAMES CROLL.
342 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      The following letters by Croll to his colleague on

the   Survey, Mr. Horne,        show something of        his  daily
life  and general interest       science at this period
                            in                           :--

                                                         EDINBURGH, zjthjune 1879.

     MY DEAR HORNE,-- I am glad to hear that the

Geological Society is to print your map along with the
paper. James Geikie and Helland have returned from
the Faroe Islands. They found that these islands were
glaciated from a common centre of dispersion in all
directions. The sea around the Faroe Islands is evidently

too deep to have allowed the Scandinavian ice to have

reached them. It would probably break up in bergs in

the deep channel to east of these islands. The channel
is nearly 4000 feet deep, but the glaciation of these
islands from a centre of dispersion is a most important
fact, for it proves that it was done by land ice, and not
by icebergs, as Milne Home & Co. would have it. Now

here will run the argument. If we have to admit that

the Faroes were glaciated by land ice, we have no reason

to believe that the Shetlands were glaciated by any other

agent ; but the land ice which glaciated them did not

belong to the islands themselves, as you have proved,
but came from the North Sea. They found hills 1600

feet in height glaciated across their summits. I have no
doubt, when you go to the Orkney Islands, you will find
a good many facts which will throw more light on the
glaciation of the Moray Firth ; but no amount of facts,
however hostile, derived from the regions between Elgin
and Peterhead or between Aberdeen and Peterhead, will

be able to overturn or to shake in the least degree your
proof that the Scandinavian ice filled the North Sea to

beyond the Shetland Islands or that the ice of the Moray
Firth passed obliquely over Caithness. What has
been said about the direction of the ice at Peterhead

is just as much opposed to the direction of the ice along
the coast to the south of Aberdeen as it is to the
direction of the Norwegian ice. I have an impression
                                  CORRESPONDENCE                343

that you will find the striae on the Orkneys more south
and north than I have drawn them on the chart in C. and

T. What wet, cold, and disagreeable weather we have
had !--Yours truly,
                                                  JAMES CROLL.

      Helland is away to the Shetlands for Scandinavian
boulders.

                                             EDINBURGH, zyhjuly 1879.

MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have got back to work again.

Helland was here yesterday, and he tells me that he did

not succeed in getting Scandinavian boulders in Shetland,

although he is convinced the Scandinavian ice must

have gone over the islands. By the way, there is an

excellent article in the present number of the Quarterly
Review on " Glacial Epoch and Warm Polar Climate." The

object of the article is to show that the eccentricity

..heory explains all the facts, and that all the other

theories have failed. I have no idea who the author is.

I hope you will get good weather for your holiday.

How are you getting on with the abstract of your
paper ?--Yours truly,
                                                  JAMES CROLL.

                                                          EDINBURGH, soM August 1879.

MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have sent on the maps by post.

Also your copy of the Quarterly Journal of the Geological
Society, which Bennie and I took the liberty of opening

the cover of, to see its contents, as no copy now comes to

the office. Peach has just been in and told me of your

great success in Orkney. Your Orkney paper will be a

most important one ; by all means try and get it ready

buynsethtteleodp. --eniYnogurosf  the session.  Weather here still very
                                  truly,                  JAMES CROLL.

                                                              EDINBURGH, 26t& September 1879.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I received your note. I am

obliged for the information about the direction of the ice

in Buchan. The only point now to be determined is
344 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

whether the Buchan ice, on reaching the sea, veered

round to the north-west, or continued its motion south

ward along the east coast. If it took the latter path, it

is difficult to conceive what should cause the Strathmore

ice on approaching the coast to turn round almost at

right angles and pass northward to Aberdeen. It would

be of the utmost importance to find out what direction

the Dee ice took, on reaching Aberdeen ; for if it bent

northward, like the Tay ice, it will prove that the Buchan

ice could not have gone southward. Could you not take
a run through to Aberdeen and see if you could get

some light on the subject ? Perhaps Jamieson of Ellon

might be able to give you     some information    on  the
matter. You should write to
                             him. --Yours truly,

                             JAMES CROLL.

     Glad to hear that your paper is in the press. Try
and get your Orkney one to follow up as closely after
the other as possible. It is best to strike the iron while
it is hot.

                                                    EDINBURGH, und October 1879.

     MY DEAR HORNE,--Wilson sends me the following
postcard :--" Ellon ground between this and sea covered

with Old Red Sandstone drift. Must have come from
south of Stonehaven, Jamieson thinks it is a post-Glacial
marine deposit." I don't think it is at all likely that
Jamieson's idea is correct. We know that the Stonehaven
ice reached to about Aberdeen. This find of Wilson

would seem to show that it must have continued its

course onwards to Ellon at least. You should look after

this important find of Wilson's. --Yours truly,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

MY DEAR                            EDINBURGH, ist November 1879.

         HORNE,-- A parcel containing books

from Douglas & Foulis, along with papers from

Schenck & M'Farlane, was sent off by rail on Thursday.
CORRESPONDENCE  345

Peach took out a number of copies of the paper, and

stated that he would write you and let you know to

whom they were sent, to prevent two copies being sent

to one individual. I have sent on a parcel of wrapping

paper, envelopes, etc. You simply say thin wrapping

paper; as I am not sure what you mean, I have sent

two kinds. In reference to Wilson's find, the fact that

the red clay is perfectly unstratified and the same as

ordinary boulder clay above 150 feet up to 400 feet, the
height to which it reached, is strongly against the idea
of its being a raised beach deposit. But, as you remark,
it would be as well to make sure before saying much

about it. It does not, of course, necessarily follow that

the Red Sandstone came from the land to the south of

Stonehaven. It may have come from the bed of the

North Sea to the east of Aberdeen, for the Old Red Sand

stone passes in a north-easterly direction from Stonehaven
under the North Sea in the way indicated in the enclosed
chart. But it is also quite possible that the Strathmore

ice, which moved northwards along the coast to Aberdeen,
may have continued its path on the land till it reached

the Moray ice, as Wilson supposed. At anyrate, if the

red clay is genuine boulder clay, it proves beyond all

doubt that the Scandinavian ice must have been pressing

hard against our coast, and that it must have been
moving northward, not southward. Hume will write
you to-day about the cabinet. Rocks arrived all right.

List of paper enclosed. --Yours truly,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

    P.S. --Since the above was written, a second parcel

has come from D. & F. I send along with wrapping

paper by rail.

                                                              EDINBURGH, iSth November 1879.

    MY DEAR HORNE,--Yours just to hand. I have

sent off the diagrams you want by rail. Peach's
copy of Quarterly Journal has come. I cut it up
346 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

to look at your paper.     His father was in the  office at
the time and took it
                        away. It will make a      mark. --

Yours truly,            JAMES CROLL.

                                                  EDINBURGH, zyh November 1879.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have sent off to Irvine, 163

Crown Street, Aberdeen, working copies of sheets 56, 57,
and 66. As these sheets lie in the debateable ground,
you should write to Irvine and explain to him
Wilson's find, and tell him to keep a sharp lookout

for Old Red Sandstone from the south. I would have
written myself, but the head aches badly at present.--

Yours truly,
                                                             JAMES CROLL.

      In answer to an inquiry from his old friend, Rev. O.

Fisher, Croll writes --

                                                                    EDINBURGH, ejh August 1879.

Rev. O. Fisher, M.A.

     MY DEAR SIR, --The most elaborate article on the

temperature of space is by M. Pouillet, 1838, a
translation of which is to be found in Taylor's Scientific

Memoirs, vol. iv. p. 44, 1846. I read it along with
Herschel's many years ago, but I now forget all about it.
I am glad you are going into the subject. It is a most

important one, and one which has not received that

attention from physicists which it deserves.

      It is perhaps quite possible, as you state, that

observations made at the equator might show something
which would lead to results. I perceive your objection

to Herschel's mode quite clearly, but I would require to
grind up a little on the subject of absorption and
radiation before I could venture an opinion. Speaking
off hand, I would say with you that the temperature of
the air at the confines of the atmosphere need not be
exactly the mean below the temperature of the earth's
surface and that of space. I have left physics altogether
                     CORRESPONDENCE                                347

in the meantime, and commence to the study of my old

subject Theism, or rather Evolution in its philosophical

aspects.  Evolution in relation to Teleology is the

subject I was working at twenty-five years ago. I want

to finish something which has been lying over ever since.

But I am so far behind in the literature of the subject

that it will take a  few years'  trheeand.i--ng    before I learn  what
has been actually    done since                  Yours truly,

                                                 JAMES CROLL.

Rev. Osmond   Fisher, M.A.       EDINBURGH, 2ist October 1879.

     MY DEAR   SIR, -- I have    just read your letter in

Nature, and I observe that your difficulty is a different

one from what I thought it was. You ask for an

explanation why the January temperature at the equator,

when the sun is in perihelion, is not much higher than in

July when in aphelion. But the temperature to which

you refer is the ordinary temperature, as indicated by

the shaded thermometer, which of course is simply the

temperature of the air. I don't think it would be very
difficult to show why the air in equatorial regions cannot

be much hotter in January than in July. When my
head gets better, I shall draw up a short paper on this

point.

    If it be true that the black bulb thermometer, which

indicates, not the temperature of the air, but the direct

heat of the sun, stands no higher at the equator in

January than in July, then there will certainly be a
difficulty in understanding how this can be the case, if

the temperature of space is as low as--239° F. But we
have no certain evidence yet, so far as I can learn, that

such is the case, and it was simply with the view of

ascertaining if any of the readers of Nature could afford
information if black bulb observations reliable have been

made at any suitable station, that Mr. Buchan and I

thought of writing to Nature.

I do not think that observations on the temperature
348 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

of the air can be of any value whatever in determining

the temperature of space.
     I have sent a few lines to Nature, pointing out the

necessity for black bulb observations at the equator. I

think it would be a pity to get into a discussion about
the temperature of the air, which could be of no real

service in the problems of the influence of the varying

distance of the sun on temperature. -- I am, ever yours,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                            EDINBURGH, lyh December 1879.

Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Many, many thanks for your note.
I daresay I may have stated in too strong terms that I

thought you had not properly taken into account the

modifying causes to which I referred. In reference to

Dulong and Petit's formula, it is a purely empirical one,

which has been found to agree pretty closely within the

limits of actual observations ; but it will not do to

assume that it will equally do so in the case of tempera
ture as low as that of space. For reasons which I have
given in Climate and Time, and for others which I shall

give in my next letter to Nature, the truth probably lies

somewhere between that of Newton and Dulong and

Petit.

In regard to the conclusion arrived at by Pouillet, to

which you refer, there cannot be the shadow of a doubt

that it is totally wrong. Pouillet's paper was written,

you will remember, in 1 8 3 8. At that time he was not

possessed of the means of knowing how far he must have
gone wrong. I do not now place the least reliance on

Pouillet's determinations.  Herschel's method appears

to be more satisfactory, but still I feel assured, for

reasons which I have also stated in Climate and Time,

he assigns far too high a temperature to space. I have
consulted one of the most eminent mathematical

physicists of the day, and his opinion is that stellar space

cannot be much above absolute zero.
               CORRESPONDENCE                           349

    I intend sending a letter to Nature on the unsatis

factory state of our knowledge regarding the temperature

of space,  but it may be some little time yet, as I am
suffering
           a good deal from my old complaint. -- With

kind regards, yours ever truly,

                                 JAMES CROLL.

    During the year 1880, Dr. Croll suffered greatly from

ill health; but he managed, in addition to his Survey
duties, to write a paper entitled " Mr. Hill on the Cause

of the Glacial Epoch," which appeared in the Geological

Magazine of     February      1880 (No. 79).     This   was
followed by a  paper on "    The Temperature of  Space  and

its Bearings on Terrestrial Physics," which appeared
                         i,
in  Nature on April          1880 (No. 80), and     another
on  " Aqueous Vapour     in  Relation to Perpetual   Snow,"

which appeared in Nature on July 1, 1880, in the

Geological Magazine of August 1880, and in the

American Journal of Science and Arts, August 1 8 80

(No. 81).
      Knowing the interest which Dr. Croll took in the

direction of the ice movement, as affecting the north of

Scotland, his colleague on the Survey, Mr. Horne, wrote

the following letter to him. Croll's reply, unfortunately,

has not been preserved.

                                                      BANFF, yd January 1880.

    MY DEAR CROLL,-- By this mail you will receive

copies of the papers on Orkney by Peach and myself.
You will be delighted that the evidence regarding
the north-westerly movement of the ice is so con
vincing. I am specially pleased with the abundance
of the Secondary rocks from Scotland in the boulder
clay in Orkney. It establishes the conclusion that

Orkney was glaciated by Scotch ice. Perhaps you may
have heard that Milne Home attacked our Shetland

paper in his presidential address to the Edinburgh
 350 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

 Geological Society last May. We thought it right to
 expose his error regarding the magnetic observations, and
 to answer other points. He sticks like a burr to Arctic
 currents. The reply is sent to the Geological Magazine,
 and should appear in this month's number or next
 month's.

       Our holiday work in Caithness this summer was
 highly satisfactory. We made out beyond all doubt that
 the low grounds of Caithness were glaciated towards
 the N.W.

       The foregoing rough sketch will show how the striae
in the valley and on the hill slopes between the county
boundary and the Caithness plain point E. and N.E.
Towards the edge of the plain they swing round to the
N. and N.W. We got abundant evidence of that point.
Then in numerous instances we proved, by means of the
dispersal of the stones in the boulder clay, that the ice-
flow must have been to the N.W. Further we got fair
proofs of the extent of the later glaciation. I am busy
at a joint paper on the subject, to be read at the
Physical Society, Edinburgh, in February. The London
men have had enough of that subject, I doubt, to publish
anything more about it.

     I am very sorry to hear you have been so ill, but I

hope you will long be spared to work away quietly yet.

I wish you very heartily all the compliments of the
season. I have not heard how you have been keeping
                  CORRESPONDENCE                             351

for some time.     If you can get            an amanuensis, I should
like very much                               are. -- With kind regards,
                  to hear how you

sincerely yours,                                  JOHN HORNE.

      The following letters from Dr. Croll to Mr. Horne are

of considerable interest :--

                                             EDINBURGH, l$th January 1880.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have sent off a short reply to
Mr. Hill. I have put some queries which will put him

to some little difficulty to answer, according to his notions

about the influence of fogs. It will appear in next number.
Hill is wrong out and out. He appears to have little
acquaintance with the physics of the subject.-- Yours

truly,                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                             EDINBURGH, lyh February 1880.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have sent off the two vols.
you want. I was asking Peach this morning what length

your paper but he does not seem to know. You may
          a
               is,                           out the better, you want

                                 it
                                         is
rest assured the sooner                              is if

to make mark. Every day's delay will diminish the

impression that the paper will make. It not minute

details that make the mark, but striking and unexpected

facts or  theories, and the man              out  gfierstttinggen--eraYlloyurgsettsruthlye,
credit.   What fine weather we               are  !

                                                  JAMES CROLL.

                                             EDINBURGH, iyh April 1880.

MY DEAR HORNE,--You will no doubt have observed

from the Geological Magazine and the Geological Society

Reports how much your paper                  is   really wanted. The

conservative English geologists, S. Wood, O. Fisher, etc.,

seem to   be in   a state of alarm about          the North  Sea ice
invading  their
                  land. --Yours truly,

                                                  JAMES CROLL.
3$2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                       EDINBURGH, ijth April i8&x

MY DEAR HORNE,-- I have read your letter to Peach.

He is of the same opinion as myself, that it would not be

advisable to postpone the paper. The facts to which you

refer regarding Caithness and the Banff district are quite

enough to form a separate paper to come after the

Orkney one. It does not do to cram too many new

and startling facts into one paper. What you have

got to say on the Orkneys is quite enough for one paper.

The great idea of your Orkney paper that the Scotch
                       is,
ice entering the North Sea passed over the Orkneys;a

and the facts you have to relate are more than sufficient

to convince any human being capable of being convinced

that such was the case. Let your readers get time to

ponder over your Orkney facts, and then, in future

paper, bring out those additional facts collected during

your new excursion. They will tell better after people

have mastered your arguments from the Orkney facts.

To enter into a discussion about Jamieson's ideas in

your main paper would be apt to divert attention

from the real drift of your argument. And, in addition

to all this, would necessarily curtail what you had
a
     a

       it

                      I

                                                                              a

                                                                                                                           ;
to state regarding the Orkneys, as the Society limits

you so much to space.  have sent off the parcel with

the books which you require. By the way, you could

append note to your paper to the effect that great

mass of striking facts relating to the drift of the east

coast of Scotland recently observed, go to corroborate the

conclusion at which we have arrived. This will form the

subject of future communication to the Society this

would prepare your readers for what was to follow. --

Yours truly,           JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll having sent his recent papers to Professor
M'Farland, of America, the following correspondence

followed --
:
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS  353

                                         OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS, O.,
                                                                    20th March 1880.

Mr. MJaYmeDsEACRrolSl,IRE,d--inIbuhragvhe. to acknowledge the receipt

of other favours at your hands, for which favours please

accept thanks.

     It seems to me that some who are opposed to certain

positions assumed or proved by you, touch off their guns
before they are well loaded, and, in consequence, come to

grief.

     My computations are somewhat delayed in the matter
of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit. Last summer
I expected to devote ten weeks to the work ; but from
many causes, I did not work an hour. When our College
year opens, in September of each year, my duties con
sume almost all the time. So when Christmas came, I
was not ready, and I am not now, but could be ready
for the engraver if I had ten or twelve days to devote
to the work. I have used the new constants for 1850,

as given by Stockwell, and computed by his formula
for a period of 4,5 10,000 years, beginning before 1850 ;
3| million years, and running to 1,260,000 years hence;
intervals 1 0,000 years, except at interesting points when
the computations are at short intervals. By the formula

\which you used, I went over I million years at intervals

of 25,000 years, but afterwards began the work over
at intervals of 10,000 years, to extend over the 4^
million years. On this part, the work is well advanced.
Each computation is independent of the rest. The two
curves follow the same general form, but give the
maximum points at different places. In one or two cases

Stockwell's form gives greater ordinates than the other.
With no further detention, I may be ready by the middle

of May ; and it will probably be July before I can get
the results in the American Journal of Science.

      The Ohio coalfields seem to demand, by reason of
the regularity of the intervals between seams, some

great swinging motion, so to speak, which your theory

           23
354 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

apparently fully and satisfactorily explains. Our

President, Mr. Orton, fully  accords with you    in  your
explanation of the " times    and the seasons."      Very
                                                 --

respectfully,                      R. W. M'FARLAND.

                                   EDINBURGH, nth April 1880.

Professor M'Farland.

    MY DEAR SIR,--Your letter of the 20th ult. I duly

received, and am delighted to learn that you have got

so far advanced in your arduous undertaking. What an
enormous amount of work you must have had ! Your

tables will be of great interest to astronomers and

physicists, and will be of permanent value to science.
     I shall write and get the editor of the Philosophical

Magazine to reprint them in the Journal for the benefit
of English readers, as soon as they appear in the

American Journal of Science.
     I am glad to know that President Orton has so

favourable an opinion of the theory of geological climate

discussed in my book.       Some   totimwheichagoyouherefkeirn. d--lyYosuernst
me a report of some of the  facts

ever truly,                        JAMES CROLL.

                                   EDINBURGH, Sth September 1880.

Professor M'Farland.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Many thanks for sending me a copy

of your valuable table and chart. The labour it cost you

must have been enormous. Those who glance over your

table as they turn over the pages of the Journal, will form

but a very inadequate idea of the amount of work

embodied in these half-dozen of pages.
     I am delighted to find that my results agree, in the

main, so closely with yours.

     I have written to the editor of the Philosophical

Magazine, directing his attention to the importance of

your table, and advising him to reprint it. -- With kindest
regards, I am, yours ever truly,
                                   JAMES CROLL.
               MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                          355

   Dr. Croll, approving highly of Professor Haughton's

calculations and speculations, was anxious to have these

published in America, and wrote the Professor on the

subject. Dr.   Croll's letter has not    been  preserved, but
the following  is the Professor's reply
                                         :--

                                TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN,

                                                   ,- 1880.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I  feel  much  obliged  by  your letter
     MY DEAR SIR,

of 2nd inst. and shall send copies of my paper to Nature

and the Philosophical Magazine. I also send you three
copies for any use you please. I undertook the experi

ments in order to find a co-efficient for estimating the

tidal retardation in the earth's rotation, and hope to

publish my results in the Proceedings of the Royal
Society, but, en passant, it was easy to draw an inference

about Carpenter's theory of oceanic circulation. If you

write to Professor Dana on the subject, you might add

the following, which came to my knowledge through an

engineering friend who had seen my paper.

"     Mr. J. H. Longridge made  observations in    Hungary on
                                Level Canals "     (Proc. Inst.
   The Flow of Water through

Eng. vol. liii. 1 877-8, Part Hi.), where he had eighty miles

of level water, with a difference of 2 feet level at the two

ends. His co-efficient of

_( ,,                     friction plus viscosity

           plus friction of bottom and sides of canal

gives f =  131-6  in place of my co-efficient f =  307

      Mr. Longridge's co-efficient is about double mine, which
is natural, as he had to deal with the " drag " of the
water against the bottom and sides of the canal, as well

as with the " drag " proper of water on water. -- I am,

yours sincerely,
                                                  SAMUEL HAUGHTON.
356 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

     Croll thereupon transmitted the paper to                         Mr.  Dana,
     American publisher, who wrote as follows
the                                                                  :--

                                                NEWHAVEN, yd August 1880.

     DEAR MR. CROLL,--We have set up Professor

Haughton's article which you sent us the copy of,
exclusive of the most of the tables, and were intending to

insert it in our September number. But, owing to a

recent decision in England against the agent of an

American journal, a trade journal of some kind, because

the said American journal contained an article from a

British journal of similar kind, one of our agents refuses

to act for us unless we exclude articles previously pub
lished in England. From Triibner & Co., our chief

agent in Great Britain, we have not heard. Under the

circumstances we are forced to delay, at least, the
publication of Professor Haughton's paper. We hope to

hear that the English law is not so stringent as is here

supposed.

     We should be greatly indebted to you if you would

learn from good authority whether we are no longer to
have the privilege of citing from the Proceedings or the
publications of British scientific societies, or from Nature,

the Philosophical Magazine, or the Geological Magazine.

Mr. Lockyer has sent us papers for republication. But,
as the case now appears, our agents are liable to

prosecution if citations of articles are ever made. We

do not suppose that any such prosecution would take

place, but we cannot satisfy agents except we have good

authority to quote.
      We have not often cited articles, being seldom able

to do it because of the pressure from American con

tributors.  grePaltelyaseoblgigivee, --uYs ouyorsurveariyd   in the  matter  and
you will                                                    truly,

                                                            JAMES G. DANA.
        MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                                    357

                                                                                        l%th August 1880.

    DEAR PROFESSOR DANA,--Your letter of the 3rd
inst. is to hand, and I am astonished at the decision

to which you refer. I had no idea that the English law

in regard to the reproduction of articles in American

journals was so stringent and absurd. I am at present

confined to the house from indisposition ; but, so soon as

I am able to go out, I shall make particular inquiries in

regard to the matter, and then let you know. Most English

authors would be very sorry indeed to learn that their

articles in future must be excluded from American journals.

I am sorry that you should have been put to so

much trouble in this matter, but I hope to find on inquiry

that the law does not apply to such purely scientific con

tributions as generally appear in your pages. Please to

accept my very best thanks for being so kind as to
give my short paper a place in your August number. I

have just written to Professor Haughton and explained

to him the circumstances. -- I am, dear sir, yours very

truly,                                                       JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll having written Professor Haughton referring
to Dr. Carpenter's article in Nature, received the following

reply :--

                               TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN,

                                                             'jth August 1880.

James Croll, Esq.  CROLL,-- I  received your                 note, for
     MY DEAR MR.
which I am much obliged. I do not intend to answer

Dr. Carpenter's statement in Nature, as he appears to

me not to understand the fundamental conceptions of

hydrostatical pressure, on which the motion must depend.
He makes the same mistake about the ocean that Halley

made about the air in his theory of Trade Winds. I

hope, next winter, to send to the Royal Society a sketch

oTfraademaantdhemAnattii-ctarladteheWoriyndso.f--ocIeaamn ,  currents caused    by
                                                             yours truly,

                               SAMUEL HAUGHTON.
358 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Dr. Croll having written to Mr. Wallace regarding
the Glacial epochs, the following correspondence between

them ensued :--

PEN-Y-BRYN, ST. PETER'S ROAD, CROYDON,

                  lyhjuly 1880.

James Croll, Esq.      --  Many  thanks  for your interest
      DEAR MR. CROLL,

ing letter. The facts you mention are most curious and
startling, and I shall look with great interest to Professor

Geikie's detailed account of them. My chapter on
" Glacial Epochs and Warm Polar Climates " has passed
through the press some months back, and I am now
near the end of my book. I can hardly venture to hope
that my conclusions will satisfy you, but I may say here

that they have been reached mainly by giving greater

weight to your admirable views on ocean currents
as affecting climate, than you seem to do yourself. I

have endeavoured to show that a comparatively slight

increase of the warm tropical waters carried to the

Arctic regions, combined with somewhat less high land

in those regions, would render glacial conditions

impossible there, and this being done, there would

necessarily result the state of climate that the Miocene

Arctic vegetation showed did exist. I have further

attempted to prove that the geological evidence shows

that there was, during the greater part of the Secondary

and Tertiary periods, such terrestrial conditions as would

cause this great transference of equatorial heat north

wards, and I have further argued, I hope soundly,

that, such a condition of things existing, neither high

eccentricity nor the changing phases of aphelion and

perihelion would alter the general character of the climate,

though it might affect the nature of the seasons. I also

show that the changing phases of perihelion, etc., would
only reverse the Polar glaciation when that glaciation was

of small extent. When it was extensive and excessive,

the change to winter in perihelion would not do away
              MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                      359

with the Glacial epoch, but only cause a slight fluctuation
of its southern limits.

      This will enable you to form some idea of the nature
of my argument, which I am sure you will weigh care
fully when I have the pleasure of sending you a copy of

the book, as I hope to do in a few months. -- Believe me,

yours very faithfully,
                                               ALFRED R. WALLACE.

Alfred R.                                     EDINBURGH, i^thjuly 1880.
     DEAR
           Wallace, Esq.  --                  Many,  many  thanks  for  your
           MR. WALLACE,

interesting letter, giving me a brief outline of the general

drift of your views on the cause of geological climate.
I shall be looking with interest to the appearance of your

book. Of course I cannot make out from your brief

statement what those causes really are on which you

rely : only I do trust you don't put much stress on the

effects of changes in the physical geography of the globe.

There is one serious objection to all theories of geological

climate based on great changes in physical geography.

These changes must be assumed to take place with

irregularity, and also with extreme slowness, and it will

be difficult to get them to harmonise with warm

Interglacial periods. The amount of evidence uncollected,

which lies scattered over the various journals and papers

of America and the Continent, is perfectly astonishing.

This will be brought out very strongly by Dr. James
Geikie in his forthcoming work on Prehistoric Man in

Europe. It
      is      think, now beyond question that the
                 it is,

                  is I

                                           a
Glacial epoch consisted of succession of cold and warm

periods, which must be accounted for in any theory of
geological climate. In fact, these periods are the general

test of theories of climate. It seems to me difficult to

conceive how  possible that they could have depended

on changes in physical geography. They have all along

convinced me that the only possible way of explaining

them  by the hypothesis that these alternations were
360 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

due to the precession of the equinoxes at the time of

high eccentricity. After fifteen years' study of the sub

ject, I have been unable to find any serious objection
to this theory. Nearly all the objections which I have

seen have been based upon misapprehension of the

subject.

     There is another point on which I think considerable

misapprehension prevails, that;                       in supposing that the

                                         a is,
                                                is
great accumulation of snow and ice on Arctic and

Antarctic regions results from high elevation of the

land. True, on elevated mountains all over the globe

we have perpetual snow but this                               not owing simply

to elevation, but to certain physical conditions which

come into operation at great altitudes, but these con

ditions are obtained on Polar continents without any

elevation. This have endeavoured to show in a letter
                       I

                                                  is
in Nature, July I. We have almost positive evidence

that the Antarctic continent                          a vast, flat plain, very

little elevated above sea-level. It contains, no doubt,

some elevated mountains, but these, of course, cannot

determine the general character of the climate. Green

land does not appear to contain in the interior great

mountain chains. Its mountains are simply a fringe

along its western edge. True, the surface of the inland

ice found everywhere to slope gradually upwards
         it is
towards the interior, but there no evidence to conclude
            I is                is
                                     is
that the ground under the ice does so. The thickening

of the ice, as we proceed inwards, a necessary condition
of an ice-sheet. Without this there could be no general

dispersion of the ice.     hope you will excuse me for
                         I
                            I
                                          I
going into these details.     thought might draw your

attention to them, so that you might give them your

consideration when you are treating this vexed subject,

but             very   unlikely you have              fallen  into  any of these
                  am,  yours ever truly,
traps. --

                                                              JAMES CROLL.
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS                                             361

                   PEN-Y-BRYN, ST. PETER'S ROAD, CROYDON,
                                           211,1 December 1880.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  of  your
     MY DEAR SIR,

continued ill health, so far as regards mental work. I

trust, however, that you may be spared the affliction of

paralysis, and may soon quite recover. Personally I

should much regret losing the benefit of your criticism

of my theory of geological climate, which is really

founded almost wholly on your own researches, and

which so very few  people   seem able    clearly to compre
                   wishes,  believe me,  yours faithfully,
hend.--With best

                              ALFRED R. WALLACE.
                      CHAPTER XX

    RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON GEOLOGICAL
                                          SURVEY

                                     the whole of the year 1880,

THRODUr.GCHroOllUsTuffered sadly from impaired health.

His old complaint in the head became more serious, and

the pain was so constant and severe that he was able to

get but very little sleep. To make matters worse, he
met with an unfortunate accident one day during the
summer. Standing in an awkward position on a pair of
steps in the office, he was trying hurriedly to remove

some maps from a drawer, when suddenly he strained
something in the region of the heart. The result was
that, for several months, he was unable to make any
physical effort or even to walk about with any degree of

comfort. As Professor Sanders, whom he had formerly
consulted with beneficial results, was by this time dead,
he was now under the medical care of Professor Grainger
Stewart. This gentleman thought it advisable to try
whether the external application of aconite might have
any effect in the way of relieving the pain in the head,
and ordered a little to be applied to the afflicted part at
times when the pain was severe. Dr. Croll carefully
carried out the injunctions of the physician for some
time, but the desired effect did not appear. On the
contrary, the repeated application of the powerful drug

seemed to aggravate the ailment. One evening, after
applying it once or twice, Dr. Croll suddenly found that
he had lost the power of speech, to such an extent that
he could speak only in an unintelligible manner, like a

                                                                             362
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 363

man paralysed. It seemed that the poison had seriously

affected some of the nerves or muscles of the tongue
or lips, and, although the power of intelligible speech
returned in the course of a week or two, the injurious
effects of the aconite did not wholly disappear for several

years.

      In the beginning of 1881, Dr. Croll felt very weak
owing to want of sleep, pain in the head, and weak and
irregular action of the heart, and he began to think that,
although his duties in the office of the Geological Survey
were comparatively light, he had now become physically
unable to discharge them sufficiently. His colleagues,

who had learned to regard him with the warm affection
of friends, were ready to do everything in their power
to lighten his toil ; and they urged him to apply for
a prolonged leave of absence, that he might see what
the effect of thorough rest would be. But he was too
tenderly conscientious to think of taking pay for months
of ease, during which he would be unable to do any
work, and he declined the friendly suggestion, and made
up his mind to retire from his position on the Survey.
Accordingly he sent in his resignation, and in the spring
of 1 88 1 he left the Government Service, in which he
had spent thirteen of the best years of his life.

      Professor Haughton, knowing the deep interest Dr.
Croll took in the subject of the eccentricity of the

earth's orbit, wrote him the following letter :--

                               TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN,

                                    2ist Febniary 1881.

James Croll, Esq.  CROLL,-- I  was  very  much  concerned
     MY DEAR MR.

to learn, from your letter of 2nd December 1880, that

you are threatened with serious illness, but trust that

complete rest from work may enable you to resume good

work hereafter. I am to lecture in Glasgow on Thursday

evening next, and intend going on to Edinburgh, in the

hope of seeing you and some other friends.
364 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

During the last few months I have succeeded in

stating in strict mathematical form the long irregularity

in terrestrial climates depending on the perihelion

longitude and eccentricity of the earth's orbit. I have
                                  I will
sent it to the  Royal Society.             send   yyoouuranowena. r--ly
copy, as you    have made the   subject   almost

Yours very sincerely,

                                SAMUEL HAUGHTON.

      The following letters from Dr. Croll to Mr. Horne

record his doings about this period :--

                                               EDINBURGH, vmd April 1881.

MY DEAR HORNE,-- Being in the office, I take

advantage of Robert's pen to answer your kind note.

Mrs. Croll read the reply to Milne-Home you kindly

sent. It is first-rate. I am glad to notice that you

intend getting your Caithness paper put into the

Geological Magazine. I had a visit from Jamieson of
Ellon on Thursday. He is very much pleased with your

Orkney and Shetland work, and I understand that he

agrees with you on the various points. I have as yet

had no information regarding the pension, but I hope it

will be all right. I intend storing up my furniture in

Edinburgh for a year, and will probably go north to

Elgin about the end of May, and will stay with my

sister-in-law Mrs. Findlay, 45 South College Street.
Mrs. C. and I will be delighted to have a visit from
you when we go north. I
                                hwoeplle. --MWrsi.thHkoirnndeestanrdegayrodusr,
young daughter are keeping
I am, yours,

                                          JAMES CROLL.

                                                       45 SOUTH COLLEGE STREET, ELGIN,

                                                      zist July 1881.

    MY DEAR HORNE,-- I duly received your letter,

but am sorry to find that we will have left Elgin before

you reach it. The Director would no doubt tell you
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 365

that we have made up our minds to go to the south
of England, and we leave here by the mail train on the
29th. We intend staying at Kingussie for two weeks on
our way south. We would have remained longer here,

but the place is not agreeing with me. I have been
getting worse instead of better since I came to Elgin.
I think the house is damp. Mr. Bennie read Mr.
Milne-Home's paper to me, and your reply. I think
your reply is first-rate. I am glad to hear that it will
appear in the August number. I hope that Mrs.

Horne, yourself, and little daughter are enjoying good

health. Mrs. C. joins me in kind regards. -- Ever

yours,
                                                             JAMES CROLL.

     You mention having sent the Geological Magazine to

me. It has not come to hand. If not sent off, you

need not, of course, send it.

                                                        BRIDGEND, PERTH, iSth August 1881.

     MY DEAR HORNE, -- Would you kindly let me

have a look at your Geological Magazine for August

cteonntdaianyins.g--yYoouurrspatpruelry. , We will be here for a week or

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                              CUMBERNAULD, y>th August 1881.

     Mv DEAR HORNE,-- Allow me to congratulate you

on your promotion. I am very glad indeed to hear of
your appointment, and I wish you continued health and
much success. Thanks for the copy of your paper. I
met Mr. Peach at Perth, in the house of Mr. Marshall,

 Mrs. Peach's brother-in-law ; and as he wished to get

a reading of your article, I left your copy of the
 Geological Magazine with him, which he promised to
366 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

forward  to you    after   reading       it.     If it should not come
to hand  shortly,   write   me and            will remind him. --Yours
                                         I

truly,

                                              JAMES CROLL.

      Mr. Darwin having sent Dr. Croll a copy of his

book, received the following acknowledgment :--

                           43 CLAREMONT ROAD, ALEXANDRA PARK,
                                   MANCHESTER, 22nd October 1881.

Charles  Darwin,   SEIRsq, --.,  LL.D.,  F.R.S.          the  copy  of
          DEAR                   I have   just received
     MY

your most interesting volume which you have so kindly

sent me. The subject is new and important.

Please to accept my best thanks for the gift. You

will be glad to learn that I am much improved in health
of late. Sleep has completely returned. I am at

present on my way to winter in some warm and

sheltered place in the south of England, where I can
live cheaply. -- I am, yours sincerely,

                                              JAMES CROLL.

      The following letter shows how Dr. Croll even in his

illness yearned for scientific news :--

     MY                                                15 STRAND, DAWLISH, DEVON,
of you.                                                            2ist December 1881.

         DEAR HORNE,-- I want to ask a small favour
          As I am cut off from all scientific journals and

magazines at present, would you let me have a look at

your Athenceum when you are done with it? I will

return it to you next day. I don't read much, but

like to look over that journal, more particularly the

advertisements part, as it lets one know what is going

on in the book world. I have been told that two weeks

ago there appeared in Nature a lecture by Professor

Ball on Mr. G. H. Darwin's remarkable work. I should

like to see the copy containing the lecture in question,
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 3 6?

but I do not like to ask the office copy. We came to

Devonshire at the beginning of the month, and we are

enjoying an almost Italian winter climate in this pleasant

place. The roses and geraniums are in full bloom at

present in  the open    air.     I was delighted  to hear of the
Director's  promotion.        Yours very truly,
                        --

                              JAMES CROLL.

      On relinquishing his position in the Survey, Dr. Croll
went north to Elgin, the native place of Mrs. Croll, in the
hope that change of air and complete rest would benefit
him. His health, however, did not improve, and he got
rather worse than better there. Probably the air of this
northern city was too keen for him. He thereupon moved

to Perth for a short time, but did not find much benefit
from this change either. As the winter was now approach
ing, Mrs. Croll and his friends grew anxious as to what
the effects of a severe Scottish winter might be upon him
in his enfeebled state of health, and it was resolved to

remove to a warmer climate. Mrs. Croll and he accord
ingly removed in the beginning of December to a pretty
little village called Dawlish, in Devonshire. This place

he seemed to enjoy immensely, as, owing to the geniality
of the climate, he could get out daily, and wander about
in the open air. In the month of December the climate

was so mild that, as he says himself, the roses and
geraniums were in full bloom in the open air. Here

he rapidly regained strength, and, the physical energy
returning, the restless brain yearned for work. Dr. Croll

had already returned to his favourite metaphysical studies,
and written a paper on " Evolution in Relation to Force."
This was sent to the Contemporary Review, but the
magazine had such a plethora of lighter and more
popular literature in hand, that it kept it for four
months, and Croll, getting dissatisfied, asked for its
return. He writes to his old friend Mr. Fisher on this

subject.
368 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                                15 STRAND, DAWLISH, DEVON,
                                                                            4/A February 1882.

    DEAR MR. FISHER, -- The Contemporary, after keep

ing my article on " Evolution in Relation to Force " for

four months, has returnedit   stating that, owing to the
                         is
pressure on their space from political matters, they could
                          I it,

                                            is it
not find room for my paper, although had been carefully

read and approved of. A new editor has just got into

power, and suspect            he that has overturned the
it

       I
                I
matter. The article has engaged my attention now and

again for the past thirty years, and               by far the best

thing have ever written.      am therefore anxious that

    should appear in some good journal. Can you tell me

who are the principal men connected with the Nineteenth

Century, or any other journal you might think suitable           ?

The length of the article against it. Itis         will  occupy  at
least twenty-five pages. -- Yours ever truly,

                                       JAMES CROLL.

    Dr. Croll now began to yearn to return to Scotland,

as the mild spring was approaching. Accordingly they

resolved that so soon as the weather should become

mild enough to justify their leaving Dawlish they would

do so.

    On 22nd March 1882, Dr. and Mrs. Croll, on the

invitation of his old friend, the Rev. Osmond Fisher, paid

aa  visit to him on their way home to Scotland, and spent

    couple of days at the hospitable house of Harlton

Rectory, Cambridge. The visit was a source of much

mutual enjoyment to both those old scientific friends,

regarding which Mr. Fisher writes " My memory does
                                   I:
not serve me to remember any remarkable incident of

Dr. and Mrs. Croll's visit to me.      was much struck

with the simple modesty of one of so grand attainments."

This was feature in Croll's character which struck every
        a

thinking person who came in contact with him and knew

anything of his work. Though a giant in intellect, and

an authority on all the subjects he studied, he had the
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 369

simplest, most modest, and unaffected manner, and would
talk pleasantly to a little child, to the most illiterate or
the most intellectual man with equal apparent interest,
earnestness, and serenity. During an intimate acquaint

ance of over forty years, the writer never once saw his

temper even ruffled.
     Leaving Harlton, Dr. and Mrs. Croll journeyed home

to Scotland, and returned to Perth. From there he writes

his friend Mr. Horne, of the Survey, the following letter :--

                                                           PERTH, iSih October 1882.

MY DEAR HORNE,-- I return Athenceum with many

thanks. Look at Literary Gossip for 23rd September.
I have no idea of the price of the American edition of

C. and T. I should think it would not be more than the

half of the English. Thin, I have no doubt, would soon

find you a second-hand copy. I asked the publishers what

they would sell me a copy for, and the reply was seven

teen shillings. This, with carriage, would come to about

a pound. I then applied to Thin, and he gave me a

cheap second-hand copy. This was about two years ago.

When you get the volume on the Orkney and Shetland,

perhaps you will let me have a look at it for a day.

Glad to hear of our old friend Mr. Lawrence. I have

not seen     him for    a   generation.   He is an agreeable and
intelligent    fellow.      Yours truly,
                        --                      - JAMES CROLL.

     Dr. Croll, being          at  leisure, wrote  to  Professor
M'Farland as follows
                            :--

                                            GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OFFICE, EDINBURGH,

                                                   yd April 1882.
Professor M'Farland.

    MY DEAR SIR, --You will be sorry to learn that in

consequence of pain in the head, I found it necessary to

retire from the Geological Survey about a year and

half ago. I am, however, happy to say that the long
mental rest I have enjoyed has almost restored me to my

former condition.

            24
370 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

    I hope you are still pursuing your scientific work, and

in the enjoyment of good health. I felt annoyed and

disappointed at the editor of the Philosophical Magazine

for not reprinting your important tables of eccentricity.

I think it was foolish in him, for they would have been

of service to English astronomers, as they are by far the

most complete ever computed, or probably ever will be

attempted. I dare say the editor would have but little

conception of the amount of labour embodied in your figures.
                    say that I
or   I need hardly              shall be glad    to have   a line
    two from you    when you      find leisure.              ever
                                                 -- Yours

truly,                          JAMES CROLL.

                                        OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS, O.,
                                                       30/>5 April 1882.

Dr. MJamY eDsECArRoll,SIERd,i--nbYuorguhr. letter of the 3rd inst. was

received several days since, and before answering, I wished
to see Dr. Orton, our Professor of Geology, who is also
at present the State Geologist. I knew he would be
glad to hear of your improved health, and to send
greetings, as he does. Although our work is in close

proximity to each other, our time is so fully occupied that

it sometimes happens that we do not see each other for
days. He is at work on the 5th volume of Ohio Geology,
which he hopes to have ready for the press within the
present year. When printed, a copy will be sent to you.
Professor Orton is here considered one of the best
geologists of the United States, and his very early per
ception of the value of your theory of geologic climate,
in explanation of glacial action as manifested all over our
broad State, did very much to bring your work promi
nently before the University and its patrons everywhere.

It may be of interest to you to know that Climate and

Time is regularly read by our classes, and discussed and

spoken of as I think it should be ; not as a text-book,

but as a reference book with the classes in Geology, and

also in Astronomy. Many students evince a thorough
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY yji

knowledge    of its   sgarliaetnifticafteioantu--reso.r  And what is also
matter for  personal                                     may be so, at least
-- is the fact that the weight of reason for your conclu

sions seems so much to overbalance objections, that the

work is a final and standard authority. Only a day or

two before your letter reached me, my class in Astronomy

had under discussion the astronomical part of the work ;

and afterwards they were all gratified when I said that I

had received a note from you. We are all glad to hear
of your improved health, and hope that many years of

valuable work may yet be granted you. Indeed, your long

silence had led me to fear the worst, and many a time within

the year I have feared lest I should see your name in the
list of those who " have joined the innumerable caravan."

My duties are numerous, having charge of two

departments in the University, and directing the work in

both ; but my health is so good, that since the spring of

1856 I have lost not a single hour in College work by
reason of sickness, and in the winter can kick the beam

at more than 200 Ibs. My appointment over a year ago

as State Inspector of Railway Bridges has in that time

somewhat interfered with my scientific work. We have

almost 6000 miles of railway in the State ; and myself

and the two assistants are   oexf ptehcetebdridtgoesexaanmdinteresyteleasr--ly,
and report on the condition

the bridges number over 1200, and the trestles about

5000. But the work is done in the long summer vacation
of three months.

Should your health or inclination ever permit you to

visit this country, I assure you of a most cordial recep

MVery truly your friend,
tion, and shall hope that we might be honoured with a

call, and begin a personal acquaintance.
     I need not assure you that I shall
glad to hear from you, and to know of                    yaolwuarysweblfearev.e--ry

                             Rw

     P.S. -- I send our last circular and catalogue, it may

be of some interest.
372 LIFE OF JAMBS CROLL

Before Dr. Croll resigned, the Director of the Survey,

Professor (now Sir Archibald) Geikie, who was all along a
good friend, undertook to write an official letter to the

Director-General, recommending that he should get an

additional allowance added to the pension to which he

was entitled under the regulations of the Civil Service.

It was naturally to be expected that, when a man like

Croll joined the Survey, at the request of the heads

of the Department, in the full knowledge of his then

advanced age, and with distinct indication that this would

be taken into account, there would be no difficulty in
obtaining this. The Superannuation Act authorises the

Treasury to declare that when, for the due and efficient

discharge of the duties of any office or class of offices,

professional or other peculiar qualifications not ordinarily

to be required in the public service are required, and

that it is for the interest of the public that persons should

...be appointed thereto at an age exceeding that at which
public service usually begins,  a number of years, not

exceeding twenty, in addition to the actual number of

his years of service, may be granted to him in comput

ing the amount of superannuation. If any man had

ever shown peculiar qualifications for a post on the

Geological Survey not ordinarily required in the public

service, that man was Dr. Croll. Indeed, it may be

safely said that no stronger case for the granting of
the utmost allowance authorised by the Act has ever

been presented to the Treasury. But the very strength

of his case in the eyes of all scientific, academic, parlia

mentary, and other competent men, was its weakness in

the eyes of the Treasury. As a matter of fact, two

assistant geologists, disabled for duty about the same

time as he was, the one on the English and the other on

the Irish staff, did get large additions to their pensions.

The English assistant, in the computation of his allow

ance, had twenty years added to the twelve years which

he had served, and thus received a pension equal to

thirty-two sixtieths of his full salary; while the Irish
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 373

 assistant, who was twenty-one years younger than Croll,

 had twenty-four years added to his thirteen years, so that
 his allowance amounted to thirty-seven sixtieths of his
 salary, i.e. within three sixtieths of the highest retiring
 allowance. When it was clearly seen that he had

 received an allowance too small to afford a maintenance,

 Professor Geikie kindly drew up a memorial to the
 Prime Minister on his behalf, praying that he would
 recommend the grant of a small sum annually from the
 Civil List. This memorial was signed by a number of
the leading Fellows of the Royal Society of London, and
by several influential members of Parliament. After
Croll had been kept anxiously waiting for a period of

eighteen months, an answer was received to the effect that
the right honourable gentleman did not consider his
claim to be one which he could recommend for the Civil

List, but that he would grant a sum of ;£i00 from the
Queen's Bounty, This sum, of course, could in no way
be considered as compensation for the deficiency of his

pension, or an amount sufficient to meet his wants.

      In 1882 the shabby behaviour of the British Treasury
to one of its servants, also one of the most distinguished
scientific men of the time, was the subject of much sharp
criticism at the meeting of the British Association. As
the result of that, it was resolved that a memorial should

be drawn up and presented to the Lords of the Committee
of the Council on Education, Science and Art Department,

asking for an additional allowance to the pension awarded.
The memorial, which was signed by most of the dis
tinguished men of science of the day, by a large number
of University Professors, and many members of Parlia
ment, met with a like reception. In refusing this
memorial, advantage was taken of the fact that the
last memorial had been presented to the Prime Minister,
and that, although he did not consider Dr. Croll's scientific
services warranted him being put on the Civil List, he

had made him a grant of £100 from the Royal Bounty.
Undoubtedly it would have been better to have pre
374 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sented the first memorial to the Lords of the Committee
of the Council on Education ; but, even had that been
done, there is no reason to believe that any different
result would have been obtained. It is difficult to believe
that the British Treasury actually allowed an eminent

public servant to resign, in old age and sadly impaired
health, on a pension of little more than one-fifth of his
annual salary, and then refused to augment that pension

on the ground that £100 had been doled out to him from
the Royal Bounty. But such is the melancholy fact, and
it is believed that for this, as for other facts, there was a
cause. It has been hinted that a somewhat popular
scientist, some of whose current theories Dr. Croll had

vigorously and too successfully assailed, had prejudiced
the Prime Minister against his assailant. We cannot for

a moment believe that the Premier would listen to any
paltry, untrue, and absurd charge of agnosticism or
atheism brought against Dr. Croll ; but we do sadly fear
that he did not himself understand his brilliant contribu

tions to geological science, and that, in an evil hour, he
listened to the detractions of a prejudiced, or, perhaps,
even spiteful man. Accordingly we are persuaded that
the appeals made to the Government on Dr. Croll's
behalf were never fully considered on their merits. Dr.

Croll's peculiar qualifications for service on the Geological
Survey were most notable, his contributions to geological
science had been of the most brilliant order, and he had

resigned in the firm belief that a liberal retiring allowance
would be granted him when he had reached an age at
which he could expect to enjoy the allowance for only a
few brief years ; yet he was informed, after four or five
months' delay, that the Treasury had awarded him a
superannuation allowance of £7$, i6s. 8d., a sum equal

merely to thirteen sixtieths of his annual salary. In the
case of the English assistant, the pension was calculated
on twenty plus the twelve actual years of service ; in the
case of the Irish assistant, on twenty-four plus the thir
teen actual years of service ; in the case of the Scotch
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 375

geologist, on the bare thirteen years of actual service.
Thus Croll, the most eminent scientist on the staff of the

Geological Survey Office, was, by her Majesty's Treasury,
 ruthlessly plunged into poverty.

      As Lord Salisbury had himself signed the second

 memorial, it was thought when he took office that he
might look more favourably on Croll's claims. Another
 attempt was accordingly made, a few years later, by his
scientific friends on similar lines ; but the Treasury,
having once said No, never repents in a righteous cause ;
and again an answer of refusal came. Probably, had
Croll been a popular retailer of other men's scientific
discoveries, a studious member of a foreign royal family,
or a well-recommended, although already highly-paid
public servant, he would have received a liberal allowance

from the Civil List ; but because he did his duty well,
because he had advanced the cause of science as much
as any man of his time, because he had led, not only

a blameless but an exemplary life, and because he had
the strongest claims on all grounds to an increased

pension,-- the British Treasury thought fit to refuse

him his just reward, and left him and his wife to subsist,
or rather starve, on a beggarly allowance of .£75 per
annum.

      Dr. Croll felt the manner in which he had been
treated very keenly. He had not even got justice,
being actually worse treated than two inferior men on
the English and Irish Survey, who had not a tithe of the
claim to recognition which he had. His first inclination
was to write exposing the matter in the newspapers, but
from this he was dissuaded. The following letters show

how anxious he was about the matter, not so much on

his own account as that of Mrs. Croll :--

MY DEAR                      19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                                  2$th November 1882.

         IRONS, -- I shall take your advice and not

write to the Scotsman. But something will have to be
376 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

done at once. I cannot, of course, apply direct to Mr.
Mundella. My only chance, I think, is to write out a
full statement of my case, and get some one of influence,
who knows something about me, to present it to Mr.
Mundella.

     I enclose a statement which I have sketched out.
I am sorry to trouble you, but I should like very much
if you could manage to find time to go over it when it

comes to hand, and make any necessary corrections or

improvements which may suggest themselves. I have
explained the conditions on which I agreed to enter the
Survey, for I don't believe that they know that I was in

a measure urged to join.
     As I intend going through to Edinburgh on Wednes

day morning to see what can be done, kindly report the

statement, so that it will reach me on Tuesday. --Yours

truly,
                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                19  NORTH METHVEN STREET,      PERTH,

                            yd December 1882.

MY DEAR         IRONS, -- It has just occurred to me that,

as you are a law agent, and the document sent bears the
mark of having been copied by one of your clerks, there

is a chance of Mr. Waddy falling into the mistake that I

am one of your clients, and not, as I really am, an old

and intimate friend, and that you have written in a

business capacity, not out of kindness.

      Should you think that there is even the ghost of
a chance of him or of Mr. Mundella falling into this

mistake, would it not be better to write at once and

put the matter right ? From a business point of view

neither Waddy nor Mundella would take much interest

in the matter.

Apologising for troubling you, I am, yours ever

ruly,

                                         JAMES CROLL.
RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT ON SURVEY 377

                                                     19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                                        lyh December 1882.

     MY DEAR IRONS, -- I am to meet Mr. Parker, M.P.,

here on Monday, along with Dr. Bower and Mr. Robert
Pullar, about that pension business. As nothing has

been heard from Mr. Waddy, I really do not know what
would be best to ask Mr. Parker to do. If Mr. Waddy

cannot see his way clear to approach Mr. Mundella, it
would be a pity to lose the chance of getting Mr. Parker
to do it. Mr. Pullar is chairman of Mr. Parker's
committee, and would have great influence with him.
What do you think should be done? One would not
like to ask Mr. Waddy the question point blank, but
could there not be some way of getting an answer from
him, acknowledging at least the receipt of the document,
before Monday ? This would likely bring out the idea

whether he is to do anything or not. At anyrate, you

might drop me a line or two, by the end of the week,
as to what you think would be best to ask of Mr.

mPaurckher.snowF.r--osYt ouvresryevseervetrreulyh, ere at present, but not

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                                                               z0th December 1882.

     MY DEAR IRONS, -- I saw Mr. Parker this morning,

and had a long talk with him. He is very much
interested in my case, and will do everything he can to
aid me. He knows Mr. Mundella well, and will speak
to him. He thinks, however, that there will be great
difficulty in reopening the pension question. He believes
that there is more chance of getting something further
from Mr. Gladstone. He mentioned that Lord Rosebery

might be of service. I shall come through to-morrow,
Thursday, and see you for a few minutes at 10 A.M.--

Yours truly,
                                                             JAMES CROLL.
378 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                            PERTH, ztfh December 1882.

    MY DEAR IRONS, --As I have some business in

Edinburgh, I think I shall come through on Tuesday

and see what can be   done to   get                    at Lord Rosebery
before Mr. Gladstone  comes to  stay
                                                       with him. --Yours

truly,                                                 JAMES CROLL.

                                                                   PERTH, 2gM December 1882.

    MY DEAR IRONS, -- I have just time to catch the

post. Make out the memorial the way you think best.

Get a proof from printer, and then let me see it. If it

is addressed to My Lords, Professor Geikie will forward
it. Your friend appears to think it can be so addressed.

     I got proof of list of papers this morning and have

returned it corrected to printer.
     I trust Dr. Allon will send on a few copies of my

article.

    I should have a dozen of proofs of memorial at least.

      I hope Mr.    Craomunpdb.e--ll'sYokunrseeeviser  improving.  Mrs. C.
    slowly getting                                      truly,
is

                                                       JAMES CROLL.
         CHAPTER XXI

                  EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE

THE article which Dr. Croll had sent to the Con
            temporary was afterwards sent to the British
Quarterly Review, where it appeared in January 1883,
under the title " Evolution by Force Impossible : a New
Argument against Materialism."

      His residence in Devonshire during the winter of
1 88 1-2 had greatly invigorated him, and the rest he
enjoyed there had so much improved his health, that
he felt he would soon be able to resume his studies.
Fortunately, his expectations were not disappointed,
and he was soon able to enter upon a considerable
correspondence regarding his metaphysical paper, as well
as his climatic and geological investigations.

      The matter of his superannuation allowance, which
was vital to him, still occupied his attention, and he

wrote the following letters on that subject :--

         19  NORTH  METHVEN STREET,     PERTH,

                    yd January 1883.     are to
         IRONS, --Yours with memorials
MY DEAR

hand. I shall send one with the letter to the Duke

of Argyll, who is at Mentone at present ; and when
I get his signature, I shall then send or get some one
it,
                   it

                               I it,
                                       I

                                                                      a
else to send to the Duke of Devonshire. Dr. Bower

will get Sir D. Currie and the other Perth names. If

we manage to get at Lord Rosebery before Mr.

Gladstone comes through, will do.  will find means

of getting the Glasgow M.P.'s, when once get few

             S79
380 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

copies of the list of papers. Dr. Allon has not sent on
the copies of article. I suppose the printer would not

get them thrown off till after the Review was printed.

If they do not come to hand by the time the list is
ready, I will send you the proof I have.

The better plan will be to send the copy of Climate

and Time through by rail, and I shall write Earl

Rosebery's name on it.

      We must not append too many names, but first-rate

what there are. A lot of commonplace men would

weaken the memorial.

Wishing you all a happy New Year, I am, yours

ever truly,                                 JAMES CROLL.

                                                     PERTH, yh January 1883.

MY DEAR IRONS, -- Book to hand. As it is con

sidered rude to present a book to a nobleman without

obtaining his permission, I have not sent it direct, but
have forwarded it by book-post to you. I have enclosed

a copy of list of my papers, received from printer this
morning, along with a copy of article from British

Quarterly, which came to hand last night, so that you

need not trouble opening the parcel, but put a label with

Lord Rosebery's address over the present address, and it

could be sent to him when Lord Moncreiff forwards the
memorial. His lordship might mention in his note to
Lord Rosebery that a copy of my book is sent, which

the author hopes may be accepted.

     I enclose a copy of article for Lord Moncreiff, which

might be handed to him along with list of papers.
     I telegraphed to the printer to send on immediately

a dozen of copies of list of papers, and hand a few to

you. Be sure and send list of papers to every one along
with every copy of memorial.

I have only got the two or three copies of the

Quarterly article which  I  wrote for, but   I do   tArursgtyllt.h--ey
will let me have more.
                            I shall send    one to

Yours ever truly,                           JAMES CROLL.
         EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                     381

                       19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                      8M January 1883.

Sir Joseph Hooker, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D.
    DEAR SIR,-- About two years ago, owing to the

state of my health, I was under the necessity of resign

ing my situation on the Geological Survey. By some

mishap or other I received too little superannuation

allowance.  I have been advised by my friends to

memorialise the Lords of the Science and Art Depart

ment for an addition to my pension. I enclose a copy

of the memorial, and I need hardly say that I shall feel

greatly obliged for the benefit of your name. I am glad

to say that the memorial is being signed by a large
number of members of Parliament and leading scientific

men.

My head, I am happy to say, is much improved by
                        I expect
the long rest,    and             to be able   to  resume  my
studies shortly.       am, yours  most truly,
                  --I

                                  JAMES CROLL.

                                            19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                                 llth January 1883.

MY DEAR IRONS, -- Another day, and still no copies !

Nearly a fortnight has been lost waiting on the printer.
I believe I would get M.P.'s and professors by the
dozen, had I the confounded lists. I am sorry to put

you to so much trouble, but I shall feel greatly obliged

if you would call on the printer and see that a dozen or

two are posted instantly, and at least a hundred copies

sent on by rail with as little delay as possible.

As the list will be of use to me for other purposes,

I have ordered a thousand copies in all from the

printer. Of course there is no special hurry for these,

but we   must have for this memorial business      a  supply
without
         further delay. --Yours very truly,

                                  JAMES CROLL.
382 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                                              l2thjaniiary 1883.

    MY DEAR IRONS, --Yours to hand. I have got the
Duke, and a number of other important names. I am to

write to the Duke of Devonshire to-day ; and when we

get him, as I feel certain we shall, and Lord Breadalbane,

the better plan would be to get them all printed on the

memorials, and then we will have a better chance of

securing such men as Lords Moncreiff and Rosebery, who

know so little about me. The lists have now all come
to hand. --Yours truly,
                          JAMES CROLL.

Head aches badly to-day.

                                                                FRITH HILL, GODALMING,

                                                     iy'h January 1883.

    DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I have much pleasure in signing

Iyour memorial, and sincerely hope you may be successful,

as think you have been very badly treated.

     I read your article in the British Quarterly yesterday.
It is very forcible and well reasoned, yet I doubt if it

will produce much effect. The extreme materialists will

reply that matter and its forces being eternal and
infinite, all the motions of matter necessary to produce

organised beings have been determined by preceding
motions, back to all eternity. They will maintain that
these conceptions of eternal matter and forces are no
more difficult than the conception of a determining

power, which is neither matter nor force.
      I am very glad to hear you are better. Have you

read Stallo's Concepts and Theories of Modern Physics,
one of the International Scientific Series ? It contains

some most acute criticisms of modern scientific views,
especially of the kinetic theory of gases and of non-
Euclidean geometry. I think you would be interested in

it.-- With best wishes, yours faithfully,

                                                ALFRED R. WALLACE.
EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                                    383

MY DEAR                       19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                            l<)th January 1883.

             IRONS, --You will see, from the two

letters enclosed, that there are some points in the

memorial which appear to have given dissatisfaction to

one or two of Professor Geikie's London friends. As

the points referred to are of no great importance to us,
I have made some alterations which will get rid of the

objections.

Please read over my alterations, and then send it to

the printer, and tell him to send me a proof without a

moment's delay, as I can do nothing until I get the

altered copies. Tell him to send, say, six proofs. These
will keep me going till the proof is examined. I have

got His Grace the Duke of Devonshire, and have written
to the Earl of Breadalbane. I shall try and get at the

Duke of Buccleuch and a few other nobles. The great
stars of science are all signing with hearty goodwill.

What about Mr. Waddy? Have you got his and Mr.

Buchanan's names? I        have  sghootrtlyfi.v--e   or six M.P.'s
from the west, and expect  more                      Yours truly,

                                 JAMES CROLL.

                           19 NORTH METHVEN STREET,

                                 22nd January 1883.
    MY DEAR IRONS, -- I have written
Glasgow, -- who has the memorial                      to Mr. Paton,
                                                     containing the

signatures of the M.P.'s,  wsohmo egoottheitrs,t--o  try and     obtain
Mr. Charles Tennant and                              to post it  direct

to you. Try and get not merely the M.P.'s of Edin

burgh, but the legal luminaries to whom you refer,

and also the Lord Provost. The sooner we can get
them the better. I have got the greater part of the

great names of science in England. These I got without

any trouble, as I am known to them all. The difficulty

is with the M.P.'s, who know nothing whatever about

me. What we must now do is to collect all the names
384 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

which have been obtained, and I shall make out a list

giving all their titles, and get them printed on a number

of the memorials. The list will be a very imposing one

indeed. I would let Lord Rosebery alone till we get the

list printed. I am not sure if it would be good policy

to present him with a copy of the book. I rather think

not. But when we get out our list, I think the better

plan would be for me to write and ask if he would be

willing to sign. After this, we might try and get a talk

with him and the Lord Advocate before they go south.
When I get the altered memorial, I shall make an onset

on the Edinburgh Professors. I observe that the Right

Hon. J. Inglis, D.C.L., LL.D., is Chancellor of Edinburgh
University. We must get him. Lord Rosebery, LL.D.,
I see is Rector : I shall write after I get the Edinburgh

Professors, and ask Lord Rosebery to sign as Rector.

I     The memorials have        dniostapypeotintcoums.e--fYroomursthetruplryin, ter.
   hope he will not again

                                                 JAMES CROLL.

      The following is  icaen-cianpte:r--esting  letter to Mr. Bennie,
regarding the great

                                                            PERTH, 22nd January 1883.

   DEAR MR. BENNIE, -- I am greatly obliged for the

trouble you have taken, and also for your long and

interesting account of Agassiz's great ice-cap. It is

singular that, amongst all the discussions we have had

on ice, I should never have heard about the paper to
which you refer. It is long since I first heard of

Agassiz's great cap of ice extending down to near the
equator, but I was not aware that we had the full

account of  it,
                            is
            in an English, far less in an Edinburgh

magazine. In so far as the mere filling up of the North

Sea with solid ice              concerned, Agassiz has been a

quarter of a century before me. One who holds that an

ice - cap of enormous thickness covered our northern

hemisphere down to near the equator, must of course
      EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                       385

necessarily hold that not only the North Sea, but every

sea over which the cap spread, must have been filled
with ice. But this could hardly be considered an
anticipation of the outline of the path of the ice of the

Glacial epoch in North-western Europe, given by me in
Geological Magazine and Climate and Time. Of course,

to a great extent I am speaking in the dark, as I do not

know the particulars of Agassiz's theory. I am surprised
that the parcel sent from London through Williams and
Norgate has not reached the office. When you happen
to be in Princes Street, you might kindly call and see

what has become of it.--Yours truly,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                         19  NORTH METHVEN STREET,      PERTH,

                                     yd February 1883.
                  IRONS, -- It is a great pity you did not
MY DEAR

send your letter to me a week ago. I have been waiting

with the utmost impatience for the list of M.P.'s and

other names which may have been got in Edinburgh

to enable me to get the whole arranged and printed on the

memorial, so as to enable me to get at Lord Rosebery. I
have no other means of getting at him. I might write to

him and get his name, but that alone would not be of much

service. If all the influential names obtained were on

the document, it would not only produce an impression

on him, but would be sure to make him take an interest

in my case. Had we succeeded in getting an introduc

tion to him through the Lord Advocate, Lord Moncreiff,

or some of these great men, we might have arranged for

an interview ; but without getting Lord Rosebery first

interested in the matter, it is needless to do anything.

I shall now arrange the names, come through to

Edinburgh and      get   them printed at once.     No time
must be lost ; I  shall  be through on Monday
                                                morning. --

Yours ever truly,

                             JAMES CROLL.

2.r>
386 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

               19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                     iaM February
     MY DEAR   IRONS, -- Mr.                                    1883.
                              Parker wishes
                                                                the memorial

sent up to him, so as to get the signatures of the Scottish

M.P.'s when Parliament meets, so we must get it ready

immediately. If you have got Mr. Waddy or Lord

Moncreiff, write at once and let me know, as I intend

posting the corrected copy to the printer to-morrow. If

you send off your letter by to-night's mail, I will get it

to-morrow morning by calling at the post office. Mr.

Buchanan sent me a letter from Lord Rosebery's

secretary, saying that his lordship is to do what he can

for me.                                                         JAMES CROLL.

               19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                             i6M February 1883.

Sir  JD. EDAaRltoSnIR,H--ooIkeern,cKlo.sCe.Ga.I.c, opCy.B.o, f  etc.
                                                                 memorial
                                                                           contain

ing the names of those who have kindly signed the

recommendation for a reconsideration of my case.

Notwithstanding the large and influential list of names

on the document, I fear that, without the personal

influence which you so kindly offered, there may be

some difficulty in getting the case reconsidered.

     Mr. Parker, M.P. for Perth, is endeavouring to get

some more of the Scottish members to support the
memorial. I shall write and let you know when it is

sent in to the Department, which, I expect, will be in a
few days. -- I am, yours most sincerely,

                                                                JAMES CROLL.

               19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

     MY  DEAR  IRONS, -- You          Sih March 1883.                      enclosed

                              will see from the

that the memorial was sent in on the 26th ult. Mr.

Parker sent it direct to Mr. Mundella at his request.

Previously, Professor Geikie sent me a letter that he

would do all he could to favour it. The Department, I
     EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                                         387

understand, sent memorial to Professor Geikie to report

on.

     Might you not send a copy of names to your

London friend who favoured you with his advice ?

     Please to accept of a copy of Climate and Time.

The package encloses a copy of the article on Evolution.

As I am very scarce of copies, perhaps you would

kindly let me have it back when you read it.

     I have been knocked up with cold for some time
back.-- Yours ever truly,
                           JAMES CROLL.

                           FRITH HILL, GODALMING,

                                              March 1883.

    DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I am glad to see you have such
an array of signatures to your memorial. It must surely

receive attention.

     I shall be glad to read your article again, though I
think I fully see the drift of your argument. No doubt

force alone is no explanation of anything, but all
materialists begin with definite forces acting according

to definite laws, and the whole question is whether, these

definite forces being infinite or practically infinite in

number, the atoms of physicists would not by their

interaction through infinite time produce     all the results
of the material universe without any further  " determinism"

than that implied in the definite nature of the original

forces. This view, if I remember rightly, you do not

discuss, and it affords a complete answer to some of

your arguments. Is not this so? -- Yours very truly,

                           ALFRED R. WALLACE.

     MY DEAR                          19 NORTH METHVEN STREET,             PERTH,
                                                        2<)th March 1883.
                                                                            at my
                    IRONS, --You will be wondering

long silence. I was down at Gourock five weeks ago, got

a chill, and have been confined to the house ever since.

     I have, of course, been able to do nothing as regards

your application, but trust these dreadful east winds will
388 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

let me out of doors shortly. I do trust you will be
successful, and am sorry I am so little known in Perth ;
but I shall certainly do what I can.

The memorial has not yet reached the Treasury.

Professor Geikie failed to send in his report in time for

last meeting of Council, and then came Easter holidays.
     I am sorry to say that a sister of Mrs. Croll, a Mrs.

Findlay, Elgin, died a week or two ago.                                       I

      Mr.  nMoutnddaemllaa,geyoouurwciallseo. --bseYrvoeu, rsis   poorly.        hope
this will                                                        ever truly,

                                                                 JAMES CROLL.

      Croll had obtained from the publishers copies of his
article " Evolution by Force Impossible," which appeared

in the British Quarterly Review, and was anxious to
obtain the opinion of some metaphysicians on the validity
of the argument. He accordingly wrote the following

letter on the subject to his old friend Dr. Morison.

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                                         I7//4 April 1883.

    DEAR DR. MORISON, -- The publishers of the British

Quarterly Review have sent me one or two copies of my

article on Evolution. I have much pleasure in sending

you a copy, which please to accept. I need hardly say
that I would be delighted to have, at your leisure, a
few lines with your opinion of the argument, more particu

larly in regard to points where you may differ from me.
Before writing the concluding portion I am anxious to

learn the objections which may be urged by our leading

thinkers. We have not as yet taken up house. I have
memorialised the Science and Art Department for the

addition to my pension which should have been obtained

for me at the time I left the Service. You will see from

the enclosed list how strongly my memorial has been

supported. The feeling is that I have been somewhat
hardly treated. I am daily expecting to hear the
decision of the Treasury. I hope that Mrs. Morison'
       EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                                       389

and yourself are in the enjoyment of the best of health.

I am happy to say we are both well.-- With kindest

regards, I am, yours ever truly,                             JAMES CROLL.

      The following interesting correspondence took place
between Dr. Shadworth Hodgson and Dr. Croll regarding

the same paper :--

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,
                                                                        zath March 1883.

Shadworth H. Hodgson, Esq.

    DEAR SIR, -- I enclose a copy of an article from the

British Quarterly Review, on a new aspect of Evolution.
Please to accept the copy. Its main drift is this : I

have endeavoured to show that the fundamental ques

tion in organic evolution  ? is,            What determines molecular

motion and force? Consequently, the grand principle

of evolution Determinism. The next question What             is,
             is
the determining causeit                     What that which deter
is                  is                              ?
    Imines molecular motion and force                        have endeavoured
                                                       I is

to prove that           absolutely impossible that this can be
motion, force, or anything of the nature of an act. If

this conclusion be correct, follows that Mr. Spencer'sit
theory of Evolution by Force, absolutely impossible, andis

that force cannot be the ultimate of ultimates.

       sohfatlhl ebeardgeulmigehntet.d--to  hear at your leisure what  you
                                            am, yours most sincerely,
think                   I

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                  45 CONDUIT STREET, REGENT STREET,a

                                                   LONDON, yh April 1883.I

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q.,MFa.nRy.S.thanks for so kindly sending me

your article " Evolution by Force Impossible," and for the

letter which accompanied it. It reached me at time

of great occupation, no uncommon thing with me, or
should have responded before this.

     It seems to me that you have clearly demonstrated

your main point, that force alone, motion alone, or any
390 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sort of act alone, that    is,  undetermined to any particu

lar direction, totally unable to account for evolution,
         it
because       is    a mere abstraction or ens rationis. Every

                  is

force, motion, or act must be determined and concrete,

and its determination being, as  a                    part of itself,

                                        it

                                                 is,
requires accounting for. Consequently, the initial state

or act of any evolution has prior condition which

determines to be the determinate state or act which                it
         I it
is, though we may not know what that prior condition is.

So far go with you completely, at least               iIf      rightly

apprehend your meaning. But in the latter part of
your article, " Determinism in Relation to Theories of

Life," and onwards    a    speak with great hesitation), are

you not doing very much the same thing with regard to(I
the " objective idea of life," as evolutionists do with

abstract force, motion, or act, that       ? is,      setting      up
                                                                 it
alone as a determining cause of force
                                                                    is
Evolution as                     is,                                     a
                         whole        by its very statement,
teleology, " definite heterogeneity "
                                       is  its telos.          It

larger and vaguer name for " objective idea of life."

The telos cannot be transferred from the end as result,

to the beginning as plan, so as to act as efficient or

determining cause. You might as well explain the

tangential and centripetal forces in the planetary

motions by saying that they were forces planned to

produce elliptical paths. Now the Evolution theory

seems to me to aim right, when             aims at accounting
it
        it

               it
                                              is

                                          it

                                                                 a
                                                                                   a
for its telos, " definite heterogeneity," by the play of

efficient forces, without including its telos in their defini

tion. But             never can completely realise its object,

because (as you have shown) its first efficient force
must always be determinate and not an abstraction,

and therefore must require an anterior condition to

make what             is. There       always point in the

evolutionary regress, where its explanation comes to an

abrupt stop, leaving its ultimate term unexplained, yet

requiring explanation.

Thus we have to refer the whole evolution to
EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                                391

condition beyond itself, unknown to us by observation

or experiment, but which we have to conjecture from

what we know of the evolution which is its effect. In

forming which conjecture, we have only the facts of our

moral nature to go upon, and cannot attain a knowledge

constitutive, as Kant would say, of the objects conjectured ;

that is to say, our ideas are ideas of realities, but in

adequate as knowledge of them. Mr. Spencer's great

error, in my opinion, is his taking this prior condition

as wholly unknowable, and thus seeking in the evolution

an absolute beginning. The evolution is not self-sufficing

or self-evolved from abstract force, one of its own elements,

or from abstract idea, which, if transferred to the begin

ning of the evolution, would be but another element of

it. Its unknown condition must be thought of as the

condition of their combination. This is to me one

great philosophical basis of Theism. Nature works as
if she had a previous plan, but the presence of the plan

at the beginning of the evolution is not demonstrable, and

even were it so, it would not be a concrete determinate

force, such as science directs its efforts to discover.

      I hope you will not think I have abused the liberty
you gave me by your invitation to say what I thought of
your argument. I think you have established the main

point. I shall look for the British Quarterly, with your

Teleology article in   I it,
                                    I

                                             II
                                                          I
                       though  fear may find some

things there with which shall not be in entire accordance.

     Let me beg your acceptance of two addresses of

mine to the Aristotelian Society, which send by book-
                       are only " Metaphysics,"
post, though, as they   them, but only do as you             do not
venture to say, Read
                                                             like. --

Believe me, dear sir, sincerely yours,

                       SHADWORTH H. HODGSON.

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                                        6M April 1883.

Shadworth H. Hodgson, Esq., LL.D., etc.
     DEAR SIR, -- Many, many thanks for your interesting
392 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

letter. It is just the very sort of thing I want, and
pleases me better than though you had said, " I wholly
agree with you." I don't think we will differ so much
on the " objective idea " when I come to explain myself.

     Thanks for your two addresses, which I shall read

with much interest, and    none the less     tshtuadt y.t--heyYouarrse
metaphysical. Metaphysics   is my favourite

most sincerely,            JAMES CROLL.

                                                    19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                                          'jth April 1883.

Shadworth H. Hodgson, Esq., LL.D., etc.
     DEAR SIR, -- On reading your letter, it struck me

that there must be a misunderstanding between us some

where, as it seemed strange that you should agree with
the first and main part of the argument and yet disagree
so completely with the latter part, seeing that it is, in my

opinion, a necessary deduction from the former.

     To-day, on going over your letter more carefully, I
find where the mistake lies. I fear I have been using

certain words unguardedly, to which common usage has

assigned a different meaning from what I have given
them. For I find that you have misapprehended the
sense in which I use that unfortunate expression
objective idea. By " objective idea " I do not mean a

something which the determining cause perceives and
makes its determinations to agree with. The objective

idea is not a something which the determining cause
takes as its plan of operation. By objective idea I

simply mean the form according to which the determining
cause, be it conscious or unconscious, actually makes its

determinations. If the leaf of a tree is being formed, this

cause must, as a matter of fact, be determining the
motions of the molecules according to the objective idea
of a leaf, or, in other words, according to a figure of the
form of a leaf, or no leaf would be formed. This is not
asserting anything conjectural or hypothetical. It is a
bare statement of what is actually taking place. I think
EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE                                            393

I have stated this plainly at page 27, middle para

graph.

     I have an impression that, with this explanation, the

difference between us is greatly diminished.
      The application of all this to Mr. Spencer's theory of

Evolution by Force is obvious. Force can never explain
how the molecules are determined according to the idea of
the thing which is being formed. In fact, his philosophy
can never touch the real problem of Evolution.

     I am sorry thus to trouble you, but if you would
point out the misleading terms I have been using, I shall

esteem it a kind favour. Again thanking you for your

iivmepoidretaan, --t aI nadm, ,toyomuer,s  interesting remarks  on  the  object
                                            most sincerely,

                                           JAMES CROLL.

                                                  45 CONDUIT STREET, REGENT STREET,

                                                  LONDON, izth April 1883.

JameDsEACRrolSl,IRE,s--q. Thanks for your two letters. I am very

pleased to find from the second, of April 7th, that I had

misunderstood your view, and that you do not look at an
antecedent plan as determining cause of resulting form,
as, for example, of a leaf.

     I had taken particular notice of your expressions at

page 27, "simply stating what actually takes place,"
and had jotted down in pencil against them, " Very true,
and for that reason it is not an explanation of what

actually takes place."

     I think the expressions which chiefly misled me are
on the next page, 28, " It is because these molecular

movements, etc.," and below, " One element in this cause

of determination must be intelligence or thought."
      How intelligence or thought could be an agency is

what I never could construe to myself. This is Hegel's
assumption, derived from Kant, derived from Schol

asticism, derived from crude, or unanalysed, common-

sense notions.
    394 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      I confess I thought that you were wishing to

    substitute a better, that     is,more adequate cause than
                                     is
    Spencer's absolute force for his force as the originator ofis

                                                                                          ;

                                                                         a
    the world-history of Evolution. My objection to Spencer

a is  not so much that his force inadequate as an explana

    tion of the design we find in nature, as that any theory of

    world-history, any evolution theory, inadequate as an

    explanation.      Science, since Bacon's time, consciously

    abstains from using final causes as efficient that                                       is,

    abstains from seeking a total explanation of the world-
    phenomena. It consciously restricts itself to partial
               is,  to showing the steps by which, in order of
    one, that

    efficient causation, what we call organic design, or

    objective idea,   is  realised. Consequently, ex hypothesi,

    organic design cannot be used as cause, for would be
                                  is,                                        it
                                        a
      step realising itself.

      My view accordingly                that this confessedly,
                                                                                             --
    tphuirspopsealrytialparcthiaalraccthearracotferscioenfces--cientifitcheisexplanations
                                                                               true basis     of
    Theism. If you base Theism on the necessary presence

    of an objective idea, you limit your conception of God by

    that idea. Whereas, you say, There                                       cause of the
                              if                       is
                                                          a

    world beyond science, you leave your conception of God

    to be determined by our felt, practical relations (specula-

    tively unknown) to the unknown cause. And this view
    of the basis of Theism, believe, chiefly due to Kant,
                              I

                                                   is

    the great permanent   result  boefenhiselsimysinteamte,dw--hepnunzzoluems ewnhoicnh-
    phenomenon puzzles    have

    have tripped up Mr. Spencer. He has taken the faulty

    and left the sound in Kantianism. The same                                   thing, in
                                                                                 me, very
    another respect, may be said of Hegel. -- Believe

    sincerely yours,

                                  SHADWORTH H. HODGSON.

      Dr. Croll forwarded a copy of his article on Evolution
to Mr. Herbert Spencer, accompanied by the appended
note, to which Mr. Spencer replied in the letter which

follows --
      :
EVOLUTION BY FORCE IMPOSSIBLE  395

                                                                         I9/A April 1883.

      I send you a copy of an article on Evolution from
the British Quarterly, which I hope you will accept. On
many points we agree, but in regard to the philosophy of
Evolution you will see we are almost poles asunder.

     I hope I have not in any way misrepresented your
views ; if I have, I shall be glad to put matters right in
the concluding part of the article. I know that no one

is more desirous that the whole matter should be freely
discussed than you are yourself.

                                            38 QUEEN'S GARDENS, BAYSWATER, W.,
                                                         z^rd April 1883.

JameDsEACRroll,SIERs,q--. You must excuse me on grounds of

health from entering at length into any discussion on the

points raised in the article you have been good enough to

send me.

      I will say only that your view as to the determination
of force is one which puzzles me as coming from a man
of science. I hold that the determination of any force
depends on the proceeding distribution of forces in their
amounts and directions ; and I accept in full your alleged

implication that this distribution depends upon a preced
ing distribution, and so on through infinite past time;

and if you allege that this is not an ultimate or satis
factory interpretation, I simply reply that there exists in
it just the same ultimate inscrutability that exists with
respect to the nature of force and the nature of matter.

     Your criticism seems to me, as the criticism of most
others, to tacitly assume that the hypothesis of Evolution
as set forth by me professes to be an interpretation of

things in their ultimate causes, whereas, professedly

alleging the ultimate cause to be unknowable, alike in
nature and mode of operation, the sole aim is to general

ise the order of the manifestations. -- I am, truly yours,

                                                    HERBERT SPENCER.
                     CHAPTER XXII

      CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. G. J. ROMANES

DR. CROLL likewise sent a copy of his paper on

         Evolution to the late Professor G. J. Romanes, and

the following correspondence which ensued has acquired

a peculiar interest through the publication of (l) Dr.

Romanes' Thoughts on Religion, edited by the Rev. Canon

Gore, and (2) of his Life and Letters, edited by Mrs.
Romanes. Both Dr. Romanes and Dr. Croll, although
known to the world chiefly through their scientific
achievements, were men of a profoundly religious nature,
and the first, as well as the last published work of each
dealt with a great theological subject. In 1873, while a
student at Cambridge, Dr. Romanes gained the Burney

prize for an essay on " Christian Prayer and General
Laws," but even by this time, his biographer tells us, he
had " entered on that period of conflict between faith and
scepticism which grew more and more strenuous, more
painful, as the years went on. . . . Step by step, he
abandoned the position he had maintained in his Burney
Prize Essay, with no great pauses, rather, as it seems,
with startling rapidity, and with sad and reluctant
backward glances he took up a position of agnosticism,
for a time almost of materialism. He wrote a book,

published in 1876, which was entitled A Candid
Examination of Theism, , . . marked throughout by a

lofty spirit and profound sadness, and a belief (which
years after he criticised sharply) in the exclusive right of
the scientific method in the court of reason. . . . Any
one who reads carefully the conclusion of the Candid
Examination, will see the note of longing and thirsting
    CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. ROMANES 397

for God. . . . The reaction against the conclusions of
the essay set in far sooner than has been at all suspected.
Perhaps the first published mark of reaction is the Rede
Lecture of 1885;" but the long conflict between faith
and scepticism " never really ceased until within a few
weeks of his death," although it ended " in a chastened, a
purified, and a victorious faith."

                              18 CORNWALL TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, N.W.,
                                                          dlh May 1883.

    DEAR SIR, -- I have been much interested in the

very able article which you have been so kind as to

send me, and for which I now write to thank you --
the more so because I did not happen to have seen it

in the British Quarterly. I wish very much, for my own

sake, that we could meet and have a conversation upon
the points which you urge, for these are so new to me

that I am not sure how far I am yet in a position to
offer the criticism which you solicit. By this I do not
mean that I have failed to appreciate the lucidity of
your exposition, but such a number of questions occur
to me which I should like to ask you, that I think con
versation would be a better medium of understanding
than correspondence. Therefore in lumine I may ask
whether there is any prospect of your being in town
between this and the end of next month, and if so,

whether you would care to have a talk with me upon
the subject-matter of your essay.

     Failing this, I should like to ask you two general
questions, which are the most important ones that I

have to ask.

     i. Is it not true that the determination of force

depends upon the conditions, statical and dynamical,

under which force operates ? If so, is it not further

true that the determination of any given quantum of
force must depend upon the previous determinations of
other quanta of forces, and so on ad infinitum ? Lastly
398 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

if this is so, does it not follow that, on the supposition
of force and matter being permanent, every physical

change, or every particular determination of force, is
the mechanically necessary outcome of all such previous

changes? But to say that it is so appears to me

equivalent to saying that every determination of force
is itself determined by the action of previous forces, and

therefore, if force is persistent and matter persistent, that

ethvaetryitddeoteesrmtiankaetiopnlacoef--fojurcset  must take  place in the way
                                                    as in the  parallelogram of

forces the resultant must always be determined in

magnitude and direction by the m and d of the

components.                                                        is

     2. The other point I have to ask you about                    I
touching your criticism on my theory of causation.

should have thought that the essential element in the

idea of causation consists in that of equivalency ; not
only must it be true that everything which happens
must have a cause, but also that like causes should

always produce like effects, or that there should invari

ably be a quantitative relation between the cause and

the effect. But this would not be the case according to
   a

        if a

                   I

                                                  a
                                                         if,

                                                                is a

                                                 if

                                                                                is,
the above illustration, a falling mass produced different

amount of mechanical effect on different days; that

there would be no causation in such case, for there

would not be such collocation of conditions as invari

ably produced particular consequent. Which another

way of saying that force were not persistent, causation

would not be existent.  should be very glad                        you

could dislodge me from my views on these points, and

I  look forward with interest to the appearance of your

essay on Teleology.

      Although write to you direct, should be obligedI
to you not to divulge my authorship of the essay on
                                                    I

                                                            I
Theism to which you allude. Some day intend to

dmoatusroed.m--ysYeolfu, rsbuvterynofatithufunltliyl , my opinions are more

                                                    G. ROMANES.
                                                               J.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. ROMANES 399

                     J.Letter to G.   Romanes, Esq.

    Causation. -- A few lines on the two questions to

which you refer. I shall begin with the one relating

to causation, as it requires to be considered first.     it,
                                                              is is is
       The principle of causality, as I understand
" Every event or everything which comes to pass must
have cause " or, expressed in other words, " Every
a
thing which happens or begins to be must have a cause."
                          ;
                               ;The principle never can reveal to us anything regarding

the nature of the cause. This known from the nature

of the effect. It will not do to affirm, as some do, that
                                      is
cause must be something of the nature of an act or a

exertion of force for there are many things which come

to pass which cannot be produced by such causes, as,
for example, the determination of acts or the determina

tion of forces, and yet these must have causes.

The principle that the same cause acting under the

same conditions will always produce the same effect

not primary, but a deduction from the more general

principle that every event must have cause. This

evident, because,                 if  the cause acting under absolutely

the same conditions would not always produce the same

effect, but should produce one kind of effect at one time

and a different kind of effect at another time, then here

would be something coming to pass without any cause,

namely, the change from the one kind of effect to the

other, thing impossible according to the principle of
a
  acausality. Were                    not for the principle of causality,

                    it

                                                  ;

                              if
there would be nothing to prevent us believing that the

same cause under the same conditions might not always

produce the same effect for                          an event could happen

without cause, there would be no reason for believing

that the same cause, under the same conditions, should

always produce the same effect.
     The principle of " Equivalence " to which you refer,

  think, also a deduction of the same nature from the
more general principle that " every event must have a
I

                 is
400 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

cause." To affirm that a cause must always be equiva

lent to the effect which it produces is simply affirming

a proposition logically deducible from the principle of

causality. For if there should be something more in

the effect than could have been produced by the cause,

then this something must be either an effect without a

cause or the effect of some other cause. If we suppose

the former, then we contradict the principle of causality.

If we suppose the latter, namely, that this something

was the effect of some other cause, then it follows that

the cause in question was equal to all that it actually

produced.
      Take the case of the stone in my illustration.

Suppose we found that the stone, in descending a given
distance, performs ten foot-pounds of work the one day,

but only five the next. According to the principle of

causality, there must have been a cause for the dis

appearance of the five foot-pounds. Either the stone
must have lost half of its weight, or the five missing

foot-pounds must have gone to produce heat or some

other sort of work. Assume the former to be the true

explanation. The principle of causality simply affirms

that there must have been a cause for the loss of weight,

or, in other words, for force ceasing to be persistent. This
does not in any way affect the principle. It is the same

as regards the principle, whether force persists or not.

It only guarantees that the force could not cease to

persist without a cause. The domain of causality is far
wider than that of force. Countless millions of effects

are continually taking place that have no relation to

force, as, for example, determination ; and, for this reason
among others, the persistence of force could not be sub

stituDteedterfomrintahteiopnr.in--cipI lewilol f  causality.  admit,  for  the  sake
                                                  willingly

of argument, that the determination of a force depends

upon the conditions under which the force operates, and

this again on the previous determination of another force
or forces, and so on ad infinitum. In short, that every
CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. ROMANES 401

particular determination is the necessary outcome of all

such previous determinations. But I cannot admit the

conclusion which you draw from this, namely, " that to

say so is equivalent to saying that every determination

of force is itself determined by the action of previous

forces." It is determined by the determination, not by

the action of the previous forces. The determination

is the result not of the actions, but of the determination

of those actions. In no conceivable way can determina

tion result from force or action, or force or action result

from determination.  The two things are absolutely

different in their essential nature. The one can never,

even in thought, take the place of the other. Neither

force nor the action of force will explain evolution; it

is the determination or direction given to these that

explains everything. But determination is not effected

by either force or action, but by prior determinations.

Here is the weak point in Mr. Spencer's philosophy of

evolution. In making force the ultimate of ultimates,

he completely overlooks the fact that determination, not

force, is the fundamental thing in the explanation of

the process. Mr. Spencer will doubtless say that he

does not profess to give an ultimate explanation, as such

an explanation lies in the region of the unknowable.

But this will not remove the objection ; for, supposing

our intelligence were infinite, it would not in any way

enable us to explain evolution in terms of force, because

such a thing is in itself absolutely impossible.

More than this, the mystery of evolution is to account

for the determinations occurring according to an objec

tive idea. This is not asserting anything hypothetical,

it is simply stating what actually takes place. In the

formation of a tree, for example, every molecule must

have its motion directed and determined according to

the objective idea of a tree, or no tree would be formed.

At page 64 of the article I have endeavoured to

show that natural selection can never be the cause of

the determination of molecular motion. But, even sup

26
402 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

posing it could be the cause, this would not show that
force had anything to do in the matter; for natural

selection is not produced by force or energy. It results

not from force, but from the way in which forces are

adjusted. The superior adaptation of a thing to the

conditions under which it exists determines its selection.

It is not the mere force of an animal that secures its

existence, but the way in which that force is adapted
to the conditions under which it lives. Blind force, unless
properly directed, is of little avail in the struggle for
existence.

                   18 CORNWALL TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, N.W.,
                                    2yd May 1883.

J.  Croll,  Esq.,  F.R.S.           am greatly  obliged  to you for
      MY    DEAR
                    SIR,-- I

your kindness in answering my question so fully. You
have made the matter more clear to me, and I begin to

think you are right.

      I can see that your views on causality follow logically

from your views on determination. But I should like to

ask you one more question with regard to determination.

You say that " in no conceivable way can determination

result from force or action." But take such a simple

case as the parallelogram of forces : would you not allow

that the determination of a resultant force in magnitude

and direction is effected by the magnitude and direction

of the component? And if so, would you not also

require to allow that each of any number of components

was itself previously determined, as to its magnitude and

direction, by the similar operation of previous forces, and

so ad infinitum ?                               Each swing of a
      This is my chief difficulty.

pendulum, for instance, seems to me to be determined,

not by      ocHceunltcep--owaenrd,  but by the previous swing plus
gravity.
                                    only hence -- it is that the course

and the amplitude of the next swing admits of being

calculated or predicted.
      CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. ROMANES 403

     I have just published a little poem anonymously called
" The More Excellent Way," which I think might interest

you. Macmillan & Co. have the copyright, or I should

send  you a copy,     but I    --daI reresamyainy,ouyoucrasn   procure one
from  a circulating                                           very truly,
                     library.

                                  G. J. ROMANES.

                                     Answer.

     Most certainly I would allow that the determina

tion was effected by the magnitude and direction
of the forces ; but this is simply to allow that the
determination is the effect, not of the forces, but of
the determination of the forces. Magnitude and direction
are not forces, but simply certain determinations of the
forces. Magnitude is the determined quantity of the forces.
Direction is the determined path taken by the forces,

or the determined direction in which they happen to act.
      The swing of the pendulum is explained in a similar

manner. The mere motion of the pendulum of course,
effected by the force of gravity but the direction of that
motion not the result of force, but of the direction in

which the force acts.
      is

                                                                      ;

                                                                             is,

                     19 CORNWALL TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, N.W.,
                                              26th May 1883.

      am greatly obliged to you.  think will have to
aI                                I

                                              ?

                                         J.

                                                it
end in another edition of my anonymous book, undoing
the principal argument. In this case would you object
to statement of my obligation to you

                                  G. ROMANES.

      MY DEAR    19 CORNWALL TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, N.W.,
                                       20th April 1886.

               SIR. --The paper to which you refer in
                                                                                  is

type for the Contemporary Review, under the changed
title of " The World as an Eject." The Rede Lecture,

of which  it         complement, appeared in the Contemporary
              is
                  a

Review for July 1885.          I  have no separate copies, or
404 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I would send you one. If you read     should much like
                                      it,
to have your opinion. But wait until you see both theI
                 It was our previous
                                            J.        that  led to
tphaepmer.s--.  Yours very truly,     correspondence

                                      G. ROMANES.
                CHAPTER XXIII

     CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROFESSOR M'FARLAND
                        AND SIR J. D. HOOKER

DR. CROLL had written Professor M'Farland,
          asking him to get one of his papers inserted in

the American    Journal         --of  Science,                                              when   the  following
correspondence
                ensued       :

                             OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS, O.,

                                           gth April 1883.

To   D3Dr1E.sAtJ,Ra--mStehIsRe ,C--lirsotYlloo, uf Prpearlptehet,tresrScbooyftlay1no7duth.   ult.  was received on
                                                                                            came    about the same
the

time. I had occasion to address Professor J. D. Dana,
one of the editors of the American Journal of Science,
the very day your letter came. I wrote, in addition to

what claimed my personal attention, asking him what

chance there might be to print your paper. He writes

in reply, that he will take pleasure in giving space for
                                                                                                        it
                                                                                                                      it,
but that his present engagements will require that he

name August as the earliest date. This letter will

probably reach you about the 24th or 25th of April --

then, when the mail shall bring the return,                                                             will be

about the middle of May, and the delay from that date

to the time when the printers will take hold will be

only about seven or eight weeks. Sometimes long

articles are divided, and part appears one month, another

part later. You know the size of the journal.

     Your article may be sent either directly to Professor

Dana or to myself. Use your pleasure                                                        :           comes to

                                                                                              if

                                                                                                   it

me, will see that goes to the hands of Professor Dana.
I

                         it

                                      405
406 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

tions has the wider circle of readers, the Philosophical or

the Geological Magazine, and inasmuch as the American
journal is at your service, I suppose it does not matter

very much which may be best known on this side of the
Atlantic. But I know your forthcoming article will be

read by our whole body of scientific men, and you know

our country is pretty large, and has a good many stirring

men in it. New Haven, the town where the journal is pub

lished, is about five hundred miles from Columbus by rail,

yet I had Professor Dana's answer by mail in three days.
     It will be gratifying to your many friends in this

country to know   that  your health   is   improved.     Climate
and Time is read  by a  large body        young men
                                     of               -- several

copies have to be purchased for the library and reading-
room of the College. I have heard a good many students

speak of the work in such a way as to show a mastery

of the chief features. I send a copy of our last circular
and catalogue ; being a " State " document, it is not fully
under control of the University, but several parties have

their say. Dr. Orton, our geologist, still works in the

field a part of the year. I will see whether the last
" Ohio " report                                     and if not, I
will forward it.  has been   sent you by him,       is to come --
                             one more volume
                   At least
perhaps two ; six or seven have already appeared. As

Ohio contains about forty thousand square miles, and

there are thirty-seven other States and large sections
called " territories," all the States and United States

besides, being engaged in promoting geological researches,

it is easy to see that  the   geological literature is  "gUrotwiciang"
to large dimensions.
                         It  might be better if their
should be " pent up " more than it
                             I                      or life be prolonged
somewhat, so as to allow larger margins for work. -- Very
                                               is,
truly yours,                         R. W. M'FARLAND.

                             19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH,

                                            241h April 1883.

Professor M'Farland, Ohio    State University.      inst.  came
                              letter of the pth
    MY DEAR SIR,--Your

duly to hand yesterday.      am glad to learn that you
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE                          407

have succeeded in obtaining a place for my paper in the

American Journal of Science. Many, many thanks. I
have always found Professor Dana kind and ready to

oblige. I shall not send the paper to any of the journals
here till after it appears in America. In this case I shall
send you the manuscript in course of a few days, and as I

would like to get a proof, and also a revised proof, before

it appears, August will be quite soon enough to allow of

the transmissions of the proofs backwards and forwards.

I am delighted to learn that my book is so much

read by the students of your University. They are the

hope of the future.

I am greatly obliged to you for the documents which

you have kindly sent   on.    They will, no doubt,  come to
hand in the course of  a day                        truly,
                              or two.--Yours ever

                              JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll was engaged writing two papers on Mr.
Alfred Wallace's " Modification of the Physical Theory of
Secular Changes of Climate," and had consulted Sir
Joseph Dalton Hooker in regard to some points in these,

on which the following correspondence ensued :--

                                                                                                November 1883.

DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I have been reading your two

papers which you were so good as to send me, with great
interest. I am now so immersed in Botany and

Horticulture, official and unofficial, scientific, popular,
and economic, that I have no time to think on the

subject, and very little to recollect even. There are,

however, some points in connection with Antarctic ice

to which I would like to call your attention, premising
that your paper is full of good remarks, and what I take

to be for the most part sound conclusions.

One point is this, that the Antarctic Continent, so

called, that the only piece of land of any extent found
is,
                        is
                                    it
                                             is
                                                                         it
in the Antarctic regions, Victoria Land. Of this Sir

W. Thomson knew nothing, and  absurd to class

with groups of islands bound by an ice-sheet. From
408 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Cape North, where we made and left in latitude 71°,
                                  it
to Mount Terror in latitude 79°,      is

                                            it,
                                                       a continuous, lofty,

continental mass, rising in rugged peaks the whole way,

probably nowhere below 4000 feet, with peaks of 6000
to 8000 or upwards, and brown or black cliffs showing

out here and there. The only other Antarctic land of

any consequence of which anything                      definitely known,
is
                                                                      is

                                                                                            a
that south of Cape Horn, and this differs wholly in

character from Victoria Land, and may well be group

of islands, bound, not by an ice-sheet, but by pack ice.

The other real or supposed Antarctic lands are mere

specks, immensely distant apart, and all far north of

latitude 70°. They may be small islands (some are

cloud-shadowed), but  rash to suppose that they are
      it,
              is
                            it
                                    is

                                                        I
held together by an ice-sheet. They are surrounded by

pack ice, as nearly the whole South Polar area, north

of 70°, and no one has ever attempted to pierce that

pack but Ross, who did so twice, finding open water

beyond which led on to nearly 80°.

Cook, Weddell, and Ross have alone,                                                            think,

penetrated beyond 70°, the two former in open water.

Ross tried Wed dell's route (who got to 74°, and turned
back, leaving open water ahead), and spent the whole

season trying to penetrate the pack in all directions east

of Graham's Land, but could not get beyond 62° in the

very meridian where Weddell got to 74° in open water.
You may guess what
                              disappointment this was,
      is I

               is,
                                                a

                                                is it
when tell you that Weddell's route was kept as a

bonne bouche for that expedition, third year of Polar

exploration, so sure were we of getting to south of where
Weddell left off.

With exception of the Great Barrier in latitude 79°,

we know nothing of ice-sheets in the South Polar Ocean.

That      one, no doubt, but                           may be quite a local

phenomenon, and merely a great bay blocked with snow

falls. True, we have huge icebergs accurately described

by you and all, but their origin not proved. My guess
          that they are formed of accumulations of
was, and

snow on pack ice, and that the barrier itself so formed
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE                                          409

is the mother of many of these. The whole coast of

Victoria Land was blocked by them, of all heights and

areas, extending for miles from the coast. No doubt

many originated in glaciers sent down from the valleys of

Victoria Land, but they were caught in pack ice, and were

subsequently covered by the successive snowfalls, and

hence grew as in the tabular form.

     I think it quite possible that the Antarctic Polar

area is in the main aqueous, and covered with pack ice,

formed in the sea, and increased by the perennial snow

falls. My impression is that the snowfall in the
Antarctic is enormous, summer and winter. I cannot

suppose that there is land enough in the South Polar

area to supply the astounding number and gigantic size

of the icebergs that infest the ocean between 50° and 70°,
and this to the total exclusion of bergs of the northern

type. The physical conditions of the bergs and pack in

the two polar areas are wholly different, and suggest

wholly different factors. Ross's constant observation was,
" we had nothing like this and that in the north."

The burden of my tale       is is,       that    it       not right to

                                                      is

speak of an Antarctic Continent at all, except as pure
speculation. If Victoria Land a part of one,              it
                                                                    after
                                                              is a

all a mere speck in that vast area south of 70°, and the

great rarity  of earth or   fasctto--neqsuioten  Antarctic bergs
another very   suggestive                                    is
                                                 as much as          is
                                                                    the

horizontal stratification, so uniform in southern bergs, so
rare in northern. So, too, in the enormous area of the

individual southern bergs,               difficult to conceive that
                       is
these should have originated in glaciers, and yet be flat-
                           it it
topped and horizontally stratified.
                                  is is
On the other hand,                       perfectly conceivable to

me that the Great Barrier, which we followed for

450 miles east and west, in latitude 78° and 79°,

and which,  I  think,       supposed to rest on bottom,

may girdle the Antarctic area, and still have originated

in pack ice, snowed upon for ages. All along its flanks

there were bergs much lower than itself, all tabular.

And, lastly, its nucleus may be an Antarctic Continent,
410 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

continuous with Victoria Land. I have often wondered

whether the Australian colonies would ever send out an

expedition to explore their own Polar Seas. If they had

a commander who, like Ross, would dare to pierce the
         I do not doubt but
pack,    --Very truly yours,   that  great discoveries would
follow.
                                           J. D. HOOKER.

      The motions of the great southern girdle of pack ice

is another phenomenon worth studying. It is suggestive

of a vast open ocean. If, as in the north, it was formed

near land and floated off, it would not be so uniform in

position, nor, when it does move, do so in such vast areas

at a time. It nowhere streams off in currents suggestive

of straits, between lands farther south, but occupies
thousands of square miles, where there is certainly not

even an islet to hold presenting a barrier to navigation
in water of profound depth.
                       it,
                               WOLFCRAG, BRIDGE OF ALLAN,
                            I
                                                                 V)th November 1883.

DEAR SIR,-- Many, many thanks for your long and

most interesting letter.       hope your views as to the
origin of the Antarctic ice may be correct. It would

be, so far, the better for my theory of change of climate.
My chief aim in writing was to show that Mr. A. R.

Wallace's theory that permanent ice can exist nowhere
but on high lands, and that the so - called Antarctic

Continent   I is       lofty mountainous region,  wholly
                                         I
                    a
incorrect.    wished to show, from the very character ofis

the icebergs, that his view could not be upheld. In thisI
   hope have so far succeeded. Your views may be
aI       I                                                         a
     I
correct, but certainly Mr. Wallace's are wrong.

         am greatly obliged to you for information and many

suggestions which your letter contains.  have, however,

strong impression that the greater part of the Antarctic

ice rests on  a  comparatively shallow sea-bottom, in

manner similar to what we now know was the case in

the German Ocean during the Glacial epoch.        can
            SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE                                                                                     411

hardly think the ice from which the bergs are derived is

floating, although it may have, as you think, originated

on floating  heicaepewd hiuchponmaity. --haIveams,uynokurdsowsinncaesrellayy, er                                           after
layer was

                                                 JAMES CROLL.

     My head is much improved of late, though reading
or writing is still like a surgical operation.

                                                        yd December 1883.

DEAR MR. CROLL,-- At the risk of tiring your head,

though with the hope of relieving         it,    write to say that                                                         aI

                                            I

can quite go along with you in supposing the mass of

southern fixed ice to be resting on shallow sea-bottom.
                                          a

The great Southern Barrier which we sailed along for

some four hundred miles such mass. The difficultyis
                                          is a
have in explaining how,           if          a  matter of the great
I                                     it

               is
                  it
                          is
southern bergs, they get detached and floated away, for,

the snowfall being far in excess of the melting, when once

grounded                      annually added to, and thus more irrevoc

ably fixed to the bottom again. Off the coast of Victoria

Land, which Ross describes as six to ten thousand feet
high, and as " covered with glaciers projecting several

miles into the sea," the soundings gave sixty to ninety

fathoms, when still two and half to four miles from
                                  a

shore. Now this depth of water would not float even

small berg of these seas, and along the shore, where the

glaciers  did project, no doubt    to form icebergs, the                                                                   water
must be                           shallowness extended                                                                     many
          quite shallow -- this

miles from the land. He describes solid fields of ice
" not yet broken up for the season " on January 20
             is                                                                                                            My
                                                                       is,

                                                                                                                        !
impression                    that these never would break up, but

become, by successive snowfalls, giant bergs, finding

depth of water as they drifted north.

      Again, he describes the land ice, that in the pack
along the coast as " blending imperceptibly with the snow

that descends from the mountains and extends far into

the sea." The result would be the glaciers driving the

pack ice out to sea.
412 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

The Great Barrier, two to three hundred feet high,

one hundred and fifty to two hundred in another place,

looked as if it might be the mother of the great Antarctic

bergs, forming, as it does, a vertical cliff; but " not

the smallest appearance of any rent or fissure could we

discover throughout its whole extent," and there were

only small fragments of ice along its base. Its outer

edge was afloat, however, for we found four hundred

fathoms at no great distance from it. But Ross
remarks, " After running a hundred miles along the

barrier, we passed several heavy pieces of ice, evidently
fragments of the barrier, or broken-up bergs, of which it

is very remarkable we had not seen one berg during a

run of one hundred and sixty miles along this barrier,

from which, no doubt, some must occasionally break

away." Ross adds, however, that in winter, when the air

is probably 40° to 50° below zero, irregular expansion

would produce separation of large masses. I doubt this.
I cannot suppose that in the south the thermometer ever
sinks far below zero, and if it did, and this was the

effect, the bergs would not float away so fast as that we

should see none of them in the following summer.

      However, it is not the origin of the bergs that

concerns you, but the formation of the ice. I cannot doubt

but that the bergs have originated from barrier ice, and what

I suspect is that this barrier ice originated in pack ice

over very shallow bergs increased by successive snowfalls.

The quantity of snow that falls in summer is enormous

south of 5 0° to 60° -- certainly it fell on half the days of

each summer month during the three seasons we spent

in those seas, and I think in one month some fell every
day. Add to this that the pack in lat. 70° to 80°
consolidated in February to be snowed upon ever after,

and you have the   conditions that  would   make  epnaocukghi.n--to
bergs along shore   or wherever it   was   quiet

Very faithfully yours,              J. D. HOOKER.

    N.B.--There is no summer melting of snow and ice
in the Antarctic as there is in the Arctic. It is the only
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE                                                            413

region known to me where there is perpetual snow not
glacier on land at sea-level.

                                                                                     loth December 1883.

    DEAR MR. CROLL,--You are most welcome to make

any use you please of my information, premising that I
should like to see it first, for really I have thought little
of the subject for forty years, when your interesting
papers brought it up, and I was in a sad fog about it
when in the Antarctic myself.

     I think the whole subject is one of immense interest ;
in fact, I think the condition of the two polar areas is the
most absorbing of our telluric problems. I quite follow
your line of reasoning in respect of the land nature of
the Antarctic ice and bergs, and the dispersion of the

sheet from centres, probably not one polar cap, but from
archipelagoes of shallows^and the origin of the big bergs.

      We must not, however, forget when we speak of
" Antarctic land " that all we know of it which is worth

the name, is a very lofty, rugged, mountainous coast, four

to twelve thousand feet high, some four to five hundred

miles long, from lat. 72° to 79°, namely, Victoria Land. It

is after all a mere scratch on a 1 4-inch globe. We know

nothing of its continuation W. or S. It may be part of

a stupendous Mount Nucleus, from which the shallow
water barrier ice radiates for hundreds of miles in all

directions, -- or it may be a narrow strip of mountainous

land like Spitzbergen, New Zealand, etc., but its great
height would rather indicate great extent. I cannot

recall any coast land so high, except, perhaps, the west
coast of the middle island of New Zealand. Victoria

Land is not a thing we sighted and left-- we spent weeks

along and returned to after leaving it.
       Have you ever probed Wilkes's and D'Urville's

accounts of the barriers they saw, and the various sealers'
narratives (Bulley's, etc.). When remember the rapidity
with which the ice formed and closed round us in the end of
 February all along the foot of the barrier in 78° in vast
 sheet, and the constant subsequent snowfalls, cannot resist
it,
                               it

                                    I
                                                   I

                                                                                   a
    414 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

    the idea that such a solidified pack would, by superin

    cumbent snowfalls, ground, become a tabular ice sheet,

    and break up into bergs, to be floated away and continue

    increasng in height till they drifted beyond melting point.

    Many thanks for the new pamphlet, which I shall study. --

    Yours very sincerely,                             J. D. HOOKER.

                                                                                                      lT,th December 1883.

        DEAR DR. CROLL,-- I have read your paper on the

    thickness of the Antarctic ice, and I think that the

    general principles and conclusions are quite satisfactory.

    Many thanks for it. I can only demur to one or two

    statements of detail, and then refer to matters as to

    which I would venture to suggest caution.
         I do not know whether any writer had laid down the

    broad distinction between the pack ice and the true

    barrier ice, of the south. In so far as any one has seen,
    I take it that the barrier ice is a very small matter as

    to extent compared with the pack, which is generally

    met with at 68° or north of and too often miscalled
                               it
                                    it,

                                                  is
    barrier. Ross regarded           as very different from the

6 itpack ice of the Arctic and far more formidable, but still

      was pack. It consists of broken pieces of floating ice

      to feet out of water. This was its character every
      I
where ando                  suppose, the accumulation of nine to ten

                it iIs,
months out of the twelve of frozen ocean water and snow

70° south of and drifted north. No ships have even

attempted to enter but Ross's, and they went through
                               it
                                 it
                                           ! 7 it

                                                        2°

                                                                   it

                                                                                                ;
      in two meridians, near together, and fearful work
it                                                                                                 it,
                                                                                                          it it
was, totally different from boring the northern pack.

     It supposed to girdle the whole Antarctic from 65° to

70°, but don't believe that does. We twice rounded
      I is
                                                                                                   and Weddell
                         ;
coming north Cook attained           without

74^° without seeing            even  The great tabular bergs

from the ice-sheet or barrier get entangled in                                                     and

delayed in their northward voyages thereby. You say
at bottom of p. that, in the " Antarctic, we have not
                            3

great masses of land in one part, and of sea in another."
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE  415

This is scarcely correct ; except for pack and bergs, the
sea east of Victoria Land is certainly a great mass of

sea, and so must the meridian be, in which Weddell
went south-east of Graham's Land, and probably Cook

too (p. 4). I dispute W. Thomson's assertion that the

region south of 61° is continuous solid. Nor is there the

smallest authority for asserting that the South Pole may

be safely assumed to be in the centre of an ice-sheet.
Still less can it be said that " no reason can be assigned

for supposing the conditions in separate areas upon the
same parallel of latitude to differ." Facts are against it
even in the little we know, and what we do know is just
nothing at all, considering the vastness of the area in

question. Weddell, if I remember aright, did not see

even ice blink ahead when he turned north !

     At p. 25, you assume that barrier or cap to extend
to 70°. I do not know that it does this anywhere; for

what the southern navigators call the barrier is the
floating pack, and no barrier at all. Again, p. 28, " The

Antarctic Continent is generally believed to extend on

an average from the South Pole down to lat. 70°." Now
surely this is a gigantic assumption, when it is considered
that we know absolutely nothing of lat. 80° to 90°,
and that, with the exception of some scraps of islets,
Victoria Land is the only bit of Antarctic Continent of

any extent known to us, or the only other supposed con
siderable mass, Graham's Land, the violence of the currents

rendering it almost certain that it is an archipelago.
      I for one am inclined to think that, there is not so

very much land south of 70°, but that, where there you

have in some places ice-sheet or cap or barrier, just as

you assume in others lofty rugged land. We saw both.
One of my reasons that almost all the rocks taken for
bergs were volcanic. After all, will serve your purpose
as well to assume considerable areas of low land, whether

joined or not, into continent of which we know nothing,

and whether at or about the Pole.
      We certainly saw more of circumpolar ice than any

other, and we blockaded the pack along upwards of
a
   is,

                    it

                                                             is,
                                                                      a
416 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

thousand miles, lat. 60° to 70°, but nowhere except in

78° did we see barrier ice, or ice-sheet on low land.

Further, I think that it requires no great area of barrier

ice in the cap to furnish all the bergs of the South Ocean,

when you consider how slow they were, how entangled

they get in the pack, how much they are added to by

snow. I have seen berg masses, with the positions of

all visible north of 60°, and was struck rather with

the paucity than the quantity of them. Then, too,

remember that they don't voyage due north, but are first

driven west and then far farther east by the roaring

forties which extend to 60° ; in fact, they take very oblique

courses northward. Even in 75°, if I remember aright,

we did not see one for a day or two over the whole

horizon, though we were only 140 miles from the

barrier.

The upshotis

             it
                         it, is,

                                it,
                                                     is
                                                   a it
                                                                                                   is,
                      that, according to my view, there are

in the South Polar area hundreds of miles of ocean

covered with pack ice. Considering that the enormous

area of pack ice between 60° and 70° all must have come
from ocean south of and that melts fast compared

with the bergs, being dashed to pieces by the violence of

the ocean, follows that there         huge area of Southern

Ocean to supply       to one of land with barrier ice. But

there still enough of the latter for your wants, that

barrier sheets of vast thickness covering low land and

shallow water, and doing what you so well describe.

Your chapters on temperature of ice, compression,

friction, melting points, are most interesting, and, doubt
      is is

                                         ;

                                                 J. is
                                                                  I
not, sound,

     It an old axiom not to assume more for our purposes

than      absolutely  necessary, and   this the burden of
                       pray forgive
my tiresome song                      its discordance. -- Ever

sincerely yours,

                                      D. HOOKER.

     If there was an ice-sheet continuous up to 70°, the

number of bergs would be so great that the South Ocean

would be unnavigable up to 40° or 48°.
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE          4«7

           WOLFCRAG, BRIDGE OF ALLAN,

                                                                   Vjth December 1883.

MY DEAR SIR, -- Pain in the head, my old enemy,

has prevented me, till now, thanking you for your two

very interesting communications.

     In assuming that the Antarctic ice-sheet probably
extends to latitude 70°, I simply adopted the prevailing

opinion on the subject amongst recent investigators into

the condition of the Antarctic regions. Every chart
which I remember having seen represents the permanent

ice as extending down to that latitude. I, of course, do

not pass any positive opinion of my own on the subject,
further than I believe that the greater part of the ice is

resting on shallow sea-bottoms, and that the so-called

continent is probably a mass of detached land, or islands

united in one continuous sheet by ice.

     Since I have been obliged to live on my niggardly
pension, I have had to store up my books along with my

furniture in a warehouse, and go into lodgings. In this
case, I am unable to give you a reference to the various

articles and papers on the subject from which I borrowed
the assumption as to the extent of the Antarctic ice. If

you will, however, turn up Wallace's Island Life, p. 133,
you will find a chart by Petermann. Many years ago I

read Ross, Wilkes, Cook, Weddell, and others. But, at

the time they wrote, no correct notions regarding the

necessary physical conditions of land ice existed.
     I may mention to you that in August last, Mr. Parker,

M.P. for Perth, who is a very intimate personal friend of

Mr. Gladstone, laid my whole case before him, along with

the memorial and list of names supporting and earnestlyit,
requested that small allowance might be granted out of
   a

        I
the Civil List. But have just learned that he will neither

sanction anything from the Civil List, nor an addition to
my pension --Yours sincerely,
!                              JAMES CROLL.

                                                   BRIDGE OF ALLAN, 2Oth December 1883.

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, C.B., D.C.L., F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- send you a copy of my proof.
   I
4i8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

You will find the part where I refer to your views at

pages 101 and 102. Make any corrections, additions, or

alterations which you    might     prceofnevr,enainedncele. --t mYeouhrasveetvheer
copy back at your        earliest

truly,                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                          KEW, ^yd December 1883.

MY DEAR MR. CROLL,-- I have read your article

herewith returned with the greatest interest ; it seems to

me unassailable (p. 85). It is no doubt these winds that

tend to preserve the ice cliffs of Siberia, and of the Arctic
sea-coast of North-west America. Did it ever occur to

you that those ice cliffs are relics of the Glacial epoch ?

(p. 86). Is W. correct in supposing that, except in Green
land and Grinnell Land, there is in the Arctic regions no

accumulation of permanent ice. I am aware that there

is no perpetual snow at the sea-level in the Arctic regions,
but I thought that the interior of the large Polar islands

(?) was ice-capped.
      Same page. You cannot say that the Antarctic

region consists of land probably not much above sea-

level, for, firstly, we know of very little land compared to

the amount known of ocean. Secondly, the only consider

able stretch of land known from 72° to 79° is enormously
high. This, however, does not affect your argument.
I can quite suppose that there are vast areas " probably

not much above sea-level," buried under ice, and with

barrier cliffs all round. Graham's Land is something of
                         90). Is not " interaction " better than
this sort,  I think (p.
" mutual                 on one another." I write with great
             reactions

diffidence to you, a physicist !

P. 96. The (?) is my father-in-law, Mr. Symonds (of

Pendock).

     P. 101. I cannot admit that "the Antarctic

Continent" is a low dismembered group of flat islands.

There may be such a continent as you guess, but no
one has seen it. What Ross saw may not be the true

Antarctic Continent, or even a part of but
                                   it,                   the
                                             it
                                                     is

only one ever seen or heard of. We surveyed its coast
SECULAR CHANGES OF CLIMATE                                  419

from 72° to 79°, measured its peaks 4000 to 14,000 ft.
continuously, saw far distant interior mountains, and saw

no break in the land, and this by Ross and Cragie, in

two ships independently surveying, and Ross the most

experienced of Arctic navigators. I have many sketches

of the coast line.

      There is plenty of room in the Antarctic Ocean for all
the flat islands you may assume, and I don't object to

your assuming a great amount of those, but this ignoring

the only known great mass of continuous land is to me

incomprehensible.
     P. 101. " Cut notches in the ice-cap." No " ice-cap "

has been seen in these meridians, only loose or tight pack

ice. It would be accurate to say that those masses of land

" cause a southern deflection of the position of the pack."
      P. i o i and lines from the bottom, " weight of evidence "

--would it not be better to say that " there is much to favour

the assumption, and I would assent to such a statement."

      P. 103. Surely neither Patagonia nor Fuego is in a
glaciated condition.

     My father-in-law, Mr. Symonds, is staying in our

house at Sunningdale ; he too thinks your paper is a
splendid one. He is very ill with cardiac asthma, and
has been obliged to give up his living. He is sending
you one of his tracts, and would much like any of yours

that you could spare ; he has read them all as they came

out. I am exceedingly concerned to hear of Gladstone's

obduracy --he does not love science ; we must try the next

Ministry. Yours is indeed a very, very hard case. We

can spend any amount in providing for the comforts as
well as needs of lunatics, felons, and paupers, not of in

capacitated students !

I think I must get out my Antarctic journals, plans,

and sketches,   and take a   turn at the   Antarctic Ocean  in a
paper for the  Geographical                With every good  wish
                              Society. --

of the season, very truly yours,

                                           J. D. HOOKER.

I think Balleny Islands are a group soldered by ice.
420 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

They are also most mountainous, 1 0,000 ft. if I remember

aright, and have barrier ice cliffs all round.

                                 WOLFCRAG, BRIDGE OF ALLAN,

                                 2&/4 December 1883.

Sir  J. Dalton  Hooker, C.B.,    F.R.S.
                                 glad to
     MY DEAR     SIR,-- I am              find        that  you  are so

well pleased with my paper. Thanks for pointing out
the several inaccurate statements. These I shall attend

to. The want of reference to Victoria Land, both in the

present paper and in the last, was an accidental omission.

The papers were both written before I received your

letters. The mountainous character of Victoria Land

has been   known to me    since  --I rIeaadmR, oysosu'srsAnetvaerrcttirculRye, gions
a quarter   of a century   ago.

                                                      JAMES CROLL.

                          BRIDGE OF ALLAN, i&th December 1883.

Sir JMosYepDhEADRaltoSnIR,H--ooWkehre.n I wrote in the forenoon, I

quite forgot to say how pleased I was to learn that you

intend drawing up a paper on the Antarctic regions, for

the Geographical Society.

     Would it not be well to urge on the Society the

desirability of moving for an expedition to that mysterious

region.

     Please to express to     --Mr.YoSuyrms oenvdesr   my best   thanks
     his interesting memoir.                          truly,
for

                                                      JAMES CROLL.
                     CHAPTER XXIV

RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES

IN 1884 Dr. Croll returned with renewed vigour to his
        former studies on Climate and Time. He wrote a
paper entitled " An Examination of Mr. Alfred Wallace's

' Modification of the Physical Theory of Secular Change
of Climate,' " which appeared in the Philosophical Maga

zine, Series    5,  xvii. 81 (No. 83). This was followed by
" Remarks            Professor Newcomb's Rejoinder," which
               on

appeared in the Philosophical Magazine, Series 5, xvii.

275 (No. 84), and a "Further Examination of Mr.
Alfred Wallace's ' Modification of the Physical Theory of

Secular Changes of Climate,' Part II. Geological and

Palaeontological Facts in relation to Mr. Wallace's
' Modification of the Theory,' " which appeared in the

Philosophical  Afag-azine?Series 5,  xvii. 367 (No. 85).     He
also wrote     a paper on " The       Cause of Mild       Polar

Climates," which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine,

Series 5, xviii. 268 (No. 86).
     On 1 5th February 1884, the Geological Society of

London awarded to Dr. Croll part of the proceeds of

the Barlow-Jamieson Fund, in recognition of his recent
scientific researches as embodied in his works. The

following is an excerpt from the minutes of the Society

with reference to this :--

      " The President then handed to Professor Bonney,

D.Sc., F.R.S., for transmission to Dr. Croll, a portion of
                                                   Fund, and said --
the proceeds of the  --BarlTohwe-JaCmoiuenscoinl,
' Professor Bonney,                                in recognition of
the value of Dr. James Croll's researches into " The
                     421
4« LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Later History of the Earth," and to aid him in further
researches of like kind, has awarded to him the sum of
£20 from the proceeds of the Barlow-Jamieson Fund.
Dr. Croll's work on Climate and Time in their Geological

Relations, and his numerous separate papers on various
cognate subjects, including " The Eccentricity of the

Earth's Orbit," "Date of the Glacial Period," "The
Influence of the Gulf Stream," "The Motion of Glaciers,"
" Ocean Currents," and " The Transport of Boulders," by

their suggestiveness have deservedly attracted much
attention. In forwarding to Dr. Croll this award, the
Council desires you to express the hope that it may
assist him in continuing these lines of research.'

     " Professor Bonney in reply said --' Mr. President,

I have been charged by Dr. James Croll to express to

the Society his regret that his weak health, and the great

distance at which he resides, prevent him from being
present in person to-day to receive this award. He
desires me to express his deep sense of the honour which
is done to him in this renewed mark of the appreciation
of his work ; and he gives us the cheering news that,
though still at times suffering, he is now able to do a
little work, a proof of which, in a paper on Mr. Wallace's
remarks on the " Theory of Climate," reached me yester

day. Deeply though I regret Dr. Croll's absence, I feel

honoured in representing a man who has done such
original, suggestive, and valuable work.' "

       The following correspondence between Dr. Croll and

Sir J. Dalton Hooker, F.R.S., is of much interest :--

                       WOI.FCRAG, BRIDGR OF ALLAN,

                                llth January 1884.

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- I forgot to -mention, when I wrote

last, the reason why I prefer " mutual re-action of the
physical causes," to the comprehensive term " inter

action." Interaction, as I understand                      implies both
                       I

                                                      it,
action and re-action.  have already discussed the
       RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES                                        423

influence of the mutual action of the                          agents,  and I wish
                                                               mutual    reactions.
now to consider the other factor --the
Were I to use the term " interaction," it might lead to

confusion when considering the effects of re-action
only. -- I am, yours respectfully,
                                                               JAMES CROLL.

                                    MONTREAL COTTAGE, PERTH,

                                                                             3&th March 1884.

     DEAR DR. CROLL, -- I wish I could answer your
question at all. I know no subject more hopelessly

unintelligible than the Arctic explorers' accounts of the

woods they found.

     It is impossible to say whether they mean recent
driftwood, lignites, or Tertiary deposits. I talked with

M'Clure and Osborn about the Banks Land deposits,

which must be very extraordinary, but could arrive at

no clear idea as to their age or origin.

The woods which I examined from time to time
                                                                             -- poplar
were,   as far  sapsruIcer--ecoelvleidcte,ntplyiecedsrifotefd  drift timber
and    white                                                     down the      Copper

mine or Mackenzie in modern times, though possibly

many centuries ago, for the conservative power of

continuous cold is great.

     M. Belcher's Last of the Arctic Voyage, vol. i. p. 380,
describes the stump of a tree embedded in frozen clay,

together with portions of leaves, etc., and he describes

peat in the immediate neighbourhood. This was in
Wellington Channel. I examined specimens brought to

me, and they had all the appearance of being driftwood

of Abies alba, white spruce. No leaves nor peat were

brought, and no scientific man was present at the digging.

Belcher, you know, was a notoriously untruthful man,

and an officer of his ship whom I questioned pooh-

poohed the story of the digging the tree out of frozen

soil. Belcher was the best and most deservedly hated

man of his day in the Navy, and one must not pin faith

on what his enemies say of him. If his account is
424 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

correct, it is clear evidence of an Interglacial mild period,

I should suppose.

     I will inquire of Admiral Richards, who was in
Belcher's ship, and see what he knows. Dr. Lyall, I

think it was, who described the whole of Belcher's story,

and it is a significant fact that the ship's boatswain, who
discovered the wood, thought it was the " top - gallant

mast of a ship," and the carpenter's mate, who was one
of the party, was of opinion " that it was a worked spar
                                       "
of about  eight     inches  diameter
                                      !

I forget whether wood has been found with the
                                               ; if
mammoth bones       in  the   Buckland Cliffs        so,  that would
be fair evidence    of   a                     but   the    elephants
                             warm period, --

themselves, are we to suppose that all the bones found

over so many degrees of longitude were all washed down

from    lower   latitudes, is a great      stretch. I will  write
again   when                                                truly
               I hear from Admiral        Richards.-- Ever

yours,                                         J. D. HOOKER.

DEAR           DR.  CROLL,--As          MONTREAL COTTAGE, PERTH,

                                                   lst April 1884.

                                      I anticipated, the answers

to my queries are most unsatisfactory. Dr. Lyall, who

was naturalist on the Belcher expedition, writes me that

he was away on a sledge expedition at the date of the
discovery of the tree, and adds that Admiral B. " had a

very fertile imagination."

     On the other hand, Admiral Richards writes : " I

perfectly remember the piece of tree; it was 16 to 1 8 inches

long, and 6 to 7 inches in diameter, and I should say it
was unquestionably fossil. I am under the impression

that there were a lot of stumps standing, about the same

height, in a valley or ravine, but I cannot call to mind

whether I saw them, or a sketch of them by Belcher. I

don't think I can be mistaken as to their fossil character.
I remember carefully examining the specimen, and at

one time I had some loose pieces of the petrifaction in
my possession. I remember the stump lying about the
            RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES                                         425

upper deck for some time, and that pieces got disinteg

rated off it. It was regarded at the time a remarkable

discovery."

      Now the specimens given to me to examine were
assuredly not petrified, for I made the slices for micro

scopic examination with a razor ! and as they were
unaccompanied with any account of their position, etc.

(which appeared afterwards in Belcher's narrative), it
never occurred to me to treat them as anything but drift

wood.

         The only way I can reconcile the conflicting accounts

I I is,  that the boatswain and carpenter's mate found drift

wood, and that the fossils were another story, and that

       Belcher has jumbled them up and sent me the driftwood,

which       is, I  identified with Picea alba. What the fossil

wood               or what its age,             impossible to say  ;
                         is
                                                                      it
                                    it
                                                                         I is
                                            is
       most likely to have been Miocene.

         There a statement in Nares's voyage, to the effect,
                   is

          think, that there are no recent fossil woods in the

       North. The book at my place in the country. If

       can find    iIt,  will copy the passage for you.

         I  have read most of the Arctic narratives, and think

          should  have noted     any account    of   remains that would
       indicate   Interglacial  warm periods.       Yours very truly,
                                                --

                                                    J.  D. HOOKER.

                                        AUTON COTTAGE, DAVID STREET, BLAIRGOWRIK,

                                                         2nd April 1884.

       Sir Joseph D. Hooker.

           MY DEAR SIR, -- am greatly obliged for your
            I

                   it

                                II

                                                                          I
                                                                                I
       interesting letter, but disappointed at the uncertainty

       that seems to hang over Belcher's Arctic tree. From

       the description of the wood given by your father, had

       concluded to be almost certain that the tree had grown

       in the Arctic regions.   had a chapter on the subject in

       Climate and Time, an old proof of which enclose.

       Might ask you to glance over the facts which are given,

       and jot on the margin any remarks which might be of
426 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

service to me ? I am much interested in the subject, and

would like, if possible, to examine what has been written

more fully. But unfortunately I am away from my books,
they being all stored up in Edinburgh along with my
furniture. Can you tell me where I could get a full
account of the Buckland Cliff of Siberia, containing the
elephant remains ? I don't remember having read the

full accounts.-- I am, yours sincerely, JAMES CROLL.

     I shall look with interest for Admiral Richards'

opinion.

                                                                  KEW, toh April 1884.

    DEAR MR. CROLL, --With every wish to find

botanical evidence of Interglacial warm periods, I am
unable to say that the facts you have so well marshalled
are conclusive. M'Clure's great accumulation appeared
to me to be that of driftwood, the bark notwithstanding.

If in situ, they must apparently have grown one atop of

another without intervening soil ! for, as I understood at

--the time, they were piled upon one another to a great

thickness a solid mass of trunks of all sizes ; this is not
like growing in situ. The argument from the presence
of bark is inconclusive, as driftwood with bark is not

uncommon in the Polar islands, I believe. Nor is

distance from sea of any moment. Nor incombustibility,
for the soaking in salt water would account for that.

     Fielding in Nares's narrative mentions seaweeds of
existing Arctic species occurring in mud beds 200 feet

above the sea, retaining their peculiar seashore odour.
He adds, no evidence was discovered in the mud beds of
Grinnell's Land to encourage the idea that any of these
trees * had grown in situ, or that during the period
occupied by the elevation of this country to 1000 feet
it had experienced an Interglacial period during which
such trees might have flourished.

     Nares himself says : " In considering former reports

       1 He alludes to finding coniferous trees still retaining their buoyancy.
RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES   427

of the finding of fossil wood, and trees said to be in situ,
it is noticeable that the positions where such petrifactions
and stumps of trees have been found, not excepting the
case reported by Sir Edward Belcher, Last Arctic Voyage,
vol. i. p. 380, are all in the near neighbourhood of where
the water currents are now collecting drift timber, and

whither we could have expected them to have borne it
over the land even at a lower level than it is at present,

which all the data in our possession proves to have been
the case in very recent geological times." No doubt the
drift timber all comes from the Mackenzie and Copper
mine rivers, and the greatest accumulations of it would
hence be to the westward on the shores of Banks Land.

      Then again, an interglacial warmth that would allow
of the growth of trees more than a foot in diameter in
the Polar islands must have been a startling one, and of
which unmistakable traces would be found all over the

Polar islands,1 for we must bear in mind that these are

not cases of deposits covered by subsequent rock beds of

thickness, such as overlies the Miocene, but would be

comparatively, if not actually, surface deposits. I do

not know to which researches of Heer's you allude as
putting it beyond doubt that the drift theory of the
recent wood must be abandoned. I remember the

evidence as to the Miocene plant not being drifted.

      I will try and find out where Lieutenant Anjous
published, and also where the best account of Buckland's
Cliffs is to be had ; I think, Seemann's Voyage of the
Herald.

       Probably Nordenskjold and other Arctic explorers

have described the glacial deposits that contain the

mammoth bones. I am disposed to regard these bones
as the best evidence of an Interglacial warm period, and
that a careful examination of the ice cliffs that have

 under my view survived from a very early date of the

 Glacial period would clear up the subject.

      1 The answer to this  is,  that the constant ice movements would soon
obliterate evidence.
428 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I am going to Paris for a fortnight on Thursday,

and shall not have time to hunt up the Arctic voyage

before I go, but will as soon as I return.

It is rather against existing evidence of Interglacial

tpheerioodnslythsactiennotinfiecahllayveebxepelonrefodrthAcrocmticinglanfrdo.m--SYpoituzrbsergveenry,

truly,                                     J. D. HOOKER.

    If you again have occasion to allude to the specimens

of wood from Belcher, which I examined, it would be

well to add that there is no proof that these came from
the " fossil                   "
              stump  in  situ        they  certainly  were  not  petri
                                  ;

fied as Admiral Richards says the stump was, and which

would refer it to the Miocene more probably than to

Interglacial age, for wood buried in ice does not petrify.

     Dr. Croll, having sent his paper on "The Physical
Theory of Secular Changes of Climate " to Professor

Adams, Cambridge, with reference to a calculation as
to the probable amount of precession of the ecliptic,

received the following reply :--

                                                                       OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                 i'l'/.' March 1884.

JameMsYCrDoEllA, REsqS.I,R,L--L.DI .,haFv.eR.Sb.een so very busy lately

that I have only just now had time to look at your
paper for the Philosophical Magazine. I now find that

the passage which you have marked is quite inaccurate.

I am not aware that Professor Darwin has done anything
new with reference to precession. Certainly the fact
that the rate of precession depends mainly on the
obliquity of the ecliptic at the time, is no discovery of

his.

      The statement that the more the obliquity, the
greater is the rate of precession, is the reverse of the

truth, and there is some strange mistake in reference to
my calculations of the probable amount of the precession
RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES                                                                   429

10,000 years ago. I can only account for it by

supposing that 6g'%j" has been taken instead of 49-87",

which I may perhaps have given as a probable estimate,

though a very rough one, of the precession 10,000 years

ago. The fact that the rate of change of precession
                   is,
for very distant epochs has not yet been satisfactorilyis
                It
investigated.               one           of the  problems    which                              have
been intending  for      some            time to  set about.                                       me,
                                                              -- Believe
                                                            J.
yours very truly,
                                                                        I
                                                              C. ADAMS.

      Dr. Croll sent copy of some of his papers to thea
Rev. Mr. Baxter, and announced his intention to abandon
physical science and resume the study of metaphysics.

                                               BURNBANK ROAD, HAMILTON,

                                                            yh November 1884.
Rev. G. C. Baxter.

    DEAR SIR, --Will you please accept of a copy of

one or two papers written recently                          They are some
                                                  ?

                                                               I
                                                                  I
what controversial, being intended to remove some

misapprehensions regarding the " Physical Theory of

Secular Changes of Climate," a subject on which have

been working for the past twenty years.                               intend

abandoning physical studies, and returning to my old

and favourite subject, metaphysics, and the one or two

papers sent are, hope, about my last words in physics.
I
             I

                     II
When take up house again and get into my library,

finsdharlel msaeinndingyo. u--anyamo, f   my   former papers which    I                          may
                                         dear  sir, yours sincerely,

                                                  JAMES CROLL.

                                               HAMILTON, 6th November 1884.

Rev. G. C. Baxter.                       have a spare copy of paper

    DEAR SIR,-- find
I
                      it,

                      II
                               I

                                                                                              a
bearing on one of my old and favourite lines of thought.

have sent as have an impression some of the ideas

might interest you.
430 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      We shall probably  leave    --thisYouprlascevefroyr  Rothesay
before the dead of the   winter.                           sincerely,

                                  JAMES CROLL.

Towards the close of the year 1885, Dr. Croll

resumed his astronomical studies, as bearing on climate

and time, with special reference to the sun's heat and
effects thereof. He followed this up during the years

1886-- 9, by an investigation into the origin and action

of nebulae in the solar system ; and during these years,

his attention was devoted, at such intervals as he was

able to read and dictate, to writing out the results of

these investigations, and to putting down on paper his

thoughts on philosophy. By this time his health had

become so enfeebled that he was unable to do more than

about an hour or two's work at any time, and even that

was only accomplished by the aid of an amanuensis, who

read to him, and to whom he dictated such short

passages on both subjects as he could compose without
bringing on the pain in his head. After moving about

for five years from place to place in an unsettled con

dition, with no permanent home, he longed for this to

get rest. Having during the time obtained, through the
kindness of friends, a little increase to his income, he

resolved on taking up house again. He naturally

gravitated to the quiet, ancient city of Perth, near his

own native place, and was fortunate in obtaining a lease

of a comfortable house in the suburbs of the city. At

the end of the summer of 1886, he accordingly took up

his permanent abode there.
      From Perth he wrote to Professor Darwin, Cam

bridge, sending a copy of Climate and      --Cosmology,    on
which the following correspondence ensued
                                           :

                         5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                   ydNevcmbcr 1886.

Professor  Darwin, M.A., F.R.S.   read in Nature,          with

     MY    DEAR SIR, -- I have
      RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES                    431

much interest indeed, your address at Birmingham,
and feel greatly obliged for the prominence you have

given to my speculations. It is very encouraging.

If your address has been printed in a separate form,

I should feel obliged for a copy, if you have one to

spare.

     Will you please to accept of a copy of my recent
book, Discussions on Climate and Cosmology, which I

have forwarded by parcel post? If you can find time, I
should like you to read Chapter viii. I have there

shown that the facts of geology are wholly opposed to
Mr. Wallace's modification of my theory. Facts show
that the more intense were the cold periods of the
Glacial epoch, the more warm and equable were the

Interglacial periods, and that as the cold periods became

less severe, the corresponding Interglacial periods became
less equable. Professor James Geikie's Prehistoric
Europe contains a perfect store of facts on this point.

It is strange that many geologists are so reluctant to

admit Interglacial periods, which so much upset the

theories of climate. -- Yours sincerely,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

                NEWNHAM GRANGE, CAMBRIDGE,

     MY DEAR                                                   ^tH Nmiember 1886.

great kindness  SIR,-- I beg leave to thank you for your
                in sending me a copy of your book. I

will begin my reading of it with the chapter you point

out.

      I cannot see as yet that Wallace betters the case in

any one point ; on the contrary, it seems worse.
     I see Ball has recently made a pronunciamento in

your favour. For myself, I hope you are right ; but, as

I say in my address, the matter is very complex, and
                                    I send you
must remain doubtful at present.                a copy  of
                                  sincerely,
the address by post.--Yours very

                                  G. H. DARWIN.
432 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                                             5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                                                         9/4 November 1886.

Professor Darwin, M.A., F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Thanks, many thanks for the two

copies of your address. What you say as to Professor

Ball's opinion excites my curiosity. If he has published

anything on the subject, will         you  kindly give me a

reference to it.--Yours truly,

                                           JAMES CROLL.

     The " pronunciamento " here referred to was made by

Sir Robert Ball in a paper read at the Royal Irish

Academy on I4th May 1886, in which he says : "The

following calculation has convinced me that Mr. Croll's

theory affords an adequate explanation of the Ice age."

He then proceeds to give the geometrical formulae

establishing this proposition, which will be found in

Nature, vol xxxiv. p. 607.

     On Sir Robert Ball's proposition being challenged by
                          Mr. W. H.
one  of Croll's critics,   following  Monck, in  October  1896,
Sir  Robert wrote the
                                      reply :--

      " In your issue of November 4, p. 7, my friend Mr.
W. H. S. Monck asks one or two questions relative to
the paper on ' The Astronomical Theory of the Great
Ice Age,' which you did me the honour to reprint.

     " I take as a convenient unit the mean daily sun heat
on one hemisphere. The amount of this unit is indicated

by the fact that it continuously maintains the earth's
temperature some 300° more or less above what it would
be were the sun's heat withdrawn.

     " The calculations I gave showed that in the glacial
winter, the mean daily receipt of heat sunk to '68 of a
unit, while in the brief glacial summer, the mean daily

receipt was i'38 unit.
      " Considering the magnitude of the unit, it is obvious

that fluctuations like this must correspond to vast
climatic changes of the kind postulated in the Ice age.
RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES                433

Here, it seems to me, lies the great originating cause of
the Ice age, and to dwell on the minor phenomena

merely obscures the real point.

    " If it be said that no great climatic change takes

place because the total sun heat in the year remains the

same, then I remark, as I did at the Royal Institution,

that on this principle it would be the same thing to give
a horse 1 5 Ibs. of oats a day for six months, and 5 Ibs.
a day for the other six months, as to give him 10 Ibs. of
oats a day all the year round.

                                                       ROBERT S. BALL.

THE OBSERVATORY, Co. DUBLIN, llth November."

      The following are the remarks made by Professor
G. H. Darwin at the British Association meeting at

Birmingham in 1886, referred to in Dr. Croll's letter:--

     " Mr. Croll claims to prove that great changes of
climate must be brought about by astronomic events of
which the dates are known or ascertainable (Climate and
Time). The perturbation of the planets causes a secular
variability in the eccentricity of the earth's orbit, and
we are able confidently to compute the eccentricity of
many thousands of years forward and backward from
to-day, although it appears that in the opinion of New-
comb and Adams no great reliance can be placed on the

values deduced from the formulae at dates so remote as

those of which Mr. Croll speaks. According to Mr.
Croll, when the eccentricity of the earth's orbit is at its

maximum, that hemisphere which has its winter in
aphelion would undergo a Glacial period. Now, as the
date of great eccentricity is ascertainable, this would

explain the great Ice age and give us its date.
      " The theory has met with a cordial acceptance on

many sides, possibly to a great extent from the charm of
the complete answer it affords to one of the great riddles
of geology.

     " Adequate criticism of Mr. Croll's views is a matter of

           28
434 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

great difficulty on account of the diversity of causes

which are said to co-operate in the glaciation. In the

case of an effect arising from a number of causes, each

of which contributes its share, it is obvious that, if the

amount of each cause and of each effect is largely

conjectural, the uncertainty of the total result is by no

means to be measured by the uncertainty of each item,

but is enormously augmented. Without going far into

details, it may be said that these various concurrent

causes result in one fundamental proposition with regard

to climate which must be regarded as the keystone

of the whole argument. That proposition amounts to

this, that climate is unstable.

     " Mr. Croll holds that the various causes of change of

climate operate inter se in such a way as to augment

their several efficiencies. Thus the trade winds are

driven by the difference of temperature between the

frigid and torrid zones, and if from the astronomic

cause the northern hemisphere becomes cooler, the trade

winds on that hemisphere encroach on those of the other,

and the part of the warm oceanic current which formerly

flowed into the cold north zone will be diverted into the

southern hemisphere. Thus the cold of the northern

hemisphere is augmented, and this in its turn displaces

the trade winds further, and this again acts on the ocean

currents, and so on, and this is neither more nor less

than instability.                       from some of those

     " But if climate be unstable, and
             is
                                     is

                                             it
                                                    it if,

                                                             is
                                                                 is

                                                                                      a
temporary causes for which no reasons can as yet be

assigned, there occurs a short period of cold, then surely

even an infinitesimal portion of the second link in the

chain of causation must exist, and this should proceed

as in the first case to augment the departure from the

original condition, and the climate must change. In

matter so complex as the weather,       at least possible

that there should be instability when the cause of

disturbance  astronomic, whilst there   stability in an
Ifordinary sense.
                   this so, might be explained
RESUMPTION OF PHYSICAL STUDIES  435

by the necessity for a prolonged alternation in the
direction of prevailing winds, in order to affect oceanic

currents.
       " However this may be, so remarkable a doctrine as

the instability of climate must certainly be regarded with

great suspicion, and we should require abundant proof
before accepting it. Now there is one result of Mr.
Croll's theory which should afford almost a crucial test of
its acceptability. In consequence of the precession of

the equinoxes, the conditions producing glaciation in one
hemisphere must be transferred to the other every

10,000 years. If there is good geological evidence that

this has actually been the case, we should allow very

great weight to the astronomical theory, notwithstanding
the difficulties in its way. Mr. Croll has urged that

there is such evidence, and this view has been recently

strongly supported by M. Blytt (Nature, July 8 and

15, 1886). Other geologists do not, however, seem
convinced of the conclusiveness of the evidence.

      " Thus Mr. Wallace (Island Life), whilst admitting
that there was some amelioration of climate from time to

time during the last Glacial period, cannot agree in the
regular alternations of cold and warm demanded by
Mr. Croll's theory. To meet this difficulty he proposes
a modification. According to his view, large eccentricity
in the earth's orbit will only produce glaciation when
accompanied by favourable geological conditions. And

when extreme glaciation has once been established in
the hemisphere which has its winter in aphelion, the
glaciation will persist at some diminution of intensity

when precession has brought round the perihelion to the

winter. In this case, according to Wallace, glaciation
will be simultaneous on both hemispheres.

     " Again, he contended that if the geological condi

tions are not favourable, astronomic causes alone are not

competent to produce glaciation."
                       CHAPTER XXV

   DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY CLOSE
                           OF PHYSICAL STUDIES

IN 1885, Dr. Croll had another serious illness, which
          confined him to the house for a considerable time.
The slow, weak action of the heart, and his desire for
constant open air exercise, were not very compatible with
each other. He tried to go out every day ; and in the
winter he caught cold, which brought on certain dropsical
symptoms, which however, with rest and judicious
medical treatment, passed off. He was able to write
a paper on " Arctic Interglacial Periods," which appeared

in the Philosophical Magazine, Series 5, xix. 30. This
was the last original paper he wrote on these climatic

subjects on which he had earned so great a reputation.
During the year he collected all the papers he had

written on climatic subjects since the publication of
his great work, Climate and Time, in 1874. These
he revised down to date and published in the end of
1885, under the title Discussions on Climate and

Cosmology.

      This completed his work on geology and physics,
and he quietly, but deliberately, closed his reading and
writing on these subjects, which had engrossed his
attention for a period of twenty-five years, in which he
had earned a world-wide reputation, reaped the richest
rewards in honours which he could desire, and through
which he formed friendships with the most distinguished
scientists of the time. He did this to turn to his
favourite theme of metaphysics ; and now he resumed the

                                                                             436
 DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 437

subject, of which he had never completely lost sight since
his earliest manhood.

                              BURNBANK ROAD, HAMILTON, zyh April 1885.

    DEAR DR. MORISON, --Glad to have a letter from
you again and to learn that you are well. If the

weather continues good, Mrs. Morison and you will

enjoy Prestwick.

      The severe pain in the leg turned out not to be
sciatica. I don't know what it was, but it terminated

with swelling and water in the feet and ankles. They
are getting better, and I hope soon to be able to get on

my boots.

     I have not seen anything of the author to whom you
refer, but have taken a note of the volumes. I am

done with reading and writing in physics, and am looking
forward with pleasure to my old studies after I get a

long rest.

I have a volume supplementary to Climate and Time

ready for the press. I am just arranging with the

--pubWlisithher,    and wish I saw     the last proof  out   of hands.
                                         Mrs. Morison   and   yourself,
                  kindest regards to

I am, yours sincerely,

                                                 JAMES CROLL.

              --AVON COTTAGE, STRATH AVEN, 22nd August 1885.

DEAR DR. MORISON, I have just finished a rough

draft of my Preface, but am not altogether pleased with

it. It is a sort of thing I am not good at.

    If it is not too much to ask, would you kindly look

over the MS. and make any corrections or alterations

which you may think necessary or advantageous.                 of

    As I now finally abandon the whole subject                 It

climate, I have added a paragraph to that effect.

bwoiollk.p--revWenitth  me having to   reply to   any criticisms on the
                          our kindest  regards   to Mrs. Morison and

yourself, yours sincerely,

                                                 JAMES CROLL.
43« LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

The Saturday Review, October 1887, in criticising

Climate and Time in their Geological Relation : a

Theory of         Secular Changes   CoosfmothloegyE, asrtahid's--Climate,  and
                  on Climate and
Discussions
" We hope it is not too late to refer to the handy

reprint of Dr. Croll's classical Climate and Time, and

to his new companion volume, entitled Discussions on

Climate and Cosmology. We cannot venture here to
re-discuss Dr. Croll's well-known theories. In the new

volume he himself endeavours to reply to the many

criticisms which these have called forth. Some of these

criticisms were fair and honest enough, and difficult to

answer. Others, we regret to say, bore evidence of

strong prejudice, and even personal animosity. What

ever objections may be fairly taken to certain of Dr.

Croll's positions, every honest scientific investigator will

admit that his writings have had the most radical

influence on cosmological speculation. In certain direc

tions his influence has been nearly as great as that

of Darwin's in biology. It is now allowed that, in

speculating on the past condition of the earth, he has

laid too much stress on cosmical causes, and made too

little allowance for simple but influential geographical

changes. But when all deductions are made, there can

be no doubt that Dr. Croll's name will in the future be

allotted a very high position in the science of our time.

It will certainly be a reproach to our generation that a

man who has spent his life in the disinterested pursuit

of pure science, and that with such magnificent and

far-reaching results, should, when incapacitated by infirm

health and old age, be allowed only the miserable retiring

pSiutrtvaenyce--  due to him as     a servant  of   the   Geological
                  a pittance about   equal to  the  hire  of a day

labourer."

Dr. Croll sent copies of Climate and Cosmology to

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker and Mr. Alfred Russell

Wallace, upon which the following correspondence

ensued :--
DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 439

                                              ROYAL GARDENS, KEW,

                                                                                      1 1th November 1885.

    DEAR DR. CROLL, -- I am much gratified by your

sending me Climate and Cosmology, which I shall at once

read, and, I need not say, with great interest; for,
though I had read the articles, I never put them together

before me.

     I have been thinking much of Antarctic ice, and,
looking over my sketches, I cannot account for the small,

often very small, tabular bergs, all along the coast of
Victoria Land, and of the Barrier, otherwise than as the

wreck of great floes formed by snowfalls. Of course, these

do not interfere with the (?) tabular bergs (?) of the Barrier.
     My own impression still is that the Antarctic area is

a water one in the main. How else can one account

for the enormous area of the pack, which in continuous

sheets or island-like masses, it occupies. This prodigious

development of pack, extending in some meridians to

5 8°, and which certainly originates in ice formed south of
       is
                           a

                              it

                                        is
                                             is,
                                                 is

                                                                (?)
70°, must require prodigious area south of 70° of water

for its formation, and   all drifting north.

    Whatever land there                       no doubt ice-capped, but

the excessively rugged outline of the coast of Victoria

Land, with peaks and precipices, the latter showing black

cliffs several thousand feet above sea-level, proves that

there        no such ice-cap there as in Greenland. This

rugged and lofty broken outline was the character of the

coast for 7°= 500 miles, but contrast this with any 500
miles of the Greenland coast with its ice-cap. Victoria

Land precisely resembles the Alps snow-clad to their

base. The Barrier, only reached in 78°,                              another
I

        is,

        it
              It

                       is
                             is
                                              is

                                               it
                                                          is

                                                            I is is
matter.      the edge of an ice-field, whether originating

either as the seaward margin of an ice-cap, or the terminus

of  a huge   gtloaciethreocfcourmpyeirn--g a  huge broad bay, uncertain.
    incline                                          immaterial whether the

land covers island or continuous. What do stick

to that were there such an ice-cap in the longitude of

Victoria Land, as there in Greenland, the contour of the
     440 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

     Victorian Land coast would be impossible. The fact of

     Ross having found open sea in 78° and Weddell in 74°
     shows how much water there is in the south, but the so-

     called barrier of most Antarctic voyages, met with in

     62°-- 70°, is only the edge of the pack, which Ross alone

     penetrated, or         even attempted    btoeyopnednetra--te,whaenrde     he had
     his reward by          finding open sea                  J. it,           Wilkes

     had written land. The fact is, we know nothing of

     the Antarctic regions south of 70°, except Victoria Land,

     and wants more careful consideration than has
it                                                                          it
                                                                               is it
     is
        it

             I

                           a

                                           it

                                                          is
     ever had.   don't believe W. Thomson's speculation that

          a chain of islands, and                             far too continuous, lofty,

aclnodtherdu.g--geEd,vetro  be considered  ice-capped,              though             ice-
                            truly yours,

                                                                      D. HOOKER.

it           forwarded the petition to Lord Salisbury month                 a
    Iago with a private letter, and he answered that he sent

        to Lord Iddesleigh.

          DEAR DR. CROLL,-- Has                                        lyh November 1885.
                            it                                ever been noticed that

                                       ?

                                      I1
                                           3 it
the bifurcation of the great ice floes of Norway, as

     represented in your map (p.               3), in the German Ocean,

     over the Dogger Bank                  take for granted that has,
is                                                            J.

            I                                                            it
but when pointed out to Professor Judd, was new                                 it

     to him.

          You have demolished Wyville Thomson, who appears

to me     to have known     as  little of the                 phlaynsdic.s--oEfvseera  as he
did of    the geography         the Antarctic                                          yours
                            of

truly,                                                                D. HOOKER.

                                                              FRITH HILL, GODALMING,

     Dr.  James  Croll, F.R.S.                           12th December 1885.
          DEAR
                 MR. CROLL, --     have been reading, with very
                                I

great interest and pleasure, the two last chapters of your
book on the origin of sun's heat and of nebulae. Your
DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 441

theory of the light and heat of all suns, stars, and nebulae

being due to arrested motion seems to me most simple,

suggestive, and probable, and supported by a mass of

weighty fact and argument. It seems the complement
of the molecular theory of gases, the molecules in this

case being the vast molar masses of the stellar universe.

There is, however, a point connected with your

discussion of the age of the sun's heat and of geological
time that does not seem to me so clear. You say that

the sun can only have been giving heat at the present

rate for 20 million years if heat is due solely to gravita

tion, and that geology requires far more than 20 million

years. Your arrested motion gives any possible amount

of heat to begin with, and thus you get a longer period

of emission.

But this seems to me rather beside the point. What

ever heat the sun originally had, it had cooled down to

the present temperature by radiation, losing heat less and

less rapidly as it became cooler. In doing so, it must

have passed through the point at which life, such as we

find in the earlier Palaeozoic rocks, first became possible,

say a temperature such as would have heated the ocean

to 1 20° or 150° F. Would not the time from that epoch

to now be  aIffixseod,  period, whatever the primitive heat oi
the sun ?               this period is what we want to arrive

at, not the whole period during which the sun has

been giving out heat, which has no bearing on the

problem. Thus let H be the heat of the sun at starting,
H -- N the heat now. It has cooled according to some

definite  la.wH. -a.    .H-3.  .H-c  H-N

      H.
If H-- c represents the temperature at which life
...became possible on earth, then the time H -- c
                                                   to

H -- N is what we want, and whether the time between
H and H -- c was 5 million or 5000 million years makes
no difference whatever. Another limiting factor is the

time required for the earth to cool from the highest

possible life temperature to present temperature. This
442 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

you allude to at end of Chapter xviii. as not calculable
within sufficiently close limits, but you do not, I think,

refer to the fact that the time of the sun's cooling, from

the limits of terrestrial life temperature to present

temperature, is not affected by the total store of its

oerluigciindaaltiohne.a--t. YoTuhriss   point seems to   me  to want further
                                       very faithfully,

                                       ALFRED R. WALLACE.

DEAR  MR.  WALLACE, -- I                 8 BATTERY PL., ROTHESAY,
                                                 igM December 1885.

                                       am delighted to find that

you are so well pleased with my theory of the origin of

the sun's heat. It is very encouraging. Your consider

ations strengthen my arguments that the gravitation

theory cannot account for the sun's heat. Assuming it

as correct that gravity could only have supplied the

present rate of radiation for 20 million years, then the
time from H -- c, when life became possible, to H -- N,

the present time, must be far less than 20 million years,

for the rate of radiation at H -- c was greater than at

present. Geology, however, proves that the time in

question must have been more than twice 20 million

years.

     Your difficulty seems to arise, I think, from your

not taking into account the fact that the length of time
between H -- c and H -- N will depend upon the nature of
the cooling process. Were the sun solid, or possessed of
a solid crust like that of the earth, its rate of cooling

would depend mainly on the conductive power of this
crust for heat. Were the crust a bad conductor, the

surface would rapidly cool down, and the store of

internal heat would last for countless ages. Were on
           a
                                                                  is

                                                                         it,
the other hand, good conductor, like copper, the surface
would remain long hot, and the store would, of course,

be sooner exhausted. The sun, however,                       not solid,

but a gaseous mass, and cools by an entirely different

process. Owing to its gaseous condition, and the way
DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 443

in which it cools, into the consideration of which I need

not here enter, the temperature of the surface decreases

with excessive slowness.

H    The    great length of the  interval between H -- c and
   -- N is  mainly due to three
                                 circumstances -- (i) the great
mass of the sun ; (2) the fact that this mass is in a
gaseous condition ; and (3) the enormous store of heat

that this mass possesses.

     The store of heat is therefore an important factor.
I have left physics once and for all, I trust, and hope I

may be able to do a little at my old favourite subject,

though terribly crippled by pain in the head. --Yours

sincerely,                       JAMES CROLL.

      Dr. Croll did not publish anything between 1885
and 1889. In 1887 he was busy working at Stellar
Evolution and The Philosophical Basis of Evolution.
Owing to the state of his health, progress with these

works, which were both of a very abstruse, speculative
nature, was necessarily slow. He worked, however, very
consistently at them, and did not allow himself to be

distracted either by correspondence or the discussions
which were going on in science. There is therefore little
to record in 1887. The following letter from Professor
M'Farland, and Dr. Croll's reply, however, show that he

had not lost his interest in science.

                           MIAMI UNIVERSITY, OXFORD, OHIO,

                                 2Qth Marc h 1887.

Dr.  JMcaomYnneDescEtCAerRdolflS,roIERmd, --in1b8Wu5r6itghhto. th1e87C3o--llewgeas  above named I
was                                                                                 then transferred

to the University at Columbus, O., during the closing of

this on account of financial embarrassment --and on the

reopening here in 1885, I was asked to take charge and

resuscitate the College. In this work I have been so

much occupied that I write little for the journals, and

my correspondence is chiefly on business. Oxford is in
444 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the south-west corner of Ohio, near Cincinnati. We take

our name from the English town. Our country is large,

as you know. Oxford is 120 miles from Columbus.

Dr. Orton in his    geological tours reaches  our village
                    here a few weeks ago.     I send you
occasionally --was

a copy of a little astronomical journal printed 600 or

700 miles north-west of Oxford. In this country we
have a good many men whose chief business it is to
" object." It is not always important, in their judgment,

to be conversant with the theory to which they object --

their business is to object. You will notice a little

article over my name replying to one of these unfledged

objectors. They would be amusing if they were not
            I send you our last catalogue, also a
annoying.
photograph of myself --at my daughter's request.

      Hoping that you may be in the enjoyment of fair

health now, I am,

                      R. W. M'FARLAND.

MY DEAR     SIR,-- I          5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                        6th April 1887.
                      am delighted to have a letter

from you again, and glad to find that you are well.

I had long been looking for one. Many thanks for the

copy of The Sidereal Messenger containing your short

and telling reply. I confess I have not read WoekofFs

paper. I glanced over a page or two, and, observing that
he did not appear to have grasped the problem, I laid it
aside. I have requested the publishers to send you a

copy of my recent book, which please to accept. I am

much pleased to have your photograph, and also the

catalogue of the University. The education afforded by

your University is of a high order certainly, and I have

little fear but that the institution will prosper under

your care.

     I am glad to say that my health has much improved
since I left the Survey, although I am still very much
troubled by my old complaint, pain in the head. I get
DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 445

one to do my reading and writing, which helps me

greatly.

     I have now settled permanently in Perth, and have

returned to my old studies in philosophy, in order to

finish some work which has been laid aside for upwards

of a quarter of a century.

      I  shall be delighted      to   have a    --leYttoeur rsnoswincaenrdelya,gain
when     anything turns up       of  interest.

                                                JAMES CROLL.

      Having got settled in a house, he thought he would
like to visit his native village, and the Rev. Mr. Baxter
having invited him to spend a day, the following is

the reply :--

DEAR     MR.                                    5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                                       l2thjuly 1887.

                     BAXTER, -- Many thanks for your kind

invitation. We shall be delighted to come through on

Tuesday the 19th, and spend the day amongst my old

and esteemed friends. We shall leave after breakfast

and will probably reach you somewhere about ten o'clock.

Perhaps the Thomsons, or some one in the village

who has a horse, will give us a drive down to Cargill

Station  in the evening to catch the 8.31       train  for Perth.
         kindest regards, yours sincerely,
-- With

                                                JAMES CROLL.

Mr. Baxter alludes to this visit in a note from him

which    i:s--given  later  on.      Dr. Croll again writes him as
follows

DEAR     MR.                                    5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                                    yh September 1887.

                     BAXTER, -- I observe the Christian Con

ference is to be held on the 13th, 14th, and 15th inst.

     Mrs. Croll and I will be very much pleased if you
will take up your abode with us during the time. As
446 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

we have but one spare bedroom, I am sorry, as I

mentioned to you before, that we cannot well invite your
father to come along with you. The bed, however, as I

have stated, is a wide one.

Come up both and take some dinner with us. I

suppose the better plan will be to dine at one o'clock

and tea in the afternoon.      Or  would                 you    --preWfeirthdinkninedr
at four? Either time is      the   same                 to us.

regards, yours sincerely,

                                                        JAMES CROLL.

DEAR        MR.                           5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                                 'zyd November 1887.

                 BAXTER, -- If the Athenceum is of any

interest to you, I can let you have it. (The copy is Dr.
Bower's.) When he is done with
   I                                                    he hands to me,
                   I                                                it
                                                                           it
                                 it
                                                   it,
and as he does not require back, he lets me send to

any one choose.        mentioned your name to him, and

he was much pleased.         It, of course, will cost you

nothing, and you will not require to send                           it  back.

Hoping you are well, and with kind regards, yours

sincerely,                                              JAMES CROLL.

                             PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                   2lrf December 1887.
                       I

                           is
                                      a5

                                                           a

                                                                I
Shadworth H.  Hodgson,      Esq., LL.D., etc.                   to  you  for
     MY DEAR
              SIR, --      am greatly obliged

being so good as to favour me with copy of your

valuable address. It on subject in which am

specially interested.

I  have for the past thirty years been in search of a

copy of Anthony Collins's famous Philosophical Enquiry

concerning Human Liberty, published, think, without
                       I
                                               is I
                                                                        I
his name in 1716.      have repeatedly advertised in the

Bookseller, but to no purpose. This                     strange, seeing

that the book went through at least three editions.

have Dr. Samuel Clark's reply to Collins, published

in 1717.
 DISCUSSIONS ON CLIMATE AND COSMOLOGY 447

      Can you oblige me with the address of some London
second-hand bookseller who might be likely to have
Collins's book.

      Excuse this not being in my own handwriting.
                                                            JAMES CROLL.

    45 CONDUIT STREET, REGENT STREET, LONDON,

                                                                   z6t& December 1887.

    DEAR SIR,-- I write (from the country) to say that
I think you will find Mr. John Wilson, 1 2 King William

Street, The Strand (not City), London, W.C., a very good
second-hand bookseller for such books as that you are in

search of. He will, I feel sure, do his best to find the
book for you, if you mention my name ; I have long been
    ceumstpolomyeranofamhiasn. uenI sias.m--sIorarmy,
a                                                      to see you   are obliged
to                                                     very truly  yours,

    SHADWORTH H. HODGSON.
                CHAPTER XXVI

                STELLAR EVOLUTION

NO better evidence can be adduced of the sympathy
            which was felt for Dr. Croll by scientific men
regarding the manner in which he had been treated by
the Treasury, and the esteem in which he was held, than
is shown by the following letter, honourable in its tone
and terms, both to the learned President and the Society

over which he presided :--

                                           HURSTLEIGH, KEW, 2ifh January 1888.

     MY DEAR DR. CROLL,-- The circumstance having

been brought to my knowledge, as President of the

Geological Society, that the long and unfortunate delay

about the Civil List pension was causing you inconvenience,

I communicated with the Committee of the Scientific

Relief Fund, privately, upon the subject. In reply, they

inform me that, owing to recent calls upon the funds at

their disposal, their balance is at present very small, but

that balance they at once awarded to you. In forwarding

it,  allow me, on the part of the Committee, as well as

myself, to express our regret at the smallness of the

amount, and our earnest hope that your great claims

may ere long    be recognised by your name     --beBinegliepvleacmede
upon the Civil  List for an adequate pension.

to remain, yours very faithfully,

                                   JOHN H. JUDD.

      Dr. Croll was now busy on Stellar Evolution, and
was desirous of seeing World-Life, the work of Professor

                                                   us
    STELLAR EVOLUTION                                                        449

Winchell of America, which he could not                     obtain here,
whereupon the following correspondence                      took place

between them :--

    5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH, SCOTLAND,

                        2irf April 1888.

Professor Alexander Winchell.

    DEAR SIR, -- It is only quite recently that I became

aware of the existence of your important work, World-

L" iNfee.bulaBreinHgypeonthgeasgies,d"  at  present on an article on the
                                            am reluctant to let the article
                                         I

out of my hands before having the pleasure of seeing

your book, and have, therefore, made every effort to get

hold of a copy, but without success. I wrote to all the

principal libraries in this country, where such a book is

likely to be found, but it seems that none of them possesses

a copy. I would order a copy through a bookseller, but

I could not receive it through that source in time to
serve my purpose. Might I ask if you would kindly let

me have a copy by return of book post, in exchange for

a copy of my recent book, Climate and Cosmology, which
I forward to you by to-day's mail. I would have sent

you a copy of Climate and Time also, had it not been

that you are likely to have one already. But, should
this not be the case, let me know, and I shall let you

have one. --Yours very truly,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

                                            ANN ARBOR, jth May 1888.

ProfeMssYorDEJaAmR eSsIRC,r--ollY, oLuLr.De.s,teePmeretdh,  Scotland.  2ist  April
                                                            letter of

reached me to-day.                      Your Climate and Cosmology

arrived three days ago, just as I was starting on a journey,

and I took it with me for a companion. I have read

about one-third of the book, and embrace this oppor

tunity to express my satisfaction that you have so easily

and conclusively answered Professor Newcomb's criti

cisms of your theory. Your Climate and Time came to
my hands for review in 1876, and I reviewed it in the

29
450 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

International Review, New York. I was fascinated by

your reasonings, the gist of which I attempted to condense
in my article, a copy of which I send you.

     It gives me pleasure to send you a copy of my
World-Life. In fact, I had determined to do this before

receiving your letter and request. The book was a

large undertaking, as Professor G. H. Darwin says (in
Nature], but I felt that it needed to be done and I felt
like doing it. I am quite aware that I have made some

slips, and one or two quite unaccountable ones, since I
have not expressed the views which I entertained. But
I hope you may find something to approve.

     As you are a well-known geologist, I beg to send you

also a copy of my Geological Studies, and I would be

gratified by your candid judgment on the method which

I have pursued in this text-book.
     With the view of introducing myself more fully, I take

the liberty to mail also a few pamphlets recently from my

pen on scientific and philosophic questions, with one of an
exegetical character. To indicate that I am actually in the

field as a geologist, I mail the Annual Report on the Geology
of Minnesota for 1886. I shall have one also for 1887.

     I hope you will not feel deluged or embarrassed by

this plenitude of trifling acknowledgments of the
gratitude which I feel for your large views of the action

of geological causes and the pleasure which I have

received in gaining casual insight into your character.
     I am dreaming of visiting Scotland this season on

occasion of the meeting of the International Congress at

London. I have a special problem to investigate con

cerning the age and affinities of the upper portion of the

Old Red Sandstone. Its assumed Devonian age has

ranged, as Devonian, in America, certain sandstones, which

on other grounds, I think to be Carboniferous. Your

Holoptychius, for instance, has been found also in

America.     But I   am    nsoutmqmueitre. --ceVretaryin   of being    able  to
cross the  Atlantic  this                                 sincerely  yours,

                           ALEXANDER WINCHELL.
                 STELLAR EVOLUTION                    451

Professor Winchell, LL.D.    5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
    MY DEAR SIR,-- Your                   2t,th May 1888.

                             two volumes and separate

papers, which you have so kindly sent me, came duly to

hand on the 18th inst., for which please accept my

most sincere thanks.

      World-Life is a most interesting and important work,

and I promise myself a treat in the reading of it. It

must have cost you a very great deal of study and

research. It is a pity the book is so little known in

this country, as it is one much required.

     Your Geological Studies must prove a useful manual,

and some of the papers you sent are on subjects that

interest me much.

     By the way, you style me in the book a professor. I

am only a plain, self-educated man ; and although I was

a good few years on the Geological Survey, yet I know

but very little about geology proper, my studies being

principally in physics and philosophy, but, owing to pain

in the head, from which I have long suffered, I do not do

much in either.   to learn that you purpose visiting
                 hope you will have time to give me a
     I am glad   cannot promise you much that will
Scotland, and I

call, though I

interest you in the way of geology.

Some thirty years ago I read with much interest a
work on the Will, of three volumes, by a professor in your

aUlniviev.e--rsiAtyg,ainHenthryankPi.ngTapyopuan.for  I suppose he won't be
                                                      your esteemed favour,

I am, yours very sincerely,

                                                      JAMES CROLL.

     In connection with Stellar Evolution, Dr. Croll wrote
to Professor Darwin for information on the subject.

Croll's first letter has unfortunately not been preserved,
but the letters here given sufficiently elucidate the point
he wished cleared up.
452 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

        NEWNHAM GRANGE, CAMBRIDGE

                                                                                      24/A October 1888.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I do not think your solution will
hold. It would do so, of course, if it were not for the

mutual attraction of the various bodies revolving about

the sun. Laplace has indeed shown that a certain comet

which got entangled with Jupiter probably made two

revolutions round the planet and then required a

hyperbolic velocity and was expelled from the solar

system. Whether or not this was really the fate of that

comet, such a thing might happen.

The problem of the three bodies is an unknown field

as yet, and the ellipse, hyperbola, and parabola are only

orbits described when there are only two. The only

cases of three bodies as yet solved and  tshmaat lla. --pprYooxuimrsatevleyr,y
is where the perturbing influence is

truly,

                                         G. H. DARWIN.

                                                              5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                                           yh November 1888.

Professor Darwin, F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- I am greatly obliged to you for
being so good as to answer my query. I am still

under a difficulty. The case of the comet I used simply
to illustrate what I had always regarded as a general
principle in celestial mechanics. But from your letter I
am beginning to fear that probably I may be wrong.

    The principle to which I refer is this : If a body at

absolute rest is drawn into a system, say our solar system,
by the attractive force of all its members, the body can
never acquire a velocity which will carry it out of the
system into boundless space ; for to suppose this would
be to suppose that the attractive energy which drew the

body towards the system was greater than the attrac

tive energy which drew the body back, which I suppose

is certainly not the case. If the comet of Laplace to

which you referred had a projected velocity before it
                  STELLAR EVOLUTION                                              453

was drawn into our solar system, then I can understand

how the attractive force of Jupiter could have deflected

the comet and made it pass out of the system in a
hyperbolic path. My difficulty is to understand how

Jupiter could have done this, had the comet been

previously moving in a closed curve.

I hope you will pardon me for again troubling you,

as it is a point in which I                        am  at  present        very   much

interested.-- Yours ever truly,

                                                           JAMES CROLL.

MY          DEAR  SIR,-- I do   NRWNHAM GRANGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                             8M November 1888.

                               not think your conclusion is

correct.

      The    solar system has    a certain                 amount         of total
energy,    part being potential                             of the        products
                                 --the sum

of the masses     two   and two divided by their mutual
                  part  kinetic. The proportion which is
distances --and

potential and the kinetic vary from time to time as the
bodies move. I leave out of account rotations and
frictions, and suppose the system " conservation," so that
the total energy is constant. Now, if another body falls

from rest at infinity, and is entangled for a time in our

system, and afterwards is expelled with high velocity, all

that the principle of energy teaches
                                                       is               that after its
                                                                 is,

                                                                      is
expulsion, the total energy of our system less than                              it it

was before. For when the body                              again at infinity,

possesses   kinetic  oeunr ergsyy,steamn.d-- thusremmaiuns,t               have  been
abstracted   from                                  I                      yours  very

sincerely,

                                                           G. H. DARWIN.

                                                                PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,I
                                                                         I2/A November 1888.5

Professor Darwin, F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- am again greatly obliged to you

for being at so much trouble in answering my queries.
454 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

I can gather now from your letter that the principle to

which I referred is perfectly correct, only I had incautiously
expressed it in too unqualified terms. Of course, I believe

that there is energy enough in our solar system to expel

any number of comets, and that if Jupiter in his orbital

motion should have struck the one to which Laplace

referred, it would undoubtedly without much trouble have

projected it into infinite space.

     In the principle to which I referred, I took into

account only the direct effect of gravity : that a body

at rest falling into our solar system, if not struck by any

of the planets in their orbital or rotary motion, would

pass through the system to the same distance from which

it fell. The attractive force of the whole system would

not carry the body an inch beyond that distance, and

consequently, if Laplace's comet passed out of the

system, it must have either been struck by Jupiter, or it

must have possessed a projected motion prior to its

entering our system.

     I think you will from this understand what I really
mean, and I have little doubt you will agree that the

principle in the sense in which I understand it is correct.

Should    however, really be the case that am still
I it

           a

             I it,

                         is

                                         if a is
                                                                 I
wrong, perhaps you will kindly again send me a few

lines and let me know. -- Yours very sincerely,

                              JAMES CROLL.

                              lyh November 1888.

Impact    absolutely excluded from Laplace's con
          do not think you are right. A body entering
clusion.

the solar system may run across planet after planet in

such way that its velocity    augmented by each, and

at last may get up such speed as to get expelled.

shall be glad to write again  you wish it.
                                        Q, H. DARWIN.
               STELLAR EVOLUTION                           455

                            5  PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

                                    lyh November 1888.

Professor Darwin, F.R.S.

     MY DEAR SIR,-- Thanks, many thanks, for the post
card. I see I am still wrong. " A body entering the

solar system," you say, " may run across planet after
planet in such a way that its velocity is augmented by

each, and at last may get up such a speed as to get

expelled."
      Would you kindly tell me in ordinary language how

this is effected ? I had been under the impression that
the motion transferred would have all been restored to

the system, and that the body would have been held a

prisoner. It is one of those subjects to which I have

given little thought, and which at present has incidentally

come in my way.

     I never like to commit myself to an opinion before

making sure that I am right. --Yours sincerely,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                            NEWNHAM GRANGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                          I7/.4 November 1888.

MY DEAR SIR,-- After giving you the following

quotation, I   must leave     you to look  1  up   the  "  originals,
                            Astronomy, p.     20)           By their
1885 (Clerk's   History of                         :--

(i.e. Jupiter or Saturn) influence the comets were in all
probability originally fixed in their present tracks, and by

their influence exerted in an opposite sense, they may in

some cases be eventually ejected from them. A curious

instance of such capricious dealing on the part of Jupiter

was afforded by the comet of 1770, found by Lexell of

St. Petersburg to perform its circuit of the sun in five

and a half years, but which had never previously, and

has never since, been seen. The explanation of this

anomaly suggested by Lexell, and fully confirmed by the

analytical sequences both of Laplace and Leverrier, was

that a very close approach to Jupiter in 1767 had com
456 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

pletely changed the character of its orbit and brought it
within the range of terrestrial observation, while in 1779,

after having only twice traversed its new path, at its

second return it was so circumstanced as to be invisible

from the earth. It was by a fresh encounter directed

into one entirely different.

    Note.-- Leverrier showed (Comptes Rendus, t. xxv. p.

564, 1847) that the problem of the disturbance suffered
by Lexell's comet was far less determinate than it had
                                                It is
been made to appear in the Mecanique Celeste.

possible that this body may in 1779 have been finally
thrust out of our system ; it is also possible (as Laplace
concluded) that it may be revolving too far from the
sun to be accessible to our view ; but it is much more

probable that its orbit still retains a family likeness to

the one temporarily assigned to it by Jovian influence
in 1767, in which case Leverrier's calculations afford

evidence for its eventual identification.

     This was what I was referring to in my former letter,
but I had not referred to it.

     I still do not see that there is any violation of the

principles of energy in the expulsion of a body from the

planetary system with hyperbolic velocity. I suppose

that a small body might enter our system without any

sensible disturbance of the motion of the planets, and

that as it passed through it might pass near a succession
of planets, so that each one might accelerate it and none

retard  and so come to move faster and faster.
        is it,                                  I
                          a
                              a
conceive that such case of motion  only now to be
                                   is

                                             I
treated by arithmetical processes and not by general

analysis. If even far more general solution of disturbed

motion  attainable, we may learn the possibilities of

disturbed motion like this, and so far, all can see

is  that the hypothesis of expulsion does not violate

the principles of energy.        have not read Laplace's or
        I
                      I

                               it
Leverrier's investigations, and would take me too long

to do so now.-- remain, yours very sincerely,

                                                       G. H. DARWIN.
                       STELLAR EVOLUTION                                             457

                                                             5 PITCULLEN CRRSCENT, PERTH,

                                                                                   26th November 1888.

Professor Darwin, F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- Many, many thanks for your letter,

which I have carefully thought over. I have also read

the paragraph in Clerk's History of Astronomy, and like
wise those in Grant's History of Astronomy, pp. 102--106.
I am sorry that my difficulty still remains. My difficulty

is one that lies within very narrow bounds. In fact, you

expressed it in your letter in almost one sentence, when
you said that " a body might enter our system and pass

near a succession of planets, so that each one might

accelerate it and none retard
                       aI                    and so come to move

                                      a it,
faster and faster." How such thing as this possible,
                                             It
just my difficulty.    have no other.
                                                      is
is                                           seems to me
          a
             it        body may approach or recede

                   it
that in whatever way

from  planet, gravity will exert the same energy in

pulling the body back toward the planet as did in                                it
pulling forward, so that its motion will be as much

retarded as            had been accelerated. The disturbing

influence of the planets might make the body take at

times an excessively elliptic path, but surely                                       would
                                             is

                                                         it
never become so eccentric as to make the body cease to

return to the system.                        still moving in

     It would seem that Lexell's comet

an ellipse.

Apologising again for troubling you so very much,

yours sincerely,                             JAMES CROLL.

                               PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
if
                                             2tfh December 1888.
                   a

                           I
                           I

                                           a

                                                                     5

                                           it

                                                                              a
Professor Darwin, F.R.S.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- fear you will be beginning to

regard me as bore.     am now ready for the press,

and you could give me hint as to how body can

pass from planet to planet and get its motion accelerated

by each and retarded by none, would be esteemed a

special favour.--Yours very sincerely,

                                             JAMES CROLL.
458 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                       5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                 yjth December 1888.

Professor Darwin.

    MY DEAR SIR,-- Many, many thanks for favouring
me with a reading of Sir William's letter. It is all that
I require. It is strange that his second illustration is

just  about   what I   haabdstrsaucptepdoseednewrgoyuldfromlikeJluypibtee r.t--he
way   that
             the body

Yours truly,

                       JAMES CROLL.

Professor Darwin.              5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                        3U/ December 1888.
    MY DEAR SIR, -- I
                       have just come upon a most

extraordinary statement of Sir William Thomson. There

is surely some mistake. Would you kindly look at the

page of MS. which I enclose, and give me your opinion.
     Again apologising for troubling you, I am, yours

sincerely,

                       JAMES CROLL.

      Although in 1885, Dr. Croll had definitely resolved
to terminate his studies, both in climatology and in

physical science in general, he found his theories so

misrepresented and misunderstood that he felt obliged

once more, in the year 1889, to defend and further
explain these theories. Accordingly, he wrote a paper
on the " Rate of Sub-aerial Denudation," which appeared

in the Geological Magazine on December 3, 1889,
and another on " Prevailing Misconceptions regarding
the Evidence which we ought to expect of former Glacial
Periods," which appeared in the Quarterly Journal of
the Geological Society.

     During this year also he embodied the results of

his investigations and speculations in astronomical
science during a long period of years in a volume
entitled Stellar Evolution and its Relation to Geological
            STELLAR EVOLUTION  459

Time. This was published about the month of May
1889; and the following notice, by Mr. A. Fowler, of

the Royal College of Science, South Kensington, slightly

revised by him, which appeared in Nature in June of
that year, gives a view of the aim and scope of the

work.

Dr. Croll's book, though chiefly dealing with the

question of stellar evolution from the astronomer's

point of view, calls in the evidence afforded by geology

in favour of the theory which is set forth in its pages.

The particulars of the theory are clearly stated, and the

new facts which have been gathered since the theory

was first published are fully considered.
     Dr. Croll accepts the nebular hypothesis of Kant

and Laplace, and deals mainly with the question of the

pre-nebular condition. According to his theory, large,

cool, dark bodies moving with enormous velocities were

either created or were eternal, and these colliding with

each other here and there, the evolution of the celestial

bodies was accomplished. With regard to the origin

of these bodies endowed with motion, Dr. Croll states :
" We are perfectly at liberty to begin by assuming the

existence of stellar masses in motion, for we are not

called upon to explain how the masses obtained their

motion any more than we have to explain how they

came into existence. If the masses were created, they

may as likely have been created in motion as at rest,

and if they were eternal, they may as likely have been
eternally in motion as eternally at rest " (p. 3.) It is

argued that the heat energy which would have been

derived from gravitation alone could not possibly have

been equal to that which the solar system originally

possessed.  But there is absolutely no limit to the

amount of available energy from Dr. Croll's point of

view. The most important argument against the

gravitational theory is undoubtedly the geological and

biological one. The whole question of geological time

rests on an estimation of the time during which the
460 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

sun has been radiating its heat, and on this point Dr.

Croll remarks : " If gravitation be the only source from

which the sun has derived its heat, then life on the
globe cannot possibly date further back than 20,000,000
years, for under no possible form could gravitation have
afforded, at the present rate of radiation, sufficient heat
for a longer period " (p. 35). The adoption of Langley's

value (17 times that of Pouillet) for the rate of solar
radiation reduces Helmholtz's estimate of 20,000,000

years to 1 2,000,000 years, and even this would not be
available for plant and animal life, as millions of years
must have undoubtedly elapsed before the earth was
prepared for them. Professor Tait (Recent Advances in
Physical Science, p. 175) has shown that from the
physical point of view 10,000,000 years is about the
utmost that can be allowed for all the changes that
have taken place on the earth's surface since vegetable
life of the lowest known form was capable of existing
there. Lord Kelvin states his conclusions on this point

thus : " In the circumstances, and taking fully into account
all possibilities of greater density in the sun's interior
and of greater or less activity of radiation in past ages,
it would, I think, be exceedingly rash to assume as
probable anything more than 20,000,000 years of the
sun's light in the past history of the earth, or to reckon
on more than 5 or 6 million years of sunlight for time
to come" (Popular Lectures and Addresses, p. 390).

     It is not necessary here to enter into details of the

various methods by which geologists and biologists have
attempted to estimate the length of time which must
have elapsed since the earth first received the heat of
the sun. On this point Dr. Croll says : " The grounds
upon which the geologists and biologists found the con
clusion that it is now more than 20 or 30 millions
of years since life began on the earth, are far more
certain and reliable than the grounds upon which the
physicist concludes that the period must be less " (p. 68).
Here again it may be well to quote Lord Kelvin, who
              STELLAR EVOLUTION                           461

says : " What then are we to think of such geological
estimates as 300,000,000 years for the ' denudation of
the Weald ' ? Whether is it more probable that the

physical conditions of the sun's matter differ 1000 times

more than dynamics compel us to suppose they differ,

from those of matter in our laboratories, or that a

stormy sea with possibly channel tides of extreme

violence should encroach on a chalk cliff 1000 times

more rapidly than Mr. Darwin's estimate of one inch
per century ? "

But, granted that the geological evidence is against

the gravitation theory, it remains for us to see how Dr.

Croll's theory bears the strain put upon it when the

details of the evolutionary processes are inquired into.

According to the impact theory of Dr. Croll,
" meteorites
which have    are   but the fragments of     sidereal masses
              been   shattered by collision  " (p. 12.) The

result of such a collision would be mainly to produce

a gaseous mass, but some of the exterior fragments

would have velocity sufficient to carry them beyond

the influence of the central mass. This view is obvi

ously in direct contradiction to the opinion held by

Mr. Lockyer, who looks upon meteorites as the parents

and not the children of sidereal systems. The ex

planation of the thumb-marks and the heterogeneous

structure of meteorites which has been given by Mr.

Lockyer (Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xliii.
p. 151) would apply equally to Dr. Croll's view.

      Comets, according to the impact theory, have a

similar origin to meteorites, Dr. Croll apparently agree

ing that they are nothing more than swarms of meteo

rites. Those with elliptic orbits probably had their

origin in the collision which produced the nebula out

of which the solar system has been evolved, whilst those

with parabolic and hyperbolic orbits are probably the

outcasts of other systems.
      The first condition of a nebula, according to Dr.

Croll, is that in which it consists of broken fragments
462 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

scattered through a gaseous mass of excessively high

temperature.          Mr. Lockyer's recent researches are

consistent with this view as far as meteorites and inter

spaces are concerned, but they point to the opposite

conclusion with regard to temperature. Mr. Lockyer's

spectroscopic work has shown that the highest tempera

ture is in all probability only reached by a nebulous

mass as the completed volatilisation of all the meteorites

composinga        and he has shown that the intermediate
             it,
stages which should occur on this supposition are
actually represented amongst the stars. This, therefore,

furnishes strong argument against the high temperature

theory of nebulae.

       According to the impact theory of Dr. Croll, the

     meteorites scattered through the gaseous mass have
     nothing whatever to do with the luminosity whereas,
                                                ;

                                                           is
from Mr. Lockyer's point of view, the luminosity                                           in

     great part, not entirely, due to collisions between the
           if

                                           it,
is itmeteorites. Dr. Croll objects to this latter view because
         " does not appear to afford any rational explanation

     of this banging about of the stones to and fro in all

     directions; for, according to the only force available

       gravitation, and this can only produce merely a

     motion of the meteorites towards the centre of the
     mass " (p. 20).
                          Dr. Croll has evidently given but

     little thought to this theory, originally advanced by

     Professor Tait, for  it       obvious that all the meteorites
                               is

     would not lose all their momentum by collision during

     their first movements towards the common centre of

     gravity. Those which escaped collision would move on

     beyond the centre of gravity with considerable velocities,
     and would continue to oscillate to and fro until all

     their momentum was converted into heat by collisions.

     The banging about might therefore go on for a very

     long time and the observations made by DuneV and
           ;

                                                                                       is
     classified by Mr. Lockyer tend to show that this pro
     bably the case. The increase of temperature would

     accordingly take place gradually, and not suddenly,
                     STELLAR EVOLUTION                 463

as Dr. Croll supposes, and, further, the highest tem

perature would be associated with a certain class of

stars, and not with the nebulae themselves.

       The subject of new stars has an important bearing

on theories of cosmogony, but the subject is dismissed

with very few words. The general view adopted by

Dr. Croll seems to be that in such a case as Nova Cygni

the outburst was due to the collision of a star with a

swarm of meteorites when it was just fading from our

view. Its spectrum, as observed during its later stages

by Copeland and others, was that of a planetary nebula.

a If,  therefore, nebula  at higher temperature than
                  a
                                     is
                                                a

     star, Nova Cygni must have got hotter as      it  got

dimmer. The same would be true also of the more

recent new star in Auriga, and this may be taken as

confirmation of the view that the temperature of nebulae

is  relatively low.

       Dr. Croll shows that his theory explains other

details of the structure of our universe, including the

proper motions of stars and the origin of binary

systems, but these need not be more than mentioned.

       Assuming that Dr. Croll has established that

gravitation alone would have been incompetent to

produce the heat originally possessed by the solar

nebula;,  it       only necessary to reconcile this with the
               is

low-temperature theory of nebulae, as the high-temperature

theory has been shown to be inconsistent with the facts.

     It may be suggested that instead of the dark stellar

masses endowed with motion which Dr. Croll supposes

to have been the pre-nebular condition, meteorites at

great distances apart were endowed with similar veloci

ties. In the first groupings the collisions would only

occur very rarely, and there would be more grazes than

anything else, so that the average temperature might

still be low in the earlier stages. Professor G. H.

Darwin has shown that the conception of fluid pressure

which             demanded by Laplace's nebular hypotheses
is
              is
    not difficult to reconcile with the meteoric hypothesis.
464 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

If we substitute meteorites in collision for the molecules

of a gas impinging against each other, there would be

a quasi-fluid pressure, as the average result of the im

pacts of the meteorites and the separation of the

planets from the meteorite swarm would take place

exactly as in a gaseous mass.

Dr. Croll having sent a copy of Stellar Evolution

to Professor  Winchell,             the  following         correspondence

ensued :--                               ANN ARBOR, lyh April 1889.

Dr. MJaYmeDsEACRrollS,IRP,e--rthI,  Scotland.      a  few  days  since,  a
                                    received,

copy of your new work on Stellar Evolution, and I need

not assure you that I read it with eagerness and great

satisfaction. The grand themes covered by your

discussion have always possessed great fascination for

me. I feel complimented by the references which you

have made to my work.

     I have received from the author a copy of Professor
G. H. Darwin's Memoir, and feel gratified that he finds

mathematical support for that conception of the physical

constitution of a nebula which I had in print before

Mr. Lockyer began writing on the subject. I have

read Preston's and Darwin's recent articles in Nature. --

Very sincerely yours,               ALEXANDER WINCHELL.

Professor   JaSmIRes, --CIrolhl,avPeertrhe.ceived     MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.,
      DEAR                                                zoth April 1889.

                                                   the two volumes of

which your favour of March 26 gave me advice, and I

desire to express my appreciation of your kindness

and of the value of the works. Your publications I

prize among my most valued ones, and shall study

them carefully, and with great interest.

You will find in vol. ii., Final Report of the Min
nesota Survey, a re-discussion of the Recession of the

Falls of St. Anthony. The data there employed are
             STELLAR EVOLUTION                                                465

reliable, and they seem to fix the second Glacial epoch

at a comparatively recent date. Several geologists have

told me that the result based on the data used seems to

be the most exact and reliable yet attained. -- Very

truly,                                                       A. H. WlNCHELL.

                                                             5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                                                    20th May 1889.

Professor A. Winchell, LL.D.
    MY DEAR SIR,-- I have sent you by book-post the

uncorrected proof of a most important paper by Dr.

Huggins read before the Royal Society on the 2nd

inst. Dr. Huggins' results will, I suspect, go a good

way to overturn the views held by Mr. Lockyer, and
recently advocated by Professor Darwin, on the meteoric
constitution of nebulae. He finds that there is no

evidence to support Mr. Lockyer's assertions as to the

magnesium flame bands (" cool magnesium ") in the
spectra of the gaseous nebula? ; and, consequently, Mr.
Lockyer's further statement on the meteoric nature of

these bodies cannot be regarded as more than a

hypothesis.

      Mr. Huggins is our highest authority on all subjects
connected with the spectra of the stars.

The paper might have appeared in Nature. Mr.

Lockyer, however, is the editor, and this may explain it.

Is Professor Tappan, formerly Chancellor of your
university, still alive? I read with much interest, some

forty years ago, his work on the Will. Jonathan
          Treatise on the Will however,

          am, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
Edwards'I                                                    my favourite

book. --                                                is,

                                                             JAMES CROLL.

                                                        ANN ARBOR, jthjune 1889.I

Dr. JMamYeDs EACRroll.SIR,-- am under very great obligations

to you for the opportunity to read so soon Dr. Huggins'

           30
466 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

important memoir. One cannot fail to be impressed and

prepossessed by the pains which he takes to attain exact

ness and certainty. I do not hesitate to give credence

to the conclusions which he indicates, even when adverse

to those of Mr. Lockyer, because I think I find in the

latter's method a somewhat more incautious and whole

sale procedure --quite noticeable, indeed, in the quotations

made by Dr. Huggins.

I            however, we assent to all Dr. Huggins' positions,

        If,
do not see that we are precluded from the supposition

that with the gas and intense heat revealed by spectro-

scopic research, and the failure to detect magnesium in

particular, there may exist also non-luminous solid

matters not optically revealed. It was all along my own

conception that matter in various conditions embraced
                                                    I

                                                              it
                                                                   is
within the nebula. When we consider the enormous

distances and magnitudes concerned, do not think such

  conception inadmissible. If the co-existence of various
a
       d

                I

                                          a is
conditions of matter                            admitted, then       remains to

ascertain the antecedents of the solid portions. Reason

ing priori, discover no fatal objection to your theory
of a grand " smash," nor to the theory of a gradual

aggregation of cosmical matter. Dr. Huggins recognises

the compatibility of gaseous constitution with your
theory, but he seems to think that the collision must have
converted the colliding masses wholly into gas. Now, as

you suggest in your book, some portions may not have

been thus converted, and even                   if  they were, cooling

(perhaps peripheral) would reproduce solid conditions,
while yet much of the nebulous mass might remain

gaseous. Dr. Huggins does not mention the compat

ibility of            gaseous constitution with the theory of
             is
                   a                                                 it,

                    it
meteorital aggregation, but he does not deny and his

reason       perhaps not inexplicable, whatever he thinks.

On my part has long seemed entirely admissible that

from collisions           of  --gamseeoteusoritalevemn adssisessociathteedre--mcoanydithioanvse
resulted liquid         and

of matter.   I          do not feel, therefore, that Dr. Huggins'
                   STELLAR EVOLUTION                        467

determinations are destined to produce any great revolu

tion in nebular theories. Both Professor Darwin and Dr.

Huggins have referred to Roberts' photograph of the

nebula in Andromeda, and Huggins speaks of it as
" showing a planetary system at a somewhat advanced

stage of evolution," and he quotes Monthly Notices

R. A. S. That interests me exceedingly. If you

could aid me in procuring a copy of the published view,
I would most willingly refund all expenses to the proper

person or office.

You inquire about ex-President H. P. Tappan. He

withdrew from the University in about 1 866, and settled

in Europe. He died about three years ago in Switzer

land. I will send you a copy of a memorial address.--

Very sincerely,                   ALEXANDER WlNCHELL.

                                  5  PITCULLEN CRESCENT,    PERTH,

                                              Wijuly 1889.

Professor A. Winchell.

    MY DEAR SIR, -- When I received your letter, I wrote
to Dr. Huggins inquiring about the photographs. A copy
of his reply I herewith enclose.

I then wrote to Mr. Roberts to see if copies of the

photographs themselves could be obtained, but I have not

as yet heard from him. The probability that he
                                           is,
away from home.                                                 a is

       have sent by book post three copies of Knowledge,
I
  I ifcontaining reproductions of Mr. Roberts' photographs on

larger scale. It probable they will give you as good an
                 is
idea, not better, than the actual photographs themselves.is

When hear from Mr. Roberts, shall write you.a
                              is     I

Many thanks for the two memorial addresses which

you sent, and which interest me greatly.

Stellar Evolution beginning to make an impression

here, especially amongst those familiar with the subject.

This,I   think,      in great     measure   due to the evidence
given  in Part                    the age
                 II. regarding             of the earth.--Yours

sincerely,                                 JAMES CROLL.
468 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Professor A. Winchell.             5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

    MY DEAR SIR, -- I                         lothjuly 1889.
                          have just received the enclosed

reply from Mr. Roberts in reference to his photographs.

I am glad to find  that he   will be able  to furnish you with
                              sincerely,     JAMES CROLL.
an enlarged copy.  -- Yours

      Shortly after the publication of Stellar Evolution, the

following interesting and instructive correspondence on
the subject thereof took place between Dr. Croll and Mr.
Alfred Wallace :--

                          PARKSTONE, DORSET, 2$th August 1889.

James Croll, Esq.  --  I  have  now  been  able to read  your
     MY DEAR SIR,
very interesting Stellar Evolution. I think your general

idea of the stellar universe a very probable and suggest

ive one, as it accounts for the proper motion of the

stars and other phenomena, which a general nebulous

theory will not do. But I do not think that this theory

in any way gets over the difficulty of the amount of solar

heat and the duration of geological time. You appear to

have overlooked the fact that the initial heat of the solar

nebula has no bearing on the question at all, but only

the heat at the time when it (the nebula) had contracted

to the diameter of the earth's orbit and had thrown off the

earth. Now, the heat at that epoch is a fixed quantity,

not affected by the initial heat of the nebulae. It

matters not, therefore, whether the original heat of the

solar system was sufficient to expand the solar nebula

to the diameter of the orbit of Neptune, or to ten times

that diameter ; when it had cooled down to the dimensions

of the earth's orbit, it would have reached the same

temperature and have contained the same store of heat.

What we require is not a greater original heat, but some

agency by which the sun continued to generate heat, if

not so fast as it gives it out, yet sufficiently to delay the

cooling almost indefinitely. Two such causes are con
                 STELLA k EVOLUTION                                     469

ceivable and have been suggested,-- one derived from the

constant rain of meteorites on the sun from the stellar

space through which it passes during its proper motion

through the stellar universe ; the other the continued

absorption   of   fresh   gastheroouusghm--atates r   from the        ethereal
spaces it        passing                             suggested        by Mr.
             is

Matthew Williams in his Fuel of the Sun. This
objection seems to me so obvious that I cannot under

stand how it is you have not even noticed it. For your

purpose it was necessary to show that, after the earth

had been thrown off, and its surface had cooled sufficiently

to allow of the condensation of water and the formation

of sea and land, the sun could possibly contain many

times more heat than was required to keep it at the

diameter it had then attained. You must show, in fact,

that it is possible to have two suns, identical in con

stitution, in mass, and in dimension, yet one containing

many times as much heat as the other, because it had

had a higher initial temperature.                That seems to me to
be physically impossible. Is it
                                                 not so? --Yours very

faithfully,                                  ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                          5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH.

Alfred   RD. EAWRalSlaIcRe,,--ERsqe.ferring      9/A September 1889.
     MY
                                             to  your letter  of  25th  ult.,

I think your difficulty arises from overlooking the fact

that, according to the Impact theory, condensation can

only take place as the nebula loses its heat, whereas,

according to the Gravitation theory, condensation is

required to produce the heat. Take the case of the

solar nebula. According to the latter theory, when the

materials had condensed so as to occupy only the space,

say, included within the earth's orbit, there would be

comparatively little heat generated, and the store of energy

possessed by this nebula, which we shall now call the

sun, would be small indeed. I have not computed the

amount, but I am certain that it would not be sufficient
47o LIFE. OF JAMES CROLL

to supply the present rate of solar radiation for many
thousand years. The mass would require to be con

densed to a space far less than that included within the
orbit of Mercury, before a store of heat sufficient to supply
the present rate of radiation for at least one or two millions
of years. In regard to the Impact theory, by the time the

nebula had cooled and condensed to the earth's orbit, it might
probably possess some hundreds of millions of years' heat.

     I trust that these considerations will make the matter

plain.

Have you seen Dr. Huggins' paper on the great

nebula in Orion ? In case you have not, I have sent you

by post a copy which you can return at your leisure. It
goes a good way to establish the theory. If that nebula

had originated by condensation, it could not consist of a

pgaesratsuorete.--nuoYuosu,rsanvderoyf  such    a  low  density and   high tem
                                        truly,                 JAMES  CROLL.

                                  PARKSTONE, DORSET, izth September 1889.

DEAR MR. CROLL,--You seem to assume that in the

nebular hypothesis the primitive nebula is assumed to be

cold, and its condensation to be due solely to gravity.

But did anybody ever hold this theory ? I find in the
article " Solar System " in the English Cyclopedia written

by Professor D. Morgan, the theory is stated to be that
" condensation takes place arising from loss of heat" and
again he refers to the necessary consequences "of the
cooling of a nebulous atmosphere?                       And, surely, any other

conception is absurd and physically inconceivable. Can

anybody suppose the whole physical constitution of the

universe to be so different from what it is now, that iron

and all the other metals and solid elements could exist as

cold vapours. The point of liquefaction of each metal, as

well as the points of vaporisation of every solid element,

are physical constants, and cannot be conceived to have

been totally different from what they are now in any
rational theory of the universe.
                    STELLAR EVOLUT1OM                              tfi

I cannot therefore see that the theory of a " cold

nebula," not leading to heat enough to produce the sun

or the solar nebula by gravitation alone, has any bearing

on the problem. The sun, at a certain epoch, say that

of the Laurentian epoch, had condensed to a certain

diameter, and it has since condensed to the diameter it

now possesses. Each of these diameters, assuming the

mass to be a fixed quantity, implies a definite amount of

heat, which amount would not be affected by the fact of

the original nebula having been hotter, and therefore

larger, or cooler, and therefore smaller, since it must any

how have been once at least as large as to fill the orbit

of Neptune. This objection your letter does not touch.
     I return Dr.                                 I
Nature. -- Believe  Huggins'   paper, which          had     seen  in
                    me, yours  faithfully,

                                   ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                               5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

Alfred R.  Wallace, Esq.               lifh September 1889.
     DEAR   MR. WALLACE,
                               --  If  you  will     examine       the

history of Gravitation theories of the origin of nebulae,

and of the sun's heat (no easy matter to get at), you
will find that I am right. I doubt you will not get much

on the subject in any of our encyclopaedias.         You will,

however, find a great deal on the literature of the matter

in Winchell's World-Life, a book referred to in Stellar

Evolution, p. 22.

Laplace assumes that the primitive solar nebula was

hot (see Stellar Evolution, p. 30) ; but then, this was not
the Gravitation theory of the origin of the sun's heat.

What you say as to the absurd consequences which

follow from supposing the heat of the nebula to be due

to condensation by gravity is perfectly true, but so much

the worse is it for the Gravitation         theory under every
                                               JAMES CROLL.
form. --Yours sincerely,

The Rev. Mr. Baxter, Free Church minister, Cargill,
472 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

wrote Dr. Croll, inviting him and Mrs. Croll to spend a

day with him, and received the following reply :--

                                                        5 PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,
                                                                 i&thjune 1889.

    MY DEAR MR. BAXTER, --We shall be delighted, Mrs.

Croll and I, to take advantage of your kind invitation,

and come out and spend a day with you. Tuesday 9th
will suit us well.

    We shall drive out direct in the forenoon, and

perhaps you will find some one who will kindly take us

down to Cargill station to meet the evening train. --

Yours sincerely,                     JAMES CROLL.

     Mr. Baxter   writes  regarding  Dr. Croll's  visits  to  him

as  follows :--
    " My own personal knowledge of Dr. Croll was con
fined to his later years. It was my privilege, however,

during these years to see him both in his own house and

in my own. Our connection arose from his belonging to

this district. In making one of his visits to this scene

of his earlier years, his affection for which he never lost,

he called on me here at the manse, and from that time

he was accustomed every year, during the two or three

years preceding the last seven of his life, to come and

spend a day with me, visiting the scenes of his childhood.

These days were to me days of great enjoyment, both

from the kindliness and geniality of nature characteris

ing Dr. Croll, and from the originality, intellectuality,

and power attaching to his conversation. I can still

recall the interest of his various references to the great

theory of the secular changes, the interest attaching to

his description of the Glacial period, and its effects on
this locality in particular. I can remember how passion

ately he declared his preference for metaphysics over

physics, and his intention, if spared, to return to what

he called his first love, and the intimation he made to

me of his being at that very time engaged on a study of
Kant, with a view to ultimate publication of his views,
STELLAR EVOLUTION  473

if permitted to fulfil his purposes. I remember, too, an

allusion he made on one occasion to an improvement he
claimed to have suggested on the subject of Telegraphy,

consisting, if I remember rightly, of a proposed method

of economising the electric current at angles of the
wire-points at which, in consequence of the momentum

acquired by the current of electricity in its course, it

necessarily overleaped the junction, and was thus lost --

falling to the ground, as it were. Dr. Croll claimed to

have suggested that the weakness might be remedied by
simply allowing of a little void space at end-points, so

that the current in its momentum, leaping beyond the
point of the line it was leaving, leaped only the length of

the line it sought to reach, and was then safely received

without any loss whatever. On this principle, if under
stood aright, all telegraph lines are now conducted. His

conversation on these and on topics in general was very

attractive, his utterances being always distinguished by
a most startling lucidity and force of argument. As
incidents connected with Dr. Croll's visits to this
neighbourhood, I remember two that are perhaps pos
sessed of sufficient interest to render them worth retailing
and preserving. He was wont to revisit, at such times,
the cottage still standing, in which he spent the years
of his childhood and earlier manhood. Looking round
with searching eyes on the old familiar walls, I remember

his remarking, as his eye fell on the window of the
chamber, ' And there are the very shutters I made with
my own hands ' ; and, stepping up to them, he opened and

closed them fondly. A mantelpiece of wood also that

remained from these days, and was an original contriv
ance of his for suspending the 'crusie,' he pointed to
with loving interest and remarked on its survival. That

mantelpiece I secured at a later time, when it was being
removed in connection with some repairs, and still retain

as a precious relic of Dr. Croll's memory. At another
time, on my asking if any of his old playmates and

friends remained in the village whom he might go and
474 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

see to revive old memories, he inquired after several, all

gone, till at last he mentioned the name of Robert Young,
an intelligent tailor still surviving in Wolfhill. I said,

' Robert is yet alive, we will go and see him.' On

arriving at the door of the house, it was opened to my

knock by Robert himself. I pointed to Dr. Croll and
said, ' Do you know this gentleman, Robert ? ' ' No,' he
said hesitatingly, ' I do not.' ' This is Dr. Croll,' I said.
' Ay, ay ? ' he at once responded, his eyes sparkling

with delight. ' Jamie Croll, Jamie Croll ' ; and the two
proceeded to live over again the days of their boyhood,

and reflect on the diversity of fortune the revolving years

had brought to them severally. Robert Young in his

own sphere is a man of more than average intelligence.

One anecdote of Dr. Croll, not, however, through my own

experience, but which I obtained on his own authority

from the person mentioned in       it,  Andrew Stewart of

Kinrossie, a lifelong friend of Dr. Croll's, and one whom

Dr. Croll highly esteemed, and used to visit to the close

of his life. Andrew Stewart told me that in Dr. Croll's

early days, when he was still joiner and working at the
                    '
erection of Kinrossie Free Church for Dr. Andrew Bonar,
                               'a
he lived in his town. One day Dr. Bonar remarked to

him (Andrew Stewart), So you have James Croll resid
ing with you How do you get on with him     Oh, very
''                                          ?
                ?                              '
                                                      '
                is
                                                                       ?
                                                                                '
well,' said Andrew Stewart. We have sometimes keen

discussions and debates, but on the whole we get on very

well.' Do you know,' continued Dr. Bonar medita

tively, that James has  a  very metaphysical mind

The anecdote worth reproducing, as showing at once
the early representation of mental power and Dr. A.

Bonar's keen discernment of character. Andrew Stewart

was a man far above his compeers in both attainments
and intelligence, and enclose a partial critique of his,
                    a

                      I
                                                                   I
relative to one of Dr. Croll's later works which had

lent him, that, though written in great feebleness and much

pain, yet shows that he possessed powers rendering him

not unworthy to be friend of Dr. Croll's."
                   STELLAR EVOLUTION                                            475

      Dr. Croll had sent a copy of Climate and Time and
also of
         Discussions  on      Climate   and Cosmology to                         Dr.
Nansen,  from whom    he     received  the following letters
                                                                                :--

                                                ASGARDSTRAUR, 2IJ/ August 1889.

      DEAR SIR, --Accept my heartiest thanks for your

very great kindness in sending me your highly interest
ing book, Discussions on Climate and Cosmology. I need

not tell you that this important work has for me just at

present a keen interest, and I am going to read it with

great pleasure. The only thing I have to send you at
present is a paper I read before the Geographical Societies
of London and Edinburgh. I regret to say that the copy
I send is not complete. By mistake the conclusion has

not been printed in the Geographical Magazine; as it

              stops in the middle of sentence. You will
         complete in the " Proceedings of the Geographical
now   it
find    is,
            it

                            II

                                                              a

                                                                             I
Society of London."          have, however, no copy of that.

in   Do you come to the   meeting      of the  British Association
                          hope we       may
    Newcastle? If so,                          meet there. -- am,

dear sir, yours faithfully,             FRIDJOF NANSEN.

      DEAR SIR, --To-day        ASGARDSTRAUR, 2jth August 1889.

                              received your highly interest
                      it,

                         II I

                                            it

                                           I

                                                             a
ing book, Climate and Time. For this beautiful present

    send you my most hearty thanks.                          am going to read
I it I
     IIwith keen attention and much pleasure, and will
devote much time to as think to be work of the

highest importance.           have not got anything of
          regret to say that

interest to send you, but hope soon to be able to send

you something.
         also thank you most heartily for your very kind

letter, which      got some days ago.                        wrote to you
                 I
                                                         I
                                                            I
before that  time  to thank    you for   your                --prevaiomu,s   present.
   hope you  have  already   got that   letter.                             dear Sir,

yours faithfully,                       FRIDJOF NANSEN.

                                                                                       -
                     CHAPTER XXVII

       THE PHILOSOPHICAL BASIS OF EVOLUTION --

                                CLOSING DAYS

DURING the years 1889 and 1890, Dr. Croll was
          busily engaged in writing and preparing for thepress

the work which it had been his chief aim in life to accom
plish. We can scarcely say " writing," for by this time

he was unable to write, and could only dictate to an

amanuensis. Some idea of the strain involved in this

may be gathered from the fact that, owing to his extreme

weakness and his old enemy, pain in the head, he was

able to dictate for only about half an hour a day. He

had, however, determined to accomplish his work ; and,
by a marvellous force of will and concentration of his

very limited energy, he persevered day by day till he

finished the manuscript. When that was done, he was

scarcely able to do more. The Rev. D. Caird, then

Congregational minister in Perth, now of Edinburgh,

kindly took in hand the correspondence with the

publishers ; and, with Croll's guidance, he had the

proof-sheets revised and the work carried through the

press to the publisher's hands. The work was issued in

the month of November 1 890, and was entitled The

Philosophical Basis of Evolution. A melancholy satis

faction attaches to the fact that Dr. Croll was just spared

to see a copy of his last work in print, and to hear

read to him the following favourable review of
1
              :

                                                                                              it,
which  --appeared  in the  Times  on  27th  November
  890
" Dr. James Croll's works, dealing with some of the
          CLOSING DAYS                          477

broader problems of science, are so well and so favour

ably known, that his new essay on The Philosophical

Basis of Evolution (Edward Stanford) is assured of a
respectful reception. It will not, however, be welcome to

those who see in evolution, pure and simple, the ultimate

explanation of the universe. It will probably be re

pudiated in certain quarters as unadulterated metaphysics,
although Dr. Croll declares himself that ' the present

volume is not of a speculative or hypothetical character.

The reader,' he adds, ' will readily perceive that all the

main conclusions are, without exception, deduced from

facts or from fundamental principles. Most of them,

indeed, are in some form or other necessary consequences

of the great principle of causality, namely, Everything

which comes to pass must have a cause.' Dr. Croll, in

fact, traces back the conclusions of evolution to the

premises of theism, and his reasoning, albeit meta

physical in the original and legitimate sense of the word,

is stringent, cogent, and coherent."

The following review of Dr. Croll's last work by

Mr. T. Whittaker, which appeared in Mind (vol. xvi.
                                        of the
p. 268),   gives an excellent  account          nature and
scope of
          the book :--
" The author of this book, eminent for the cosmo-

logical width of sweep which he gave to his geological

inquiries, died near the close of last year, a few weeks

after its publication. In many ways it is a work of

special interest. Although the best part of Dr. Croll's

life had been given to scientific pursuits, it is really a

return to the problems that had been the first to occupy

him. The conditions under which he had devoted

himself to science as well as to philosophy had not been

the most favourable ; but if we are to make the

comparison, his interest in philosophy seems to have

come to him most from nature, and his interest in

science from circumstances. The present work bears

the mark both of philosophical consideration applied to

science and of the influence of the scientific spirit on a
478 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

philosophical mind that had never become estranged
from theology. So far as results are concerned, the
author may be described as a theist who accepts
scientific evolution in its full sense, and who places
philosophical determinism at the base of this. The
detailed argument is carried through with great clearness

and vigour, and brings to light the interaction of new
and old elements of thought that are all in their different

ways powerful at the present time.
      " The first point to be noted is the author's clear view

of the necessity for definiteness in scientific explanation,
and for permanent distinctions between the different
sciences. This he enforces by very decisively separating
the problems of the ' production ' and the ' determina
tion ' of motion. The process of evolution is perfectly
continuous, and beneath it there is a constant ground
which it is for the physicist to define. The changes in
which evolution consists can all be expressed as motions,
and motion may rightly be described as always ' pro
duced ' by force. The history of the production of
things may be traced back indefinitely, and nowhere is
the ground of production found to be other than
constant. This, however, does not exhaust the scientific
view, nor even express its most important side. Mole
cular forces, to which all others may ultimately be
reduced, have their particular directions and points of
application, and enter into action at fixed moments of
time. These definite and particular determinations can
only be explained from previous determinations which
are equally definite and particular ; and those again from
others. In the transformations of energy we say that
the energy is the same all through. The effects, how
ever, are different. Thermal and electrical energy, for
example, manifest themselves in different ways ; and it
is because of their different modes of manifestation that
we call them different energies. Just as we are not to
call electricity a form of heat because the energy of
electricity can be transformed into the energy of heat, so
                            CLOSING DAYS                      479

it is not admissible to say that the energy manifested

in organic life is merely physical and chemical because

it can be transformed into various physical and chemical

energies, and because these energies are at the ground of
vital processes. The modes of energy being different,
the uniformities of connection between them can never

be all reduced to a single physical law.
      " This view has its application to mind also. Mental

evolution, like material evolution, is continuous. What
                                  '
is constant  in  it  is  '  mind    ;  but  here again  true  scientific

explanation depends on regarding mind as definitely

determined. To speak of the production of acts by the

will, for example, may be correct as far as it goes ; but

every act is a determinate act, and the determination has
to be explained by something other than ' will.' The

act of choice in its definite character is rather to be
explained by the ' agreeableness ' or ' reasonableness '

of a suggested direction than the direction by the mere

act. In mental even more than in natural science the

definite determination, and not the mere production, is

the important thing.
      " The idea of ' determination,' thus scientifically

generalised, is made use of to arrive at a philosophical
view of nature and mind. From the impossibility, or

at least excessive difficulty, of admitting an infinite

regress in the series of past events, the author infers

that the world must have had a beginning. Its

determination can then, he holds, only be explained by

theism. We must suppose all determination in the

world to take its origin from a determination in the

mind of God. The series of events in time is not

eternal, but their determination is eternal. This

determination Dr. Croll is led to conceive of as strictly

necessary. His doctrine is therefore at once a philo

sophical and a theological determinism.

     " Dr. Croll's theism implies a teleological view of

things ; and this view he seeks to defend against some
interpretations of organic evolution. He succeeds in
480 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

showing that natural selection does not exclude every
kind of teleology ; though, of course, something might be
said against his contention that teleology in the form of
' objective ideas ' of species and so forth is still required
by science. The better course here, from his own point
of view, would have been simply to show the independent
range of philosophical interpretation. ' Natural selec
tion ' itself, as a scientific theory, Dr. Croll remarks in
more than one passage, derives all its efficacy from being

a theory of ' determination.' It is not a theory of the

' production ' of forms of life, but explains how deter

minate forms arise under definite conditions.
      " The question of free will is discussed in an especially

interesting way. From the body of the work the author

seeks to exclude it as irrelevant to his general scientific
and philosophical positions. Advocates of free will, he
argues, do not really intend to deny the universal validity
of the law of causation. Express discussion of the
question is relegated to an appendix. Here Dr. Croll
shows, in spite of the concession made elsewhere, that

the believer in free will ought if he is consistent to deny
the absolute uniformity at least of psychological law.
He himself, both on scientific and philosophical grounds,

refuses to admit the exception involved in free will.

Many well-pointed arguments against the indeterminist
position might be quoted from the chapters he devotes
to the subject. The illusory belief in an undetermined
will is explained especially from the determination of
action by psychological states that are not brought into
clear consciousness. ' I am directly conscious of the act
of the will ; but not, at the moment, of the manner in
which it was determined.' As soon as particular mental
states are distinctly recognised, they become, as it were,
' objects,' like those of the external world, and are
thought of as something that is not the Ego. Then the
notion arises of an exertion of will that is independent
of these, as of other particular objects. An act of which

the causes are not known at the moment is not, however,
                       CLOSING DAYS                                       481

an arbitrary ' act of will ' pure and simple, but has

really been determined by states that only require a

new effort of introspection to bring them into clear

consciousness.
   " When we regard an action as ' our own,' we hold

ourselves ' morally responsible ' for                      it,  however neces
                                                              is
sarily may have been produced. It our own action
       it
because   it       the result of our own nature. The relation
               is

between action and internal nature in general                             this,
                                                                  is
that the fruit                                                              ' is

                                                                                       is
   '               is  bad because the tree                       bad and

'  good because the tree                   is  good.' When an action

compulsorily [determined, or proceeds from something

outside our own nature, we do not feel that                       it      our own,
                                                                      is

hence a mechanical conception of the necessity of human

actions, or conception of them as necessarily determined
       is
              a

                                   '

                                       is
from outside, may tend to produce theories of irresponsi

bility. This, however, not really the conception of the

philosophical determinist. Necessity, in its philosophical

sense, simply the certainty that                           is  in things them

selves.' By insisting on the inevitable consequences of

actions, the theological form of determinism, far from

weakening, has strengthened the sense of responsi

bility.
      " This last contention of Dr. Croll's can be justified

negatively as well as positively. When they apply their

view to ethics, the theological and the philosophical

determinist are on the same ground. Both must hold

that actions necessarily determined quite rightly carry

with them not merely the consequences that depend

directly on the agent, but also consequences depending
on the nature of men in general and on the requirement

of definite means, for the attainment of social ends.

And the ideas of 'irresponsibility' now in the air proceed

really from the doctrine of free will. Accept determinism

in the full sense, and                         becomes evident that some
   ;
                                '

                                   it

                                                        '
criterion of the imputability of an action to a person

will have to be sought other than the absence of neces

sity since actions are all necessarily determined, either

       31
482 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

from without or from within. On the contrary, adopt
a view of guilt and merit essentially identical with that
which is derived by Catholic theologians from their
doctrine of indetermination, then every action that can
be proved scientifically to be necessitated is at once
regarded as something for which no responsibility can
be imputed. The demoralising consequences that may
be drawn do not, however, spring from the scientific
proof of necessity, but from its combination with that
doctrine of free will which is regarded by many as the
one support of moral responsibility. With philosophical
determinism there is no danger of any such consequences.

5  PITCULLEN CRESCENT, PERTH,

        yd November 1890.
MY DEAR FOSTER, -- You will be sorry to hear of
the condition of my health. A few months ago, just

when I had about finished my new volume on The

Philosophical Basis of Evolution, which will be issued
shortly, my health suddenly gave way, and I am now so

weak as to be able to do little more than move about

the house. The breakdown began as follows : I fell on

the floor and lay insensible for above an hour ; and

when I recovered consciousness, I found I was not so

strong either physically or mentally as formerly. I have

since then had four or five cases of unconsciousness.

What I am suffering from is a slow loss of power in the

heart. This state of things will probably go on till

the heart stops, an event which I am enabled to contem

plate with the utmost composure, as it will be but the

way of entrance to a better land.

      There is one thing, however, which is weighing a
little on my mind. I have no relations in Perth, or,

indeed, almost anywhere. Mrs. Croll belongs to Forres,

a small town about a hundred miles to the north, and

I am anxious to see her settled there amongst her

relations in the event of my death. The expense of
                  CLOSING DAYS                           483

removal will be a considerable drain on her comparatively
small means. Do you think that a sum, say £50 or
so, might be obtained from the Royal Society Relief
Fund for this purpose ? You might kindly write and

let me know your opinion on the matter.
     I hope that Mrs. Foster, yourself, and family are

keeping well.-- Apologising for troubling you, I am,

yours most sincerely,

                                                            JAMES CROLL.

       Professor Foster, having to confer with the Committee

of the Royal Society, was not able to respond definitely

for a few days ; but in December he wrote to Mrs. Croll
the letter which will be found printed on p. 488.

      Dr. Croll's nephew says that " his last illness came on

so suddenly that it was feared he would not live to see

the book. Then Mr. Caird wrote the publisher and got

him to hurry up a copy, so that he might be gratified

thus far. Knowing this, he eagerly watched every post

as it came round, and when at last it did come, he

examined it outside and inside, and seemed very pleased

with it ; then remarking, while he handed me the book,
' Of making books there is no end.' Then he said, ' My
                  done. I leave
work   is now                     the world without a    regret
save              understood him  here to refer to Mrs.  Croll,
      one,' -- I
-- ' trusting to the merits of the Lord Jesus Christ as my
only, but, thank God, all-sufficient ground of hope for

the future.' The powerful thinker and ardent worker

thereupon felt that his mission on earth was finished, and

he calmly composed himself with full faith to await the

end that meets all men."

      The Rev. Mr. Caird writes :

     " It was not my good fortune to know Dr. Croll
except by name till the autumn of 1888, when I became

pastor of the Congregational Church at Perth ; and by
that time his health had failed so sadly that any kind of
484 LlfE OF JAMES CROLL

intercourse which might have been valuable for the wider
purposes of biography was practically impossible. One
could not help feeling the influence of the keen intellect,
the genial spirit, the tender, affectionate nature, which
had won so many friends in former days : and it was
always a delight and a true inspiration to spend even a

passing hour in his company. To talk with him on
anything beyond the conventionalities of the day was

invariably to receive some thought or some impression
that made the physical world seem more vast and
glorious, or the spiritual world more real and powerful,

if at times more mysterious in its depths of truth and its

complexities of desire and purpose and will. But at no
time during those two brief years of our friendship could
he speak or listen much without suffering pain ; and one
was ever conscious of the necessity of sparing him as
much as possible, even in the discussion of questions
which more immediately absorbed his interest. The
shadow of death was in fact already upon him, and it
gave that strange and hallowed reserve to fellowship
which one can always feel deeply, but seldom describe in
living speech. Now and then the change of every week
seemed to be more or less apparent, but the conscious

ness of declining strength never disturbed his peace of
mind, or turned him aside from work. I remember him

saying one day, in the course of casual conversation,
' It is but little I can do now, yet the better thing is just
to work on till the end comes.' And work on he did,

 with a composure, a steady purpose, and a heroism which
were extremely touching in their simplicity and their
 influence on his own mind.

      " From 1885, if not earlier, Dr. Croll's work was not

 only limited, but greatly interrupted by recurring illness.
 Latterly he could spend only an hour a day in his study,
 and even then he could do little more than think out the
 details of the problems he had in hand. One day he

 would listen to his amanuensis reading from a work of

 reference of criticism, and the next he would dictate a.
CLOSING DAYS  485

new paragraph of his own treatise. And this is but a
faint indication of the difficulties and disadvantages
under which Stellar Evolution and The Basis of
Evolution were produced. That both books suffered
from circumstances one can hardly doubt. At times
Dr. Croll felt this very keenly himself. He would fain

have made them larger and more thorough in their
treatment of the subjects under review, and yet, taken as
they are, they undoubtedly contain the substances of all
he could have written. He worked so slowly and was
such an exact and penetrating thinker that all he put on

paper was for him practically a final judgment. These
two books absorbed all his attention during the time I

knew him ; and, so far as I can remember, his thoughts

did not turn seriously on any other questions pertaining
to science or philosophy. He liked, however, to keep up
a modified interest in current history and to maintain his

touch of the outer world. As a rule, he glanced over the

newspaper from day to day, marked the reports or

articles he wished to have read, and then, afterwards, he

was glad to hear a friend talk of anything that had
specially interested him, or even of incidents he had
not been able to overtake. His heart, however, was in
his books, and in the larger concerns of life and destiny
which now pressed upon him. The publication of The
Basis of Evolution had to be greatly hurried in the end,
and it looked after all as if the author were not to see

his book in print, his last illness developed so rapidly.
But Stanford, with great consideration, hurried on a

rough copy, completely bound, and I can remember well
the gleam of sunshine which broke upon his pillow as he
grasped the book in his hand. Two or three days later

the first review appeared in the Times, and he heard it

read with great satisfaction. It seemed to be the last

 greeting from the outer world that he really cared for,
 and it was all the more welcome because of his feeling

 that the book gave a certain completeness to his life-
 work. Philosophy was his first love and his last, and
486 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

nothing but the force of circumstances turned him aside

from it during the greater part of his life.
      " From a very early period Dr. Croll was a Christian

believer, and he could talk in a most interesting way of

the philosophies and the theories of the day in their
relation to the religion of Christ. Any modern treat

ment of theism kindled his attention and his critical

faculty. But it was very noticeable that in the later

months of his life he passed almost unconsciously from

interest in speculative questions to simple faith in Christ

as the one and only Saviour and Lord of men. He

recognised the difficulty of reconciling many apparently

contradictory truths which he held with confidence, and

yet he was never really disturbed by this. He rather
ridiculed the position of those who seem to imagine that

the unity in which all things are to be resolved is to be

found within the individual himself, or within the domain
of abstract reason. To him the doctrine of evolution,

and indeed most forms of modern thought, were but

flashes from the great central orb, and flashes which

should be welcomed as helping every man to a wider

understanding of the world as it                                and of God who
      :
         '

               it

                                                           is,
stands behind all. What he frequently said in effect

was this Truth can never be inconsistent with herself.

Meantime, some things look very dark, and some

mysteries seem      well-nigh  insoluble, but when we            get   a
little further on                know more of science           and
                   --when we                                          of

everything here, the light will break, and the impossible
sometime will come. And in the end some will be

surprised at their fear, others at their folly.' The day

before his death he spoke with great tenderness of some

visions of Christ which had flashed before his eyes. He

felt as even then, he had passed from the earth into
      if

         if,

               '
                                   '

                                                            '

                                                           I

                                                                                          is
what he called The eternal fellowship.'                         asked him

then  he had any conception of the spiritual realm

beyond. No,' he replied, the time for that has not

yet come. But my ignorance gives me no pain. It

sufficient now to lie still and wait for God, for He knows
CLOSING DAYS  487

all, and will do all things well.' The end was not long

delayed, for the weary spirit, which had so humbly and
so bravely battled with its weariness, passed on the dawn
of day into eternal peace.

      " One other thing I should like to add. In the closing
months of his life Dr. Croll found great delight in going
back by way of reminiscence on his early days. He
spoke with deep gratitude of his home, of the faith and
devotion of his father, of the wise and gracious

Providence that had shaped his own destiny, of the love
of many friends which had ever been to him a sacred
treasure. Not less characteristic was his thought of the
church of which he remained to the end an honoured
member. In youth he was greatly helped by his con
nection with this fellowship, and as I think again of the
last year of his life, there comes back with a strange,
deep pathos the memory of a forenoon when he went for
the keys of the old building in Mill Street, and, opening
it with his own hand, went and sat for a little while in

the seat in the gallery which his father used to occupy
when he himself was a boy. Nor was this mere senti

ment. It was one of the last acts of a true man who
loved to trace back to its source the main stream of

influence which had made him what he was, and who

could not forget the mercy and the truth of God, upon

whose world he had spent his thought, and by whose

Spirit he had lived."

     Mr. Paton of the Glasgow Corporation Gallery

writes :

     " I saw Dr. Croll two days before he died. At that

time he was very weak and exhausted, but mentally he
was as clear and eager as in his best days. He was
exceedingly anxious to discuss with me some of Mr.
Herbert Spencer's fallacies, but his wife had warned me
to stay only a very brief time with him. His effort
to speak brought on a fit of coughing, to relieve which
he was getting whisky in teaspoon measures. In that
488 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

connection he made almost the only little joke I ever

heard him utter. ' I'll take a wee drop o' that," he said.

' I don't think there's much fear o' me learning to drink
now ! ' It showed how bright, cheerful, and heart-

whole he remained to the last."

He continued in this state to the end, retaining his

mental vigour, his contented, bright spirit full of faith,

and passed away peacefully without pain or any apparent

struggle on the I5th of December 1890.
     He was buried in the family burying-ground in the

churchyard of the parish of Collace on the 18th of

December 1 890. Among the mourners were Dr. Bower,
R.A. ; Dr. Miller and Dr. Thomson, Perth Academy ;
Rev. John Brown, Kinclaven ; Rev. Robert Findlay
and Rev. Peter Grant of Perth ; Rev. David E. Irons,
B.D., Glasgow ; Mr. Peach, Geological Survey, Edinburgh ;

Mr. Paton, Glasgow ; J. Campbell Irons, Edinburgh ;
Mr. D. A. Macdonald, J.P., Cumbernauld, and Mr.

William Macdonald, Forres, brothers-in-law ; and others.
Like the day on which he was born, the day on

which he was buried was a cold, snowy, wintry day.

On the tombstone which he had been at some pains to

get erected   himself  are inscribed  the characteristically
simple words
              --

JAMES CROLL, LL.D., F.R.S., ETC. ETC

                  15 Dec. 1890 ' .Ajjcti 69 $ea»

     A week after the funeral, Professor Foster, of London,
wrote the following letter to Mrs. Croll :--

                                                LONDON, W., 2yd December 1890.

     DEAR MRS. CROLL, -- This must be a mournful

Christmas and New Year for you, now that you have
lost the companion of so many years. I would not
intrude upon you at such a time, but I should like to
offer you the expression of my sincere sympathy, and
                 CLOSING DAYS                  489

to say how thoroughly I loved and respected your

husband.

     My chief business, however, in writing just now is
to say that I had the satisfaction yesterday afternoon, at

a meeting of the Scientific Relief Fund Committee, of

voting a grant of £100 for your benefit. This sum is

to be entrusted to Professor Geikie, at his request, and

£50 is to be paid almost immediately, and the remainder
in six months' time. I hope this assistance may be of

service to you at this time, and that you will receive it

as an indication of the honour in which Dr. Croll was

held by scientific men in London. I only wish I had

been    able to  announce    the grant earlier, so that he might
have    known                 am, dear Mrs. Croll, yours very
                 of it.-- I

truly,                       G. CAREY FOSTER.

     Little or nothing has been said as yet regarding the
relationship between Dr. and Mrs. Croll, chiefly because
there was really nothing to record on the subject. Their

life together, through fortune and misfortune alike, was an
unbroken record of domestic felicity and happiness. He,

on the one hand, was tenderly considerate and attentive
to a degree almost unspeakable, while she, on the other

hand, was a devoted and attached helpmeet to him.
When he had resigned his position on the Survey, and
his income by way of pension was reduced to starvation

point, his first consideration was for Mrs. Croll. His
niggardly pension would of course die with him, and
nothing would be left for her maintenance. He there
fore, out of the proceeds of the sale of his household
furniture, and what he had derived from the proceeds of
his book in the year 1880, purchased a small joint
annuity on the life of himself and Mrs. Croll, and in

 1 88 1 he purchased another small annuity on her life
alone. In 1886, from the proceeds of his book entitled
Discussions on Climate and Cosmology, he purchased

another small annuity on her life, the whole three

annuities only amounting to £5 5 per annum. This
490 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

serves to show, however, his great consideration for her,
and the amount of self-denial which he exercised for her
future welfare. Indeed, in his declining years, his chief
concern was how to make provision for her in case of his

death ; and the last letter he wrote to Professor Foster
is one of the most pathetic illustrations of the tender
consideration which he had for one who had lived and
struggled with him in his marvellous career of adversity
and prosperity.

At a very early age Dr. Croll gave evidence of the

possession of some, at least, of those remarkable in

tellectual powers which afterwards distinguished him,

and enabled him, in the face of almost overwhelming

difficulties, to accomplish so much good work in science

and philosophy. His faculty of perception was, from

the first, so delicate and keen that, as a mere infant, he

grasped the incidents connected with his brother David's

baptism with an energy that enabled him to retain them

clearly in his mind throughout life; and when, in later
life, he made occasional excursions to the Pentland Hills

and the Firth of Forth, his discovery of glacial evidence

in the one case and of two river channels in the other,

proved the possession of an eye as thoroughly trained

as that of one who had, for a lifetime, been a practical

geologist. Nature had long had her charms for him ; he
had looked upon her as a lover; and when he came to

examine her in the interests of science, he read her secrets

at a glance. Whatever the subject which attracted his

attention, he brought to bear upon it the whole force of

his richly gifted nature. The pursuit of truth was to him
a solemn duty and an exquisite joy. In order that he

might fulfil his duty and enter into his joy, he lived wholly
and solely for the question of the hour. All else was, for

the time,   as if  it were  not ;  and   this rare  capacity   of con
centration          both    heart   and             exercised     often
            -- of                         mind --

amid circumstances most distracting, largely accounts for

the amount of work which he succeeded in doing.
                   CLOSING DAYS                                                                                tf)i

    He was but little of a geologist, still less of a chemist,

for mere facts, however interesting in themselves, had

little charm for him apart from general principles.

Even as a lad, when studying mechanics, etc., he in

stinctively rose from the facts which absorb most boys

to the great laws which they illustrate. He was by

nature a philosopher   rather than a scientist.                                  He was
ever straining toward                                                           origin of
                       the most abstract,--the

tahemmosattetreianlacuionuivsersmeemorortyhe--gnreoathtinFgirstthatCaeuvseer .     He had
                                                                                interested

him escaped his grip. What he saw he saw so clearly

that it remained for ever photographed on his mind.

Even the scientific facts, which he seemed to forget when

he had laid hold of their laws, were in that way made

only more completely his own, so that they were easily

recalled by the mere statement of the laws. Moving with

wondrous freedom through the varied realms of physics,

celestial and terrestrial, he was largely indebted to a vivid

power of imagination for his theories. (See Professor
Tyndall's letter referring to Croll's picture of "hammers.")
There was something of the poet in him, although he

had but little power of poetic expression. He loved to

look at facts pictorially, and interesting is his own con

fession that, had he been reading for mere pleasure,

he would have read the works of poets chiefly. Most

remarkable of all his intellectual features, however, was

his reasoning power, so strong and clear, of which we

need only say Climate and Time remains an enduring

monument. The keenness and directness of his marvel

                       is,

                                         ;

                                       is

                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                            ;
lous logical faculty however, well illustrated in other

ways. It appears in his correspondence was evinced

in the Philosophy of Theism  manifest in all his papers,

specially in the Philosophical Basis of Evolution and
    by no means least clearly demonstrated in his mar
is

vellous calculations of millions of years and intricate
mathematical problems, which, as he knew little of

mathematics, he worked out by process of figure-logic
                             a

entirely his own.
492 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      On the day on which he opened the first number of
the Penny Magazine, young Croll became a student,
and a student he continued to the end. His intense

desire for a liberal education at school and college could
not be gratified, and unfortunately the books in his father's
humble home were few and little suited to his taste.

Books, however, he would have, and books he succeeded

in getting in different ways. The perusal of Joyce's

Scientific Dialogues and some other works enabled him
to master the principles of mechanics and physics, and
gave him a taste for natural science; while Dick's
Christian Philosopher, combined with his own private

thoughts on religion, and probably some other influences,
stirred his metaphysical powers and led him to the pro
longed study of philosophy. The laborious examination

of Edwards on the Freedom of the Will provided valuable
discipline to his mind, prepared him to tackle Kant and

other writers, and produced a confidence in his own powers
which led to the publication of a pamphlet on Predestina

tion in 1854, and of the Philosophy of Theism in 1859.

Tempted by the opportunities afforded in the Ander-
sonian, he renewed his scientific reading, and, having
already tasted the joy of communicating his thoughts,
he soon began that long list of papers which extended
over a period of more than twenty-five years, and led
to a series of minute researches in almost all depart
ments of science. Few men, probably, in this age, have
gone so thoroughly into so many departments of know
ledge ; fewer still have made more valuable contributions
on so many varied themes. Croll was an incessant worker.
He lived to work, and whatever he did, he did with all

his might. If he could not do a thing thoroughly, he

would not do it at all. On one occasion, when he had
been invited to prepare a popular hand-book, it was

suggested that he might accept the invitation and have
the work done by an assistant acting under his direction ;
he at once repelled the suggestion, almost with scorn.

His patience and perseverance were marvellous, marvel
CLOSING DAYS  493

lous his economy of time and energy. Few men more
thoroughly enjoyed the society of friends, few were more
truly alive to the charms of music, yet he was almost

never seen at concerts or social gatherings. Even his

country walks were generally taken alone, that he might
be able to muse on the great themes that engrossed his
attention. With old age creeping upon him, and health

sadly broken, he renewed his theistic studies ; and after
much new reading, he, with great labour, succeeded in

finishing his last book, just as the day was sinking into
the night when no man can work.

      The amount and variety of the work done by Dr.
Croll during the years of his strangely chequered career

may be guessed, though by no means measured by a
reference to the list of his published book and papers.
The time has, perhaps, not yet arrived when an accurate
estimate of the value of his researches and speculations
in science and philosophy can be formed. He was a

born metaphysician, and there can be little doubt that,
had he enjoyed the advantage of an early and thorough
scholastic training, had he even been permitted, in riper
years, to concentrate his energies on the work to which

he was devoted, he would have achieved distinguished
success as a powerful teacher of philosophy. Through
the irony of life, he was compelled, for many years, to
toil for bread in the most uncongenial spheres of labour ;
and when at length he found rest for the sole of his foot,
he was led into a series of purely scientific researches

which consumed the best years of his life. In these,
however, his metaphysical acumen proved of invaluable

service, for the themes which chiefly attracted him were
of the most complicated and abstract nature ; and it may

be safely said that the world-wide favour accorded to
Climate and Time, and its place as probably the most

remarkable work connected with geology published

during the last half-century, are largely due to the singular
philosophic power of its author. Climate and Cosmology
served largely to develop, illustrate, and confirm Croll's
494 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

theory of the secular change of the earth's climate, which,
even if it be not in all respects faultless and complete,

will for ever be acknowledged as having opened up the

way to any thorough explanation of the phenomena

with which it deals. In Stellar Evolution, Croll treats

of a subject which he, with his well-nigh encyclopaedic

knowledge of science, was peculiarly fitted to discuss.

Here, too, he deals in the most careful manner with the

almost numberless phenomena involved, and elaborates a

theory of the origin of suns and systems, which has

already secured the approval of eminent astronomers,

and will, at the least, assuredly find its place in the history

of astronomical speculation for all time. With this

brilliant bit of work Dr. Croll bids farewell to science,

and returns to philosophy.

     Some of the merits of the Philosophy of Theism have

already been pointed out in the letters of the late

Professor Ferrier of St. Andrews and Principal Cairns

of Edinburgh ; and we shall only add here that in

this early work Dr. Croll was successful in laying down

the lines of an argument which adequately meets all the

objections to theism which can be suggested by the

modern theory of evolution. In the Philosophical Basis

of Evolution, he returns to this old argument and elabor
ates it. He clearly states the principle of determinism,

which he declares to be the foundation-stone of evolution.

He carefully examines its relation to Spencerianism and

Darwinism ; he proves that force, matter, and motion

can never be determined by force, matter, or motion, and

he concludes that the universe, in all its beauty, joy, and

fulness of life, can never be explained in terms of matter,

motion, and force : so that the whole process of evolution,

natural selection included, evidently points to theism.

The argument, so far as it goes, is simply irresistible ;
and we can only regret that he returned to his first love

too late, and with too little strength left to enable him

to prepare an all-round argument for theism worthy of

philosophy. The Basis of Evolution  is,  perhaps, chiefly
CLOSING DAYS  495

valuable as the confession of faith made by a master
mind most intimately acquainted with all that science
and philosophy can suggest against religion. With all
the energy of his nature he had laid hold of the secret

power which upholds and informs the universe : he felt
that that power is spirit; that though it be infinitely
greater than all we can know or conceive, still it is so
closely related to us, so essentially one with us, that we

may gladly pursue our labours throughout the day, as

children working in the Father's vineyard, and when the

night comes, lay us down to sleep in perfect peace upon
the Infinite Mother's breast.

     Of the moral character of Dr. Croll little need be
said. To those who knew him best it seemed without a
flaw. An inheritance, it was broadened, deepened, and
enriched by his strong personal religion. His devotion

to truth and right was simply perfect ; in his presence
falsehood, meanness, or injustice could not exist. His
sense of honour was keen even to a fault. In circum

stances in which most men would have clung to office

for years, he resigned his position in the Survey for the
childlike reason that he could not do the work for which
he drew his pay ; and the noble recognition of his chivalry
made by those in power forms a melancholy illustration
of what the late M. Amiel calls the law of irony. He was

warmly affectionate, strongly attached to relatives and

friends. Deep below the apparently austere surface of
his nature lay a fount of tenderness which poured forth
streams of help and healing all around. Out of his

scanty means he liberally gave to relieve distress.

Again and again he made the widow's heart to sing
for joy, as he sought, with the exquisite delicacy of a
Christian gentleman, to brighten her desolate home.
Little children loved him well. Deeply sensible of the

smallest kindness received, he proved grateful to the end,

and ever strove to show his gratitude for what he never

could pay back by giving to others such help as had
been given to him. Innocent of the slightest taint of
496 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

envy or jealousy, he rejoiced in the success of his friends,
and spared no pains to bring it about. Again and again
he was invited to deliver lectures, and write popular
books, which might have brought him fame and monetary
reward ; but with singular devotion to duty, he declined
them all, that he might consecrate his whole time and
strength to the pursuit of pure science.

      Dr. Croll was a man of a deeply religious nature,

which he inherited from his honoured parents ; and this
nature was so carefully trained in the home, even in
childhood, that he may be said to have been a Christian

from his earliest days. But, strange to say, for many

years after his intellectual new birth, he seems to have

devoted no earnest thought to religious subjects. It was

only after he had attained to early manhood that the
great realities of the spiritual life attracted his attention.
Then, however, he brought the whole force of his power
ful mind to bear upon the subject of his relation to God,
and he was led to recognise Christ as the only Redeemer
of sinful men. His entire nature was stirred to its

centre as he meditated on the all-important theme, and

he surrendered himself wholly--heart and mind and soul
--to the Saviour as Lord and Master. It was no mere

theory or plan of salvation which Croll accepted. He
had entered the presence, he had come beneath the sway
of the living, personal Christ, and he yielded himself in
absolute submission and devotion as a loyal subject to
his rightful King. Thenceforward for him there could
be no doubts on the great subject of God revealed in
Christ. Other eminent thinkers might in the course of
their studies be led to question the great realities of the
spiritual world, might need to pass through awful crises
in their spiritual history, in which the light of Heaven
would seem to be quenched, and might be able to regain
their hold of the central truths of religion only after
agonies of doubt and conflict. Croll had seen and
heard and felt the things of the Spirit, and through all
his life of ardent scientific and philosophic research,.
CLOSING DA YS  497

he remained a humble, childlike, and consistent

Christian.

      From the beginning, the earnestness and intensity of
his religion impressed his friends and neighbours. In
Kinrossie he was held in the highest esteem by Dr.
Bonar and all who knew him. In Paisley, where he
joined the little band of those who had embraced the
theological views of the late Dr. Jas. Morison, of Glasgow,
he was elected to fill the important office of deacon ; and
in Glasgow he was for several years a member of Elgin
Place Congregational Church. The religion of Croll
was a religion of the deed. He was rarely heard,
even by his most intimate friends, to speak on religious

topics. When, however, theological subjects were dis

cussed in his presence, he freely granted to earnest
thinkers the liberty of thought which he claimed for
himself. Sometimes, indeed, when a young man, con
fident in a little acquaintance with science, was getting
beyond his depth, he quietly told him that he knew

nothing about the subject. But if the slightest degree
of levity or irreverence was shown, he at once rebuked
the speaker, yet with a dignity so grave and calm

that no sting was left behind ; and on one such occa
sion, at least, of which we have heard, the rebuke was
afterwards gratefully recognised. His religious feelings

were to him more sacred than even those which a

man cherishes toward the mother who gave him birth ;
they formed his prop and stay amid all the trials of his

strangely chequered life ; they gave him perfect peace
and boundless hope in the solemn hour of death.

      Altogether James Croll may be regarded as one of
the most remarkable and most typical Scotsmen of his

age. Others there may have been who possessed equal
intellectual endowments, learning similarly wide and
varied, a character as pure, noble, and generous ; but for
a combination of these eminent properties he was
certainly unsurpassed by any of his contemporary fellow-
countrymen. None of them has more strikingly displayed

            32
498 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

the unwearied industry, the indomitable perseverance,
the tenacity of purpose, that are so characteristic of the
Scottish people. None has by his own unaided efforts,
in the face of almost overwhelming difficulties, raised
himself from a beginning so lowly to a position so high

in the ranks of the world's thinkers. Like Thomas Carlyle,
he was the son of a working stonemason ; like him he

had to do battle against lifelong physical weakness, and
the ever-repeated buffets of misfortune ; and, like him,
he attained to a world-wide reputation as a profound and
brilliant teacher. Croll, however, owed nothing to the
early training of grammar school or university ; his

physical ailments were far more serious, and his mis
fortunes were continued to the very end. But amid all

his trials his faith, his hope, his courage never failed, his
serenity of soul remained unmoved. Unweariedly while
the day lasted he toiled as one who was ever in the

great taskmaster's eye, and only when the shades of
night had gathered round his head did he lay him
down to rest, leaving a noble record of work behind.
But the man was greater far than his work. Those
who enjoyed his friendship counted it one of their

rarest privileges, and they cherish his memory as that

of one of nature's noblemen.
                    OBITUARY NOTICES

THE following obituary notice by Lord Kelvin was
              read  to the  Royal  Society,  shortly  after  Dr. Croll's

death :--

     James Croll, who died on the I5th of December, at
the age of sixty-nine, presented in his life a rare case of

inborn passion for philosophy and science conquering all

obstacles and attaining to the object of lifelong devotion

to scientific research and philosophic speculation. De

pendent wholly on his own work for his support, he

commenced earning a livelihood as a beginner in a

merchant's office ; and with his ability he might no doubt

have earned promotion and become a successful merchant.

But the superior attraction of philosophy prevailed, and

he wrote a book on The Philosophy of Theism, which
was published in a large octavo volume, I believe, while

he was still working in the merchant's office. After

being one of about seventy unsuccessful candidates for

the post of underkeeper of the Hunterian Museum of

the University of Glasgow, he was appointed in 1 8 5 9 to
the post of janitor of Anderson's College, Glasgow.

About this time the Geological Society of Glasgow was

founded, and became the centre of an active company of

geologists who took up the study of the traces of the

Glacial period, so striking and abundant in the West of

Scotland. Croll and his successful competitor for the

University post, John Young, both of them with charac
teristic ardour, threw themselves into the work of geology.

Croll, according to his peculiar bent of mind, was drawn

chiefly into the more speculative lines of geological
inquiry, and in 1 864 published his " Essay on the
Physical Cause of the Changes of Climate during the

                                   199
5oo LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Glacial Epoch," which deservedly gained the careful
consideration both of geologists and of astronomers.
This speculation undoubtedly presented a vera causa for
some of the changes of climate which have occurred in

geological history, although we can scarcely consider it
adequate to be so powerful and exclusive a factor as
Croll endeavoured to make it. His vigorous dispute
with Carpenter regarding oceanic circulation rightly
enforced attention to the importance of wind as the
prime mover of some of the great ocean currents, but

did not overthrow Carpenter's very important views
regarding the effects of heat according to which differ
ences of temperature in the water itself in different

regions and at different depths have paramount efficacy
in producing some of the great oceanic circulations.
After serving for eight years as janitor in Anderson's
College, Glasgow, Croll was selected by Sir Archibald
Geikie to take charge of the maps and correspondence
of the Geological Survey in Edinburgh. But according
to rule he must be examined, and the Civil Service
examiners plucked him in arithmetic and English
composition. On the strong urgency of Sir Roderick
Murchison (who asked me, from my personal knowledge
of Croll, to write a statement of my opinion regarding his
qualifications), the Civil Service Commissioners, with a
wisely liberal relaxation of their rules, accepted his great
calculations regarding the eccentricity of the earth's orbit
and the precession of the equinoxes during the last
1 0,000,000 years as sufficient evidence of his arithmetical

capacity, his book on The Philosophy of Theism and

numerous papers published in scientific journals as
proof of his ability to write good English. He was
therefore allowed to receive the appointment on the
Geological Survey in Edinburgh, though he had failed
to pass the qualifying examination. During the rest of
his life he was thus kept in relation with the great
practical work of the Geological Survey in Scotland, and
was allowed time to devote himself to speculative study
                    OBITUARY NOTICES                501

and writing in geological physics, astronomy, and
philosophy. During the last year of his life he sent to

press his last work, published a few weeks before his

death, entitled The Philosophical Basis of Evolution!

The following obituary notice appeared in Nature

on 2 5th December 1890, and which Messrs. Macmillan
& Co., publishers,
                    have kindly  authorised  to be  republished
here :--

By the death of this well-known writer, geological

literature loses one of its most voluminous and able

contributors. Though not in the proper sense of the

word a geologist, he had made himself well acquainted

with many geological problems, and first attracted notice

more than twenty-five years ago by the brilliance and

suggestiveness of his attempts to solve them. He was

born in 1821, at Little Whitefield in Perthshire, and

after the usual brief schooling of a peasant's son, he was

apprenticed as a millwright in his native village. The

employment allowed him leisure for reading, and he

devoted himself with ardour to the study of philosophy

and of physical science. At the age of twenty-four,

however, the effects of an accident which he had met

with in boyhood compelled him to seek a less laborious

vocation, and eventually he became agent for an in

surance company. These early years gave but little

promise of the particular bent of his genius by which

he would attain distinction. Eventually the general

acquirements, and the zeal with which he was known to

devote his spare time to philosophical reading, attracted

the interest of the governing body of the Andersonian

University and Museum in Glasgow, and in 1859 he
was appointed keeper of that establishment. He had

already found his way into print, by publishing anony

mously a volume on The Philosophy of Theism. But his
new position in an institution devoted largely to the

      1 Remarks by Lord Kelvin in Proceedings of Royal Society of London,

1891-92, p. 219.
S02 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

teaching of science, led him to throw himself more fully
into the study of physics. In 1861 he published in
the Philosophical Magazine his first contribution to
scientific literature, a paper on " The Electrical Experi
ments of Ampere."

      About that time the Geological Society of Glasgow
was founded, and became the centre of an active company
of geologists who specially took up the study of the
traces of the Glacial period so striking and abundant
in the West of Scotland. Croll was drawn into the

prevalent enthusiasm, and soon, with characteristic ardour
and enthusiasm, began an investigation of some of the

physical difficulties which had arisen in the course of
geological inquiry. In 1 864 he published his remarkable
essay, " On the Physical Causes of the Changes of Climate
during the Glacial Epoch." This paper speedily attracted
the notice of men of science. In it the author endea

voured to find a true cause for the extension of snow
and ice during the Ice age, far beyond their present
limits. For this purpose he invoked the aid of astronomic

and terrestrial physics, and he provided an explanation
which captivated geologists by its simplicity as well as
by the wide range of phenomena which it helped to

elucidate. It was this paper which laid the foundation,
of his scientific reputation. It was likewise the means
of opening up for him a new and more convenient
employment, for it led to his being selected by the
present Director-General of the Geological Survey to
take charge of the maps and correspondence of the
Survey in Edinburgh. He was appointed to this office

in 1867, and found himself able to prosecute with more
vigour than ever the researches in physical geology
which had now so great a charm for him. The question
of the origin of climate led him into a far wider field

of investigation than he had at first contemplated. It

brought him face to face with many theoretic problems

which geologists had been unable to solve. These he
attacked with characteristic energy. He enforced his
OBITUARY NOTICES                              503

arguments with a single eye to the discovery and
establishment of truth, and exposed without reserve

views which seemed to him erroneous. With no inten

tion of rousing controversy, he soon found himself in

collision with other writers who disputed his arguments.

One of the most interesting and vigorous of these
disputations was with the late Dr. W. B. Carpenter

regarding the theory of oceanic circulation.  Croll

maintained with great force and with general approbation

the position for which he contended, that the prime

motors in the circulation of the ocean were the winds.

After publishing many papers on this and cognate

subjects, he collected, continued, and partly re-wrote these,

adding fresh materials to them, and issuing the whole as

his well-known work on Climate and Time in their

Geological Relations, which appeared in 1875. Though
much division of opinion was aroused as to the real

value of some of his views in relation to the establishment

of sound geological theories, there was a general recogni
tion of the originality and acuteness of his mode of

dealing with accepted facts and principles and of the

value of his writings as strengthening and directing

inquiry. He was accordingly elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society in 1876, and the University of St.

Andrews conferred on him the degree of LL.D.

By degrees, however, Dr. C roll's health began to fail.

He suffered so intensely from pains in the head that

he was compelled in 1881 to resign his appointment in

the Geological Survey, and retire on the miserably small

pension to which, by the rigid rules of the Civil Service,

his length of service only entitled him. By exercising
the greatest care, he was still able at intervals to resume

his studies in geological physics, and to publish occa

sional papers, partly in reply to his critics, who were
now increasing in number and pertinacity. In 1885 he
published a small volume embracing some of these
papers and much new material, under the title of Dis

cussions in Climate and Cosmology.
504 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Dr. Croll's investigations into the geological history
of terrestrial climate had led him to consider the question
of the origin of the sun's heat, and thence to reflect on
the possible condition and development of nebulae and
stars. The latter chapters of the volume just mentioned

were devoted to these subjects, which he would fain have

discussed more at length had not the increasing failure

of his bodily powers warned him that if he wished still

to return to that philosophy which was his first love, he

must husband his remaining strength. Nevertheless the
attraction of these astronomic problems proved insuper
able. He continued to work at the subject, enlarging
the scope of the investigation until it embraced not the

earth and the sun merely, but the origin and development

of the whole material universe. At last he followed his

usual method, gathered together his various contributions
to the subject, trimmed, enlarged, and modified them, and
published them in a separate volume, entitled Stellar
Evolution in its Relation to Geological Time.

     The publication of that work marks the close of his
labours in more definite scientific inquiry. He was now
free with such remaining strength as he could command
to re-enter the field of philosophic speculation in which
he had spent his earliest years of mental exertion, and
which for nearly thirty years, through all the engrossing
attractions of geological inquiry, had never lost its
fascination for him. Accordingly he betook himself once
more to the study of such subjects as force, matter,

causation, determinism, evolution, etc., and proceeded to
apply the facts and principles with which he had in the
interval been dealing so actively to the problems in
philosophy that had aroused his thoughts in the early

years of his life. In spite of his increasing infirmity, he
persevered in committing to writing the ideas which he
had now formed, and this year he sent to press his last
work, published only a few weeks ago, The Philosophical
Basis of Evolution.

     Of all recent writers who have contributed so much
            OBITUARY NOTICES  505

to current scientific literature, probably no one was

personally so little known as Dr. Croll. His retiring
nature kept him for the most part in the privacy of his
own home. But he endeared himself to those who were

privileged with his friendship by his gentleness and

courtesy, his readiness to help, and the quiet enthusiasm
with which he would talk about the topics which
absorbed his thoughts. After quitting the Geological
Survey of Scotland, he tried residence at different places,
in hopes of finding one where his failing bodily health
would least impede the powers of his mind, which he
retained with singular freshness up to the close. He
settled at last in the town of Perth, where he spent the
few remaining years of his life. Struggling on in spite of

ominous warnings, he finished his last book just before the
stroke which carried him off on Monday the I 5th inst.

    The following obituary notice by J. Horne, F.R.S.E.,

F.G.S., of H.M. Geological Survey of Scotland, was

read to the Geological  Society, on the I9th February

1891 :--

Since the opening of the present session, this Society

has lost one of its most distinguished Fellows, and the

science of geology one of its devoted followers. As an

original thinker and powerful investigator in that branch

of geology relating to the physical cause of climatic

change during geological epochs, Dr. Croll was among
the foremost, if not the first, of his time. He has left

behind him a brilliant series of researches, of which

Scotchmen may well be proud. That he achieved so

much without the advantages of special training in his

early years, and in spite of a delicate frame, only serves

to throw into relief his great intellectual strength and

iron will.

Apart from his scientific researches, the story of his

life may be briefly told. He was born at St. Martin's,

Perthshire, on the 21st January 1821, of parents of

humble rank, who were devoted members of the Scotch
506 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Congregational Church. Following in early life the

craft of a millwright, he was compelled to abandon it by
an injury which he sustained. For a time he tried

various occupations, with indifferent success. After

years of patient waiting, he caught at last the flowing

tide. By the kind intervention of the late Mr. Walter

Crum of Thornliebank, he obtained a situation at the

Andersonian University, Glasgow -- an appointment
which proved a great boon to him. It gave him leisure

to pursue those studies on electricity, heat, and the

physical cause of climatic change, which formed the

subjects of his earlier papers. It placed within his reach

the University Library and the Library of the Philo

sophical Society ; while the publication of his researches
soon brought him into contact with the great leader of

science in this country, Lord Kelvin.
     But a better fate was yet in store for him. His

papers on geological climate and glacial submergence

naturally arrested the attention of geologists at home and
abroad. The present Director-General of the Geological
Survey, Sir A. Geikie, promptly recognised the value of

these researches. Thanks to his administrative ability,
Dr. Croll was appointed secretary to the Scotch staff of

the Geological Survey, when the Survey was reorganised
                              years he discharged the duties of
in 1  867.      For fourteen  extraordinary intellectual activity
this  office
              -- a period of
in his career. During his term of service, no note of

discord was ever heard from him. His rare modesty,

combined with his great intellectual power, won the

esteem of all his colleagues, who gladly placed at his

disposal any fresh observations in the field bearing on

glacial geology.

      Eventually the prolonged intellectual strain told on

his health, which was never very robust. Serious
symptoms supervened in 1881, which compelled him to
sever his connection with the Survey. But, though

invalided, he was not vanquished. By watchful care, he

so husbanded his strength, that he was able at intervals
                             OBITUARY NOTICES                507

to pursue his favourite researches for a further period of
nine years. A friend who visited him during his last

illness says that his powerful mind remained clear and

eager to the last, revolving thoughts on favourite themes

which his feeble voice could hardly utter. On the 1 5th
of December 1 890 he passed away, at the age of

sixty-nine.

Turning now to his long series of contributions to

science and metaphysics, it will hardly be possible,

within the limits of this notice, to do more than give a
brief summary of his more important researches, laying

special emphasis on those on which his reputation will

ultimately rest.

     His first work, entitled The Philosophy of Theism,
published in 1857, at the age of thirty-six, endeavoured

to define the relation of Theism to the determination

of molecular motion. He tried to show that, for the

--profdirusct,tiomn otoiofn  any organism,  two things are necessary
                             ; second, the  determination of motion.

Mere vital force might account for motion, but the

determination of motion implies an idea, design, and a

directing mind.

     The publication of The Philosophy of Theism plainly
showed the philosophical bent of his mind, and his early

metaphysical bias. But, after his removal to Glasgow, he

turned his attention to scientific subjects. In 1 86 1, at
the age of forty, appeared his first scientific paper on
" Ampere's Experiment on the Repulsion of a Rectilinear

Electrical Current on Itself." From this date till his
                                                  Survey, -- a period of
retirement from the                  Geological
                                    published    nearly eighty papers,
twenty years,--he

extending over a wide range of subjects. The titles of

his earlier communications, prior to 1 864, showed the

varied character and abstruse nature of his researches,

including, amongst others, the following :--" Chemical
Combination in Relation to Specific Heat"; "The
                                    "     " The
Cohesion     of              Gases               Mechanical  Power of
                                       ;
5o8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Electro-Magnetism " ; " The Relation of Chemical Affinity
to Vital Force."

      In 1864, however, he published a remarkable paper,
" On the Physical Cause of the Change of Climate during
 Geological Epochs," which formed the starting-point for
a brilliant series of investigations extending over many
years. In connection with this memoir, it is interesting

to recall the views then held in this country regarding
the phenomena of the Glacial period. Notwithstanding
the highly suggestive paper of Agassiz in 1 840, in which

he showed how the roches moutonn&s, striations, and
glacial deposits indicate the former existence of land

ice in Scotland, geologists were slow in accepting his
opinions. For years nearly every geologist in Britain
clung resolutely to the theory of the iceberg origin of the

drift. At length it was vigorously assailed by Sir Andrew

Ramsay, Sir Archibald Geikie, and Mr. Robert Chambers.
From a careful examination of evidences of ice-action in

this country, Canada, and the Continent, Ramsay felt

convinced that the theory was no longer tenable. In
like manner, Sir Archibald Geikie, who in his early

years had accepted the old explanation, was compelled
to abandon it in 1861, after an extended series of obser
vations in different parts of Scotland. He prepared
an elaborate memoir on the subject, giving a detailed
description of the phenomena, and his reasons for
attributing them to the action of land ice. While this

memoir was in preparation, another eminent Scotch
glacialist, Mr. Jamieson of Ellon, arrived at similar con

clusions from his own independent observations, and Sir
Charles Lyell also adopted the same explanation.

     Sir A. Geikie's paper was read in abstract to the
Geological Society of Glasgow in 1862, and published

as a separate memoir in 1863, appearing subsequently
in the first volume of the Transactions. When we
consider the date of publication of this elaborate memoir,
nearly two hundred pages in length, geologists will readily
admit that it is of special importance in connection with
OBITUARY NOTICES  509

the history of glacial geology in Britain. There can be
little doubt that it paved the way for the final rejection of

the iceberg hypothesis in this country.

     The cogent arguments advanced by Sir A. Geikie in
favour of the former existence of land ice in Scotland had

doubtless a powerful influence on Croll's philosophic mind.
He evidently realised that the iceberg theory was doomed,
and that well-nigh twenty years had been lost by
geologists in this country owing to their stubborn refusal
to adopt the suggestions of Agassiz. Accepting the
land ice origin of the boulder clay and moraines, Croll

proceeded, with characteristic boldness, to grapple with
the question of the probable cause of climatic change.

To a man of his originality and power, the existence of

glacial conditions in Temperate latitudes during former
geological epochs must have been a problem of absorbing
interest. Various theories have been advanced to
account for such alternations of climate. Some have

suggested that they might be due to a change in the
position of the earth's axis of rotation ; others, that the
earth may have passed through hot and cold regions of

space ; while Sir Charles Lyell strenuously advocated the

doctrine that they may have been caused by changes in
the distribution of land and sea, on the assumption that

elevation of land about the poles would lower the

temperature of the globe, and that elevation round the
equator would raise it. Recent researches, however, are

rather opposed to the belief in such enormous terrestrial
changes, and seem to point to the permanence of

continental and oceanic areas from primeval time.
      Owing to an early suggestion of Sir John Herschel,

the attention of geologists was directed to the probable
effect of cosmical causes in producing climatic change.
In 1830, he showed that during a period of high

eccentricity, the hemisphere whose winter occurs in
aphelion will experience a long and exceptionally cold

winter and a hot summer ; while the opposite hemisphere
will enjoy equable climatic conditions. But he subse
 5io LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

 quently held that the cold of the Glacial period could
  hardly be due to the direct effects of high eccentricity,
  because each hemisphere must receive precisely the same
 amount of heat; and, further, the deficiency of heat

 resulting from the sun's greater distance would be
 equalised by the excess of heat received during the short

 but hot summer.

       To Dr. Croll belongs the rare merit of showing that,

 though glacial cycles may not arise directly from cosmical

 causes, they may do so indirectly. As already indicated,

 his first contribution to the subject was published in 1 864,

 but the development of his theory resulted in a series of
 brilliant researches extending over a period of eleven
 years, to 1875. He was led to investigate the problem
 of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit and its physical
 relations to the Glacial period. By means of Leverrier's
 formulae, he calculated tables of eccentricity for three
 million years in the past and one million years in the
 future, with the view of determining the periods of high

 eccentricity which, according to his theory, were coin
 cident with cycles of extreme cold.

       He was further led to consider the various physical
 agencies affecting climate resulting from periods of high
eccentricity, of which by far the most important is the
deflection of ocean currents. In connection with this
question he called attention to the influence of the Gulf
Stream as an agent in the distribution of heat on the
surface of the globe. He pointed out that the quantity
of heat transferred by the Gulf Stream from equatorial
regions into the North Atlantic is enormously greater
than was previously imagined, amounting to no less than
one-fifth part of the entire heat possessed by the North
Atlantic. He contended that " to such an extent is the
temperature of the equatorial regions lowered, and that
of high temperature and polar regions raised, by means
of ocean currents, that were they to cease, and each

latitude to depend solely on the heat received directly
from the sun, only a very small portion of the globe
OBITUARY NOTICES  511

would be habitable by the present order of beings." It
is obvious, therefore, that if from any cause the Gulf

Stream were deflected into the Southern Ocean, the
temperature of the northern hemisphere would be greatly

lowered.

       These latter researches led him to inquire into the
physical cause of ocean currents, which proved the most

difficult and perplexing part of his investigations. Two

theories had been advanced to account for oceanic circu

lation, viz., the gravitation theory and the wind theory.
He controverted that form of the gravitation theory
advocated by Lieutenant Maury, who ascribed the
currents of the ocean to difference of specific gravity
resulting from difference of temperature between the sea
in equatorial and polar regions. He also keenly opposed
the phase of the gravitation theory expounded by Dr.
Carpenter, who maintained that difference of temperature
between the sea in equatorial and polar regions produces
a general movement of the upper portion of the sea from
the equator to the poles and a counter-movement of the
under portion from the poles to the equator. On the

other hand, he contended that ocean currents are caused
and maintained, not by the impulse of the trade winds
alone, but of the prevailing winds of the globe regarded

as a general system.
      These various lines of research are intimately

associated with the fundamental question of the physical
cause of climatic change.

     As Dr. Croll's reputation as an original thinker will

ultimately rest on these remarkable memoirs, which, with

other researches, were eventually published in one
volume, entitled Climate and Time, in 1875, a brief
statement of his theory may here be given as presented
in Chapter iv. of that volume.

      With the eccentricity at its superior limit, and the

winter occurring in aphelion, the earth would be about
eight millions of miles farther from the sun than at
present. The reduction in the amount of heat received
5i2 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

from the sun owing to his increased distance would lower

the mid-winter temperature to an enormous extent. In
temperate regions, the greater part of the moisture of
the air is at present precipitated in the form of rain, and
the small portion, which falls as snow, rapidly disappears.
But in the foregoing circumstances, the mean winter

temperature would be lowered so much below the

freezing point that what now falls as rain would then fall
as snow. But the winters would then not only be colder

than now, they would also be much longer. At present

the winters are nearly eight days shorter than the
summers, but with the eccentricity at its superior limit,
and the winter solstice in aphelion, the length of the
winters would exceed that of the summers by thirty-six
days. The lowering of the temperature and the lengthen
ing of the winter would both tend to increase the amount
of snow accumulated during the winter. The result
would be, that at the commencement of the short
summer, the ground would be covered with the winter's
accumulation of snow. The presence of so much snow
would lower the summer temperature, and prevent to a
great extent the melting of the snow.

      There are three ways by which accumulated masses
of snow and ice tend to lower the summer temperature.

      First. By means of direct radiation.
      Second. Because the rays, falling on snow and ice,
are to a great extent reflected back into space. Those
that are not reflected, but absorbed, do not raise the

temperature, as they disappear in the mechanical work

of melting the ice. Whatever may be the intensity of
the sun's heat, the surface of the ground will be kept at

32° so long as the snow and ice remain unmelted.
      Third. Snow and ice lower the temperature by

chilling the air and condensing the vapour into thick
fogs. The great strength of the sun's rays during
summer, due to his nearness at that season, would
tend to produce an increased amount of evaporation.
But the presence of snow-clad mountains and an icy
OBITUARY NOTICES  513

season would chill the atmosphere, and condense the
vapour into thick fogs. The thick fogs and cloudy sky

would effectually prevent the sun's rays from reaching

the earth, and the snow in consequence would remain

unmelted during the entire summer.
      But the cause which, above all others, tends to

produce changes of climate is the deflection of ocean

currents. A high condition of eccentricity produces an

accumulation of snow and ice on the hemisphere whose
winter occurs in aphelion. This accumulation tends in
turn to lower the summer temperature, to cut off the

sun's rays, and so to retard the melting of the snow. It

tends to produce on that hemisphere a state of glaciation.
But on the other hemisphere, which has the winter in

perihelion, opposite effects take place. There the short
ness of the winters, and the increase of temperature
owing to the proximity of the sun, combine to prevent
the accumulation of snow. The general result is that the
one hemisphere is cooled, and the other heated. This
state of things now brings into play those agencies which

tend to the deflection of the Gulf Stream. When the

northern hemisphere is being glaciated, the north-east
trade winds of this hemisphere will far exceed in strength
the south-east trade winds of the southern hemisphere.
The median line between the trades will lie considerably
to the south of the equator. The effect of the northern
trades blowing across the equator to a great distance will
be to impel the warm water of the tropics over into the
Southern Ocean. By this means the Gulf Stream would
be deflected to the south of Cape St. Roque, and would
flow along the Brazilian coast into the Southern Ocean.

The deflection of the Gulf Stream, combined with the

other causes already mentioned, would, according to Dr.
Croll, place Europe under glacial conditions, while the
temperature of the Southern Ocean would be enormously
raised. He shows that but for the Gulf Stream and
other currents, London would have a mean annual

temperature, 40° lower than at present.

            33
SI4 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      Such is a brief outline of Croll's ingenious method
of explaining the occurrence of an Arctic climate in
Temperate latitudes in former geological epochs. In
support of his theory he appealed with confidence to the
evidence in favour of warm Interglacial periods, which he
regarded as a crucial test. Reviewing the data which

had been gradually accumulated by geologists in favour
of the belief that the Ice age was not an epoch of con
tinuous cold, but consisted of a succession of cold and

warm periods, he contended that this sequence follows
as a necessary consequence from his theory of secular
changes of climate.

      But in addition to the luminous memoirs bearing on
the foregoing theory, Dr. Croll pursued other lines of
research, the results of which were published in various
periodicals, and subsequently incorporated in his volume
on Climate and Time. In the Philosophical Magazine
for 1850 Mr. Alfred Tylor published a paper in which
he estimated the amount of sediment brought into the
ocean by denuding agents. He inferred that one foot
removed off the general surface of the land during that

period would raise the sea-level three inches. At a later

date Croll approached this question, and pointed out that
the rate at which the materials are carried off the land is

measured by the rate at which sediment is carried down
by our river systems. Hence, in order to determine the
present rate of sub-aerial denudation, we have only to
ascertain the quantity of sediment annually carried down
by the river systems. From the estimates of the
materials discharged by the Mississippi, furnished by
Humphreys and Abbot, he inferred, in 1868, that the
rate of denudation is about one foot in six thousand
years. Taking the mean elevation of the land, given by
Humboldt at 1000 feet, he contended that the whole

would be carried down into the ocean by our river

systems in about six million years, if no elevation of the
land took place. He further showed the value of this
method as a measure of geological time.
OBITUARY NOTICES                               515

Another ingenious investigation relates to the dis

placement of the earth's centre of gravity by a polar

ice-cap, resulting in submergence. This suggestion was

first advanced by M. Adhemar, in his work Revolutions

de la Mer, in 1842, but when Croll published his views

on the subject in the Reader, he was unaware of
Adhemar's conclusions. In connection with this question

Croll estimated the probable thickness of the Antarctic

ice-cap, and computed the rise in the level of the ocean,

resulting from the transfer of an ice-cap two miles thick

from the southern to the northern hemisphere. Accord

ing to the method which postulates the rise at the pole

to be equal to the extent of the displacement of the

earth's centre of gravity, he inferred that the rise at

the North Pole would be about 380 feet, and the rise
in the latitude of Edinburgh would be 3 1 2 feet. By this
means he endeavoured to account for the submergence

during the Glacial period, instead of ascribing it to a
subsidence of the land.

Following up the idea of the existence of Continental

ice-sheets during the Glacial period, he independently

suggested that the Scandinavian and Scotch ice-sheets

coalesced on the floor of the North Sea, moving west

wards towards the Atlantic, thereby accounting for the

marine shells and boulders of Secondary rocks in the

Caithness boulder clay.

     In connection with the movement of Continental

ice-sheets and glaciers, he was led to investigate that

perplexing question in physics, viz., the physical cause

of glacial motion. He reviewed the various theories

which had been advanced to explain this phenomenon,

indicating various objections to them. He ultimately

advanced an ingenious explanation of his own, which

may here be briefly summarised from his statement of

the theory in Climate and Time.                It is composed
      Ice is not absolutely solid throughout.

of crystalline particles which are not packed so closely

together as to include interstices. They are united to
516 LIFE OF JAMES CROLI.

one another at special points determined by their polarity,

and on this account they require more space. It will be

obvious, then, that when a crystalline molecule melts, it
will not merely descend by gravitation, but capillary
attraction will cause it to flow into the interstices between
the adjoining molecules. The moment that it parts with
the heat received it will of course resolidify, but it will
not solidify so as to fit the cavity which it occupied in
the fluid state. For the liquid molecule in solidifying
assumes the crystalline form, and of course there will be
a definite proportion between the length, breadth, and
thickness of the crystal ; consequently it will always
happen that the interstice in which it solidifies will be
too narrow to contain it. The result will be that the
fluid molecule in passing into the crystalline form will

press the two adjoining molecules aside in order to make
sufficient room for itself between them. The crystal will

not form to suit the cavity, the cavity must be made

to contain the crystal. And what holds true of one
molecule holds true of every molecule which melts and
resolidifies. This process is therefore going on inces
santly in every part of the glacier, and in proportion to
the amount of heat which the glacier is receiving. This

internal molecular pressure, resulting from the solidifying
of the fluid molecules in the interstices of the ice, acts in
the mass of the ice as an expansive force tending to
cause the glacier to widen out in all directions.

      The lateral expansion of the ice from internal
molecular pressure, according to Dr. Croll, explains how

rock basins may be excavated by means of land ice. It

also removes the difficulties experienced in accounting
for the movement of ice up a steep slope. Nay, further,
he called attention to the fact that the ice which passed

over Strathmore must have been over 2000 feet in

thickness. An ice-sheet 2000 feet thick exerts a
pressure on the rocky floor of upwards of 5 1 tons per
square foot. When we reflect, he contended, that ice
under such enormous pressure, with grinding materials
OBITUARY NOTICES  517

lying underneath, was forced by irresistible molecular
energy up an incline of one in seven, it is not at all

surprising that the hard lava should be ground down

and striated. It also helps us to realise how the softer

portions of the rocky surface over which the ice moved

should have been excavated into hollow basins.

      The speculations of physicists regarding the limit of

geological time prompted him to investigate the question
of the probable age and origin of the sun. Accepting
gravitation as the only conceivable source of the sun's

heat, he reviewed the two forms in which this theory had

been presented, first, the meteoric theory advocated by

Meyer, and, second, the contraction theory, expounded

by Helmholtz. Even if we postulate 100 millions of
years as the limit of geological time, he maintained that
gravitation will not account for the supply of the sun's

heat during so long a period. According to the fore

going theories, it is assumed that the matter composing
the sun, when it existed in space as a nebulous mass,
was not originally possessed of temperature, but that the

temperature was developed as the mass condensed under
the force of gravitation. He suggested that the nebulous

mass might have been possessed of an original store of

heat previous to condensation. Proceeding to consider

how the sun's mass could have become possessed of
energy in the form of heat previous to condensation, he
argued that it was readily explained by means of the
dynamical theory of heat. " Two bodies, each one-half
the mass of the sun, moving directly towards each other
with a velocity of 476 miles per second, would by their

concussion generate in a single moment the 50,000,000
years' heat." He further contended that we are led from
physical considerations regarding the age of the sun's
heat to the conclusion that the geological history of our
globe must be limited to 100 millions of years.

     His great work, Climate and Time, embodying the

foregoing researches, which appeared in 1875, produced a

profound impression on geologists at home and abroad.
5i8 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

His opponents, as well as those who adopted his

opinions, admired the originality and philosophic grasp

displayed by the author. Hardly eleven years had

elapsed since the publication of his first paper bearing on

the physical cause of climatic changes, and yet, quite a

revolution had taken place in the method of interpreting

glacial phenomena. The marvellous development of

opinion regarding glacial questions had been signalised

by the publication of Professor James Geikie's epoch-
making volume, The Great Ice Age, in 1 874. The

views so ably expounded by these authors regarding the

former extension of land-ice in the northern hemisphere

during the Glacial period, have been generally accepted,

and now form part of the common stock of geological

knowledge all over the world.

But the theory developed by Dr. Croll of the physical

causes of secular changes of climate, and the researches

on which that theory was based, gave rise to prolonged

controversy. Though one of the most modest of men,

he was a keen controversialist. The numerous replies

to his antagonists appeared chiefly in the pages of

Nature and the Philosophical Magazine.  They were

subsequently collected and published in 1885 in Climate
and Cosmology, which is to a large extent a further

development of his previous work. In 1889 he published
a volume on Stellar Evolution, in which he states the

geological argument against the views held by Thomson

and Tait regarding the age of the sun.

The few remaining months of his life were devoted to

a wholly different field of inquiry. He reverted to those

philosophical questions which had fascinated him in his

early years. In his last work, The Philosophical Basis of

Evolution, which issued from the press about three

months before his death, he contended that evolution by

force was impossible. He maintained that the production

of motion and the determination of motion, the produc

tion of force and the determination of force, are abso

lutely and essentially different. Reviewing the theory
OBITUARY NOTICES  519

of development advocated by Darwin and Spencer, he
associates the phenomena of evolution with this con
tinuous direction of motion, which to his mind betoken
will and purpose. To those who enjoyed his friendship,
he occasionally referred to this question in terms which

plainly indicated that he did not halt between two
opinions. The idea that a Supreme Will directed the
course of Nature was the cardinal point in his faith.

     Of his private life it may be truly said that

"whatever record leaps to light, he never shall be
shamed " ; of his career as a man of science it may

be confidently asserted that he has nobly sustained the
reputation of the Scottish school of geology, which was
founded by the genius of Hutton and Hall.
      PROFESSOR M'FARLAND'S LETTER

THE following letter from Professor M'Farland, of
           America, throws some light on the Croll-
Newcomb controversy, and shows how Dr. Croll was

esteemed in America :--

                                         CONING, O., 22nd March 1895.

JameDsEACRampSbIRel,l--IrIot niss,  Esq., Edinburgh.         from  my
                                    a week since I returned

home in Oxford, but press of business has hindered

me from writing for a few days.          and Astronomy --not
     My chair was Mathematics

Geology, although I have spent a good deal of time on

the latter subject, especially in its connection with

astronomy in accordance with Dr. Croll's theory.

     I give a general view of the subject, in as brief a
form as I can, so that I may not be unduly tedious to

you.

      Oxford is nearly 200 miles almost south of the west

end of Lake Erie, and is not far from the Ohio River.

For a thousand miles east and west, and for an average

of 150 north and south, along the whole southern
boundary of our great lakes, the country
is                                                           may say,

               I

                           a
                                                      a

                                                                                                   1

                                                                            2

                                                                                                                     1

                                                            5 iIs,

                                                             I
covered with boulders, and these, in places, extend many

feet down below the surface. In this whole region there

   scarcely an acre without boulders. The rocks are of

the same kind as found in the Canada Highlands, 200

miles north of Lake Erie. In some places which

have seen, you could walk for hundreds of yards, some

places for half mile on the boulders, stepping from one

to the other, without putting foot on the ground. In

many places have seen fields of or acres fenced

                                    520
PROFESSOR M'FARLAND'S LETTER  521

entirely with boulders piled up as a wall, and enough

left on the ground to make it look as a place from which

the forest had been but lately cut. These are of all

sizes, from that of a pint cup to many tons weight.

These facts troubled the geologists, and set them to

speculating. Our first State Geological Survey of

Ohio, was made in 1836-37, before there was

any very definite conception of the Glacial period.

Of course, after the preliminary suggestions of De

Saussure and Agassiz in Switzerland, the American

geologist seized upon the suggestions and theorised

bountifully. Ohio had two colleges nominally under its

care, but it had never furnished a dollar for either, until

a period twenty years subsequent to our great Civil War.

In 1856, I was called to the Chair of Mathematics and

Astronomy in the one situated at Oxford, near Cincinnati,

in the south-west corner of the State. During the pro

gress of the War, the Congress of the U.S. granted to

the several States 30,000 acres of the public lands, still

unoccupied, for each Senator and Congressman from the

several States. Ohio, having nineteen members of the

Lower House and two Senators, came into possession of

630,000 acres. The proceeds of the sale were to found
and sustain an institution to be called " The Agricultural

and Mechanical College." The name was subsequently
changed to " The Ohio State University." Edward

Orton, State Geologist of Ohio, was made President of

the new college, and inasmuch as the finances of the

older State colleges were in a state of collapse from the

effects of the war, the college at Oxford was closed, and

I was transferred to the one at Columbus, the capital of

the State. When Dr. Croll's book came out in 1875,

Dr. Orton said to me that if Dr. Croll's calculations

could be trusted, the great geological enigma would be

fully explained.  He asked me if I understood that sort
of calculation.   I replied that I did, but that I had not

made any such myself, that any astronomer knew how

it was done. He requested me to test the computations,
$22 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

at least in part. You will see a little of this referred to

in the pamphlet which I published, and which contains

the eccentricity and the longitude of the perihelion for

four million years. Almost immediately Dr. Croll's

theory was attacked by Simon Newcomb, who was of

the astronomical staff of the Naval Observatory, at

Washington City, and who was also directly concerned in

the Nautical Almanac of the United States. He had said

that the results of Croll's work were not to be relied on.

President Orton was greatly concerned at this unex

pected criticism. But Newcomb was one of the Regents

of the Smithsonian Institution of Washington City. Of

course you know something of that institution. Now

John U.   Stockwell, one of our astronomers,         in his very
full and  excellent treatise on the " Theory of      the Moon,"

into which he introduced the disturbing effects of

Neptune, had calculated the eccentricity of the earth's

orbit for 1,000,000 years at intervals of 4000 years.
This treatise had been highly praised by Newcomb, and

as one of the Regents of the Smithsonian, he had voted

to print Stockwell's work, and it was done. It is in

the eighteenth volume of the SmitJisonian Contributions.
Here was a good opportunity to test Mr. Newcomb. I

knew him to be a man extremely well posted in some

things, and extremely unversed in many others, and

also inclined to hasty judgments. I have long known

him personally. He had highly commended and published

Stockwell's work, he denied the validity of Croll's. I went
over the calculations  for 1 , 1  00,000 years
                         Croll      had used,    by  both formulae
-- Leverrier's, which                           and    Stockwell's

independent formula, which Newcomb had praised. On

showing the results in the progress of the work, Dr.

Orton became greatly interested. For about 350,000

years the curves by the two methods differed but little,

for 70,000 years they were almost identically the same.

Of course Dr. Croll's work was corroborated. Dr. Orton
urged me to publish the result. It was done in the

American Journal of Science, at Yale College, in
PROFESSOR M'FARLAND'S LETTER                    523

June 1876. I    gave no names but      those of Croll and
                the result " knocked  " Newcomb out of
Stockwell, but

the ring. Mr. Croll saw that publication, and at once

wrote to me his gratification in the unexpected corrobor-

ation. We continued our correspondence once or twice

a year from 1876 to the time of his death. A good
mdDirfaf.neyrCernobtlrlieprfeerpasloritenidcsle--osnawntehdrieswsiptihduebltihtsheheednsaetfaur--roaml torteimmsueoltstttohoatfitmwsehoimcbhey

of our scientists were completely overwhelmed, and

the silly criticisms drowned with them. Some one in
the Sidereal Messenger also tried his hand, and I replied

to him in the same journal. Dr. Croll mentions this in

one of the letters which I send you. So far as I know,

it was the universal opinion here that the critics of Dr.

Croll's theory had been put completely hors de combat.

The above remarks will fully explain the introductory

statements made in the pamphlet above referred to.

Dr. Croll, in the third chapter of his Climate and Cos

mology, refers to this work, as you will see.
     In my judgment, Dr. Orton stands leading among

the geologists of the United States. He at once adopted
the theory as a " good working hypothesis," and, so far as

I know, it was accepted more or less by all geologists.

    Of later years there seems to be a desire among

many of the geologists, especially among the noisiest,

even when they are not the most learned, to want some

additional help to Dr. Croll's theory. The general

import of these views is well given by Le Conte, a most

able geologist of California, in his work on geology,

published a few years ago. In my view, the sinking of

the border land on both sides of the boundary line between

Canada and the United States, which is admitted to have

occurred, is a direct effect of the theory, and is a strong
               of its general truth.      Dr.   Croll nowhere
confirmation  other causes operated,  --  and,  of course, such
says that no

of the effects as that just referred to, belong to and con

stitute a part of the theory.
524 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

The objectors, so far as I know, are among the

younger geologists.

I send you a transcript of a letter which was

published in New York, in the April number of the
                                    It
Popular Science Monthly,   1 894.       is folded                              separately
from these sheets, and is   marked   "  A." On                                 reading
        it
                                                                        it

                                                                                      it,
you see fully explains itself, and the occasion of its
being written. Of course you may know that the

Prestwich therein named belongs to your side of the

Atlantic. If you will read paper " A " right here, will

make plain what follows immediately hereafter.

The gorge of the Niagara has played a considerable

part in the estimation of those geologists who think the
" Ice age " ended " 80,000 " years ago, as Mr. Prestwich

says. The same error (not to say ignorance of the ques

ftoeiofentt)hpeergwyoeirdgaeers--parnewdaoduiltdsamrpeorqneusgierenotuarbraotgueet oolof5g,ir0set0cs0e.ssy--eTahrasebotouletnpga2ts-h4s
        is
                               is
                                                      a

                                                      it,

                                                 II

                                                                           is
over the seven intervening miles from Lake Ontario to

the present position. Now some of our theologians call

this 7000 years, and so belittle    by    ignoring the                         facts,
and substituting their own views.        show in letter
                                                                               "A "

that 30,000 years        as remote  period as                                that gorge can
be pushed back to,                   25,000                                    a much more
                      -- 20,000 or

probable one. Rev. G. Frederick Wright of Oberton

College, Ohio,   has  for ten or twelve  years taken great
interest in the                          two books on the
                 Ice  age --has written

subject, and finds unmistakable evidence that man was

in this continent in the Ice age, having left his mark in the
debris hence, the " Ice Age "
                                    is,

                                                ;

                                                         is
        ;                           in his view, a recent

event.   I  am acquainted with him he                                          able and

honest. He was one of the original discoverers of the old

outlet of Lakes Huron, Michigan, and Superior, north

ward through Lake Nipissing to the Ottawa River in the

province of Ontario. In letter explanatory of thisa
outlet, published in the New York Nation, September

22, 1892, he says: "Since the scenes of the earlier

times, many thousand years have rolled by, and mean
        PROFESSOR M'FARLAND'S LETTER                  525

while the northern country, which had been so much

depressed beneath its load of glacial ice has been slowly

returning towards its former position. The current of

the Detroit River has been reversed, and now we have

Niagara, whose age is pretty well known. At the present

rate of the recession of the falls, less than 1 0,000 years

would be required to form the gorge above Queenstown."

(This is a mistake, as I have shown above. I was present

at Niagara a few years ago, when our Lake Survey

Company measured the present position of the falls.
Hall of New York State, who was State Geologist in

1 842, was also present, and assisted. He had marked

the position in 1842. From this measurement, which I

looked  on and saw,     the 2-4 feet is   obtained.)   Mr.
Wright  continues : "                    been taken
                       Of late this has               as a

glacial chronometer. But this discovery of an earlier

northern outlet for the Great Lakes will, as Mr. Gilbert

some time ago surmised, considerably lengthen our cal

culations." After the publication of letter " A," I called
Mr. Wright's attention to the facts therein mentioned --

he did not then, and has not since, offered any objection

to the assertions of my letter. You easily see that all

these things tend to the establishment of the substantial
truth of Dr. Croll's theory. Mr. Wright's " considerably
lengthen our calculations," and his " many thousand
years " mentioned a few lines above, forced him, willy-

nilly, into the position of one who acquiesces in Croll's
theory. A                           I reviewed Le
             year or two    ago,  Science in New    Conte's
statements,  and published  in
                                                   York,--

but the review covers ground not essentially differing

from the above. I have no copy of that publication at
hand. In concluding this part of the subject, I say that
I believe every objection to Dr. Croll's theory, having

any weight whatever, has been explained in a satisfactory

way, or has been shown either to proceed directly from
that theory, or to harmonise with it. After remaining from

1873 to 1885 in the State University at Columbus, Ohio,
the trustees requested me to take charge of the College
526 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

in Oxford, and resuscitate it. For a limited time I took

charge of resigning my position in 1888, after seeing
           it,
                                    I
the institution well under way again. Nearing the old
limit, " threescore and ten," am not now teaching, but

my old studies are continued. In moving back from

Columbus to Oxford, 120 miles, my letters were put

promiscuously in several boxes to fill up corners. They

were unpacked at Oxford, and several thousand thrown

miscellaneously into a large box.                 searched as carefully
I
                         I
                                      I

                                            I
as could among these, and found the letters, which                     I

herewith inclose.  think have all but four or five.

The correspondence was kept up at irregular intervals,

when something which occurred was deemed of sufficient

moment to communicate. The letters will all be plain,

when taken in connection with this long letter. Some

where among my papers are many brief printed articles

on the general theory in question. But do not know
                is
where to begin to look for them. Still, most of them
                                       a
first saw  the light in Scotland, and   the others in different
numbers    of the American Journal  I is
" Dana "                                     Iof Science, --edited by
           who mentioned in one of these letters.
                                                    I
                                                    I

                                                                    a

                                                         if
     These were generally answers to ill considered or

ignorant statements made by persons who, they really

were not, should have been, on the learner's bench, and

not elsewhere. And our general correspondence touched

whatever was floating in the breeze on this general topic.

     When your publication             made, shall be glad to

pay  for a copy,  thhaotpethteorerbeyalise.m--ay  add                    little to the
sum   which you                                   am                 yours, sir, very

cordially, for our friend's sake,

                   R. W. M'FARLAND,

     Late Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy, Ohio State Uni
           versity, and, for time, President of the State College at

            Oxford.
             APPENDIX

LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND WORKS

                                          1857

 1. The Philosophy of Theism. London : Ward & Co.

                                          1861
 2. Remarks on Ampere's Experiment on the Repulsion

          of a Rectilineal Electrical Current on itself.
          Philosophical Magazine, April 1861.

                                          1862
 3. On Chemical Combination in Relation to Specific

           Heat. Read before the Chemical Society, March
           6, 1862. Chemical News, March 8, 1862.
4. Remarks on Ampere's Experiment on the Repulsion
          of a Rectilinear Current on itself. Philosophical
          Magazine, May 1862.
 5. On the Cohesion of Gases, and its Relation to Recent
           Experiments on the Thermal Effects of Elastic
           Fluids in Motion. British Association Report,
            1862, p. 21 (Sections).
6. On the Mechanical Power of Electro - Magnetism.
          British Association Report, 1862, p. 24 (Sections).
7. Amperian Repulsion. Philosophical Magazine, Oct.
            1862.

                                          1863
 8. On the Relation of Chemical Affinity to Vital Force.

           Chemical News, May 1 6, 1863.
                                                                          627
528 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

                                           1864

 9. On Supposed Objections to the Dynamical Theory
           of Heat. Philosophical Magazine, March 1 864.

10. On the Influence of the Tidal Wave on the Earth's
           Rotation, and on the Acceleration of the Moon's
          Mean Motion. Philosophical Magazine, April

             1864.

1 1 . On the Nature of Heat Vibrations. Philosophical
           Magazine, May 1864.

12. On the Cause of the Cooling Effects produced on
           Solids by Tension. Philosophical Magazine, May

             1864.
13. On the Physical Cause of the Change of Climate

           during Geological Epochs. Philosophical Maga
           zine, August 1864.

                             1865

14. On the Physical Cause of the Submergence of the
           Land during the Glacial Epoch. The Reader,
          Sept. 2, 1865. Natural History Review, 1865,

            P- 594-          of the Land.  The Reader,
15. On the Submergence

             Oct. 14, 1865.

    With first suggestion as to the Invasion of the North Sea by
Land Ice during the Glacial Epoch.

1 6. On Glacial Submergence.       The Reader, December 2
            and 9, 1865.

                                           1866

17. On the Eccentricity of the Earth's Orbit. Philo
           sophical Magazine, Jan. 1866.

1 8. Glacial Submergence on the Supposition that the
           Interior of the Globe is in a Fluid Condition.

            The Reader, Jan. 13, 1866.
19. Glacial Submergence. The Reader, March 3 and 26,

             1866.
    LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND WORKS 529

20. On the Physical Cause of the Submergence and
            Emergence of the Land during the Glacial Epoch,
            with a note by Prof. Sir Wm. Thomson.
           Philosophical Magazine, April 1 8 66.

21. On the Influence of the Tidal Wave on the Motion
            of the Moon. Philosophical Magazine, Aug. and
           Nov. 1866.

22. On the Reason why the Change of Climate in Canada
           since the Glacial Epoch has been less complete

          than in Scotland. Transactions of the Geological
          Society of Glasgow, 1866.

                                            1867
23. On the Eccentricity of the Earth's Orbit and its

          Physical Relations to the Glacial Epoch. Philo

            sophical Magazine, February 1867.
24. On the Reason why the Difference of Reading

            between a Thermometer exposed to Direct Sun
             shine and one shaded diminishes as we ascend in
            the Atmosphere. Philosophical Magazine, March

             1867.
25. On the Change in the Obliquity of the Ecliptic; its

            Influence on the Climate of the Polar Regions

          and Level of the Sea. Transactions of the
          Geological Society of Glasgow, vol. ii. p. 177.

           Philosophical Magazine, June 1867.
26. Remarks on the Change in the Obliquity of the

            Ecliptic and its Influence on Climate. Philo
           sophical Magazine, Aug. 1867.
27. On certain Hypothetical Elements in the Theory of
             Gravitation, and generally received Conceptions
           regarding the Constitution of matter. Philosophical
             Magazine, Dec. 1867.

                                            1868

28. On Geological Time, Part I. Method of Determin
          ing the Rate of Sub-aerial Denudation. Philo
           sophical Magazine, May 1868.

             34
530 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

29. On Geological Time, Part II. Tables of Eccentricity

          of the Earth's Orbit. Philosophical Magazine,
            Aug. 1868.

30. On Geological Time, Part III. Inquiry into the

            Effects of Icebergs, Interglacial Periods, etc.
           Philosophical Magazine, Nov. 1868.

                     With the Suggestion that the Warm and Cold Periods of the
                 Glacial Epoch explain the commingling of Mammalia of Subtropical
                 and Arctic Types in the Cave and River Deposits.

                       1869

31. On the Physical Cause of the Motions of Glaciers.
Philosophical Magazine, March 1 869. Scientific
Opinion, April 14, 1869.
32. On the Influence of the Gulf Stream. Geological
Magazine, April 1869. Scientific Opinion, April

21 and 28, 1869.
33. On Mr. Murphy's Theory of the Cause of the Glacial

Climate.               Geological Magazine, Aug. 1869.

             Scientific Opinion, Sept. 1, 1869.
34. On the Opinion that the Southern Hemisphere loses

           by Radiation more heat than the Northern, and

the supposed Influence that this has on Climate.

Philosophical Magazine, Sept. 1869. Scientific

             Opinion, Sept. 29, Oct. 6, 1869.

35. On Two River Channels (between Forth and Clyde)
           buried under Drift belonging to a Period when

the Land stood several hundred feet higher than

at present. Transactions of the Geological Society,

Edinburgh, vol. i. p. 330.

36. On Ocean                          1870
             relation
                       Currents, Part I. Ocean Currents in
             Globe.    to the Distribution of Heat over the
                       Philosophical Magazine, Feb. 1870.
37. On Ocean
             relation  Currents, Part II. Ocean Currents in

                        to the Physical Theory of Secular
     LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND WORKS 531

           Changes of Climate. Philosophical Magazine,
            March 1870.
38. On the Path of the Ice-Sheet in North- Western
           Europe and its Relations to the Boulder Clay of

            Caithness. Geological Magazine, May and June

             1870.

        Reprinted, with a slight rearrangement of paragraphs, in Climate
     and Time, chap, xxvii.

39. On the Cause of the Motion of Glaciers. Philo
     sophical Magazine, Sept. 1870. Short abstract

     III.by Editor in Geological Magazine, Dec. 1870.
40.  On Ocean Currents, Part   On the        Physical
     Cause of Ocean Currents -- Examination  of Lieut.

     Maury's Theory. Philosophical Magazine, Oct.

     1870.

                1871

41. On the Transport of the Wastdale Granite Blocks.
            Geological Magazine, January 1871.

42. On a Method of Determining the Mean Thickness of
            the Sedimentary Rocks of the Globe. Geological

     Magazine, March 1871.
43. Mean Thickness of the Sedimentary Rocks.

            Geological Magazine, June 1871.
44. On the Age of the Earth as determined from Tidal
     Retardation. Nature, Aug. 24, 1871. English

     Mechanic, Sept. 1, 1871.
45. Ocean Currents: On the Physical Cause of Ocean
                Examination of Dr. Carpenter's
     Currents.

     Theory. Philosophical Magazine, Oct. 1871.

                                            1872

46. Ocean Currents. Nature, Jan. I1, 1872.
47. Ocean Currents: Reply to Mr. Ferrel. Nature,

            March 21, 1872.
48. Ocean Currents : Proof that Ocean Currents are not

           due to Gravity. Nature, April 25, 1872.
532 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

49. Ocean Currents : Reply to Mr. Ferrel. Nature, July

             25, 1872.  Molecular Motion? --The Funda
50. What Determines
mental Problem of Nature.
                                   Philosophical

Magazine, July 1872.
51. Kinetic Energy. Nature, Aug. 15, 1872.

5 2. Oceanic Circulation : Reply to Professor Everett and
           Mr. Wallace. Nature, Oct. 3, 1872.

                        1874

53. Ocean Currents : Further Examination of Gravitation
           Theory. Philosophical Magazine, February 1874.

54. Ocean Currents : The Wind Theory of Oceanic
           Circulation. Philosophical Magazine, March

             1874.
55. Ocean Currents: Reply to Dr. Carpenter. Nature,

            May 21, 1874.
56. On the South of England Ice-Sheet. Geological

           Magazine, June 1874.
5 7. The Physical Cause of Ocean Currents. Philosophical

          Magazine, June 1874. American Journal of

           Science and Arts, September 1874, p. 228.
58. On the Physical Cause of the Submergence and

           Emergence of the Land during the Glacial

          Epoch. Geological Magazine, July and August

1874.

                        1875

59. Climate and Time in their Geological Relations: A
          Theory of Secular Changes of the Earth's

           Climate. London : Daldy, Isbister & Co.

60. Climate and Time. Letter in Nature, Aug.

             26, 1875.
61. The Challenger's Crucial Test of the Wind and

Gravitation Theories of Oceanic Circulation.

Philosophical           Magazine,  September  1875.

American Journal of Science and Arts, September
1875, p. 2 2 2- British Association Report, 1875.
    LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND WORKS 533

62. The Wind Theory of Oceanic Circulation. Objections
            Examined. Philosophical Magazine, October
           1875. American Journal of Science and Arts,
            January 1876, p. 58.

63. Oceanic Circulation : Reply to Dr. Carpenter.
            Nature, October 7, 1875.

64. Oceanic Circulation : Expansion of Sea Water as
            Determined by Professor Thorpe, in Relation to.
            Nature, Nov. 25, 1875.

65. Further Remarks on the Crucial Test Argument.
             Philosophical Magazine, December 1875.

                                            1876

66. Remarks on Mr. Burns's Paper on the Mechanics of

            Glaciers. Geological Magazine, August 1876.
67. On the Transformation of Gravity. Philosophical

           Magazine, Oct. 1876. Short abstract in British
             Association, 1876.
68. On the Tidal Retardation Argument for the Age of
           the Earth. British Association Report, 1876.
          Nature, Sept. 28, 1876. American Journal of
           Science and Arts, Dec. 1876, p. 457.

                                            1877
69. On the Probable Origin and Age of the Sun.

          Quarterly Journal of Science for July 1 877.

                         1878

70. Le Sage's Theory of Gravitation.       Philosophical

     Magazine, Jan. 1878. American Journal of
     Science and Arts, Feb. 1878, p. 146.
71. The Age of the Sun in Relation to Evolution. Nature,

     Jan. 10, 1878; Feb. 21, 1878. American Jour
     nal of Science and Arts, March 1878, p. 226.
     Age of the Sun      in Relation to Evolution:  Motion
72.       of the Stars.
                         Nature, April n, 1878.
73. The Origin of Nebulae.
                               Philosophical Magazine,

     July 1878.
534 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

74. Cataclysmic Theories   of Geological  Climate.

     Geological Magazine, Sept. 1878. Short abstract
     in American Journal of Science and Arts, Nov.

     1 878, p. 387.

                     1879

75. The Thickness of the Antarctic Ice, and its
            Relations to that of the Glacial Epoch. Quarterly

     Journal of Science, Jan. 1 879.
     Outline of Secular Theory of Change of Geological
76.       Climate, for article " Geology," in Encyclopedia

     Britannica, vol. x., and Professor Geikie's Text-

     Book of Geology, 1882, p. 23.

77. Interglacial Periods. Geological Magazine, Oct. 1879.

78. Why the Air at the Equator is not Hotter in
          January than in July. Nature, Dec. 17, 1879.
          American Journal of Science and Arts, Feb.
     1880, p. 142.

                          1880

79. Mr. Hill on the Cause of the Glacial Epoch.

             Geological Magazine, Feb. 1880.
80. The Temperature of Space and its Bearings on

           Terrestrial Physics. Nature, April 1, 1880.

8 1. Aqueous Vapour in Relation to Perpetual Snow.

          Nature, July 1, 1880. Geological Magazine,
           Aug. 1880. American Journal of Science and

            Arts, Aug. 1880, p. 103.

                                            1883

82. Evolution by Force Impossible: A New Argument

            against Materialism. British Quarterly Review,

            Jan. 1883.

                          1884

83. Examination of Mr. Alfred Wallace's Modification
          of the Physical Theory of Secular Changes of

     Climate.    Philosophical Magazine, Series 5,
     xvii. 8 1.
LIST OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AND WORKS 535

84. Remarks on Professor Newcomb's Rejoinder.
           Philosophical Magazine, Series 5, xvii. 275.

85. Examination of Mr. Alfred Wallace's Modification of
           the Physical Theory of Secular Changes of

         Climate. Part II. Geological and Palaeonto-

logical Facts in Relation to Mr. Wallace's

Modification of the Theory.                       Philosophical

             Magazine, Series 5, xvii. 367.       Philosophical
86. On the Cause of Mild Polar Climates.

Magazine, Series 5, xviii. 268.

1885

87. On the Arctic Interglacial Periods. Philosophical
Magazine, Series 5, xix. 30.
88. Discussions on Climate and Cosmology.
                                                                 8vo.

Edinburgh. Pp. 1-327.

                                            1889

89. Rate of Sub-aerial Denudation. Geological Magazine,
             Dec. 3, vi. 526.

90. On Prevailing Misconceptions regarding the Evidence
            which we ought to expect of Former Glacial

           Periods. Quarterly Journal Geological Society,
            xlv. 220.
91. Stellar Evolution and its Relations to Geological
            Time. 8vo. London. Pp. i-- 118.

                                            1890  of Evolution.  8vo.

92. The Philosophical Basis
            London. Pp. 1--204.
    MEMORIAL TO TREASURY

Unto the Right Honourable

     THE LORDS OF THE COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
                                      EDUCATION,

                                     Science and Art Department.

MEMORIAL of JAMES CROLL, LL.D., F.R.S., formerly of
     the Geological Staff for the Survey of Scotland.

of   MY LORDS, -- I   bLeogrdtsohsipusb'mcitontshiedefroaltlioown in:--g statement

    my case for your
    At the time of the reorganisation of the Geological

Survey in 1867, Professor Geikie, who had been ap

pointed Director for Scotland, wrote to me asking if I
Iwould accept an appointment on the Scottish staff.

wrote stating that I was too far advanced in life, being

then forty-six years of age, to think of entering upon

the laborious duties of a field geologist. He replied,

mentioning that as it would be necessary for one of the
officers to be resident in Edinburgh, to take charge of

the office work, I would receive that post if I desired.

After consulting my friends, and duly thinking over the
matter, I agreed to enter the Survey on these conditions.

On 20th August 1867, I received a notice of my ap
pointment. I then resigned my situation in Anderson's

University, Glasgow, and on 2nd September entered
upon the duties of my office. These I have endeavoured

to perform to the best of my abilities.
     For a number of years I have been suffering from a

somewhat mysterious pain in the heart, which, however,

never in any way affected my general health, or prevented

                      638
   MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                                            537

me for a single hour from attending to my ordinary

office duties. One day in the autumn of 1880, when

hurriedly removing some maps from one of the drawers

in the office, while standing in an awkward position on a

pair of high steps, I accidentally gave my heart a slight
strain. It had the effect of intensifying to such an

extent the pain my heart that entirely disabled mein,it
                                                 a
for work. It was accompanied by a sleepless condition,

which terminated in slight attack of paralysis.                    was
                                                                I
                                                                         I

                                                                                if
then advised by an eminent physician to try to retire,
possible, from the active duties of life. As had at the

time been only thirteen years in the service, and, being

married, the amount of superannuation to which this period

would entitle me was insufficient to meet my daily wants,          it

became rather a serious matter to give up my situation.

   The Director, Professor Geikie, who sympathised

with me very much, kindly stated that he would

endeavour to obtain a little more than the bare amount

of pension that might be allotted for the time                  I  had

served. He mentioned that he would write an official

letter to the Director-General to that effect, which would

probably be forwarded to the Department, backed up by

one from the Director-General himself, and that in all

probability the request would be complied with. On the

faith of this promise, which,                       have every reason to
                                                    I
                                                             I
believe, was fulfilled, at once resigned my situation.
                                         1

                                              1, I
After a lapse of four or five months, received notice,
                                                                a

dated 5th May 88 to the effect that the Treasury had
awarded me a superannuation allowance of £75, i6s. 8d.,

a  sum which was simply equal to thirteen-sixtieths of

my annual salary.                        I          thus received no additional sum

beyond what my length of service strictly entitled me to,

and no account whatever appears to have been taken of

the fact that my age was over sixty.
     By Section iv. of the Superannuation Act, 1859,

     provided " It shall be lawful for the Commissioners
it

     is

                                      :

of the Treasury from Time to Time, by any Order or

Warrant, to declare that for the due and efficient
538 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Discharge of the Duties of any Office or Class of Offices
to be specified in such Order or Warrant, professional
or other peculiar Qualifications, not ordinarily to be
acquired in the Public Service, are required, and that it
is for the Interest of the Public that Persons should be

appointed thereto at an Age exceeding that at which
Public Service ordinarily begins ; and by the same or
any other Order or Warrant to direct that when any

Person now holding or who may hereafter be appointed
to such Office or any of such class of Offices shall retire
from the Public Service, a Number of Years not
exceeding twenty, to be specified in the said Order or
Warrant, shall, in computing the Amount of Superan
nuation Allowance which may be granted to him under
the foregoing Section of this Act, be added to the
Number of Years during which he may have actually
served ; and also to direct that in respect of such office or
Class of Offices the Period of Service required to
entitle the Holders to Superannuation may be a Period
less than Ten Years, to be specified in the Order or
Warrant ; and also to direct that, in respect of such
Office or Class of Offices, the Holder may be entitled
to Superannuation, though he may not hold his
Appointment directly from the Crown, and may not
have entered the Service with a Certificate from the Civil

Service Commissioners : Provided always, that every
Order or Warrant made under this Enactment shall be

laid before Parliament."

      I humbly submit that my case falls within this
Section, and that in computing the amount of superan
nuation to be granted to me, I may fairly expect to
have a number of years, not exceeding twenty, added to
the number of years I actually served.

      I may here refer to the fact that two assistant
geologists, disabled for duty about the same time as I
was, the one on the English and the other on the Irish
staff, did get large additions to their pensions. The
 English assistant, in the computation of his allowance,
         MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                  539

had twenty years added to the twelve years which he

had served, and thus received a pension equal to thirty-

two-sixtieths of his annual salary. The Irish assistant

had twenty-four years added to his thirteen years, so that

his allowance amounted to thirty-seven-sixtieths of his

salary, i.e. to a sum within three-sixtieths of the highest

retiring allowance; yet this gentleman is twenty-one
years younger than I am.

When it was found that I had received an allowance

too small to afford a maintenance, Professor Geikie

kindly drew up a memorial to the Prime Minister on

my behalf, praying that he would recommend the grant

of a small sum annually from the Civil List. This

memorial was signed by a number of the leading

Fellows of the Royal Society of London, and by several

influential members of Parliament. After anxiously

waiting for a period of eighteen months, an answer to it

has been received, to the effect that the right honourable

gentleman does not consider my claim to be one which

he could recommend for the Civil List, but he would
grant a sum of £100 from the Queen's Bounty. This
sum, of course, can in no way be considered as com

pensation for the deficiency of my pension, or an amount

sufficient to meet my wants.

The foregoing statement explains how application

was not made at an earlier date, but looking to the fact

that I was asked to enter the service in the knowledge

of my then advanced age, that I have served faithfully

till my health would not permit of further service, that
the Superannuation Act specially provides for such cases

as mine, and that precedents exist in the Department for

such a course, I humbly submit that in the circumstances
I have a good claim for the reconsideration of my case,

and for  the award of    ainhaidgehqeur atpeensfoiornmtyhamnaitnhtaetnagnrcaen.te--d
to me,   which is quite

I am, Your Lordships' obedient servant,

                                 JAMES CROLL.

19 NORTH METHVEN STREET, PERTH.
54° LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

      We, the undersigned, strongly commend the claims
of Dr. Croll to the favourable consideration of the Lords
of the Committee of Council.

His Grace the Duke of Devonshire,                                                           Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L., F.R.S.,
  K.G., M.A., D.C.L., F.R.S., etc.,                                                         Poet Laureate.
                                                                                                             Lubbock, Bart., D.C.L.,
Chancellor of the University of                                                             SirLLJo.Dhn.,    F.R.S., etc., Member of

Cambridge.           the Marquess of
The Most Noble       M.A., Chancellor                                                       RicPhaarrlidamOewnet nf,orCL.Bon.,doMn.DU.,nivDe.rCsi.tLy..,
                                                                                              LL.D., F.R.S., etc., Director of
  Salisbury, K.G.,
of the University of Oxford, and
HiVsDic.GCera-.PcLre.e,stihFde.eRnD.tSuo.kfe,theoeftcRA.o,rygCaylhll,aSnoKcciee.Tltlyo..,r  the Natural History Department,
                                                                                            British Museum.

of the University of St. Andrews.                                                           Major-General Sir Henry C. Rawlin-
His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and
  Queensberry, K.G., D.C.L., etc.,                                                            son, K.C.B., D.C.L..F.R.S., Vice-

                                                                                               President of the Royal Geographical

Chancellor of the University of                                                                 Society.

Glasgow.                                                                                    Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, K. C.S.I.,
                                                                                              C.B., M.D., D.C.L., LL.D.,
His Grace the Duke of Richmond                                                                 F.R.S., etc., Director of the Royal
                                                                                               Gardens, Kew.
  and Gordon, K.G., D.C.L., etc.,                                                           The Honourable Sir William R.
Chancellor of the University of                                                               Grove, Knt., M.A.,D.C.L.,LL.D.,
                                                                                               F.R.S.
Aberdeen.                                                                                   Sir William Thomson, Knt., LL.D.,
                                                                                               D.C.L., F.R.S., Professor of
The Right Honourable                  John        Bright,
   M.P., Lord Rector of                           Univer
sity of Glasgow.                       the

ThcereiRff,ighLtL.HDo.n, ouLroarbdleJusLtoicred-ClMerokn,-                                  Natural Philosophy in the Univer
                                                                                            sity of Glasgow.
and President of the Royal Society                                                          Sir William G. Armstrong, C.B.,
of Edinburgh.                                                                                  D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., etc.
                                                                                            Sir George Henry Richards, Knt.
The Right Honourable Lyon Play-                                                             Vice - Admiral, C. B. , F. R. S. ,
                                                                                            F.R.G.S., etc.
  fair, C.B., LL.D., F.R.S., Member

for the Universities of Edinburgh                                                           Captain Sir Frederick J.  O. Evans,
   and St. Andrews.
                                       M.A., D.C.L.,                                           K.C.B., R.N., F.R.S.,  F.R.A.S.,
WiLlliLa.mD.S, poFt.tRisw.Aoo.Sde.,,                                                        R.G.S., Hydrographer of the
                                      President of the

   Royal Society.                                                                              Admiralty.            LL.D.,   F.R.S.,
George Gabriel Stokes, M.A., D.C.L.,                                                        Thomas H. Huxley,
                                                                                            etc., Professor of Natural History
  LL.D., Honorary Secretary to the                                                             in
Royal Society, and Lucasian Pro                                                             John                School of Mines.
fessor of Mathematics in the Uni                                                                   the Royal
                                                                                                      Tyndall,      D.C.L., LL.D.,
                                                                                            F.R.S., etc., Professor of Natural
   versity of Cambridge.                          LL.D.,
Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.,                                                                 Philosophy in the Royal Institu
F.L.S., Honorary Secretary to the
                                                                                            tion.                    Henry J. MoncreifT,

Royal Society and Prelector of                                                              The Honourable           Sheriff of Renfrew
Physiology in Trinity College,
                                                                                               B.A., LL.B.,

    Cambridge.                        LL.D., F.S.A.,                                        and Bute.                D.C.L.,  LL.D.,
                                                                                                                              D.C.L.,
John Evans, D.C.L.,                                                                         JamFe.Rs .SP..,  Joule,
etc., Treasurer and Vice-President                                                                           etc.
                                                                                            Warren de la Rue, M.A.,
   of the Royal Society.                                                                    F.R.S., F.R.A.S., Vice-President
Joseph Prestwich, M.A., F.G.S.,
F.C.S., Vice-President of the Royal                                                            of the Chemical Society.
Society, and Professor of Geology                                                           Charles W. Siemens, D.C.L.,       LL.D.,
in the University of Oxford.                                                                F.R.S., M.I.C.E., etc., President
JohMn.RB.aI.llA, .M, .AV.i,ceF-P.rRe.sAid.Se.n,t  F.L.S.,                                   of the British Association.
                                                                                            Alfred R. Wallace, F.R.G.S.,
                                                   of the                                   F.L.S., etc.

Royal Society.
                   MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                                                  541

Clements R. Markham, C.B., F.R.S.,                  F. R. S. , Director of the Observatory
  F.L.S., F.S.A., Hon. Secretary of                 and Lowndsean Professor of As

   the Royal Geographical Society.                  tronomy and Geometry in the
Francis Gallon, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                                   University of Cambridge.
   F.G.S., Vice-President of the Royal          Thomas M'Kenny Hughes, M.A.,

   Geographical Society.                           F.S.A., Woodwardian Professor of
William H. M. Christie, M.A.,
                                                    Geology in the University of
   F.R.S., Astronomer Royal.
William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D.,                     Cambridge.
                                                George D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S.,
   F.R.S., F.R.A.S.                                 Professor of Chemistry, St. John's
Robert H. Scott, M.A., F.R.S.,                      College, Cambridge.
                                                JamVe. s-P.C.DSe.w, aJarc, ksoMnia.An.,       F.R.S.,
   F.G.S., F.M.S., Secretary to the                                                      Professor of
   Council of the Meteorological                    Natural Philosophy in the Univer

Office.
Henry W. Bristow, F.R.S., F.G.S.,                  sity of Cambridge.
Director of the Geological Survey               The Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.
   of England      and Wales.
Edward Hull,                         F.R.S.,       F.G.S., Late Fellow and Tutor of
                   M.A., LL.D.,
F.G.S., Director of the Geological              H.JesCuhsarCltoolnlegBea, sCtiaamn,bridMge.A. ., M.D.,
Survey of Ireland, and Professor of                 F.R.S., Professor of Pathological
Geology in the Royal College of                     Anatomy in the University College,
                                                    London.
   Science.                                     J.                                          M.D.,
                                                      S. Burdon     Sanderson,           of Physi
Henry Woodward, LL.D., F.R.S.,                                       Professor
   F.G.S., etc., Keeper of the Depart               LL.D., F.R.S.,
                                                    ology in University College,
   ment of Geology, British Museum                  London.

Ge(oNrgaeturaBl uHskis,toryF)..R.S., F.R.C.S.,  E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S.,
   F.G.S., Vice - President of the                 Professor of Zoology and Compara
                                                   tive Anatomy in the University
   Linnaean        Society.  LL.D.,  F.R.S.,       College, London.
Henry C.           Sorby,                       George Carey Foster, B.A., F.R.S.,
F.L.S., F.G.S., etc.                               F.C.S., Professor of Physics in

Lieutenant-General Richard Strachey,
R.E., F.R.S., F.G.S., etc.
             Rupert Jones, F.R.S.,                  University College, London.
Thomas                                          Rev. Thomas G. Bonney, M.A.,
   F.G.S.,     Emeritus Professor of                F.R.S., F.S.A., F.G.S., Professor
                                                    of Geology in University College,
Geology at the Staff College,                       London.

    Sandhurst.                                  Edward A. Schafer,                       F.R.S.,
                                                    M.R.C.S., Assistant Professor of
J. Gwyn Jeffreys, LL.D., F.R.S.,                    Physiology in University College,
                                                    London.
   F.G.S., etc.                                 R. C. Rowe, M.A., B.Sc., etc., Pro
Nevil Storey Maskelyne, M.A.,

   F.R.S., F.G.S., Professor of

   Mineralogy in the University of                  fessor of Mathematics in University
   Oxford and M.P. for Cricklade.                   College, London.
Rev. Bartholomew Price, M.A.,                   Olaus Henrici, Ph.D., F.R.S., etc.,
   F.R.S., F.R.A.S., Professor of                   Professor of Applied Mathematics
Natural Philosophy in the Univer
sity of Oxford.                                     and Mechanics in University
EdFw.aRr.dA.SJ..,  Stone, M.A., F.R.S.,             College, London.
                   Director of the Radcliffe    G. Croom Robertson, M.A., etc.,

   Observatory, Oxford.                             Grote Professor of Philosophy of
William Odling, M.B., F.R.S.,                       Mind and Logic in University
                                                    College, London.
   V.-P.C.S., Waynflete Professor of            St. George Mivart, F.R.S., F.L.S.,
   Chemistry in the University of                  F.Z.S., Professor of Biology in
   Oxford.                                          University College, Kensington.
Henry N. Moseley, M.A., F.R.S.,                 W. Kitchen Parker, F.R.S.,                 F.Z.S.,
   Linacre Professor of Anatomy and               F.L.S., etc., Hunterian
   Physiology in the University of                                                       Professor
   Oxford.                                          of Comparative Anatomy in the
                                                    Royal College of Surgeons.
J. Couch Adams, M.A., LL.D.,
54- LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Lionel S. Beale, M.D., F.R.S.,                                             Languages in the University of
Professor of Pathological Anatomy
   in King's College, London.                                                 Edinburgh.
P. Martin Duncan, M.B., F.R.S.,                                            C. Piazzi Smyth, Professor of Astron

  V.-P.G.S., F.L.S., President of                                             omy in the University of Edinburgh,
                                                                              and Astronomer-Royal for Scotland.
the Royal Microscopic Society, and                                         M. Forster Heddle, M.D., Professor
Professor of Mineralogy and Geology
   in King's College, London.                                                 of Chemistry in the University of
                                                                              St. Andrews, President of the
H.G.Seeley,F.R.S.,F.L.S.,F.G.S.,                                              Mineralogical Society of Great
   F.R.G.S., Professor of Geography                                           Britain and Ireland.
JosienphKing'LsistCeorl,lege,D.LCo.nLd.o,n. LL.D.,                         Alexander Roberts, M.A., D.D.,
                                                                           Professor of Humanity in the Uni
   F.R.S., Professor of Clinical Sur                                          versity of St. Andrews.
gery in King's College, London ;                                           Arthur S. Butler, M.A., Professor of

    Surgeon  EBxatirna,orLdLin.Dar.y,  to the  Queen.                         Natural Philosophyin the University
Alexander                              Lord    Rector                         of St. Andrews.

   of the University of Aberdeen.                                          Lewis Campbell, M.A., LL.D., Pro
Sir Alexander Grant, Bart., M.A.,                                             fessor of Greek in the University of

   LL.D., D.C.L., Principal of the                                            St. Andrews.
   University of Edinburgh.                                                P. R. Scott Lang, M.A., B.Sc.,
The Very Rev. John Caird, D.D.,
                                                                              Professor of Mathematics in the
   Principal of the University of                                             University of St. Andrews.
                                                                           Frederick Crombie, M.A., D.D.,
Glasgow.                                       D.D.,                       Professor of Biblical Criticism in
The Very     Rev. John Tulloch,                of the
              Senior Principal                                                the University of St. Andrews.
   LL.D.,                                                                  John Birrell, M.A., D.D., Professor
JohUnnivCe.rsSithyairopf,SMt. .AAn.,drLewL.sD. ., Prin
                                                                              of Hebrew and Oriental Languages
   cipal of the United College, St.                                           in the University of St. Andrews.
   Andrews, and Professor of Poetry,                                       Alexander F. Mitchell, M.A., D.D.,
                                                                              Professor of Church History in the
Oxford.                                                                       University of St. Andrews.
The Very Rev. William Robinson
   Pirie, D.D., Principal of the Uni                                       William Knight, LL.D., Professor of
   versity of Aberdeen.
A. Campbell Fraser,      M.A.                  LL.D.,                         Moral Philosophy and Political
                                                                              Economy in the University of St.
Professor of Logic and Metaphysics                                            Andrews.
   in the University of Edinburgh.
Alexander Crum Brown, M.A.,                                                William C. M'Intosh, M.D., LL.D.,
                                                                              F. R. S. , Professor of Natural History
   D.Sc., M.D., F.R.S., Professor of                                          in the University of St. Andrews.
Chemistry in the University of                                             James Bell Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S.,
                                                                              Professor of Medicine and Anatomy
   Edinburgh.                                                                 in the University of St. Andrews.
William Rutherford, M.D., F.R.S.,
Professor of the Institutes of                                             Thomas Miller, M.A., LL.D.,
Medicine in the University of                                                 F.R.S.E., Emeritus Rector of Perth

   Edinburgh.                                                              Academy.                         A. , LL. D.
William Turner, M.B., F.R.S.,                                              JamFe.Rs.TSh.,omPsroonfe,ssMo.r
                                                                                                              of Civil   ,  D. Sc.  ,
   M.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy                                                                                           Engin
                      of Edinburgh.
   in the University                                                       eering and Applied Mechanics in
Robert Flint, D.D.,   LL.D., Professor                                        the University  LoLf .GDla.,sgoPwro.fessor
                                                                           G. G. Ramsay,                                    of
of Divinity in the University of                                           Humanity in the University of

JameEtedcsi.n, bMGueurigrkchihe.i,soLnLP.rDof.e,ssoFr.Ro.fSG.,eoelotcg.y,     Glasgow.

   and Mineralogy in the University                                        J. G. M'Kendrick, M.D., Professor
   of Edinburgh.
H. Calderwood,    LL.D.,               F.R.S.E.,                              of the Institutes of Medicine in the
                                                                               University of Glasgow.
Professor of Moral Philosophy in the
   University of Edinburgh.                                                R. C. Jebb, LL.D., Professor of
David L. Adams, M.A., B.D.,
Professor of Hebrew and Oriental                                              Greek in the University of Glasgow.
                                                                           John Young, M.D., F.R.S.E., etc.,

                                                                              etc., Professor of Geology in the
                                                                              University of Glasgow.
           MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                                       543

Allen Thomson, M.D., D.C.L., Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D.,
LL.D., F.R.S., formerly Professor       F.R.S., Professor of Physics in
of Anatomy in the University of         Owens College, Manchester.
                                        Henry E. Roscoe, B.A., LL.D.,
Glasgow.
William Wallace, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.,       V.-P.C.S., Professor of Chemistry
                                        in Owens College, and President of
President of the Philosophical
Society of Glasgow.
William Dittmar, F.R.S., F.C.S.,        Literary and Philosophical Society,

                                        Manchester.
F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry W. Boyd Dawkins, M.A., F.R.S.,
   in Anderson's College, Glasgow.      F.G.S., Professor of Geology and
H. Alleyne Nicholson, M.A., M.D.,       Palaeontology in Owens College,

   D.Sc., Professor of Natural His      Manchester.
tory in the University of Aber Rev. Samuel Haughton, M.D.,
                                        D.C.L., LL.D., Trinity College,
deen.
William Stirling, M.D., D.Sc.,
                                        Dublin.
F.R.S.E., Professor of Institutes Alexander Macalister, M.D., F.R.S.,
of Medicine in the University of        Sec. R.I. A., Professor of Anatomy
                                        in the University of Dublin.
Aberdeen.                               Robert S. Ball, LL.D., F.R.S.,
James S. Brazier, F.C.S., Professor       M.R.I.A., Professor of Astronomy
   of Chemistry in the University of    in the University of Dublin.

Aberdeen.
John Struthers, M.D., Professor of J. Emerson Reynolds, M.D., F.R.S.,

   Anatomy in the University of V.-P.C.S., Professor of Chemistry
                                        in the University of Dublin.
Aberdeen.
David J. Hamilton, M.B., Professor Valentine Ball. M.A., F.R.S., Pro
of Pathological Anatomy in the          fessor of Geology and Mineralogy
University of Aberdeen.                 in the University of Dublin.

      We, the undersigned Members of Parliament, also
strongly commend the claims of Dr. Croll to the
favourable consideration of the Lords of the Committee

of Council.

George Anderson, M.P. for the City      Alexander Crum, M.P. for Renfrew
   of Glasgow.
                                            shire.
Joseph C. Bolton, M.P. for Stirling
                                        Andrew Grant, M.P. for Leith.
    shire.                              John G. Hamilton, M.P. for South

Thomas R. Buchanan, M.P. for City           Division of Lanarkshire.
   of Edinburgh.                        Duncan M'Laren, Ex-M.P. for City

James A. Campbell, LL.D., M.P.             of Edinburgh.
                                        Charles S. Parker, M.P. for the City
   for the Universities of Glasgow and
                                            of Perth.
    Aberdeen.                           Samuel D. Waddy, Q.C., M.P. for

Charles Cameron, LL.D., M.P. for            the City of Edinburgh.

    the City of Glasgow.
544 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

LIST OF THOSE WHO SIGNED THE RECOMMENDA
       TION OF DR. CROLL'S MEMORIAL, PRESENTED

        FEBRUARY 26, 1883.

      We, the undersigned, strongly commend the claims
of Dr. Croll to the favourable consideration of the
Lords of the Committee of Council.

His Grace the Duke of Devonshire,                               Joseph Prestwich, M.A., F.G.S.,
  K.G., M.A., D.C.L., F.R.S., etc.,                                F.C.S., Vice-President of the Royal

Chancellor of the University of                                 Society, and Professor of Geology
                                                                in the University of Oxford.
Cambridge.                Mth.eA.M, aCrqhuaenscs elloorf        JohFn.L.S.B,alMl, .R.IM.A.A.,.,       F.R.A.S.,
The Most Noble
   Salisbury, K.G.,                                                                              Vice-President
of the University of Oxford, and                                   of the Royal Society.
   Vice-President of the
His Grace the Duke of            RAorygaylll,SoKcie.Tty..,      Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L., F.R.S.,
                                                                Poet Laureate.
D.C.L., F.R.S., etc., Chancellor                                               Lubbock, Bart., D.C.L.,
                                                                SirLLJo.Dhn.,  F.R.S., etc., Member of
of the University of St. Andrews.
His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and                                Parliament for London University.
  Queensberry, K.G., D.C.L., etc.,
Chancellor of the University of                                 Richard Owen, C.B., M.D., D.C.L.,
                                                                  LL.D..F.R.S., etc., Director of the
                                                                Natural History Department,British
Glasgow.
His Grace the             Duke   of Richmond
   and Gordon,            K.G.,                                 Museum.
                                 D.C.L, etc.,
                                                                Major-General Sir Henry C. Rawlin-
Chancellor of the University of                                    son, K.C.B., D.C.L., F.R.S.,
                                                                Vice - President of the Royal
    Aberdeen.
                                                                   Geographical Society.                  K.C.S.I.,
The Right Hon. John Bright, M.P.,                               Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker,
   Lord Rector of the University of                             C.B., M.D., D.C.L., LL.D.,

   Glasgow.                                                     F.R.S., etc., Director of the Royal
The Right Hon. Lord Moncreiff,                                  Gardens, Kew.
                                                                The Hon. Sir William R. Grove,
   LL.D., Lord Justice - Clerk, and                                Knt., M.A., D.C.L., LL.D.,

   President of the Royal Society of

   Edinburgh.                                                      F.R.S.
The Right Hon. Lyon Playfair, C.B.,                             Sir William Thomson, Knt., LL.D.,

   LL.D., F.R.S., Member for the                                  D.C.L., F.R.S., Professor of

Universities of Edinburgh and St.                               Natural Philosophy in the Univer
   Andrews.
                                                                   sity of Glasgow.
WiLlliLa.mD.S, pFo.tRtis.wAo.Sod.,e.PMre.As.i,denDt.oCf.Lth.e,  Sir William G. Armstrong, C.B.,

Royal Society.            tokes, M . A.            L. ,           D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., etc.
                                            D. C.                                         Richards, Knt.,
GeoLrLg.eDG.,abrHieolnS.     Secretary   ,   to    the          Sir George Henry          C.B., F.R.S.,
                                                                   Vice- Admiral,
Royal Society, and Lucasian Pro                                 F.R.G.S., etc.
fessor of Mathematics in the                                    CaKp.tCai.nB.,SirR.FNr.e,deFr.icRk.SJ..,
                                                                                                          O. Evans,
   University of Cambridge.
Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.,                                                                               F.R.A.S.,
                                                                R.G.S., Hydrographer of the
  LL.D., F.L.S., Hon. Secretary to
the Royal Society, and Prelector of                                Admiralty.             LL.D.,          F.R.S.,
                                                                Thomas H. Huxley,
Physiology in Trinity College, Cam                              etc., Professor of Natural History
                                                                in the Royal School of Mines.
    bridge.                 D.C.L., LL.D.,                                                  D.C.L., LL.D.,
                                                                JohFn.R.ST.,yndetacl.l,,
JohFn.S.A.E,vaentcs.,,    Treasurer and Vice-                                             Professor of Natural

President of the Royal Society.                                 Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
                          MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                                        545

The Honourable            Henry J. Moncreiff,  F.R.S., F.R.A.S., Professor of
                                               Natural Philosophy in the Univer
   B.A., LL.B.,           Sheriff of Renfrew

and Bute.                          LL.D.,      sity of Oxford.
                          D.C.L.,              EdFw.aRrd.A.SJ..,  Stone, M.A.,         F.R.S.,
JamFe.Rs .SP.,.   Joule,                                          Director of the     Radcliffe
                 etc.
Warren de la Rue, M.A., D.C.L.,
   F.R.S., F.R.A.S., Vice-President               Observatory, Oxford.                F.R.S.,
                                               William Odling, M.B.,
   of the Chemical Society.                    V.-P.C.S., Waynflete Professor of
Charles W. Siemens, D.C.L.,                    Chemistry in the University of
                                               Oxford.
  LL.D., F.R.S., M.I.C.E., etc.,
President of the British Associa Henry N. Moseley, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                               Linacre Professor of Anatomy and
tion.
Alfred R. Wallace, F.R.G.S.,
F.L.S., etc.                                   Physiology in the University of
                                               Oxford.
Clements R. Markham, C.B., F.R.S.,             J. Couch Adams, M.A., LL.D.,
   F.L.S., F.S.A., Hon. Secretary of              F.R.S., Director of the Observatory
                                                  and Lowndsean Professor of Astron
   the Royal Geographical Society.                omy and Geometry in the Univer
Francis Gallon, M.A., F.R.S.,                     sity of Cambridge.
                                               Thomas M 'Kenny Hughes, M.A.,
   F.G.S., Vice-President of the Royal            F.S.A., Woodwardian Professor of
   Geographical Society.
William H. M. Christie, M.A.,
   F.R.S., Astronomer-Royal.
William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D.,                Geology in the University of Cam

   F.R.S., F.R.A.S.                            bridge.
Robert H. Scott, M.A., F.R.S.,                 George D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                               Professor of Chemistry, St. John's
   F.G.S., F.M.S., Secretary to the            College, Cambridge.
   Council of the Meteorological               JamVe.-sP.C.SD.e,wJaarc,ksonMia.An .,       F.R.S.,
                                                                                      Professor of
    Office.                                    Natural Philosophy in the Univer

Henry W. Bristow, F.R.S., F.G.S.,
Director of the Geological Survey              sity of Cambridge.
of England and Wales.                          The Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.,
Edward Hull, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.,              F.G.S., Late Fellow and Tutor of
F.G.S., Director of the Geological
Survey of Ireland, and Professor               H.JesCuhsarCltoollnegeB, asCtiaamn,bridMge.A. ., M.D.,
of Geology in the Royal College of                F.R.S., Professor of Pathological

    Science.                                   Anatomy in the University College,
                                               London.
Henry Woodward, LL.D., F.R.S.,
F.G.S., etc., Keeper of the Depart             J. LLS..D.,BurdFo.Rn .S.S,andePrsroofne,ssorM.D.o,f
ment of Geology, British Museum
                                               Physiology in University College,
(Natural History).
George Busk, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.,                 London.
F.G.S., Vice-President of the E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                               Professor of Zoology and Compara
    Linnoaan Society.     LL.D.,   F.R.S.,     tive Anatomy in the University
Henry C. Sorby,                                College, London.
F.L.S., F.G.S., etc.
                          Richard Strachey,    George Carey Foster, B.A., F.R.S.,
Lieut. -General           F.G.S., etc.            F.C.S., Professor of Physics in
                                                  University College, London.
  R.E., F.R.S.,
Thomas Rupert Jones, F.R.S.,
F.G.S., Emeritus Professor of Rev. Thomas G. Bonney, M.A.,
Geology at the Staff College, Sand             F.R.S., F.S.A., F.G.S., Pro

    hurst.                                     fessor of Geology in University
                                                  College, London.
J. Gwyn Jeffreys, LL.D., F.R.S.,               Edward A. Schafer,                     F.R.S.,
   F.G.S., etc.
Nevil Story Maskelyne, M.A.,                   M.R.C.S., Assistant Professor of
   F.R.S., F.G.S., Professor of                Physiology in University College,

Mineralogy in the University of London.
Oxford, and M.P. for Crick- R. C. Rowe, M.A., B.Sc., etc.,
                                               Professor of Mathematics in Univer
lade.
Rev. Bartholomew Price, M.A.,
                                               sity College, London.
546 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Olaus Henrici, Ph.D., F.R.S., etc., William Turner, M.B., F.R.S.,
Professor of Applied Mathematics               M.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy
and Mechanics          in                         in the University  oLfLE.dDin.,buPrrgohfe.ssor
College, London.               University      Robert Flint, D.D.,

G. Croom Robertson, M.A., etc.,                of Divinity in the University of
Grote Professor of Philosophy of Edinburgh.

Mind and Logic in University [ames Geikie, LL.D., F.R.S., etc.,
College, London.                               etc. , Murchison Professor of Geology
St. George Mivart, F.R.S., F.L.S.,             and Mineralogy in the University of
F.Z.S., Professor of Biology in
University College, Kensington.                   Edinburgh.   LL.D., F.R.S.E.,
W. Kitchen Parker, F.R.S., F.Z.S.,             H. Calderwood,
  F.L.S., etc., Hunterian Professor               Professor of Moral Philosophy in
   of Comparative Anatomy in the                  the University of Edinburgh.
   Royal College of Surgeons.
Lionel S. Beale, M.D., F.R.S., Pro             David L. Adams, M.A., B.D., Pro
                                               fessor of Hebrew and Oriental
fessor of Pathological Anatomy in              Languages in the University of

                                               Edinburgh.
King's College, London.                        C. Piazzi Smyth, Professor of As
P. Martin Duncan, M.B., F.R.S.,                tronomy in the University of Edin
  V.-P.G.S., F.L.S., President of              burgh, and Astronomer-Royal for

the Royal Microscopic Society, and                Scotland.
Professor of Mineralogy and
   Geology in King's College,  LFo.nLd.oSn..,  M. Forster Heddle, M.D., Professor
H. G. Seeley, F.R.S.,                          of Chemistry in the University of
                                               St. Andrews, President of the
F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Professor of Mineralogical Society of Great
                                               Britain and Ireland.
Geography in King's College,                   Alexander Roberts, M.A., D.D.,
   London.                                        Professor of Humanity in the Uni
Joseph Lister, D.C.L.,               LL.D.,       versity of St. Andrews.

   F.R.S., Professor of              Clinical
Surgery in King's College, London ; Arthur S. Butler, M.A., Professor of
Surgeon - Extraordinary to the                 Natural Philosophy in the University
                                                  of St. Andrews.
    Queen.      Bain,  LL.D.,  Lord  Rector
Alexander                                      Lewis Campbell, M.A., LL.D., Pro
   of the University of Aberdeen.
Sir Alexander Grant, Bart.. M.A.,                 fessor of Greek in the University of
                                                  St. Andrews.
  LL.D., D.C.L., Principal of the              P. R. Scott Lang, M.A., B.Sc.,
University of Edinburgh.                       Professor of Mathematics in the
The Very Rev. John Caird, D.D.,
                                               University of St. Andrews.  D.D.,
Principal of the University of Frederick Crombie, M.A.,
                                               Professor of Biblical Criticism in
Glasgow.        Rev. John Tulloch, D.D.,          the University of St. Andrews.
ThLe LV.Der.y,   Senior Principal of the       John Birrell, M.A., D.D., Professor

University of St. Andrews.                        of Hebrew and Oriental Languages
John C. Shairp, M.A., LL.D., Prin                 in the University of St. Andrews.
cipal of the United College, St.               Alexander F. Mitchell, M.A., D.D.,
Andrews, and Professor of Poetry,
   Oxford.                                     Professor of Church History in the
The Very Rev. William Robinson                    University of St. Andrews.

   Pirie, D.D., Principal of the               William Knight, LL.D., Professor of
   University of Aberdeen.
                                                  Moral Philosophy and Political
A. Campbell Fraser, M.A., LL.D.,               Economy in the University of St.
                                               Andrews.
Professor of Logic and Metaphysics William C. M'Intosh, M.D., LL.D.,
in the University of Edinburgh.                F.R.S., Professor of Natural History
Alexander Crum Brown, M. A. , D. Sc. ,            in the University of St. Andrews.
   M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemis           James Bell Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S.,
   try in the University of Edinburgh.
William Rutherford, M.D., F.R.S.,                  Professor of Medicine and Anatomy
                                               in the University of St. Andrews.
Professor of the Institutes of Medi Thos. Miller, M. A. , LL. D. , F. R. S. E. ,
cine in the University of Edinburgh.           Emeritus Rector of Perth Academy.
                   MEMORIAL TO TREASURY                                                                  547

JamFe.Rs .TSh.,omPsroonfe,sMso.rA.o, fLLC.ivDil.  ,  D. Sc.  ,  F.R.S., Professor of Physics in
                                                     Engin
eering and Applied Mechanics in                                    Owens College, Manchester.
                   of Glasgow.
   the University                                               Henry E. Roscoe, B.A., LL.D.,
G. G. Ramsay,      LL.D., Professor                                V.-P.C.S., Professor of Chemistry
                                                     of         in Owens College, and President of

Humanity in the University of                                   Literary and Philosophical Society,

   Glasgow.                                                         Manchester.

J. G. M'Kendrick, M.D., Professor                               W. Boyd Dawkins, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                                                   F.G.S., Professor of Geology and
   of the Institutes of Medicine in the

   University of Glasgow.                                       Palzeontology in Owens College,

R. C. Jebb, LL.D., Professor of Greek                           Manchester.
                                                                Rev. Samuel Haughton, M.D. ,
   in the University of           FG.lRas.Sgo.Ew.., etc.,         D.C.L., LL.D., Trinity College,
Johentc.,YoPurnogfe,ssoMr .Do.,f                                   Dublin.
                                  Geology in the                Alexander Macalister, M.D., F.R.S.,
   University of Glasgow.                                          Sec. R.I. A., Professor of Anatomy
Allen Thomson, M.D., D.C.L.,                                       in the University of Dublin.

   LL.D., F.R.S., formerly Professor                            Robert S. Ball, LL.D., F.R.S.,
of Anatomy in the University of                                   M.R.I.A., Professor of Astronomy

   Glasgow.        Ph.D.,         F.R.S.E.,                        in the University of Dublin.
William Wallace,
President of the Philosophical                                  J. Emerson Reynolds, M.D., F.R.S.,
   Society of Glasgow.                                             V.-P.C.S., Professor of Chemistry
William Dittmar, F.R.S., F.C.S.,                                   in the University of Dublin.
F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry                                Valentine Ball, M.A., F.R.S., Pro
   in Anderson's College, Glasgow.                              fessor of Geology and Mineralogy
H. Alleyne Nicholson, M.A., M.D.,                               in the University of Dublin.
D. Sc., Professor of Natural History                                                             Stoney, M.A.,
   in the University of Aberdeen.                               GeFor.gRe.S.,JohFns.Rto.Ane.S.,      Secretary of
William Stirling, M.D., D.Sc.,
                                                                    Queen's  University          of Ireland.
   F.R.S.E., Professor of Institutes of                         Alexander     Dickson,
                                                                                                 M.D., LL. D. ,
Medicine in the University of                                   F.R.S.E. , Professor of Botany in
                                                                   the University of Edinburgh.
    Aberdeen.                                                   Robert Etheridge, F.R.S., F.G.S.,
                                                                Assistant -Keeper, Geological De
James S. Brazier, F.C.S., Professor                                partment, British Museum.
   of Chemistry in the University of                            James Bryce, D.C.L., Regius Professor

    Aberdeen.      M.D., Professor                   of            of Civil Law in the University of
                   the University                    of         Oxford, and M.P. for Tower
John Struthers,
   Anatomy in

    Aberdeen.                                                      Hamlets.
                                                                George H. Darwin, M.A., F.R.S.,
David J. Hamilton, M.B., Professor

   of Pathological Anatomy in the
   University of Aberdeen.                                      Plumian Professor of Astronomy in
                                                                the University of Cambridge.
Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D.,

      We, the undersigned Members of Parliament, also
strongly commend the claims of Dr. Croll to the favour
able consideration of the Lords of the Committee of

Council.

George Anderson, M.P. for the City                              Charles Cameron, LL.D., M.P. for
   of Glasgow.                                                     the City of Glasgow.
                                                                Sir George Campbell, M.P. for Kirk-
G. Armitstead, M.P. for Dundee.
Sir George Balfour, M.P. for Kin-                                   caldy.   Campbell,           LL.D.,  M.P.
                                                                James A.
    cardineshire.                                               for the Universities of Glasgow and
                                                                Aberdeen.
Joseph C. Bolton, M.P. for Stirling                             Sir T. E. Colebrooke, M.P. for North
                                                                Division of Lanarkshire.
    shire.

Thomas R. Buchanan, M.P. for the
   City of Edinburgh.
548 LIFE OF JAMES CROLL

Sir Donald Currie, M.P. for Perth   Peter M'Lagan, M.P. for Linlithgow-

    shire.                              shire.

Alexander Crum, M.P. for Renfrew    Sir A. Matheson, M.P. for Ross and
                                       Cromarty.
    shire.
Charles Dalrymple, M. P. for Bute.  Ernest Noel, M.P. for Dumfries

Robert Farquharson, M.P. for Aber-      Burghs.

    deenshire.                      Charles S. Parker, M.P. for the City
                                       of Perth.
Andrew Grant, M.P. for Leith.
John G. Hamilton, M.P. for South    R. W. Cochran-Patrick, M.P. for
                                       North Ayrshire.
   Division of Lanarkshire.
Frank Henderson, M.P. for Dun       John Pender, M.P. for Wick.
                                    A. Craig Sellar, M.P. for Haddington
    dee.
                                        Burghs.
William Holms, M.P. for Paisley.
Samuel Laing, M.P. for Orkney and   James Stewart, M.P. for Greenock.
                                    Charles Tennant, M.P. for Peebles
    Shetland.
                                       and Selkirk.
C. Fraser Mackintosh, M.P. for      Samuel D. Waddy, Q.C., M.P. for

    Inverness Burghs.                  the City of Edinburgh.
                                    S. Williamson, M. P. for St. Andrews.
Duncan M'Laren, Ex. -M.P. for City
   of Edinburgh.
                                   INDEX

                                              Canada, change of climate less com
                                              plete since Glacial epoch than in
ACCIDENT in Glasgow, 33, 146.                 Scotland, 227 note.
        in Edinburgh, 39, 362.                Cargill parish, 43.
                                              Carlyle, Thomas,
Adams, Professor, 428.                        Carpenter, Dr.,      53.      on  ocean
AAgdahsesmiz,ar,MrP.roAfe.s,so3r3, 1.241.                           theory
Age and origin of sun, 105, 319.
                                                 currents, 229.
        of Dr. Croll, 488.                    Challenger's crucial test of wind
         earth as determined from tidal       theories of oceanic circulation,

    retardation, 256.                             233-
         sun in relation to evolution,        Channels, two river, between Forth

    326.                                         and Clyde, 204.
Allermuir glaciated summit, 250.              Character of Dr. Croll's father and
Ampere's experiment on repulsion of
                                                  mother, 46.
   a rectilinear current on itself, 99.       Chemical affinity, its relation to vital
Ancestry of Dr. Croll, 9, 45.
Anderson's College, Glasgow, 30, 92.          force, 103.          in relation to
Antarctic ice, thickness of, relative to              combination

   Glacial epoch, 140, 211.                       specific heat, 101.
Arctic Interglacial periods, 139.             Church, Congregational, 48.
Autobiography, 9-41.
                                                      Evangelical Union, 68.
                                              Climate and Cosmology, discussion

                    B                            on, 436.
                                              Climate and Time, geological rela

BALL, Sir Robert, 432.                        tions, 277.
Barclay, Principal, 90.                               influence of changes on
Basis of evolution, 477.
Baxter, Rev. G. C. 472.                       the obliquity of the ecliptic on,
Begbie, Dr. Warburton, 38, 256, 272.
Bennie, James, excursions with, 155-               137-

    165, 250.                                          physical cause of change of,
                  , correspondence with,         during geological epochs, 109.
                                              Climates, mild polar, cause of, 139.
                                              Climatic change, possible cause of,

    175-199.  of  Croll,  9,  45.                  109.
Birthplace
                                              Clyde and Forth, two buried river
Blairgowrie,  residence in,      26-77.           channels, 204.
Bonar, Rev.                     66.
              Dr. A., 16,                     Cohesion of gases, 101.

Bonney, Professor,        421.                           07»a«<2/M, engagement on,30, 90.
Boyle's law, I0I.                             Cooling effects produced on solids by
Bums, Mr. , on Mechanics of Glaciers,
                                                  tension, cause of, 104.
                                              Croil, David, Dr. Croll's father, 9,

290.                                           46.

CAIRD, Rev. David, 483.                       -- death, 28, 80.    Dr. Croll's
                                              -- Mrs. Janet,

                                              mother, 10, 46.
Cairns, Principal, on Philosophy of Croll, David, Dr. Croll's brother,
    Theism, 88.
Caithness Boulder Clay, relations of,         47-
                                                   Mrs., Dr. Croll's wife, 24.
   to path of ice-sheet in North-                  marriage, 72.

Western Europe, 241.                          illness, 489.

                                         549
550 INDEX

Croll, James-                                                                                        Croll, James --continued.

Birlethctpulaalcen,ew47b;irtshch, o5o6l  ; dcahyosi,ce51of;   intel                                  207 ; physical cause of submergence
                                                             trade,                                  and emergence of land during Glacial
63 ; millwright experiences, 64 ; joiner                                                             epochs, 208 ; paper on South of Eng
                                                                                                     land ice-sheet, 208 ; Glacial submer
experiences, 66 ; tea trade experiences                                                              gence on the supposition that interior
in Perth, t\; ; in  Elgin, 72 ;                  marriage,
72 ; leaves Elgin,   75 ; return                  to Perth,                                          ocMGaflrlag.clociabaMuel uscerilnpimhofalyfut'eimsd, otc2tiooh1nne5dso;irtyiioonfnfl,ugoelfan2cc0ieec9ras;uo,spfehG2y1su3iolff;

76 ;  electric and  galvanic               experiences,
77 ;  Temperance      Hotel,               Blairgowrie,

77 ; goes to Glasgow-- insurance can                                                                 rSetaresaomn ,why22c4ha;ngoeceoafnclimcuartreenints,Can2a2d4a ;
viLnaesicsDeinusgntedre,eex, 8p1e7r9;iei;nncinePsaEidsinlienybG,ular8gs2gh;o,wliS,teor;a7r8iny;      since Glacial epoch less complete than in
               writes pamphlet on Pre
work, 83;      83 ; publishes Philosophy                                                             Scotland, 226; hypothetical elements
destination,                                                                                         in theory of gravitation, 228 ; ocean
of Theism^ 84 ; accident in Glasgow,                                                                 currents, Lieutenant Maury's theory,
                                                                                                     228 ; ocean currents, Dr. Carpenter's
91 ; appointment    atonAnCd0etrnsmonoitavnweaUttknti                                                           229 ;
go ; appointment                                                                                     theory,     229 ;  ocean currents, physical
                                                                                                     cause of,          oocf eaonciecanciicrculactiirocnu,lat2io32n,;
versity, 92; begins scientific studies,                                                              wind theory
                                              repulsion,     99 ;
r9e6la;tiwonritesofonchAemmpicearlian      combination         to                                    232 ; ocean currents, reply to Dr.
specific heat, 101 ; cohesion of gases,                                                              Carpenter, 233 ; Challenger's crucial
101 ; mechanical power of electro-                                                                   test of wind and gravitation theories
magnetism, 102 ; relation of chemical                                                                of oceanic circulation, 233; influence
affinity to vital force, 103 ; supposed                                                              of tidal wave on moon's motion, 236 ;
objections to dynamical theory of heat,                                                              correspondence with Sir John Her-
                of heat vibrations,                          103 ;                                   schel, 236 ; influence of tidal wave on
103   ; nature   the cooling effect                          pro                                     earth's rotation, 237 ; mechanics of
the   cause of                                                                                       gPRlr.aocfWeiesrassol,lrac2eF4,o1s2t;4e7r,c;ore2rxe4cs3upr;osniowdneitnhcetoMAr.wlleiAtrh-.
duced on solids by tension, 104 ;
physical cause of change of climate
during geological epochs, 100 ; corres
pondence with Sir Charles Lyell and                                                                  muir with Mr. Bennie, 250 ;
Sir John Herschell, 114; values of the                                                               of determining mean thickness                                                     method
eccentricity of the earth's orbit for a                                                                                                                                                of sedi
                                                                                                                                              of earth as
million years past and a million years                                                               mdeetnetramryinedrocksf,rom256t;idaagle  retardation,
                                                                                                     256; illness of Dr. Croll, 256; corre
to come at epochs fifty thousand years                                                               spondence with Mr. C. Darwin, 257 ;
apart, 129 J reasons why difference of
reading between thermometers,                                131 ;                                   with Professor Foster,     2to59M; rw. itFherRreelvl,.
eccentricity of earth's orbit and                               its                                  O. Fisher, 260 ; reply
Sge'lloyalcsoiigacilacal lereplocahcthrioonnoalnotdogGy,Itahce1iira3l4;deapctohecash,n,ge11333i3n;;  265 ; what determines molecular
                                                                                                     motion, 265 ; kinetic energy,                                                                     ;
                                                                                                     c2oib7rt2cau;inlCas tliimWonao,tlleParsoatfnoesdnsoFrTut'nTwhdfo,,rp22e76'7s7         265
obliquity   o1f 3e8cl;ipticA,rct1ic37      ;      mild polar                                                                                                                        ;  illness,
climates,                                        Interglacial                                                                                                                       ;  oceanic

                                                                                                                                                                                       theory,
                                                                                                     279; degree of LL.D. conferred by
periods, 139; replies to critics, 140;
examination of Mr. A. R. Wallace's                                                                   St. Andrews University, 288 ; trans
modification of physical changes of                                                                  fMeonrucmrecahtwioisintohnoMFf ugrn.radJva, in3tys0e,6n2:,9c0o2r;9re1cos;prroaenwsdpaeorndnceded
climate, 140 ; misconceptions of Dr.                                                                 with Professor M'Farland, 313; pro
Croll's theory, 144 ; accident at Ander                                                              bable origin and age of the sun,
sonian University, 146; physical cause                                                               correspondence with Mr. Horne,
of submergence of land during Glacial                                                                                                                                                  319 .
epoch, 147; correspondence with Pro                                                                                                                                                    324 ;
fessor Tyndall and Professor Foster,                                                                 Le Sage's theory of gravitation, age
147-155 j Glacial submergence, 148;                                                                  of sun in relation to evolution, motion
                                                                                                     of stars, origin of nebula:, cataclysmic
gwlaitchialMri.nvBeesntingiaet,ion1s5,5 ;  153 ; excursions                                          theories of geological climate, 326 ;
                                           appointment on                                            thickness of Antarctic ice, and its re

Geological     Survey,                   165of;  elected as                                                             of Glacial            eDp.ocHho, o3k2e8r,;
Honorary       Associate                         Geological                                                             with Sir
Society of                                                                                           J.lations to that
pass Civil     SGelravsicgeow,exa1m6in5a; tifoanil,ure          to
                                                             168 :                                   correspondence
                                                                                                     pw3e2irt8ah;turwMe irt.hofHMsoprma.ceeA, .a3nR4d2.-i3tW5s 2abl;elaatcrhiene,gst3e3mo4n;
removal to Edinburgh and entry on

Geological Survey duties, 169; scheme                                                                terrestrial physics, 346 ; aqueous va
                    of daily
for regulation       with Mr.                    life, 171           ;                               pour in relation to perpetual snow,
correspondence                                       Bennie,
                                                 into surface                                        M34f9Fa; rlcaonrdre,spo3n5d3e;ncewithwithMr.ProAfe. ssoRr .
175-199  ;--incvoerrsetsigpaotniodnesnce           with Mr.
geology
Bennie, 175; rateofsub-aerialdenuda                                                                  Wallace. 358 ; resigns appointment
tion--correspondence with Mr. Charles                                                                on Geological Survey, 362 ; corre
Darwin, 199 ; paper on two buried                                                                    spondence with Mr. Horne. 364 ;
river channels between Forth and                                                                     refused augmentation of pension ,
Clyde, 204 ; path of ice-sheet in North                                                              373 1 correspondence about pension,
western Europe, and its relation to                                                                                     force impossible,
                                                                                                                          with Dr. Shad-
                                                                                                     J.375 ;

                                                                                                     379;
boulder  ofclaWyasotfdaClaeithnegsrsa,nite205b;lotcrakns,                                            evolution by
sport                                                                                                correspondence
                                                                                                     worth Hodgson, 389; with Prof.
                                                         INDEX                                                                                                                                                                                                     551

Croll, James --continued.                                                                                                                                                                                                Ellis, Janet, death, 90.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Emergence of land during Glacial
         G. Romanes, 396 ; with Sir Joseph
          D. Hooker, 405-428 ; remarks on                                                                                                                                                                                    epoch, 147.
        cPDaornaordrrfeewssCipsnooos,rnmd4oe3Nlno0cegew;y,cdoiwms4cib3tu'h6sss;ioPnSrroestfjeeosiolnslndaoerrrC,EliGvm.o4a2luHt1e-.;                                                                                     Energy, kinetic, 265.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         England, south of, ice-sheet, 208.
correspondi _____ . ___ ___                                                                                                                                                                                              Equator, why air at, not hotter in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           January than July, 224.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Everett, Professor, on oceanic circula

lls4Acweipsh6mrthoeit8teeenlel;rrsd,ssice4vanPS4i,cfsh0rteiotei4l;smol6lwsa4woirR;tiDphtwehhrEvPi.itvcr.hoPoaNfrlleMMouasftnrersBi..sosoaesrAnnos,.Br,iDsaR4ax.45otWre7w8Wfr5i,:inEan:ccvl,lohapo44reu7clr5uelb2e2l,,;;     tion, 265.       and  origin  of  sun  in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Evolution, age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         relation to, 105, 319.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by force impossible, 379.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Philosophical Basis of, 476.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Stellar, and its Relation to

tion,      476 ; closing days,                w48it2h;,  Rev.                                                                                                                                                            Geological Time, 448.
Mr.       Caird's intercourse                            483;
nednHoseoottatiimimtccheeea--t,ebfofryuEof nmsLeqlori.far,eldN,a5an04Ktdu58e;8rwlevo;,ilrnekMt,,t5res404r.91990f;C;r;orbmoooylbbl,iittPJuu4oraa8ho9rrnfyy.;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FERREL, Mr., theory of ocean cur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rents, 265.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ferrier, Professor, on Philosophy
^4;0

                                                                                               of
M'Farland, America, 520; list of
scientific papers and works, 527 ;
memorial to treasury as to pension,                                                                                                                                                                                          Theism, 87.
                  of persons recommending,                                                                                                                                                                                                   G.,  224.
536 ;      list  of persons recommending, in                                                                                                                                                                             Finlay, Mr. A.
          list                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fisher, Rev. Osmond, 261, 287, 322,

'ebruary 1883, 544.                                                                                                                                                                                                          34°-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Forbes, Principal, on electrical cur

-D                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rents, IOO.

DANA, Mr., 356.                                                                                                                                                                                                          Force, evolution by, impossible, 379.
Darwin Mr. Charles, ZOO, 215, 257,                                                                                                                                                                                       Forth and Clyde, two river channels

324-             G. H., 430, 433, 452.                                                                                                                                                                                       between, 204.
     Professor                                                                                                                                                                                                           Foster, Professor, 149, 243, 259, 268,

Death of Dr. Croll, 488.                                                                                                                                                                                                     284, 488.  A.,  on   Stellar Evolution,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fowler, Mr.
Denudation, method of determining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         459-
rate of sub-aerial, 199.

Dundee, 28, 79.                                                                                                                                                                                                          GALTON, Mr. Francis, 271.
Dynamical theory of heat, supposed                                                                                                                                                                                       Gases, cohesion of, 101.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Geikie, Professor James, 278, 322.
objections to, 104.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sir Archibald, 34, 107, 168.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Geological climate and chronology,

EARLY Education, 51.                                                                                                                                                                                                     107-135-
Earth, age of, as determined by                                                                                                                                                                                               cataclysmic, theories, 143.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             climate in relation to secular
   tidal  roertbaridt,ateiocnc,ent2ri5c6it.y
Earth's                                       of, 129.                                                                                                                                                                   theory, 139.             cause of change
orbit, physical relation to Glacial                                                                                                                                                                                          epochs, physical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of climate during, 165.
epoch, 145.                                   of tidal wave                                                                                                                                                                  inquiry into effects of icebergs,
    rotation, influence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Interglacial periods, etc., 139.
   on, 148.                                                                                                                                                                                                              relations of climate and time,
Eccentricity     of earth's  orbit,           129.
Ecliptic, change in obliquity of, in
fluence on climate of polar regions                                                                                                                                                                                      277.                             of earth's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tables of eccentricity

and level of sea, 137.                                                                                                                                                                                                   orbit, 129, 316.
Edinburgh, 28-35, 79, 1^9-                                                                                                                                                                                                   time, method of determining

Edwards, Jonathan, 21, 71.                                                                                                                                                                                               rate of sub-aerial denudation, 199.

Electro-magnetism, power of, 102.                                                                                                                                                                                                 Survey, appointed on, 169.
Elgin, residence at, 21-25, 72-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gill, Mr., on heat vibration, 103.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Glacial climate, Mr. Murphy's theory
Ellis, Janet, or Croll, Dr. Croll's                                                                                                                                                                                      of cause of, 215.

mother, 10.
552 INDEX

Glacial epoch in Europe, 204.                                   LAND, submergence of, 148.
        epoch, Mr. Hill on cause of,                                    during Glacial epoch, physical

     143-                                                       cause of, 148.
          physical cause of, submergence
                                                                Leicester, 29-81.
   of land during, 147.                                         Le Sage's theory of gravitation, 326.
         thickness of Antarctic ice in                          Leverrier,
                                                                Lockyer,    M1r1.3,.  on  evolution  of planets,
    relation to, 211.
                                                                106.
         epochs, 133.
          submergence, 204.                                     Lyell, Sir Charles, 114, 257.
         emergence, 208.
Glaciers, physical cause of motion of,                                                    M
    212.
Glasgow, 27, 31, 83.                                            MARKHAM, Mr. Clements, 273.
Gravitation, hypothetical elements in                           Maury, Lieutenant, theory of physical
    theory of, 228.
        Le Sage's theory, 326.                                     cause of ocean currents, 228.
          theory of oceanic circulation,
                                                                M'Farland, Professor, 313, 332, 353,
    225-229.
Gravity, transformation of, 241.                                   37',   4°5, 443,       52°-
Guildtown schoolmaster, 51.                                     M'Gee,
                                                                           Mr., 142.
Gulf Stream, influence of, 215-224.                             Mechanical power of electro-magnet

                                                                ism, 102.
                                                                Molecular motion, what determines,
                   H
                                                                    265.  Mr., 432.
HAUGHTON, Professor, 276, 355,                                  Monck,
    357, 363-                                                   Moon's mean motion, acceleration of,

Heddle, Professor, 289.                                         and influence of tidal wave upon,
Hers.-hel, Sir John, 118, 122, 125,
Hil2l3, 6,ca2u3s9e. of Glacial epoch, 143.                         236.   Mr.  J.     Carrick,  269.
HHooodkgesor,n,SiDr rJo. sSehpahdDwo.,rt3h2,8,38490,7,44472.8,  Moore,
                                                                Morison, Rev. Dr., 73, 86, 93, 312,

    439-  Mr., on  Dr.  Croll's  theory  of                         341, 437-                        168.
Home,                                                           Moseley, Canon, 213.
                                                                Motions of glaciers, 212.
                                                                Murchison, Sir Roderick,
                                                                        Fund                    Dro. fCrcoalul,se306o.f
physical cause of change of climate                             Murphy,        awarded to
during geological epochs, no, 324,
                                                                              Mr., theory

326, 342, 364, 505.                                             glacial climate, 140, 215.

Huggins, Professor, 465.

                       I                                                              N
                                                                NANSEN, Dr., 475.
ICE sheet, South of England, 208.
Irons, David, 21, 69.                                           Nature of heat vibrations, 103.
                                                                Nature, obituary notice in, 501.
     J. Campbell, 375, 378, 380.                                Nebula:, origin of, 105, 320.
                                                                Newcomb, Professor, 143, 315.
                  J
                                                                                          O
JAMIESON, Mr., no.
Jansen, Mr., 290, 305.                                          OCEAN currents in relation to dis
                                                                   tribution of heat over globe, 224.
                Keith, 270.                                                         in relation to physical
JoJohunles,toDn,r., on the thermal effects of                      theory of secular changes of climate,

   electric fluids in motion, 102.                              226.
Judd, Professor John H., 448.
                                                                             in Glacial epoch, 228.
                  K                                                          physical cause of, Lieu

KANT, Emanuel, 18.                                              tenant Maury's theory, 228.
Keiller, Mr., the teacher, 12, 52.                                              Dr. Carpenter's theory,
Kelvin, Lord, obituary, notice by, 499.
Kinetic energy, 265.                                            229.           Mr. Ferrel's theory, 265.
                                                    INDEX                                                  553

Oceanic circulation, Professor Everett,                     Sun, age and origin of, 105, 319.

265.   Mr. A. R. Wallace, 265.

        gravitation theory, 225-229.                        TAIT, Professor, 277.
wind theory, 232.                                           Tappan, Professor, 23.
Orbit, eccentricity of earth's, 129.                        Temperature of space and its bearing
Origin and age of sun, 105, 319.
            of  Dnre.b, ulnae,,                             on terrestrial physics, 346.
       Rev.                      105.                       Theism, Philosophy
Orme,                            48.                        of                                    29, 84.
                                                            Thomson, Professor Sir Wm., 102,210.
Orton, Professor, America, 314.                                                              of,Sir Wyville, 211, 308.

                                                            Thorpe, Professor, expansion of sea

PAISLEY, residence at, 19, 29, 68.                              water, 270.
Paton, Mr. James, Glasgow, 487.
Peach, Mr. B. N., 326.                                      Tidal retardation determining age of
Pension, refusal to augment, 40, 373.
Periods, Interglacial, 139.                                 --earth, 256.
Perth, 20, 25, 70.
Philosophy of Theism, 84.                                         wave, influence of, on earth's
Physics, terrestrial, temperature of
                                                            rotation and on acceleration of
    space bearing on, 346.
Physical cause of the submergence of                            moon's mean motion, 236.
                                                            Time and climate, geological relations,
   the land during the Glacial epoch,
                                                                277.
147.            R                                           Times review of Philosophical Basis

RAMSAY, Sir Andrew, 34, 113. 266,                                  Evolution, 476.
    281.                                                    Trade, choice of, 63.
                                                            Treasury, behaviour of, refusing aug
Rocks, sedimentary, method of deter
   mining mean thickness, 256.                                 mentation of pension, 373.
                                                            Tyndall, Professor, 104, 147, 203.
Romanes, Professor J. G. 397.
                                                            VALUES of eccentricity of earth's orbit,
Royal Society, Fellow of, 39.
                                                                 129.                                      109.

                                                            Variations, secular, of climate,
                                                                    of eccentricity, 129.

SALISBURY, Lord, 375.                                                             W

Sanders, Professor, 272.                                    WALLACE, A. R., 141, 247, 334, 358,
Saturday Review on Dr.                 Croll,
Skertchley, Mr., 322.                               438.        382, 441, 469.
                                                            Wastdale granite blocks, transport of,
Smyth, Professor Piazzi, 320.
Snow, perpetual, aqueous vapour in                              207.
                                                            Whitefield, Little, Dr. Croll's birth

relation to, 349.                                               place, 45.  Mr.,     on           Philosophical
Spencer, Mr.    Herbert, 311,321,                           Whittaker,
St. Andrews,                                        395.
                degree of LL.D.,                     39,       Basis Evolution, 477.of
                                                            Winchell, Professor, 449, 464-468.
288.                                                        Wind theory of oceanic circulation, 232.
                                                            Wolthill, 50.
SStteowcakrwt,ellD, rM. rG.,ra3in1g5e, r3, 2410. .          Wollaston Fund awarded to Dr. Croll,

Submergence, glacial, 148.                                  266.
        of land, 148.
                    during Glacial                  epoch,

physical cause of, 147.                                     YOUMAKS, Mr. 257.
               PRINTED BY
MORRISON AND GIBI) LIMITED

                EDINBURGH
                      Works by

The Late JAMES CROLL, LL.D., F.R.S.

Climate and Time in their Geological Relations:

A Theory of Secular Changes of the Earth's Climate.

Fourth Edition. With Illustrations.  Large post
8vo, cloth, price IDS. 6d.

Discussions on Climate and Cosmology.
                A Supplementary Volume to "Climate and Time."
                 With an Illustrative Chart. Large post 8vo, cloth,

                   price 6s.

Stellar Evolution, and its Relations to Geological
        Time.

                   Large post 8vo, cloth, price 55.
               " If Dr. Croll has not finally settled the theory of creation, he has at
           least made a most substantial contribution towards the discussion of the
           great problem in physics which yet remains for philosophers of the fore
           most rank to settle." --Philosophical Magazine.

The Philosophical Basis of Evolution.

                    Large post 8vo, cloth, price 75. 6d.

                ' ' The work is of great value in itself, and of special value as the work
           of a man at home with the methods of scientific thought and work, and
           versed in the exact thinking which science prescribes." -- The Critical
             Review.

                 EDWARD STANFORD,

                                      LONDON,
26 AND 27 COCKSPUR STREET, CHARING CROSS, S.W.
            OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, ETC.

                 From the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone.

      MR. CAMPBELL IKONS having sent a copy of the Life of Dr. Croll to Mr. GLAD
STONE, suggesting that acknowledgment of it might be delayed till the work, or at least
the autobiographical sketch, was perused, received the following acknowledgment :--

      " Dear Sir, -- I venture to return my sincere thanks for your gift, without waiting for

the period you prescribe, for I have already read enough of Dr. Croll to enter with great

interest into both the man and his pursuits, and to be in a condition to appreciate your

reasons for the very high rank which you assign him. Darwin's appreciation of him
would of itself dispense with other testimony. With renewed thanks, -- Yours very
                                                                                         "W. E. GLADSTONE.
faithf"ullDy,ecember 28th, 1896."
From Rev. Henry Calderwood, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy,

    "I University of Edinburgh.                                                              does honour to a most
                                                                                             while a sad sufferer and
            have read the book with deep interest. It not only
deserving man, who was a wonder in persistence and ability,
poorly rewarded by his country, but a service to science."

 From Rev. Joseph Parker, D.D., Minister of the City Temple, London.
      "Such a book -- the biography of the season ! I have not read anything which has

done me so much good for a long time."

                             From Professor M'Farland, America.
      " I think the work ought to be in every library in the land as a remarkable instance

of great results wrought out under extreme difficulty."

                               From the " Geological Magazine."
      ' ' Six years have elapsed since the death of Dr. Croll, and we are now presented
with a memoir of his life and work from the pen of his Edinburgh friend, Mr. J. C.
Irons, assisted in some degree by his brother, the Rev. David Irons, of Glasgow. We
quite agree with the author that the life of such a man ' recording the triumph over his

early struggles, his scientific researches, which secured him a world-wide reputation as an
original thinker, and his earnest belief in the Christian faith,' should prove interesting.
There is something fascinating in Croll's biography. His was an eminently Scottish type
of character, and it may be safely asserted that no other country than North Britain
could have produced such a marked individuality."

                                         From "Nature."
      "The life of James Croll is very remarkable. That a mason's son, who in youth
laboured on the few acres of his father's homestead ; who then, having a mind disposed
tp mechanics, became apprenticed to a millwright ; who, having served his four years'
time, got employment at eight shillings a week, having sometimes to walk thirty or forty
miles a day to his work, and to sleep in the barn ; . . . who then, not having sufficient
education for a clerkship, found employment in the tea trade, and was after a time helped
by his employer   to open a              shop for his own             --Winill,whhiachd      venture he might have
succeeded, even  in spite of             reading Edwards    profit                           not the elbow caused a
                                                           on the

long  ;--antdhatpaainfuml ani,llnwehsso  which ruined the business,   and left him with                   an ossified     joint
...                                      thus spent nearly the first  forty years of his                  life, should    have
become so successful a student of metaphysics as to write a work of decided merit on The
Philosophy of Theism is perhaps not a matter of surprise, seeing that he was a Scotsman.
But we may surely indulge our faculty of wonder when we learn that a London publisher
was found ready to undertake the whole risk of publishing his work, by an unknown Scotch
tradesman or agent, on the terms of half profits, and that the result justified the publisher's
enterprise. . . . The book is well printed and well got up."
                 From the " Philosophical Magazine."
    " The
            autobiography   gthiveenpriinncJiapmalesincCidroelnl'tssowofnhiws olirfdes,  as  dictated to  his wife three  years
before his  death contains                                                               as  recollected  and thought     of by
himself down to 1887. His chronic headaches, pressure of work, and disinclination for
the task, allowed of no diffuse treatment of the many interesting points in this brief personal
history. In the body of the book, Mr. J. C. Irons, with the intimate knowledge of a warm
and sympathetic friend, has elaborated this short life sketch, enlarging it with collateral
information from friends and correspondents into a very complete biography                                of James
Croll, and a useful and interesting rgsumg of his intellectual work."

" Who was Dr. Croll?                         From "Knowledge."

                                         Probably most readers of Knowledge will remember him as
the world-famous author of Climate and Time, which made its appearance in 1875. . . .
2 OPJMONS OF THE PRESS, ETC.

The irony of fate is nowhere more poignantly apparent thnn in the story of this truly great
philosopher's life, as narrated and illustrated by the happily interpolated letters from the
most eminent contemporary    men of science in                                    uMserf.ullalimfee--s                Irons
has indeed produced a very  realistic picture of a  these pages.                                         Campbell     from
                                                    beautiful and                                       a life which

every point of view was strikingly uncommon, pure, intellectual, noble, and generous."

                     From the "Daily News," London.
     " The late Dr. Croll                                                                                      ' as
                            may   be regarded in the words of                     'hisObthioegrrsapthheerr,e  may    one of the
most remarkable and the     most  typical Scotsmen of his age.                                                       have been

who possessed equal intellectual attainments, learning similarly wide ami varied, a
character as pure, noble, and generous ; but for a combination of these eminent
properties, he was certainly unsurpassed by any of his contemporary fellow-countrymen.
None of them has more strikingly displayed the unwearied industry, the indomitable
perseverance, the tenacity of purpose that are so characteristic of the Scottish people."

                            From "The Glasgow Herald."

      "Mr. Campbell Irons has done an excellent and useful piece of work in turning
liis mind for a time from the mighty legend of the law to the writing of biography, and
the contemplation of the vast problems of geology. Dr. James Croll is known as one of
the most brilliant and most unfortunate amongst the self-taught men of science whom

Scotland has given to the world in so much larger numbers than any other country. . . .
Not only every outward obstacle that fate and circumstances could bestow, but also con
tinued ill-health and bodily pain stood in Croll 's path to knowledge ; and the fact that he
overcame them all, and became not merely an F.R.S. and L.L.U.. but also one of the
most original contributors to the very British science of geology, gives him a sufficient right
to the biography. Mr. Irons, his old friend and the son of one of his early patrons, has
performed the task of embroidering and supplementing Croll's own brief but characteristic
autobiography with a zeal and affection which never descend into empty eulogy."

                              From "The Scotsman."
     ' ' No more touching story of genius struggling against adversity, pain, and poverty has
recently been published than that which is told in this deeply interesting book. . . .
James Croll earned for himself world-wide fame amid surroundings such as have few
parallels even in a country which can point to so many men of distinction in any walk of
life who first saw the light in the homes of the peasantry of Scotland. Some of the most
eminent scientific men were not slow to approach the self-taught scientist for the elucida
tion of points that had hitherto been obscure, and which Croll's writings appeared to hold
out the prospect of clearing-up. Herschel, Murchison, Ramsay, Hooker, Agassiz, Herbert
...Spencer, A. R. Wallace, Tyndall, Darwin, and others no less famous, exchanged views
with the stonemason's son.            It must be acknowledged that Mr. Irons has produced
a book which is not unworthy to find a place beside biographies of a class which have
hitherto most often been associated with the name of Dr. Smiles."

                            From the "Leeds Mercury."

      "The pathetic and,    indeed,    very noble life-struggle                   and        moral and intellectual
triumphs of James Croll,              F. R. S., author of two of                  the       most profound works of
                            LL. D. ,
modern times, Climate and Time in their Geological Relations and The Philosophical
Rasis of Involution has been      admirably told by Mr. James C.                            Irons, M.A. . . . We
cannot here trace the almost      cruelly bitter career of this noble                       son of science. It is

told admirably in this volume, and it is humiliating to think that after a life devoted to
pure scientific research, the fruits of which are acknowledged to be of the highest value,
he should have been refused a small pension by two British Governments when stricken by
permanent illness."

                          From the "Birmingham Daily Gazette."
      " The author of this volume has accomplished his task well, and has in no way fallen

beneath the level essential for the biographer of an eminent scientist and philosopher."

     "In this        From the "Perthshire Advertiser."

one  of those  interesting  an' sdelfi-nmstarduectivmeenvo'luomf ewhwiech  have   a record  of the      life and work  of
               remarkable                                                    our  country   lias so     much reason    to
be proud. The son of a working mason, James Croll started with no educational
advantages ; but, notwithstanding this, and under the depressing influence of much
physical weakness, his life was one of strenuous intellectual exertion. . . . All his bent
was towards the study of physical science, and in more fortunate circumstances he would
doubtless have obtained a University education. But the res angusta domi put that out
of the question. . . . He, however, studied physical science, in the hope of attaining to a
knowledge of the laws and principles which underlie the phenomena. He was thus led
...into metaphysics and theology, greedily devouring the works of Reid, Stewart. Brown,
Hamilton, Edwards, Beattie, and others.             In 1857, he published anonymously a
                              OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, ETC.                                                       3

volume entitled The           P'hailpopsoepahreyd  of Theism. . . . His first paper on the              ' Probable Cause
of the Glacial Epoch                                in the Philosophical Magazine in 1864,              and arrested Ihe
attention of geologists. Many pamphlets followed, as also much discussion. . . . Dr
Croll's work was duly appreciated in his lifetime.                     The publication                  of his Climate and
Time brought him a world-wide reputation, and the                      degree of LL.D.                  from the University
of St. Andrews; he was also elected F.R.S. -- the coveted blue riband of science. . . .
lWabeouhras.ve" only to add that     Mr. Irons may be congratulated on the result of
                 From the                                                                               his  sympathetic
                                     " Perthshire Constitutional and Journal."                           of  an attached
       " With the precision
                                     of a trained lawyer, but also with the sympathy
friend, Mr. Irons has in this interesting and instructive volume unfolded the career of one
of the most remarkable men of the century. . . . Mr. Irons' work has been a labour of
love, and he has done it well. . . . No better book could a father place in the hands of
his son than this record of the life and work of a sincere Christian, a great thinker, and a
pure and gentle spirit. . . . Every one who has, or has had, any connection with the
county of Perth, ought to possess a copy of the life and work of its great son -- Dr. Croll."

                                     From the "Inverness Courier."

    "This goodly volume gives a full account of the life and work of one of the most
remarkable men whom Scotland has produced during the present century. The name of
James Croll is well known to the scientific world. His endowments were of the highest
order. He had a mind of wonderful philosophic grasp and penetration, and his original
contributions to science have illuminated the discoveries of geology. . .                                   Ma rg.reIarot nms ahna. s'
written a book full of interest, a volume that will remain a worthy memorial                            .

                                                                                                        of

                            From the "Liverpool Mercury."
    " The life of an eminent man of science and a useful lesson in the art of overcoming

difficulties. . . . Although a physicist he loved philosophy, and retained his religious
faith 10 the last. We wish this volume a very wide circulation."

                               From "The Christian."

    " In the life of Dr. Croll Mr. Irons has produced a book which cannot fail to interest
a large part of the reading world, especially the scientific and religious sections. . . . To
the Christian reader, one of the charms of the book will be the record of simple faith in
God and His Son which it contains. . . . Among Dr. Croll's earliest friends was Rev.
Andrew Bonar of Collace, who saw his remarkable ability as a metaphysician. No
decline of faith ever came over him. . . . As he had lived, so he died, 'trusting to the
merits   ofuf ttuhree.L'o"rd         Christ                     but, thank God,     all-sufficient              of hope
for the                       Jesus                as my only,                                          ground

                                     From the "Leith Burghs Pilot."
      "We congratulate our townsman, Mr. Campbell Irons, on his excursion into the
region of biographical literature. His life and work of Dr. Croll, F. R.S. , proves him to

lie as great a master in that department as he is recognised to be in his more purely
professional sphere of legal literature. While the work is thus highly creditable to his
head, one of the objects for which it has been written, to give the proceeds to the widow
of Dr. Croll, is still more creditable to his heart."

                                                   From "Youth."
    "No more striking or instructive lesson in self-help has been given in recent years
than that furnished by the career of Dr. Croll. . . . His tastes lay as much in the region
of philosophy as in that of science. He was a metaphysician among men of science, and
a man of science among metaphysicians. . .                      . Dr.  Croll was a profoundly religious         man.
To him science and religion were not hostile.                          He was seventeen years of age            when
                                                                 . ..
he                                   tthhienkquoaflitireeslig--ioinn.tell.ec.tu.alV, iemwoerdal,asanad
in   began seriously to                                                                                 whole, his career exhibits
    a remarkable degree                                                                                 religious -- belonging to the

typical Scotsman."

                            From the "Scottish Congregationalist."
       " Nothing more remarkable in the form of biography has appeared for some time
than the memoir of Dr. James Croll. Dr. Croll was one of <hose silent forces whose
existence the world hardly recognises, but from whom it unconsciously derives much of
its knowledge and its power. In one sense there was nothing specially remarkable in his
life. It was as many other lives have been -- a humble and earnest search for truth, a
patient endurance of physical weakness, an unending struggle with circumstances always
bard, often perplexing to            a degree. On               the other hand,     there was something in the
man -- something of genius,          of learning, of            character -- which   not only distinguished him
from his contemporaries, but raised him at last into the first rank of the world's thinkers
.ind heroes. . . . Mr. Campbell Irons has done a real service to science and religion in
the publication of this worthy memorial ; and if anything else needs to be said to
induce our readers to procure the volume for themselves, it is that the entire profits of its
sale are to be given to the widow of the hero whose life and work it records."
   RETURN TO the circyjation desk of any \*
              University of California Library
                                 or to the

   NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
    Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station
   University of California
   Richmond, CA 94804-4698

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS
2-month loans may be renewed by calling

    (510)642-6753
1-year loans may be recharged by bringing books

    to NRLF
Renewals and recharges may be made 4 days

    prior to due date

                DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

OEC2
^^1

