Charles Pritchard, D.D.; F.R.S.; F.R.A.S.; F.R.G.S., late Savilian professor
of astronomy in the University of Oxford; memoirs of his life, comp.
by his daughter, Ada Pritchard, with an account of his theological
work, by the Right Reverend, the Lord Bishop of Worcester and
of his astronomical work, by his successor, Professor H.H. Turner,
F.R.A.S. ...

Pritchard, Ada.
London, Seeley and co., limited, 1897.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t9668bh1k

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
    THE LIFE AND WORK

                                         OF

PROFESSOR PRITCHARD

                                a
CHARLES PRITCHARD

                               D.D.; F.R.S.j F.R.A.S.; F.R.G.S.

   Late Satnlian Professor of Astronomy in the
                   University of Oxford

            MEMOIRS OF HIS LIFE

                                                   COMPILED BY HIS DAUGHTER

                  ADA iPi RITCHARD

                                                                        WITH

                   AN ACCOUNT OF HIS THEOLOGICAL WORK

                                                      BY THE RIGHT REVEREND

       THE LORD BISHOP OF WORCESTER

                                                                         AND

                                OF HIS ASTRONOMICAL WORK

                                                            BY HIS SUCCESSOR

         PROFESSOR H. H. TURNER, F.R.A.S.

                                  LONDON

               SEELEY AND CO. LIMITED

                                    38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

                                                                       1897
PREFACE

I FEEL that the name of Charles Pritchard will itself be

deemed sufficient justification for the publication of this

book. A word, however, may fairly be said as to the

manner in which the Memoirs came to be written.

Upon the death of my father, it was thought among

those who had known him privately, and also within
the wide circle of those whose work and enthusiasms

had lain near to his own, who were indebted to him as

their master, and who had trodden where he led and

assisted in the realisation of his hopes, that some

authentic record of his life and work should be made.

It was his old friend, the pupil of the early days of

the Clapham Grammar School, Sir George Grove, who

urged me to undertake the work. In the summer of
'I1893, ne wrote to me:
                             have suggested that we should

propose a biography to you. In it many of us could

have our say. What do you think of this ? '

The proposal for a joint work was readily adopted, and

through the kindness and generous assistance of many to

whom the memory of Charles Pritchard was dear, a scheme

gradually shaped itself, and resulted in the present volume.

    If the method adopted has of necessity interfered some-

what with the chronological sequence of the chapters, it has

this advantage, that each part of my father's many-sided

life has been dealt with by the writer best qualified to

form a just estimate of it.

The production of these Memoirs has been a labour of

258468
vi PREFACE

love to all who have contributed, but 1 owe, none the less,
deep thanks to the Bishop of Worcester, Professor H. H.

Turner, Sir William Herschel, Mrs Ogier Ward, Miss

Agnes Weld, and to those who have assisted me by

contributing letters ; to Mr E. J. Webb, for valuable

literary aid ; and lastly to my sister Rosalind, whose

sympathy and encouraging help have aided me in my

task.

                 ADA PRITCHARD.

September 1896.
CONTENTS

MEMOIRS COMPILED BY ADA PRITCHARD                               PAGE

                             CHAPTER I                              i

         REMINISCENCES OF His EARLY LIFE, .

                      CHAPTER II

His WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER, 1833-1862        AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL,  24

               CHAPTER III

His WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER REMINISCENCES        OF PUPILS

AND OTHERS,               ....                                  68

             CHAPTER IV

LIFE AT FRESHWATER, 1862-1870,     . . , . 82

             CHAPTER V

.105FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD, 1870-1881,.       .  .

             CHAPTER VI

LIFE AT OXFORD, 1882-1886,      .  .         .  . . ; 127

             CHAPTER VII

LAST YEARS, 1887-1893, .                                        144

THEOLOGICAL WORK BY THE LORD BISHOP OF WORCESTER, . 171
viii CONTENTS

ASTRONOMICAL WORK BY PROFESSOR H. H. TURNER, F.R.A.S.

INTRODUCTORY,     CHAPTER I                       .21PA5GE

               ....

               CHAPTER II

ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER,      . 219

                 CHAPTER II

OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY,  . 236

                     CHAPTER IV  ,                . 260

LIFE AT OXFORD, . . . .

                      CHAPTER V                        274

WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY,

               T 'I
Memoirs of Charles Pritchard

                     CHAPTER I

                 REMINISCENCES OF HIS EARLY LIFE

                       By his Niece, E. Ogier Ward

I AM asked to contribute my personal recollections of my

dear uncle to his proposed Memoirs, and I gladly do so,
in the belief that there is no one now living who knows
as much as I do of his early surroundings. Without some
outline of these, it seems to me, no one can draw a fair
portrait of a character so many sided, so full of startling
contradictions, as his certainly was.

    I own I feel a little 'hampered,' not by respect for the
dead, for I have nothing to tell that need detract one iota

from that, but by consideration for the living, lest any
word of mine should give pain to those who knew and
loved him in his later years only, when the pure gold had
passed through the furnace and been well refined.

     Captain Charles Pritchard, eldest son of my uncle's
eldest son, Sir Charles Pritchard, has recently made some
elaborate heraldic and genealogical researches, which point
decidedly to the conclusion that my uncle belonged to a
family of considerable standing and antiquity in the West
of England.

    The name of Pritchard is very variously spelt in old

                                                  A
2 CHARLES PRITCHARD

documents, and it is suggested that from an original form
Pickard, or Picard, signifying a native of Picardy, it has
been corrupted to Pytchard or Prichard, and finally con-

fused with the Welsh Ap Richard, anglicised as Pritchard.
Miss Isabel Southall in her work, 'Memorials of the
Prichards of Almeley* (Birmingham, privately printed,
1893), mentions an existing tradition that a member of
this family whose arms are the same as my uncle's
once entertained the Black Prince, and that 'this coincides
with a statement in Hallanis Constitutional History, that
Picard, Lord Mayor of London, gave a banquet to Edward

III. and his son/

     I do not imagine that the Savilian professor ever knew
of the Welsh motto mentioned by Miss Southall as be-

longing to the Herefordshire Pritchards :

           ' Heb Dduw heb ddim, a Duw a digon.'
       'Without God without anything. With God all.'

But, in view of my uncle's unwavering and fervent faith,
I doubt not it would have interested him.

     I firmly believe that a dash of Celtic blood accounted
for some of my uncle's characteristics. A Pritchard married
to a Lloyd were his parents. Shropshire, however, the

county in which the family had been settled for three
generations, and which they dearly loved, is as intensely
 English as any ' shire ' in the heart of the country ; and
although it lies in the shadow of the Welsh hills, none
 of its natives would like to be called Welsh. When
 the title of * Proud Salopians ' was first bestowed upon

them I know not, but when I first knew this favoured

 county they certainly deserved it ! Their exclusiveness
 and hatred of innovation had caused them vehemently
 to oppose the original scheme of one of the great rail-
 way lines, which would have brought it through Shrews-
                        EARLY LIFE                                                    3

bury. I am not sure which line it was, but they had

succeeded in diverting    it,       and were only just beginning

to find out their mistake.         *

Then, again, politics ran extremely high. The Con-

servative party was naturally predominant, and they were

intensely jubilant at having just returned twelve Conser-
vative members for the county, with Mr Disraeli at their
head. Yet, such was the pride of birth and race, that
                                                                                      I

well remember at the Hunt Ball, which took place just

at the time of the General Election of 1841, that the cool

and distant civility of the great ladies to Mrs Disraeli
                                      a

                                                              '

                                                            is
was quite as noticeable as the fact that her diamonds

outshone even the splendid Powys heirlooms.
If the beauty of one's native county
                                                                 a reasonable

source of pride, the Salopians were fully justified. Grandly

fertile soil, splendid woodlands, noble, swift-flowing river,

beautiful parks arfd country houses, picturesque towns and

churches, and a general air of prosperity form the picture

my memory retains.

    It true such fertile soil has its drawbacks hills look
is                                                               ;

tamer when cultivated to their summits than when gorse

and heather run riot over them and coming from the
                                      ;

                                         I
open downs and commons of Surrey, missed the freedom
of walks and rides over short crisp turf. Still, Shropshire

was so beautiful  I  did not wonder at the love all our

family felt for it. Most of them had an absolute horror

of the atmosphere, the crowds, and the dirt of London,
Manchester, Birmingham and all large cities. Some of
them were said to have fretted and pined themselves ill

when obliged to live in London.

Unfortunately, proud contentment with one's own place

and conditions of life      often a bar to progress, and the
                        is
                                                                        a

                                                                                   a
Shropshire of my young days was in some ways behind the
rest of England, and content to be so. 'They make re-

ligion of their field sports/ said indignantly to me girl from
4 CHARLES PRITCHARD

another county who had married into the family. And, cer-

tainly, these were a main object of attention and conversation,

and art and science were nowhere compared to them ! Next,
I think, in the Salopian estimation, after field sports, came

cookery, which occupied a vast deal of thought and care.

Perhaps this was excusable with such excellent provisions to

be done justice to : splendid and abundant game, fat-pastured

meat, Severn salmon, and cream plentiful as milk in a poorer

country. Still, it did sound excessive to be told that my

grandfather once took a long coach journey to buy a dish of

cranberries, because there happened to be none in Shrewsbury

market when he had a fancy for them !

     Temperance and total abstinence were not yet preached
through the length and breadth of England, but near London,

in good society, it had become unusual for gentlemen to take

too much wine after dinner. In Shropshire it was yet com-

mon enough ! Shropshire ale was famous ; not at all the

sharp, bitter drink now so much relished. It was sweet and

'humming,' much more malt in     less hops, and terriblyif
                                     it,
potent. But the native heads were 'hard,' and could stand
an immense amount of it.                                 !
                                                          '
Another thing that surprised me among my mother's

immediate relations was their love of frolic, almost buffoonery,

in which grown men and women would indulge, carrying

out in the form of practical jokes.* In this life of jovial
                                                                 S a it
* As an illustration, may tell true story of a trick played by two ladies
c                      a                                                        it
       a'thoroughly ladylike women they were and no one who knew of thought thea

        Iworse of them for it.

They were sisters aunts of my mother both remarkably handsome women.

They each of them in turn had received and rejected the addresses of squire who

might have served Sheridan as model for Bob Acres, and whose devotion to the

fair sex in general had won for him the nickname of the Knight of  e.' He

would not take no for an answer, and, on one occasion, followed these ladies up

to London, whither they had taken my mother, a girl of sixteen, to whom he had

offered the bribe of gold watch and chain she would induce one or other of her

aunts (he did not care which to listen to his suit After pestering them for!)
some days with his attentions, he suddenly appeared with tickets for a front box
EARLY LIFE  5

enjoyment, free, open-air sports and general self-indulgence

were the elder members of my uncle's family brought up, and
I think it is much to their credit to be able to say that they
one and all showed energy and readiness in putting a shoulder
to the wheel when the pinch of altered circumstances made
itself felt

     As far as we can trace the annals, the founder of the

family to which my uncle belonged was a prosperous and
much-respected man, town clerk of Meole, a small town near
Shrewsbury, about the beginning of the eighteenth century.
He was the great - grandfather of Professor Pritchard. He

must have been a contemporary, as he was certainly a rela-

tion, of a highly-gifted woman, Mrs Pritchard, the celebrated
Shakespearian actress who preceded Mrs Siddons, and whose

splendid talents and spotless private character have won for
her a monument and a poetical epitaph in Poets' Corner in

Westminster Abbey.

     I have often thought it must have been the tradition of

their relationship to this great actress and excellent woman
which brought about the anomaly of a very strong love and
admiration for the stage amongst many members of the
Pritchard family, in spite of their Calvinistic principles and

education.

     My grandmother (the mother of Charles Pritchard) was a
notable instance of this. She would take any trouble and

endure any fatigue to see a good play well acted. While

a young married woman, she was staying in her father-in-

law's house at Meole, when a travelling company of players
arrived, in such poor plight that, not being able to hire the

at a theatre, which he pressed upon them, saying he had intended to be their

escort, but, to his great chagrin, was obliged to go down to Shropshire that very

night. To get rid of him, they accepted the tickets ; but, when the evening came,
they all three dressed up in old bonnets and shawls and went to the pit (which
was permissible then), and from thence enjoyed the joke of seeing the unfortunate
knight enter his box, find it empty, and sit there alone all through the perform-

ance !
6 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Shrewsbury theatre, they acted 'Macbeth' in a barn, and
went round to the houses of the well-to-do inhabitants to
solicit not only the purchase of tickets, but the loan of
articles of furniture and even of dress ! My grandmother
lent her black satin dress to the actress who played Lady
Macbeth, whose own name was Mrs Siddons ! and whose
brother, named John Kemble, played Macbeth !

     Years afterwards (in 1816), the famous actress was re-
called to the stage to play her great part, by Royal com-
mand, before the newly-married pair, Princess Charlotte and
Prince Leopold, and my grandmother stood for four hours at
the door of the great London theatre, and had her clothes

nearly torn off her back in the entrance crush. It was under-
stood that Lady Macbeth was to wear the coronation robes
of Mary of Modena, queen to James II., which had been pre-

served by some adherent of the Stuarts and sold by a needy

descendant

     My grandmother used to describe the scene and Lady
Macbeth's stately sweep of her train when, in uttering the

line
                     * Greater still, by the All hail, hereafter ! '

she turned towards the Royal box, and made a point of the

words by a majestic curtsey to the Princess, which brought

down the house in thunders of applause. And then came the

very natural comment : ' Only to think that I had lent her

my black    satin  gown    to    play  that  part     in  a  barn    '  A most
                                                                   !

unwarrantable use, no doubt, for the actress to make of her

' words ' and poor Mary of Modena's historically splendid

robes (see Macaulay), must have been a shocking anachron-

ism.  But,  'I  tell  the  tale  as  'twas  told  to  me       '
                                                             !

The Princess Charlotte died the next year (1817), and my

grandmother in 1820, leaving her youngest son just twelve

years old.

The second generation of * Pritchards of Meole ' were
                           EARLY LIFE                                                                                          7

equally prosperous, and one of them was an archite and

engineer of no mean ability. He built the first iron bridge
in England, over the Severn, in Coal Brook Dale. It has

given the name of Ironbridge to the town which sprang up

around and still known as Pritchard's Bridge among
      it,
architects and engineers.is
                          a
                                      a

                                                                        '

                                                               a

                                                                                                                            '
The second son of this generation was Professor Prit-

chard's grandfather. He established                              flourishing business

in Shrewsbury, and had family of thirteen children, who

all grew to mature, and some to extreme old age. On

his retirement to house at Meole, built for him by his

architect brother, he handed over his house and business

in Shrewsbury to his eldest and third sons. The third

was William Pritchard, the professor's father, and he had

four sons and two daughters. The eldest of the family

was my mother, the youngest child was Charles, and as

he was twelve years her junior, this brought me, her only

child, more on  level with him as to age than might
1
          1

        it

                               a
                                       a

                                      it

                                                              a

                                                     I
have otherwise been the case.

My grandfather, William Pritchard, has always been

described to me as man of remarkable talent, industry

and integrity, but of a violent temper, and impatient of

the least contradiction. Politics, as have said, ran high

among Salopians, and       unluckily happened that about

 80 there was a fierce election contest between two rival

branches of the Hill family, which seems to have brought
with all the bitterness of civil war. In this contest

William Pritchard became a violent partisan, and most

unfortunately in opposition to his brother-partner and all

the rest of his family. Strange tales were still current

when  I  was in Shrewsbury of the fury of the struggle,

and of the unheard-of expenses of the rival candidates,

both of whom were said to have impoverished their estates.

'Voters were brought even from the West Indies, and

Shrewsbury was drowned in strong ale.'
 8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

     To my grandfather the consequences were disastrous.
 He had alienated friends and made enemies to such an

 extent that the town was unbearable to him, and he
 migrated to London. From this time for twenty years

his life was a continuous fight with difficulties, of which
the consequences fell heavily on his children. For several

 years after leaving Shrewsbury, their greatest happiness
 seems to have been paying occasional long visits to their
 maternal grandfather's farm at Rowton,* near Shrewsbury,
when all country delights were once more theirs, and they

always spoke of it as of a Garden of Eden.
      Their father had fixed his new abode at Brixton.

There was much about him of which his descendants
may well be proud. His second son, John, has left behind
him a short family chronicle, from which I have drawn a
good many facts and dates not within my own knowledge.
He draws a portrait of his father at this time as of a man
just and honourable in all his dealings, never descending
to any tricks of trade, working on in the teeth of evil
fortune, employing the best materials and paying the best
wages. Who can doubt that his youngest child derived
his wonderful health and vitality from a father who is
described at forty years of age as walking daily to and
from his work in London at such a pace that a young man

who had rashly bet his companions that he would keep
up with him was completely knocked up, and had to give
in to his unconscious competitor.

     Professor Pritchard was born at Brixton on February
28th, i8o8,f but no one can now point out the house.
Being the youngest child, he had never enjoyed, except in

       * From this village Lord Beaconsfield's friend, Lord Rowton, takes his
title.

     t This is undoubtedly the right date. But it is remarkable that, like his

contemporary, Cardinal Manning, Professor Pritchard was unable to say with
certainty in what year he had been born.
EARLY LIFE  9

brief holiday snatches, the blissful life of a Shropshire
country boy. This may have been good for him in some
ways, but it left him scarcely any pleasant recollections
of his childhood. For field sports he never through life
had time or opportunity, and I do not think he shared
his brother's hatred of London, though no one more de-

lighted in country air and scenery. Neither can he ever,
except at Rowton, have known a lavish indulgence in
' good things,' and though he liked them keenly,* he
never became a slave to the pleasures of the table. He
fully shared, however, the family love of boisterous, rol-

licking fun, and used to indulge in it sometimes to a

degree rather detrimental to dignity, but which was no

doubt a safety valve for a brain that worked so much at

high pressure.

     I think he was too much taken up with science ever

to take deep interest in politics. The greatest misfortune
of his childhood was the death of his mother when he was

only twelve years old. Her precociously clever youngest
son fell, after her death, first under the rule of an aunt

who was proud of his talents, and alternately petted and

punished him. I am afraid he had the character of being

a 'very naughty boy/ and cost his second sister many
tears, but she (a very lovely girl) married at sixteen,
and his aunt died early, and from that time his home
life was unsoftened by womanly kindness till he left college.

It is true he inherited his father's irritability, and could
not have been easy to manage, but from anecdotes I have
heard I suspect his naughtiness often consisted of trouble-

some pranks, which were punished just as much as moral

offences. Of this kind of injustice I think there are traces
of his recollection and resentment in his Annals of Our School

       * He once wrote to ask me for a special recipe for mince pies, which he
remembered eating at Rowton, in the Christmas holidays.
10 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Life. In it he has given a graphic account of the way
he was shifted about to four different schools. To one
of these he never ceased to confess his obligations. It

was a private, middle-class school, kept by a * most worthy

and indefatigable master,' one John Stock, of Poplar. Of

his first private school at Uxbridge he gives no pleasant

picture, but he adds :

    'There must have been some good about it' (the
teaching), inasmuch as I am told that an elder brother
of mine, at the age of sixteen, was frequently observed

sitting apart in some solitary corner with his Aristophanes

in his hand, and there convulsed with laughter.'

    I felt some surprise when I first read this sentence in
the Annals ', for, in the first place, I am not inclined to

attribute this striking familiarity with the language and
perception of the humour of the old Greek drama to any

Uxbridge teaching, but to this wonderful boy's own talent.

In the second place, I could not understand how my Uncle

Charles, so modest as he was about his own powers, had

made so slight an allusion to his gifted * elder brother.' But

since I have been looking closely into dates and facts, I
see clearly that he really knew very little of his brother

George * (five years his senior), and may never have real-
ised the fact that he himself was not considered in boyhood
the cleverest of his very remarkable family. Such was the

case, however. A gentleman who had been at this same

Uxbridge seminary told my mother, at a time when 'the
head of Clapham Grammar School ' was becoming famous,
that he had been a 'schoolfellow of both her brothers,

George and Charles,' and that George was 'considered a

far cleverer lad than Charles could ever grow to.' And my

    I* Indeed, this appears from his own words : ' had no companion of my own

 age, nor, indeed, of any age, excepting my two brothers ' by whom he meant
 William and John. George must have been sent to New Orleans before Charles
 went to Uxbridge, and he probably spent all his holidays at Rowton where he was
 a favourite.
EARLY LIFE  II

mother and my Uncle John both declared to me in after
years that this had always been the family verdict. The
sequel of the short life of this promising scholar George
was a sad one. An uncle on his mother's side, who was
' doing well in cotton ' at New Orleans, made my grand-
father an offer to take one of his sons off his hands. At

the time the offer was made, the two eldest were just

starting for themselves in business in London. Charles was

too young (only eleven years old), so George was sent
out, and very soon fell a victim to yellow fever, to the
great grief of all who knew him, and who felt he had

been sacrificed to pecuniary circumstances.

     Things were now going from bad to worse. None of
my uncles could ever speak without a shudder of the
years at Brixton that followed my grandmother's death,

when my grandfather's temper, exasperated by misfortune,

ruled supreme over their young lives. But brighter days

were at hand. A relative, struck with the business talents

of the eldest son William, had helped him and John to
establish themselves in London, and they partly under-
took the care of Charles till he could, by some means, be

sent to Cambridge.

     In 1822, the eldest of the family, my mother, was married
to John Allan, a retired surgeon of the Royal Navy, and
my grandfather, thus set free from the charge of his children,

soon after left Brixton and returned to Shrewsbury, where

he married a lady with a nice little property at a neigh-

bouring town (Middle), who gave the quaint reason for the
match that she 'married Mr Pritchard out of her great

regard for his first wife.' He survived his kind second wife

some years, and died at Middle in 1859, aged ninety years.
     His son John afterwards attained to the same great age.

I have perhaps dwelt too long on my uncle's early dis-
advantages, but to me it seems unjust to conceal them from

anyone who has to review his whole life and character,
           12 CHARLES PRITCHARD

The early loss of his mother, the subjection to an irascible
father's moods, the absence of the refining influences of

society, could not fail to be injurious to a passionate and
timid child. And, accordingly, he grew up bristling at all
points with asperities, which it took all the sunshine of
success, all the chastening of heart sorrow, all the purify-

ing work of religion gradually to smooth away in after years.
And to those who knew him best in latest life it was evident

that the smoothing process was going on to the very last.

     My mother's marriage proved a turning point in her

youngest brother's life. My father was a man of a high

order of intellect, and keen to perceive and encourage it

in others. He early discerned his young brother-in-law's

great talents and unfitness for a life of business drudgery.

           As my uncle himself expressed it to me, * Your dear father
                                          dinning " into my father that
           never ceased " dinning  a it,      it

           must go to Cambridge.' And, at last, other friends came
I
       II Iforward with substantial help, and the promising, rather

           uncouth, lad went to St John's College, Cambridge, in the
           least expensive way as sizar.

               Of his hard - won honours at college he has spoken

           modestly in the Annals.        aI  will only bear witness that

           never were the grand intentions of the founders exercised

           in the case of more grateful student. He never missed
                          Ia
           an opportunity of expressing his deep sense of them.
           With this period of his life my personal recollections of

           him commence.      distinctly remember his doings at Cam-

           bridge being discussed by my mother and my father, who

           followed every step of his progress with eager interest.

           Had   been as other children under ten years of age,

           relegated to schoolroom among companions of my own
                 a

           age,  should not have heard so much, nor understood

           what heard. But was solitary child with books for
                              I

           my bosom friends, and constantly in the company of my
           parents, especially of my father, who, with no wish to see
EARLY LIFE  13

me precocious, could not help elevating my mind above

my years. Thus it was, no doubt, that I can distinctly
remember an anxiously - expected letter, and my mother's
blank look and my father's tone of disappointment when
he read, ' Only fourth, not Senior Wrangler.'

     Here I shall anticipate a little to give my uncle's graphic
explanation of this, which we had from his own lips a little
later. He painted for us a word-picture of a scene, well
enough known in these days of examinations, but which

at that time, and to us quiet dwellers fifteen miles from
London, had all the charm and the awe of novelty. He

told us of the first day of the ' Tripos.' He described the

great 'schools,' the candidates each seated at his table,

the spectators looking down from the gallery, the devour-
ing anxiety when the papers were given out, the happy
satisfaction or the blank despair with which each man
viewed the work cut out for him, the various moods in

which they set to work at once, or else sat staring at

the task.

     He himself was, all through life, of a most nervous tem-

perament, and unable to concentrate his attention if anything

happened to worry him, Unluckily, the man nearest him

was gesticulative ; rustled his papers, fidgeted in his seat,

bit his pen, slapped his forehead, stamped his foot, all this
probably without much noise, but with enough to excite
my uncle's fastidious irritability. The result was that

Pritchard's paper was given up almost blank the first day,
or even two days, to the utter dismay of his tutor, who

knew him to be quite capable of answering the whole of
the questions. On the third day he made amends; a
mathematical paper was set, of exceptional difficulty, the
crux of the examination, which instantly called forth and
absorbed all the powers of his mind. From that moment
the hall, the spectators, his competitors, his own fears of
failure, existed no longer for him. As his intellect rose
14 CHARLES PRITCHARD

to grapple with the abstruse problem, he must have felt
something akin to

                               ' The joy which warriors feel
                             In foemen worthy of their steel.'

     He came out of the struggle successful and content.
' That paper gave him his place,' and he went through the

rest of them with comparative ease. I believe there was

no doubt among tutors and examiners that he would have

come out first of his year if he could have * collected ' him-

self earlier. Anyhow, he took one of the Smith's Prizes
soon after, and then came down to us at Epsom to enjoy

a rest.

    How well I remember looking out for the coach, and

seeing him come down from the outside, a spare, pale
young man, with a rather narrow, but very high, forehead,
abundant long black hair, which he often swept back like
a mane, and those wonderful dark blue eyes which never
needed spectacles after more than three score and ten years
of microscope and telescope, and Greek type and mathe-

matical symbol, and incessant writing and reading. I did
not think him good-looking, rather the reverse, but he

fascinated me, and the fascination never wore off, but en-
dured through all the changes and chances of our respective
lives. There was about him a sense of power, of the pres-

ence of something more than an ordinary man. The spell
lay partly in his voice and manner of speaking, which was
unlike anyone else. Except when raised in anger or com-
mand, the voice was low, and even a little thick. He had
lisped when a child, and there was something left like a
lisp in a peculiar movement of the lips that gave emphasis
to some syllables. How can I describe that way of breath-

ing out words, rather than speaking them, when he was

very earnest, that so instantly riveted attention ? It was
EARLY LIFE  15

like a whisper, yet was not a whisper. I am not quite

sure that a strict elocutionist would not deem it a defective

mode of utterance. All I know is that it gave an impression

of such sincerity, such conviction of the importance and
truth of what he was saying, that none who heard could
lightly disregard what was said. I have watched the effect
of these undertones on guests at my father's table, on men

who, for the most part, had made their own names known,

and who had not, in the early days, heard of Charles

Pritchard, who as yet knew him only as the brother-in-law
of their host, and were not attracted by his rather shy, not
very conciliatory manner. After a few sentences exchanged,
there would be a look of surprise, then interest, and this

would deepen into respect and admiration as the talk

proceeded. It was no trick of diction, no effort to gain

attention. Though conscious of great mental power, no
 man was ever more modest, or knew better his own limita-

tions. He never talked, or lectured, or preached to show

off his own learning. Overbearing and abrupt he might
 be in argument, but only because he was sincerely convinced
of the truth himself, and could not bear to hear it disputed.

 If convinced of being in the wrong, he would own it un-

 reservedly. Conceit was to him a thing intolerable. In
 fact, there was in him a certain timidity or diffidence of his
 own powers. He told me he had rather shrunk from a
 conference with sceptics of the working-class, whom he
 was asked to meet and address, ' because,' he said, ' I have

 no readiness.'

      After entering on his career as a schoolmaster, he used
 often to run down to Epsom to talk over his difficulties,

 his quarrels with committees, his plans, etc., with my father,

 and then would grow enthusiastic over education and science.

 I (a mere child) was supposed to be absorbed in my favourite
 books, but I used to listen entranced and watch my dear

  father's face, sometimes grave and cautioning, sometimes
  1 6 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 approving, and often lighting up with delight when some
 new development in science was unfolded to him. My
 mother, though as intelligent as the rest of her family,
 was a bad listener, being too intent (like a true Salopian)
 on * matters of the house,' but she used to pass in and out,

 well pleased to see the two conversing on high themes.

     As time went on we saw less of him, and my father
 died, and I really believe no one felt his death more deeply
 than my uncle. Then there were sorrows and changes in
 his own home circle, and then again a sort of renewal of his
youth, and a time of retirement to enjoy life again and
 rest in the Isle of Wight. How he was called back to

university life and astronomical research he has himself
told us. He really lived the lives and earned the fame
of two or three ordinary men. Let others more competent
speak of him as a schoolmaster, a theologian, a man of
science, an astronomer. I only wish to bear my small
tribute to his extraordinary powers as a preacher^ and to
express the regret I often felt that he had no larger and

more permanent opportunity of making them felt. At

one time we thought this would have been the case. He
was encouraged, when still very young, to stand as a candi-
date for the Preachership at the Magdalen Chapel, then
a fashionable resort of ' the religious world ' on Sunday,
and famed for its eloquent preachers. My father and I

drove up from Epsom to hear his trial sermon. I remember

it dimly as being exquisitely pathetic. We were told

afterwards that he very nearly got the appointment, but
interest among the governors prevailed in favour of another

candidate.
     He preached a good deal, about this time, in various

pulpits in Stockwell and Clapham. He prepared his sermons
with as much intense application as he had ever employed
for his university studies, sitting up half the night after his
school work, and drinking green tea ! What would the
EARLY LIFE  I/

doctors of the present day say to such a regimen for an
excessively nervous man ? He would not put less work or

less earnestness into the message he had to give from God,

than he put into his secular teaching; and the result was a
tone of sincerity that carried all before it at a time when

popular preachers were much given to a bland plausibility.

It was rather the fashion with them to preach in lavender-
coloured gloves, and I once heard him say, ' It is incon-
ceivable to me how a man can preach in gloves ! ' This
quality of sincerity must have been very strongly marked

to induce his second sister, whose tears his boyish
* naughtiness ' had caused to flow, and who knew better than

anyone else all his failings and infirmities of temper as a
young man, to follow him about from church to church,

only to hear him preach !

    I myself can never forget some of those early sermons,
although I cannot trust my memory to quote from them.

He was not eloquent^ his voice did not suit a large building
well, but his choice of language was exquisite, his power of

arresting attention most remarkable, and his tenderness and

pathos irresistible because so thoroughly unaffected. I have

heard many fine preachers, but none so impressive.

     In daily life his moods were capricious ; sometimes full of
deep solemnity, sometimes indulging like a boy in boisterous

fun, sometimes irritable and nervous to an extraordinary
degree. The horror of affectation, of appearing to pose y

would often lead him, after uttering some beautiful and

touching sentiment, to turn it off with a jest, as if deprecating

his own sincerity and emotion a habit very discomposing

and perplexing to listeners.
     But in the pulpit all these inconsistencies and eccen-

tricities were swept away and forgotten in the awful arid
intense earnestness with which he set himself to deliver his
divine message to his fellow human beings. He was trans-

figured for the time, and greatly dignified, and I could

                                                            B
1 8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

wish he had been more frequently known and seen in that

aspect.

    One sentence from one sermon I shall venture to quote.

I heard him preach it in Clapham School Chapel soon after a
deep family affliction. The subject was the story of Lazarus.
He came to the Saviour's words to Martha : ' Thy brother
shall rise again,' and her answer, 'Yea, Lord, I know that

he shall rise again at the last day ' ; and he paraphrased

it : * Yea, Lord, I know that he shall rise again at
the last day it is no fear, no doubt of that ! Oh,

Lord, it is not that not that, which makes my heart so
desolate ! '

     How cold the words look now they are written ! To hear
them was like listening to a stanza of ' In Memoriam ' recited
by a master of tone-music, and it seemed quite natural

to me in later years that the preacher who so uttered them

had become a close friend of the poet, when neighbourhood

brought them together.

     As soon as his position was assured by his success at
Cambridge and consequent appointment as headmaster of
the Stockwell Grammar School,' 3'4 my uncle began, naturally,

* At this particular time, what were called ' Grammar Schools ' were

being opened in many localities on rather a novel plan, and there was a general

stir in the public mind on the subject of education.

Charles Pritchard was the first headmaster of the Stockwell School, and

at its opening he delivered an address which made a deep impression, and
for many years he used to speak of it as ' the best thing he had ever done.'

      It was a very earnest exposition of his theories of education theories then

novel and rather startling, but which, for the most part, have been adopted since

then. It showed him in the character of a pioneer. In one respect, I think few

of his followers can have attained to the same pinnacle of success that he did in

inspiring schoolboys with a sense of honour.

The first time my husband went with me to Clapham, an apple tree, loaded

with ripe fruit, was hanging over the private garden wall into the playground, and

my husband remarking upon this with surprise, my uncle stopped in his walk, and

said in that deep, soft, emphatic voice of his,                 would  touch one  of

     ' I should be sorry, indeed, to think that one of my boys

those apples ! '

And it was quite clear that not one of them had done so !
                          EARLY LIFE                                       19

                  is,
                                   a
                                                              a

                                                                       it
to long for what and ought to be, the ambition of every

right-minded young man      home with wife in                              and

he had not far to seek.

With his reputation for remarkable talent as a teacher,

preacher and lecturer, he could not but be attractive to

the minds and hearts of the female part of his acquaintances.
It true that he was not handsome, but his appearance was
a I is
impressive, and his shyness and want of society manners were

in his favour, as they were set down to his absorption in

thoughts of higher things. Besides this, he was extremely

fascinating, and       was not easy to resist the persuasive
        a
tones of his soft, earnest voice. We, therefore, watching
                   it
every step of his progress from only little distance (at
                                      a

                                        I

                                                                          a
Epsom), were not surprised to hear that he had won the

heart of young and beautiful girl.    well remember

Emily Newton's first visit to Epsom, and how we were

charmed with her. My dear father especially formed an

affection for her that never wavered during the rest of his

life, and she returned  it  warmly. To me she was ever

kind and sincere friend.

        myself do not remember the exact date of the marriage,a it
but am told was in the year 1836. As he had, of course,
to give up his Fellowship, some care was required at first

to manage small income, and at the same time to keep

up liberal style of housekeeping for the private pupils
whom he at first received in his own house. And must
                                               it

be said, in simple justice, that his young wife made an

admirable mistress to their small establishment. She had

learned the art of housekeeping well at her father's house

before she married, though the education she received at

fashionable Clapham school was superficial and shallow
a
     a
                                                                                                              a
to degree that would not now be believed, and did no

justice to her really considerable powers of mind. As

hostess she was admirable, and when the success of the

Clapham School rapidly expanded, she rose to the level
20 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of her husband's improved position, and 'did the honours'

for him splendidly.

     This was the bright side ! There was a reverse, of
which I need not say much. My uncle was at that time
not an easy man to live with. His superabundant energy

made him restless under the combined cares and inevitable

anxieties of school and family, and his natural irritability
of temper broke out only too often. To spare him as

much as possible, his children were being constantly sent
away to the country homes he was now able to provide
for them at Ramsgate, at the Lakes, and elsewhere.

     The Clapham life was one of continual excitement and
turmoil, wonderfully successful, but fitted neither for him

nor for his wife, who, unfortunately, was as nervous and

excitable as himself.

     As a small and trifling instance of the kind of thing
which was continually happening, I remember going over

one day from Kensington after my marriage, and finding

the whole establishment, from the headmaster down to

the kitchenmaid, in a commotion over coffee-pots.

     He was never satisfied with anything short of perfec-
tion. Some complaint had been made of the coffee, and
the whole school had more than once been kept waiting
breakfast while some new form of coffee-pot or * biggin '

was tried. Some made the coffee thick, others were too

slow, and one sort after another was discarded. Matron
and cook were in tears, masters were surly and uncom-
fortable, my uncle was furious, and my aunt wild with
worry.

    As soon as I appeared I was pounced upon to explain
how the coffee used to be made at Epsom, where it was

always good.

    I said, ' In a flannel bag, but that I believed felt bags

were to be bought, which answered as well.'

    ' Ah, yes, felt was the right material ; ' and instantly I
EARLY LIFE  21

know not how many felt bags were ordered, nor do I

know whether they were successful.
     Never a strong woman, my aunt died at little more

than middle age, leaving her children at the most critical

time of their lives, just growing out of boyhood and

girlhood.
     No bereaved husband and father ever mourned more

sincerely for the loss of his wife, or ever tried more con-
scientiously to do his duty to his motherless children. His
eldest son soon after entered the Civil Service of India,

and his distinguished services and the very eminent position

to which he has attained have proved him to be his father's

intellectual heir. He is now Sir Charles Pritchard, C.S.I.,
K.C.I.E., and so distinguished a man that to be his father
is in itself no ordinary distinction, and it becomes a matter
of unusual interest when not only the talents, but many
characteristics of the father have been so clearly reproduced

in the son.

    The Times of India, of 29th February 1896, says :
    'Sir Charles Pritchard left India on Saturday last after
a service of something over eight-and-thirty years. He
carries with him the hearty good wishes of all who know

him. . . .

    ' Sir Charles arrived in India before the last echoes of
the Mutiny had entirely died away. His first work was to
free Belgaum from bands of robbers. . . .

    1 Two years later his name became still more widely
known in connection with his exposure of the great Public

Works Fraud. About this time the Salt Department was
ripe for his energies, and in five years, with so much vigour
had he taken it up, that the revenue went up from 68 to
104 lacs. His fame as an organiser spread abroad, and in
1876 he was appointed President of the Madras Salt
Commission. . . .

    ' All this was preparatory to the great work of his official
22 CHARLES PRITCHARD

career. He devised a scheme which aimed at the high
ideal of diminishing drunkenness, while at the same time

increasing the revenue, and he carried it through with the

unflagging energy and masterfulness which were the dis-
tinguishing characteristics of his career. Whatever may

be the final verdict on the scheme, it was worked out with

a courage and ability which compel admiration and cordial

acknowledgment . . .                                     in
                                                         to
    4 In 1887 Sir Charles Pritchard became Commissioner
Sind, where he devoted his extraordinary energies

harbour works, irrigation, railway extension, the establish-

ment of women's hospitals, training schools for nurses, etc. . . .

     ' In 1889 ne was appointed member of Council, and
towards the end of 1892 he took his place as Public Works
Minister of the Viceroy's Council/

     The article ends, after some details of his ' masterfulness '

in putting down the smuggling in salt, with these words :

* A singularly able and gifted administrator in all he under-

took, Sir Charles Pritchard made many friends, who view

his departure with regret, and wish him a very happy time

on his well-earned retirement.'

My uncle remained a widower for several years. Very

soon after his second marriage, which took place in 1859 to
Miss Rosalind Campbell, my children's health induced us

to remove from the neighbourhood of London into the

country, so that I saw comparatively little of his second
wife. But I saw enough to convince me more than ever

of the wonderful fascination he could exert when he pleased

and wished to win. For it could have been no common

attraction that could induce a sweetly charming and high-

born young woman, with a handsome fortune and great

good sense, to marry a man of fifty years of age with a

family nearly grown up.

    I saw enough, too, to convince me that it was a marriage

of sincere affection on both sides.
EARLY LIFE  23

     I believe his wife soon saw that the Clapham life was too
trying and exciting for my uncle's nervous temperament, and
that it was in deference to her judicious wish that he retired

to the Isle of Wight. I am quite sure it was the real rest he

found there (when really and for the first time living a quiet
domestic life) that enabled him to make a fresh departure as
an astronomer at Oxford, to the amazement and admiration
of his contemporaries.*

    Of Freshwater and Oxford his younger children have

written in a way that leaves no doubt as to the happy influ-

ences that guided the latter half of his life. Even the last
crowning grief of their mother's almost sudden death, in 1891,

seems, from their accounts, to have had none but a softening

effect upon him, ripening his heart and spirit for the last

great change.
     And here my task is ended. May it appear to others less

imperfectly accomplished than it does to the writer.

    I* cannot refrain from adding ray tribute to my Aunt Rosalind's memory.

She was an ideal helpmate for a highly gifted and highly irritable man. Had it
been the good fortune of Mozart or Moliere to meet with such a wife, they might
not, perchance, have died in their prime, and the world might have been the
richer by many a masterpiece.
CHAPTER II

HIS WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER, 1833-1862,

By himself

   [Of my father's career as a schoolmaster, the best account
has been given by himself. When, in 1886, the gold medal of

the Royal Astronomical Society was conferred upon him, a

large number of his former Clapham pupils celebrated the event
by entertaining their old schoolmaster at a dinner, which took

place in London on the 5th of July, and of which fuller mention
will be made in its proper place. It was to this company of
'Old Boys r that my father soon afterwards addressed the
autobiographical pamphlet entitled, Annals of Our School Life,
the bulk of which is contained in the succeeding chapter. A. P.]

MY own school education was not fortunate. Sixty years
ago, and before Dean Stanley's interesting portraiture of

Rugby life, public schools were in general, and in many
respects, incredibly inferior to their present condition; on
the other hand, private establishments, or, as they are often

ignominiously but unreasonably designated, private adven-

tures, were at that day intrinsically pretty much the same

as they are now. Not resting on endowment and ancient

establishment, they were within easy reach of the effects of
opinion. I cannot judge accurately and in all respects of my
own first school, but the little that I do remember was not

pleasant ; this recollection, however, touches only on the
internal and economical arrangements. For there must

I                                                                                   inasmuch

                                                                               it,
have been something substantially good about

as am told that an elder brother of mine at the same school,

at the age of sixteen, was frequently observed sitting apart

24
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                                   2$

in some solitary corner with his Aristophanes in his hand,

and there convulsed in laughter.* Our great public schools

can produce nothing better in that line at the present day.

I was myself far too young to emulate or appreciate any

such accomplishment, but I was quite old enough to be con-

scious of other discipline and severe deprivation. Whether
it was in consequence of the dietetic hygiene of Abernethy,
or whether it came from the observation of the lower animals,

I remember to this day that we were never allowed to drink
until we had finished the solid parts of our respective meals!

Worse than that, no drinking was permitted between the

meals, not even in respect of fluids non-alcoholic. The

consequences of this arbitrary regulation were natural and

unsalutary. In the first place, we resorted to an old and half

fetid rain-water barrel; and in the second, we contrived to

haul up bottles of water, procured out of the town, into our
Ifbedrooms, at the hazard of a consequent flagellation.
                                                         the

mention of such trivial matters as these excites your surprise,
I pray you to call to mind the happier condition of the old
Clapham school life; and, if the contrast is evident, then I

would have you believe that and many other regulations,
I

                            it,

                                            a

                                                 aI
                                                 I
owed their origin to the recollection of my own boyish
sufferings, and of many other illiberalities of which was the
conscious subject. As another instance of this contrast and
of its origin, may recall to mind the institution of the

Clapham swimming bath, from which so many of your-

selves derived advantages still probably in activity.  have

no doubt that the suggestion of this device originated in

some unpleasant reminiscences of mine in relation to the

River Colne at Uxbridge. The one-armed gentleman who

presided over our establishment was wont to attach rope to

one of our arms, and then project us into ten feet of water by
the side of some floodgates on that stream. The effect of
this regulation, owing probably to certain stubbornness of

*See p. 10.
26 CHARLES PRITCHARD

disposition, and a too sensitive appreciation of justice, was

exhibited in my case, in that I have never learnt to swim.
On the other hand, when my own turn came, I established the

gentler amenities of the bath at Clapham, with the result that

in due time the ' Old Boys ' of those days could all swim.

    From my Uxbridge school I was removed, at about the
age of twelve years, to Merchant Taylors'. Here again I

was fated to be unfortunate. The aged preceptor of my own

form was possessed by an evil spirit of somnolescence, which

it seemed impossible to exorcise. He would habitually fall

asleep with a cane in his hands, or into a state of half-uncon-

scious doze, during lessons; from time to time he would

suddenly wake up, and the consequence was that a sharp

instantaneous crack was heard, proceeding from the collision

of the dread instrument with some luckless hand. If I failed

to make much progress in the studies of the        place thus
administered, I fear I did attain to considerable
                                                   proficiency
in the art of truant-playing, one effect of which
                                                   was that I

gained an intimate acquaintance with the precincts and

topography of the Tower of London, my favourite haunt on
such occasions. Detection naturally followed, and ought I to

regret to say that the kind-hearted headmaster of that day,

instead of flogging me as I deserved, took the wiser course

and removed me into a higher form ? I wonder whether good
Mr Bellamy discerned in the erring boy traces of powers

which might come to a happier development in later years ?

   If the class discipline thus described was unsalutary, very

different but much severer was another discipline to me in
another respect. In those hardy days the school-work in
Suffolk Lane commenced at seven in the morning. My habita-
tion was nearly four miles distant, at Brixton. For a year and

a half, or more, it was my fate to amble rather than to walk

to school through those weary miles, regardless of rain or fog.

    I do not remember that I ever complained of this severe

arrangement : I was old enough to be aware that temporary
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  2/

economical necessities were the cause, and I can never forget

that the words most frequently heard in my home were

' Education/ * Education ' ; so I suppose I felt that I was

being 'educated. 5

    In due time, 1822, I was removed from these untoward
influences to an admirable private school in the suburbs of

London. My new Orbilius was a man who, contradistin-

guished from my former mentor, slept but little, and never

in school-time.

     He was a self-educated, energetic, practical man of very

considerable abilities. He possessed largely the art of inspir-
ing his pupils with the spirit of ambitious competition. The
best arithmetician, the best writer, the best reader of the

week, were all duly chronicled in our hebdomadal registers ;
and as I had within my own family been strongly imbued

with the spirit of Achilles, aisv dpiffr&vsiv, I in due course
became an adept in all sorts of arithmetical calculus, and I
acquired 'the art of reading, writing, and speaking, with

propriety/ Our chief read to us weekly some well-selected
piece of English literature, and we weekly learnt some thirty
lines out of Enfield's Speaker. Now, supposing this practice
were continued even for two years of forty weeks, the accumu-
lated result would be nearly 2500 lines of poetry, passing
through, and dwelling for a sensible time at least, in our

minds. Some of these excerpts from the poets I still retain,
to my great refreshment. The elder Struve, the greatest of

Russian astronomers, records that he was once stricken with

a malady, in the course of which there recurred to his

memory much of the literature which in various languages

he had learned in his early youth, but had subsequently

wholly forgotten. I am told that such maladies are by no
means unknown at the present day : if so, some of us may

have been visited with, so far, a not unpleasant surprise.

Apart from this, the practice, even to a much larger extent,
is assuredly salutary. Who of us, for instance, can ever
 28 CHARLES PRITCHARD

forget the lines of occasionally poetic wisdom grotesquely
expressed in the syntax of the old Eton Latin Grammar?

Boys under modern education, I fear, in general miss this

pleasant advantage. We were, at this stirring school, in-
dulged also with the sight of a fine collection of working
models of such machinery as then existed, made and used

by the celebrated Ferguson, a name well known to all

English astronomers. The collection included telescopes
and quadrants, and suchlike instruments of antiquated build.
The mere sight of such implements is in itself an invaluable
incitement to the curiosity of youth, and (as in my own case)
probably has formed the turning-point of intellectual procli-
vities. I remembered all this when, about some twenty years
ago, I introduced a watering-engine into my garden in a
secluded parish of the Isle of Wight. Up to that day few of
the inhabitants had seen any form of machinery beyond a

spade or a plough. There have been, and I fear there still
are, forms of education where the intellectual environments

are bounded by what can be seen outside a tramcar, moving
within a very contracted area. Beyond all, our active

schoolmaster insisted on our acquiring the use of scales and
compasses and the art of geometrical drawing ; the delinea-
tion of maps and of architectural plans was also practised.

     Very many of us could use the theodolite, and could
survey and plot an estate. Our practice ground was mainly
in the Isle of Dogs, at that time an all but unoccupied waste,

and I well remember how, at the age of less than sixteen, I

earned two guineas for indoctrinating an intending colonist in
the art of field-surveying. I did not leave him until we had
completed the plan of Kennington Common, and had calcu-
lated its acreage. Besides this, several of us contrived to
hobble through the (Edipus Tyrannus and other suchlike
forms of youthful and thorny jungle.

    Now, I contend that this mode of education is pre-

eminently valuable, and its results adhere to the mind as long
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  29

as the mind retains its activities. Our great public schools
will one day learn to appreciate the value thereof. Some-
thing of this sort formed one of the many elements in the

scheme of education which I devised for yourselves at

Clapham : with this generic and important difference, that
I had enjoyed the inestimable advantage of a classical

and Cambridge education a boon denied to my most worthy
and indefatigable master. On the occasion of our recent
gathering, one of yourselves, a man than whom none is more

widely known or more highly respected in the city of
London, pulled out of his pocket an exquisitely arranged
chart of contemporaneous ancient history : ' There,' said he,
* there is what you taught me to do, and do it from memory
full fifty years ago.' I was also told, on authority not to
be questioned, that the first germ of what ultimately was

developed into that nobly useful Palestine Exploration,
was infused into the prolific mind of my dear old pupil,
Sir G. Grove, by some of our Saturday's imaginary travels

from Clapham through Palestine, illustrated by chalk-drawn

maps on the blackboard.* But that germ was in reality

previously sown in my own mind at Poplar. It was there
also that I first saw a retort and an air-pump, and an

electrical machine, used unskilfully enough, no doubt, but

used sincerely. A spark was thereby struck, which has been

fanned into abiding light and warmth in my own mind, and

subsequently in many others.

     I wish I could also trace the origin of a higher moral
form of teaching, to the abiding impression of these my early
schooldays. I have often thought I could, at least by way

of antithesis. Many of yourselves and I wish I might with

sincerity include the thought of all of you many of you
can remember what occurred to your minds during the time
set apart at Clapham to preparation for Confirmation. My

* Cp. p. 72.
30 CHARLES PRITCHARD

own Confirmation (alas! it was only in conformity to the
general type of that day) was to me solely a matter of
ceremonious form, to be gone through as a thing of course
age and the time of life alone being, for the most part

the sole antecedents considered as necessary for the rite.

I well remember that in the naughtiness of my heart
I did not exhibit even the ordinary reverence due to a

decent rite. My punishment was grotesque, but it was

well intended ; I was not allowed to descend to the

bottom of the East India Docks in a diving-bell ! a

scientific privilege reserved for those who were better

behaved than myself. The rebuke was well intended, but

in my case it partly missed its aim ; for, inasmuch

as our mentor had previously explained that the denizens

of a diving-bell are usually beset by a notable singing
in the ears, it occurred to me that after all I was better
off out of the bell than in it. During the last half century,
much has elapsed tending to elevate the moral being of
the Englishmen of your generation. Peace and honour be
to the memory of my old schoolmaster, John Stock, of
Poplar, who did for me and for all of us ' what he could '
and he did very much of it well.

     My next removal was to a school again antithetical to
this last, but as I am not conscious that any impressions

were left on my intellectual or moral being which have

in any way borne fruit among my own pupils, I may dismiss
the record of it in few words. The headmaster of Christ's
Hospital was at that time (I am speaking of years ago)
permitted to take a limited number of private pupils,

who were placed in the classes under his own care at that

most benevolent and famous institution. For perhaps a
twelvemonth I was seated at the head of the Deputy
Grecians. I remember learning my classical work with
great diligence ; but the lessons themselves I was rarely

called on to ' say ' : no doubt some benefit was derived from
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  31

the performances of other boys, many of whom were gifted

with much ability. But here, again, I was involuntarily

enrolled among the peripatetics, and my fate was to learn

by rote a goodly number (some forty) lines from Thomson's
Seasons or from Homer, during a walk from St George's

Church, Southwark, over London Bridge to the Newgate
Street School. Perhaps a habit of abstraction was thereby
engendered ; for, very many years after, I have found

myself enjoying the poetry in Monge's Curved Surfaces^
or Lagrange's Mecanique Analytique in Exeter Hall, while
the harmonies of the ' Messiah ' or the ' Elijah ' were floating
sympathetically around me. Who shall say which was
the truer music of the two that of Handel, or of the French

analysts? and was the habit acquired among the crowds

on London Bridge ?

     The next two years* were to me probably less satisfactory

than most others in my life, and as I am not conscious of

much appreciable results from them on the proceedings

of our school life, they need not occupy much space in this
narrative. But even here is some exception. Economical
reasons, arising from the unfructiferous outcomes of a

manufacture of extreme difficulty, conscientiously but un-

successfully persevered in by my father, put a stop even

to the modest expenditure necessary for my schooling

at Christ's Hospital. The natural and imperative question
ensued, as to what to do with a lad between sixteen and

seventeen years of age, presumed to possess scholastic

knowledge, tastes and abilities beyond the average ? Fortun-
ately the advice and interference of an elder brother,
endued with an indomitable appreciation of intellectual

habits, prevailed, and it was agreed on that I should be
left to my own devices for study as best I could, and, as

best I could, prepare myself for an university life, under

* 1824-1826.
32 CHARLES PRITCHARD

the hope that from some quarter or another the means of

realising the project would come to hand. Progress in

purely classical studies for a boy left to his own resources

seemed to be beyond my hopes.  If,

                                                                                                 :
                               in 1825, there had existed

one-fiftieth part of those aids and advantages which are
within the reach of aspiring boys at the present day, then

my course would have been comparatively plain but

open scholarships and exhibitions at either university were

then as much the exception as they are now the rule, and

I  was not 'in the running' for such restricted competitions

as then existed. So was left to my own resources, and
              a
happily genuine love of knowledge of any and everyis,
   it a
                          I
sort stirred within my intellectual frame and inasmuch
                                            ;

                                                    I
as the most attainable form of knowledge for the untutored

was, and still    mathematics, so to mathematics betook

myself with will. Still there was nothing but my innate

love of to keep me steadfastly and steadily at work. As

an instance of my utter want of guidance,      I    remember

                                                   a
well how, on meeting in Wood's Algebra with reference

to Waring's Meditationes Algebraicce^       teased my brother
                               a
                                       a

                                         I
to procure for me copy. After diligent search among
                 I aI a
the second-hand book-shops,I   copy was at last procured

at the exorbitant cost of two guineas. Alas the ponderous
                                            !

old English analyst proved almost too much for even my

perseverance, and gained but little or no light from his

writings, except  tendency to distrust learned references

for the future.   read, think, Wood house's Trigonometry

and some of Lardner's Treatises on Analytical Geometry and

the Differential Calculus: they were the best expositions
in their day, but scarcely suited for academical examinations.

What pleased me most, and to me seemed as the revelation

of light, was the half-successful mastery of Lagrange's

modest volume on analytical functions the book seized
                                            :

                                                                             a
on my youthful imagination, and sealed me for ever as

lover of the concinnities of geometry and the exquisite
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  33

symmetry of its expressions when delineated by the hand
of a master. About the same time also I had the inestim-
able advantage of attending a course or two of lectures

on chemistry, given by Allen and Pepys at Guy's Hospital.
The hours were counted till the days of these lectures
came round, and ever after chemistry became to me, and
has remained, a passion.

    But in all this pleasing desultory work I had no com-
panion of my own age, nor indeed of any age, excepting

my two brothers, who did their best to express their sym-
pathy, and whose kindness and encouragement have left

an impression of gratitude on my affection never to be
effaced. Of genuine boyhood, its games, and its generous
friendships, I had no experience. Often and often have
I looked down from the balcony on the roof of the University

Observatory at young England disporting itself in the beauti-

ful park beneath, and there by athletic labours preparing
itself joyously but unconsciously for such duties of manly

endurance as it may one day be called on to undertake :
the sight of the contrast with my own youth has excited

not envy, not grief, but rather delight in their happier lot,

and thankfulness at their enjoyment.

     I had almost forgotten that about this time the ambition
of authorship had fired my young imagination, just as it

has often seized other students so soon as they fancy they

have mastered a new subject : they believe that they see

it in a clearer light than it has been seen in before, and they

long to communicate their discoveries to others. I doubt

not that it was in this way that the late Bishop of Natal was
impelled at the first to write his premature criticism on the
theology of which he had then commenced the study. My
own genius took a lower flight, and I succeeded in persuading
an adventurous bookseller in a provincial town to publish a
small brochure of mine * in the shape of an Introduction to

             * Introduction to Arithmetic, published by Piper, Ipswich, 1825.

                                                              C
 34 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Arithmetic. Looking at this little book in the light of the

present hour, I feel no shame at the contemplation. Even
now it is far ahead of most of the arithmetics of the present

day, inasmuch as every page of it teems with the attempt to
encourage thought. The elementary properties of numbers

are explained, and are demonstrated on the simplest prin-

ciples, and no arithmetical process is presented to the tyro
without the detail of the reason thereof. But, alas ! these

are just the very points that are useless in the modern form
of suicidal competition : the reasons of things do not in
general pay in the ' competitives.' I remember well how,

a few years ago, when I was examining the candidates
for certain valuable appointments, I put the rudimentary

question as to what numbers are divisible by eight? The
fact may seem astounding, but it is true, that out of sixty

candidates I did not get the question answered. It was too

simple, too practical, too much entering upon the reasons and

roots of things to have ever been pointed out by the ' coaches/
or to have been elicited by the curiosity of the students. All

such simple and instructive matters are attended to in my
brochure of fifty years ago, and were well known to me when

fourteen years of age. I owed the first knowledge of them to
the * private adventure ' school of the zealous schoolmaster at

Poplar.
     What joy was mine when at length I found that friends

were gathering round me, who agreed to furnish the funds
necessary for an university career. Among them were kind
relatives, some of them highly gifted and eminent clergymen,
who served God and their country in the generation before

your own. Two of these I cannot deny myself the pleasure

of mentioning. One of them was my uncle, Thomas Morti-
mer, the much-loved lecturer of St Olave's in the Borough,
and Vicar of St Mark's, Myddelton Square, one of the most

popular and useful clergymen in his day, specially among
young men. The other, also my uncle, was the Rev. William
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  35

Holland, formerly Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,
and Vicar of Swineshead in Lincolnshire. These excellent

men upheld me in my temporary low estate. One condition,
however, was attached to the accordance of this pecuniary
help : I engaged to refund the sums that should be neces-

sarily expended on my career at Cambridge, so soon as

I should acquire the means. Happily for me these means

were acquired in due time, and the debts were discharged.

From my heart I say, even at the present hour Deo

gratias.

     In my choice of a college I was left, as in most other
things, pretty much to my own devices. I had read with
feelings of emulation the memoirs of Kirke White, and

with even greater sympathy those of Henry Martyn, and
my sentiments were impressed by the record of the kindness
shown to the latter at the hands of the much-regarded tutor

of St John's, Mr Catton. The poet Wordsworth also had

been a Johnian, and for his poems I had conceived a passion,

unpopular as they were at that day. These considerations,

 inadequate enough in themselves, were operative in my final

selection of St John's. I do not doubt, however, that I was

also much influenced by the repute of the college as offering

peculiar encouragement to needy and promising students.

     In this way, just after Easter 1826, I found myself at
St John's College, Cambridge ; and in recording the fact
I cannot avoid the association which recurs to my mind, that
just sixty years afterwards I find my name enrolled in the
closer relation of an Honorary Fellow. A solitary student
 I was, but thankful then to be there on any terms. Not

that I had no introduction to the college tutors, but I

knew not a single person there of my own age, and happily
 for me, I was plunged at once into the thick of the term's
 work, with an examination impending before me within
six weeks. Nevertheless, I was not at the time painfully
conscious of loneliness, for there lay the work and the goal
36 CHARLES PRITCHARD

plain before me ; the work pleasant, though anxious enough ;

the goal, an honourable provision for life. I cannot truth-

fully say that no higher motives and hopes possessed me,
but the argumentum ad crumenam is absorbing in its appeal.

I believe that the more prevalent feeling of the moment was

connected with the consciousness that at length I was sur-
rounded by grand opportunities for learning, and that I was
at length in contact with minds highly cultivated, and
animated with many sympathies akin to my own.

     For in those days some would now regard them as

antediluvian and sunk in Cimmerian darkness our lectures

were viva voce ; not truly lectures in the usual sense of the

term, but strictly catechetical, and on subjects for the most
part prepared beforehand. We sat on chairs ranged round
the walls of the room, with the tutor at a small table in
our midst. We had nothing in our hands excepting an
unannotated copy of some classical author, or were pre-
sented in our turns with a cardboard, on which diagrams

were drawn relating to the mathematical subject before us.
Then came the logomachies between the tutor and the
undergraduate ; often amusing enough, and frequently very
instructive to those who came seriously to learn : sometimes
they were tedious, the results varying with the skill of the

tutor and the capacity of the examinee. One consequence
of this arrangement was, that both tutors and students
became in due course well acquainted with the attainments

and mental capacities of the men in each year, and we could
always make a reasonable guess at each man's final place in

the Tripos.* All this is now changed, and, as I regard

    changed for the worse for the college tutor now simply
reads his lecture for an hour, while the students take such

notes as suggest themselves to their inexperience.

     Of formal college examinations at St John's, there were

 - * This form of divination appears, in spite of the following sentence, to be not
wholly extinct at Cambridge.
it,

                                                                             ;
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  37

two annually, in May and in December. The college sub-
jects were all planned beforehand with great forethought
and skill, arranged for a three years' course. They consisted
of a considerable portion of one Greek and one Latin author
selected for each biennial examination. To these were added

two or three definite mathematical subjects, progressive in
their character, a Gospel in the original Greek, and some one

moral subject, under which term were included in my day

Paley's Moral Philosophy , Locke on the Human Understand-

ing, a book on Logic, and Butler's Analogy in two portions.
These college examinations were conducted with as much

care and formality as those in the Senate House or for the
classical Tripos. The sum total of each man's marks in all

the subjects combined was added up, and our places were

publicly exhibited during the space of six months in the
college hall. Prizes of books were awarded to each man

whose name appeared in the first class both at Christmas

and Midsummer, and Exhibitions of greater or less value

were also assigned to such students as most distinguished
themselves, or who needed assistance, with the probability

of their making a good use of it. The amount of aid thus

accorded by this noble and bountiful college might, but for
the facts of the case, have been fairly deemed incredible ;

still it was never prodigal. A system of this sort was pre-
eminently adapted to elicit the intellectual powers of any
man, and to educate him all round ; for if the student desired
to stand well with the college authorities, the necessity of
accumulating marks in each and all of the several biennial

subjects of examination formed a very powerful stimulus.
     Plunged thus suddenly into the midst of these new

activities, how was I to come out in this my first college
examination ? I had had no proper preparation beyond
what I could give myself in a general way before reaching
Cambridge. I entered the college also nigh to the end
of the half year, and was not expected to be examined in
38 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Ievery part of the first year's subjects,  had never under-

gone a literary examination before, what then shall be the

issue of this first essay ? I shall never forget how, so soon

as the result was posted up in the college hall, I turned

to see my fate. I was conscious of a great obstruction in

my throat, the old sensation known to us all, and a flush

came over my face as I read the unexpected words : ' Prit-

chard highly distinguished himself in all those parts of the

examination   which he attended.'     Thus my first conquest
                                     ground for strong hopes
was assured,  and I felt that I had  also, from indirect but
              success. I learned,
of ultimate

reliable sources that from the results of this examination,

and almost equally from the daily tortures undergone at the

hands of the college lecturers, I had raised expectations that

eventually I might ' do the college credit. 5 Thereupon a Fel-

lowship began to loom in the future, while, for the present, I was

both encouraged and assisted by an Exhibition of some value.

     Months passed away after my first attempts in a

college examination. I now was better informed as to
what I ought to read, and how to read it. At that time

the most important parts of the tuition were carried on
by private tutors. In general the pupil sat by his side

for one hour daily, and this time was mostly occupied by
the tutor himself ' writing out ' for his pupils, with a run-

ning comment, some propositions of special importance,

which were either contained in no English book, or else

seemed capable of a better development at the tutor's hands
than the books contained. And these books were few. I

am writing of the year 1827, when private tutors were not

designated by the expressively equivocal name of * coaches/
At that day written instruction was contained in MSS.

originating in or endorsed by the college tutors, though at

the same time much of it was confined to the private MSS.
of the private tutor himself. In relation to this question of

private tuition and of its great importance to the student,
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  39

I must here mention that in due time the college authori-

ties inquired as to my pecuniary means for defraying the
cost of a tutor, under the view of supplying me with that

needful direction : a truly generous offer, involving as much,

in those days, as seventy pounds for the entire academical

year and the long vacation. Happily for me, my friends

advanced the necessary sum on the condition already

stated, that I should refund it when more prosperous days
arrived. The tutor I selected was Charles Jeffries, the
Second Wrangler in Airy's year, and his memory I hold to

this hour in affectionate reverence. The moments I spent

at his side were golden, felt to be such at the time; and

even now I occasionally look at his scrawls on pieces of
paper, relating to this subject or that, full of meaning. So
my progress was rapid, and my style of thought and of
expression daily improved. For lucidity of mind and
elegance of mathemetical conception I have not met with

his equal. The recollection of this man's goodness often
and often recurred to my mind when some of yourselves

sat at my side, and if I did not consciously imitate him, I

felt taught and directed by the memory of his example.
     The time went on, but to me half unconsciously,

its intervals being marked out only by the recurrence of
the biennial examinations, in which it was essential for me
to maintain one of the foremost places : I was invariably
second man of my year, the first place being, it seems,
beyond my reach. The consequences of this success were
that year by year I was rewarded by prizes of books, and

the gradual accumulation of Exhibitions, ultimately sufficient

to defray all necessary expenses. Of course this generosity

was not confined to myself, but was extended equally
to other men deemed worthy of college encouragement.

     I have already spoken of the varied curriculum of the
college system of that day as being by no means confined
to mathematical training. The study of divinity was
40 CHARLES PRITCHARD

exacted from us, and we were guided not solely by the

college lectures, but by the examination papers set at the
biennial examinations. In this way, among other subjects,

I was led to commit the major part of Butler's Analogy

to memory to me a possession stored up ever since among

my most cherished sympathies. And here it may not be

without some interest to relate that after an interval of some

thirty years and more, when in the vestry of a country

church, I met an old college friend, who told me that he

had just come from a visit to my most honoured college

tutor, Richard Gwatkin, from whose mind and goodness

I had learned so much at Cambridge. He told me that
I had been the subject of a recent pleasing conversation,
wherein Mr Gwatkin had narrated how, at Cambridge, in

years gone by, he had week after week in the college

lectures done his best to overthrow me at Butler's Analogy ;
but, said he, somehow I invariably failed. Did my revered

old tutor fail also to discern the causes ?               I loved my

subject, I tried to understand  and knew                  by rote. If
                                it,

                                       I

                                                      it
                                                                     it

                                                                                   is
mention this little matter in these brief Annals,
I
                    I
partly because Dean Bradley, in his article* on the Clap-

ham Education, refers to the Butler lessons, of which,

perhaps prematurely, he was made the recipient. Yet, in

point of fact,         think that all generic truth       is  essentially

simple, and that accordingly Butler's grand argument,

carefully expounded, lies within the reach of ordinary

intellects, and even touches ordinary affections. The

Analogy was effectually backed by many sermons from

that most learned and instructive preacher,                   Blunt, the
                       I
                                           ; J.
                                                J.
Regius Professor of Divinity of that day and you may

remember, some of you, how his Undesigned Coincidences in

the Old and New Testaments formed a part of your curri-

culum at Clapham. These had listened to as delivered

from the university pulpit. Archdeacon Julius C. Hare

                       * Nineteenth Century, March 1884.
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  41

 also by his inimitable sermons as select preacher, contri-
 buted greatly to form the theological bias of my own

mind ; and if to these I add the writings of Coleridge, and

those of the accomplished and large-minded Isaac Taylor,
 I think I should nearly exhaust the authors who during

my undergraduateship laid the foundation of my theological
predilections. I was induced by Isaac Taylor's remarkable
essay on ' Saturday Evening/ to clear away all secular books

on the early evening of the last day of the week, and

during three years of my Cambridge course I devoted it

and the Sunday to quiet thought, apart from academical
studies, and it is to this quietude and rest that I attribute

in part the prolongation of my life. Moreover, the abiding
influence on my mind and on my moral sentiments, arising
from the writings of the great authors above mentioned,
may, I am sure, be traced not only throughout the homilies

preached in our Clapham School Chapel, but in many of my
more public addresses at meetings of the British Association,

and in essays read before many a Church Congress.
     The time at last came for the final trial of the Mathe-

matical Tripos.* Herein I was told by the college authorities,
who for three years had watched my career, that I had not
realised their expectations. Perhaps not ; but I had fulfilled
my own hopes, which a better knowledge of my deficiencies
led me to entertain. My degree, after all, was high enough
to secure a Fellowship, and the means of refunding the cost
of my education, and, better still, I knew that my reputation

extended even beyond my place in the Tripos. Three men

obtained higher marks than myself, my besetting infirmity

being a certain nervousness or uncollectedness, which pre-

vented my producing at the moment what in a cooler frame

of mind was well within the scope of my knowledge. As an
instance of this, I may mention that on one winter's midnight,

with the snow upon the ground, and within a week of the

                                                 * In 1830.
42 CHARLES PRITCHARD

examination, the most distinguished man of the year came

into my rooms to ask for the explanation of a knotty point in
the Lunar Theory; this I readily gave him. The question
itself was actually set ; my friend wrote it out I did not ! I
do not mention this to my credit, but it may remind some of
my l Old Boys ' of an idiosyncrasy of mine which they may

have noticed.

    I was now landed on the road to competence is it affec-

tation to say to usefulness ? Private pupils, as usual, were at

once offered to me in abundance, for I had the reputation of

thoroughly knowing my work and for carefulness in the doing

it. I undertook but a very few pupils, only sufficient for my
maintenance, for I was desirous of devoting the greater part
of my time to classical studies. And this I did, partly be-
cause I was unwilling to risk the Fellowship examination,
which was wholly classical : partly also, I was led to it from

the love of the thing itself. Here, again, for eighteen months

I enjoyed the inestimable advantage of a tutor possessed of
a rare intellectual capacity : I refer to the late Sir William

Martin, then Classical Lecturer at St John's, and afterwards

Chief Justice of New Zealand. I had already, while an

undergraduate, enjoyed the pleasure of instructing him in

mathematics, and now he was to repay me in his own speci-

ality. He was a scholar deeply versed in the philosophy of
the Greek and Latin languages, possessing a singular insight
into the logical simplicity of their construction ; and it was

not long before he removed the haze in which the pedantry

and insufficiency of the existing grammars had involved what
was in itself transparently clear. Under his guidance, I read

the more salient and characteristic parts of many ancient
writers, and soon became enamoured with the charm of the

inimitably incisive character of the Greek intellects. Of this
clear insight into the majestic symmetry of the Greek

language, thus acquired, you were made the partakers at
Clapham : some of it was presented to your mental vision
          WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER               43

in the shape of two or three leaflets entitled Notabilia

Qucedam*  a brochure which attracted the notice of the

Dean of Westminster in his article in the Nineteenth Century.*?

It is still published by Messrs Bell & Son, and I think has,

even at this late day, lost nothing of its value. The Clapham

boys were without excuse if they blundered in the construc-

tion of the Greek or Latin moods or tenses, or in the mazes

of the Greek prepositions and their attendant cases, or in the

greater mysteries of the particle av.

     Meanwhile, though chiefly engaged in imbibing and as-

similating the knowledge of other minds, I nevertheless

ventured to some extent on more original grounds. During

my undergraduateship, I had been greatly struck with certain

trigonometrical relations brought to light by Poinsot, especi-

ally as elucidated by the new ideas which had now begun to

dawn on the true interpretation of what had hitherto been

termed 'impossible quantities.' These speculations led me

to other writings of this great mathematician, specially to

Poinsot's doctrine of statical couples. I became so ena-

moured with the singular power and wide application of this

new idea, throwing a clear light as it did on much that had

hitherto been obscure in the theory of mechanics, that I
could not rest until I had simplified the subject and brought

my joy and my light within the ken of others.

The little treatise on Statical Couples was soon published :

it was adopted in the general university teaching ; it ran

through two editions, and was ultimately absorbed in other

treatises on mechanics, generally without acknowledgment.

To this publication I also added the product of my first essay

in original research ; it consisted in a simplification of the

       * Notabilia Qttadam, or, The Principal Tenses of such Irregular Greek Verbs
and such Elementary Greek and Latin Constructions as are of constant occurrence.

   G. Bell & Sons, London.

     t * He took,' writes the Dean of Westminster, 'the bold step of flinging, not

without some words of iconoclastic ridicule, our Latin Syntax to the winds, and

substituting a few a very few rules, that he gave us on a blackboard.'
44 CHARLES PRITCHARD

final propositions in the mathematical treatment of the figure

of the earth, considered as heterogeneous. I had read it
before the Cambridge Philosphical Society, of which I had

become a member.

At length the long-wished-for Fellowship was gained in

March 1832, and with it suspense vanished as to pecuniary

competence and the repayment of the educational loans.

Pupils again flocked to me in superabundance ; of this run

of fortune I was now free to take full advantage, and judging

from the places attained by most of them in the Tripos, both

they and I had reason to be satisfied. It was soon communi-

cated to me that at a very early date I should be invited to

take an active share in the public tuition of the college, This
I had myself, perhaps not unnaturally, expected ; but it was
not to be. Looking back now through the vista of half a
century, I cannot wholly satisfy my mind as to all the motives

which impelled me, at so early a period of a successful aca-

demical career, to relinquish the natural hopes and ambitions

which must have legitimately presented themselves.

    Three alternatives presented themselves : I might pursue

natural science, or divinity, or chemistry ; for each of them

I possessed, or I thought I possessed, the elements necessary

for future usefulness, perhaps I might even say, for distinction
in original inquiry. Then, again, I was fond of teaching

          was then and still am pleased in making others the
that    iIs,

                         *
                                                             ?'

                                                                     it
                                                                           I
sharers in the charms which result from the influx of fresh

light and the acquisition of new knowledge. But, notwith-

standing all these opportunities, which might in some points

of view be well regarded even as sacred, nevertheless deter-

mined to quit the university life, just when was dawning

brightly upon me, and seek my fate in the larger world out-

side it.

          Qui fit, Maecenas, ut nemo quam sibi sortem
          Seu ratio dederit, seu fors objecerit, ilia

          Contentus vivat
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                             45

It might have been impatience : looking back through the
busy occupations of many subsequent years, I am inclined
to doubt if I could have occupied them more advantageously

in any other role of life than that in which I have actually

engaged.

                          ' There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
                           Rough-hew them how we will. 3

     Now it so happened that about this time I am writing

of 1833 many new proprietary schools in connection with
King's College were in process of establishment in almost
all the suburbs of London, and here and there in the

Provinces. The main object in view was to secure for the
sons of the comparatively well-to-do residents in these
suburbs a better form of education than at that time was
procurable, except at a very few of the large and expensive

public schools ; and these new schools were to be brought
within easy distance of the homes of the boys. Nothing,

as I think, in the way of education, can be more desirable

than this arrangement. Granted that the home is favour-

able, what is wanted is a large school presided over by
masters of culture and ability, while at the same time the
boys are retained within the amenities and protection of
family life. This arrangement applies in my mind to all
boys up to the age of sixteen or seventeen. Most of these
are draughted off to active commercial or professional life ;

those who are intended for a university career, could at

that place find ample field for the cultivation of what are

regarded, and properly regarded, as manly and social virtues.
The schools should be large, say up to 250 or 300*;
sufficiently so for the formation of a healthy public

opinion; and the education arising from the conflict in

school games might be, and ought to be, provided for on

    * Dr Arnold placed the limit at about 250.     The headmaster, he thoughtj
should know something of all the boys personally.
 46 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 the same scale and in the same way as exist in the larger

public schools at present. Nothing, I think, can excuse

the general delegation of parental authority and influence,
so prevalent at present. The monotony of school habits
and of the forms of education, teeming in the present
generation, is neither healthy nor tends to elicit the virtues
of individual character. The expense too of education on

the modern system is grievously and unnecessarily enormous,
and entails trouble and anxiety on families possessing only

moderate pecuniary means. Schools such as I have just
hinted at should be broadcast over the land. Nothing in
this scheme would necessarily clash with the existence
and prosperity of the anciently endowed great schools,
which have long formed the pride and ornament of
England. They would still be open to the sons of the
wealthy, who preferred the discipline of a master's board-
ing-house to that of home and the .day-school combined.

     Be this as may, it was something of this sort that was
aimed at by the promoters of the proprietary schools,
though for the most part they had no clear idea of either

what they really wanted or how to realise even their own
projects. The main principle which seems to have mastered
all others was parsimony, and thereby they miserably

crippled the income of the principals of these schools,

ungenerously forgetting that excellence even in commercial
ability is generally not to be commanded excepting at an
adequate cost. Besides this there was the perpetual inter-
ference of the governing bodies, or committees as they were
termed, consisting rarely of men of any adequate intellectual
culture, and no experience in school government.

     Now it was at the head of one of these establishments
that I, in my inexperience, was contented to be placed :

my election was carried not without a considerable struggle,
and my supporters and myself were never forgiven by the

minority of the committee. I mention these things solely
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER            47

for the elucidation of the consequences which soon arose

in the sequel, and which before long led to the establishment

of the school at Clapham under wiser and more liberal

conditions.

     As I have already explained, my own experience of
two great public schools, at which for a certain term of

my life my own culture, mental and moral, were left to

run wild, was not impressive, excepting so far as it had
taught me what to avoid. I was in this way left to form
a plan of education for the new institution, out of my own

knowledge and reflection, untrammelled by any traditions.

This I did sincerely, and with all the thought and delibera-
tion that I could command. Accordingly, I embodied

my thoughts and the resulting plan in a somewhat elaborate

address, which I delivered in due form before the Pro-

prietary of the Stockwell Grammar School, on the occasion

of its opening.*  This address lies before me at this

moment, and with all the experience of half a century

superadded, I can say with sincerity, that had I now to

form a scheme of education for a large school, it would be

on the very same lines as those enunciated in my inaugural

address.

     This plan of education was based upon the study of
the Greek and Latin languages, for reasons not here and

now necessary to give. But then this education was by no

means to be confined to these ancient tongues, including

the literature expressed therein. I proposed a considerable

infusion of elementary mathematics, such as might be
well within the reach of boys of ordinary abilities; and

beyond all I proposed to introduce a systematic course of

instruction relating to the physical phenomena in the

midst of which we live and move and have our being.

I thought it then, and I think it now, preposterous to

regard any man as thoroughly or even moderately well

                  * August 1833.
is,48 CHARLES PRITCHARD

educated, unless he has some intelligent acquaintance with
the physical nature of the food he eats, the water he drinks,

the air he breathes, and of the general structure of the

heart which beats within him. Nor was I indifferent to

the duty of imparting to the boys some rudimentary
acquaintance with the great men who had lived before us,
and with the literature which some of them had left behind
them. Beyond all, and as the foundation of the whole
scheme, I laid it down as a maxim, that the main intention

of early education should be the development of the habit of
thinking, and the exhibition of the right mode of setting
about it. And here I gladly admit that the small problems,
within the reach of a boy's capacity, which constantly

occur in the groping out of the meaning of Greek and
Latin sentences, by the aid solely of dictionary and

grammar, form an invaluable element in the development

of the understanding. In addition to the foregoing con-

siderations, and as occupying an important part in the

educational scheme, I insisted on the necessity of pro-
viding ' resources for the leisure hours of maturer life' and

this provision was to be made by the removal of obstacles

which invariably intervene, and are often deterrent; in the
acquisition of the first rudiments of the knowledge of
natural phenomena a term now sufficiently abused under

the name of science. For instance, I had myself a lively

impression of the difficulties encountered in the mastering

of the first elements of descriptive botany : three times I

was foiled in my endeavours to overcome the difficulties

inseparably connected with the printed treatises; and I

was at length relieved, simply by the aid of some slight

personal elucidation in the field. So under these con-

victions I resolved that the boys in the new school
should in all such matters have the benefit of my

experience.

    If it occur to any of you that what I here insist on
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                                                                                   49

after all, nothing beyond the form of education adopted in

our ordinary modernised schools, then my reply is twofold.
First, the introduction of a well-furnished laboratory, and
serious instruction in natural phenomena at the hands of a

well-cultured instructor, were at that day a novelty ; and

herein I think I may fairly claim to have been a successful

pioneer in a most important branch of education. Secondly,
even when this introduction of science, as it is called, is

adopted in our modern great schools, it invariably holds a

very subordinate place in the curriculum, the learning thereof

is generally left to the choice of the boy, and the teaching
thereof is relegated to men of inferior education. This last
item is the more serious of the two, and is often fatal to
the mental development, of those who are subjected to it.
There is also, even at the present day, a serious obstacle to the
pursuit in schools of knowledge not classical, in the fact
that classical teaching is the only form of instruction in
England reduced to a system and a routine ; the form of
teaching mathematics or science depends on the individual
idiosyncrasies of the teacher : no system, so far as I know,

has yet been adopted or worked out ; and in most instances
the headmaster of the school has not made it his business

to acquire the requisite knowledge. With reference to

modern languages, although the importance thereof, both
for purposes of commerce and for social intercourse, is day
by day becoming better understood, there still exists a

very serious obstacle for English boys, arising from the
habitual eccentricities of the class of foreign teachers who
come to this peculiar island of ours. Herein I proposed

to do solely what I could.

      Such, then, is an outline of that form of education
which I proposed to introduce into this new proprietary
school at Stockwell, and which I ultimately did fully carry
out at Clapham. I proposed that all boys alike should
be subjected to until about the age of sixteen at which

                                                       D
it,

                                                                                                      ;
it,50 CHARLES PRITCHARD

age I conceived they might be advantageously drafted off
to instruction of a more special character, whether for the
universities, or for any other purpose. A boy thus taught
and thus intellectually disciplined, would be fit for any
pursuit. But here I have often heard an objection raised,

and the question is asked : Where is the time to be found

for such multifarious instruction ? I reply, in the systematic

accumulation of small increments : but it must be systematic,
and beyond all, it must be sincere and impartial. For
instance, take a modern language. Let anyone calculate
what would be the effect of learning ten or twelve new
words daily in its vocabulary, during a year of forty weeks :
this would not require half-an-hour per diem, and making
all due allowances for the burden of the accumulation on

the memory, at least fifteen hundred words would be learnt
an amount exceeding the practical requirements of the
case. This applies only to the vocabulary ; but then this

is the chief difficulty, and I would ask in what school is
any such system, or I fear any thoughtful system at all,
adopted ? The truth is that between the ages of twelve
and sixteen, the all-round system of education I proposed,
must, if sincerely followed, issue in results utterly beyond
those which are ordinarily achieved. In the observatory
under my direction at Oxford, in order to complete the
research for stellar parallax by the aid of photography,
upwards of seventy thousand careful measures must be
made of the distances between the images of stars upon
the photographic plate. The number, nay, the very mention
of seems appalling but by steady and systematic ac-
cumulation, the work will be completed without any stress
of mind in less than a year. So, as have insisted, the
acquirement of the rudiments of an all-round education
well within general reach, by the adoption of system and
sincerity, between the ages of twelve and sixteen. The
competitives stand in the way and the time will come
     ;

                          I

                             is

     ;
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  51

when the competitives will be found to be intellectually

and educationally suicidal.

     So the Stockwell Proprietary Grammar School in con-
nection with King's College was duly established in January
1833 ; and, generically, on the lines explained above. But
the relations between me and a portion of the committee,
or governing body as it would now be called, were from

the first strained, and as time went on the tension increased.

They could not understand my rejection of the Eton Latin
Grammar : moreover, even a rudimentary knowledge of

nature was not necessary, they thought, for boys intended

either for commerce or for the university ; and neither I

nor my friends could be forgiven for placing our opponents
in a minority. Meanwhile, the school flourished numerically,
and in a few months the limit of number, one hundred

and forty, was reached : the committee declined the many
supernumerary applications, and as thereby both the ambi-
tion and the expansion of the stipend of the headmaster
were alike effectually curbed, the whole affair began to
' work ' what the judicious Hooker calls ' sensible smart'
Still, my occupation in other respects was extremely pleasant

to me. A famous grower of auriculas, when questioned

by a friend as to the process he adopted for his eminent

success, replied as follows : ' Dear Sir, If you wish your

plants to thrive you must, by frequent presence and atten-
tion, teach them to know you. . . .' So my more immediate

classes learnt to know me, and they throve accordingly.

I had also the extreme good fortune of finding boys who
were possessed of far more than ordinary talents, and who
were ready to respond to the calls which I made upon

their attention. I may give the names of three of my

first Stockwell pupils, whose subsequent careers would be
considered ornaments in the roll-call of the worthies of
any school in the kingdom ; so I will mention the present
Dean of Westminster, Dr Bradley ; Sir George Grove, so
52 CHARLES PRITCHARD

well known in so many lines of accomplishment ; and

George Hemming, who subsequently became Senior

Wrangler, and is now the consulting Counsel to the
University of Cambridge.

     For about a year and a half the strain and the jading
from a portion of the committee continued unabated :

these gentlemen, though no doubt amiable and honourable
enough in their own individual spheres, nevertheless, as
governors of a place of education, were wholly out of their

beat, and by a ceaseless interference and sundry small

annoyances, they made the headmaster's life unenviable,

antf at length I finally resigned my connection with them.
And yet the retrospect of those busy months at Stockwell

is even now grateful to me ; not alone from my close and
pleasant association with young boys possessing much

intellectual ability and moral excellence, but even the other

boys, not under my immediate tuition, seem to have been

reached and impressed by that sort of influence which pervades
every school directed with sincerity and ability. It is not
more than two years ago, that I received a letter from one

of the then youngest boys in the school, expressing the bene-

fits which he says he had felt through life from the good
influence described by him as having penetrated even to

his low position in the school. As to the elder boys, a
silver cup * usually stands on my sideboard as a memento of
' their affectionate regard.' Other pleasing reminiscences also

      * One of these elder boys, Mr Hemming, Q.C., describes the presentation
 of this cup, the subscription for which had been kept a dead secret. ' Pritchard
 had made a speech in presence of committee and parents and boys, explaining
 his withdrawal,' when up marched unexpectedly the spokesman of the boys, and
 gave him the cup with some words of appreciation and gratitude. ' Pritchard
 was thoroughly taken by surprise, and without a moment's thought of what he
 would say he sprang up and gave us a burst of genuine eloquence such as I hardly
 ever heard from anyone.' 'He pointed to the committee who sat behind him,
 and pictured the slights and scorn which he had met with there.' Then he
 turned to the boys, dwelt on his pleasure in teaching and their merits in
  learning, and finally 'concluded with "These are my witnesses," and lifting up
 the cup, "This is my trophy,'"
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  53

I still possess of services said to have been rendered and ap-
preciated, during occasional ministrations in Stockwell Chapel.

     So in June 1834 I left, sorrowfully but without hesitation,
the Stockwell Grammar School in connection with King's
College, London, with the intention of returning to the
more peaceful occupations of a university life. But, again,
this also was not to be. I remember well how, one day
shortly after my resignation, I sat down with my former

most excellent and able second master* (who, by the way,
was speedily treated more perversely than even I had been),
and we drew up together what we considered might be a

workable constitution for a proprietary school. It *was

drawn up solely for our amusement, but it was well conned

over on all its sides, little imagining at the time that it

would ever be adopted in fact. But the truth was, very
many of the parents among the proprietary took the same
view of the external management of the school that I did

myself, and a considerable number expressed their wish

that a new school, under better and more liberal regula-

tions, should be established elsewhere, and be placed under

my unfettered management. I told the gentleman who, in

the name of others, was deputed to make the proposition,
that I was ready to superintend such an institution, but,

if I did, its fundamental regulations must be almost anti-
thetical to those which had collapsed at Stockwell. I laid
before them the scheme which I had, under such singular

circumstances, drawn up, but it was accompanied with a
quiet feeling of despair and of indifference as to the view
to be taken of it. To my surprise it was accepted as reason-
able and hopeful. The main principles of the external govern-

ment proposed were as follows. The committee was to be

small ; the headmaster was to assist at all its deliberations ;

the pecuniary terms were to be arranged on a much more

    *The Rev. William Hodgson, subsequently the much-respected Vicar of
Bratliay, ui the head of Windermere.
54 CHARLES PRITCHARD

adequate scale ; the committee was to take charge of
money matters alone, not interfering with the main plan
and course of the education, which were understood to be

framed on the same lines as those commenced at Stock-
well. There was also provision to be made for any possible
extension of the numbers admitted to the school, and the

arrangements for the boarding were to be left entirely in
the hands of the headmaster, subject to the condition that

the terms were not to be so excessive as to be beyond the
reach of the well-to-do inhabitants of the neighbourhood.

     On this basis, then, what was known as the Clapham

Grammar School was established in August 1834. It was,

in fact, a proprietary school on a more liberal scale than
the kindred institutions round London ; it was also freed
from the element of interference, which had proved so dis-
agreeable in all these schools, and so fatal in the Stock-
well case. The new school progressed greatly year by year,
and as the numbers increased, so new class rooms were
added, and before long a lecture room with its contiguous
laboratory was established, and gradually furnished with
all apparatus necessary for the elucidation of chemical and

physical phenomena. Most happy was I in my work, for
I had unmistakable evidences that the young minds around
me were budding up into the promise of much fruit. After
the lapse of a few years, some seven or eight, the school
attained to unusual dimensions, specially in the number of
the boarders, and the committee of management became,
I suppose, alarmed or dazed, and conscious of their own
inexperience in the management of so formidable an in-
stitution. Excellent men they were, and to me most
excellent friends, but they were necessarily not men of
academical minds. They had, without due expectation,
established a great school, the dimensions of which they

had agreed not to curb, and they were becoming half-
frightened at the presumed ambition of their headmaster.
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  55

' You will soon ask us/ said one of them to me, in friend!}
discourse, 'to build you an observatory.' That was said, i
presume, prophetically ; for, in a very few years, I actually
did add an observatory* to the other institutions of the

school ; and this, in due time, led up to the establishing

of the beautiful observatory belonging to the University

of Oxford. It is a familiar saying that we know not what
a day may bring forth : at the time in question I could not

dream that these efforts would ultimately land me in Oxford.

     So the committee of management, seeing that their
original intention of establishing a good school in their

immediate neighbourhood had been realised even beyond

their expectations, suggested to me, in the most friendly
manner, that I might possibly feel more at liberty to pur-

sue my objects, if they handed the entire management,
funds and liabilities over to myself. In some respects it
might have been better if I had not accepted this generous
offer without reserve; I might, with the prospect of great
advantage, have sought for the aid of other minds more

experienced in the trusteeship and governance of public

schools, and have started afresh on enlarged foundations.

But the growing population of the place, and other cir-
cumstances, would soon have rendered a change of habita-
tion necessary for such an institution ; so I accepted the

freedom thus kindly offered, and with it all its responsibilities.

     * Prof. Alexander Herschel, who, in 1895, made a pilgrimage to Clapham,

with the purpose of learning what had become of the old school buildings and

precincts, reports that this observatory is now destroyed, and a new street, St

Luke's Road, carried across its site. It contained a transit instrument, which

he describes as a ' very beautiful one, shown by Troughton and Simms as their

Ichef d* oeuvrc at that time in the Great Exhibition of 1851, and bought (for ^"200,

   used to hear him say) by Prof. Pritchard from the makers very soon after

the close of the exhibition.' Prof. Herschel, who was at Clapham in 1855 as
a pupil, and again in 1860 as an astronomical student, relates a somewhat curious
burglary at the observatory, of which a micrometer formed the principal spoil.
Sir John Herschel replaced this micrometer : what the thieves did with it
remains unknown.
56 CHARLES PRITCHARD

    I at once added two new institutions to the establish-

ment ; the one in the shape of a swimming bath, and the
other was a school chapel, each of them implying a cor-
responding addition to the roll-call of the boarders. To

the school now flocked ever increasing numbers : they con-
sisted very much of the younger sons in families where the
elder brothers were sent to more expensive schools, such
as Eton, Harrow and Rugby, Another important element

was derived from the sons of men at the head of the
several branches of science and of the liberal professions.
The names of Airy, Darwin, Gassiot, Grove (Sir W.),
Hamilton (Sir W.), Herschel, Maurice, etc., became familiar
in the roll-call, and, in due time, we could number among
the ' Old Boys ' a Senior Wrangler, and many other men

distinguished at both the universities, and especially some

who eventually attained to rare distinction in the army.
Nor were we less advantageously known at Haileybury and
Addiscombe. Twice we furnished the head students of these

colleges.

      Such, then, was the material and scholastic progress

of the school. As to the form of education, it was pre-
cisely on the lines already explained, with such modifica-
tions only as arose from the necessity of adapting it to
a large establishment of boarders. But I may here repeat,
that my great aim was to establish a habit of thinking ;

and another great aim was, as I have also said before,

to provide resources for the leisure hours of after life, by
removing those rudimentary difficulties which invariably
beset the commencement of the study of Nature in its
several aspects or departments. In the form of the in-

struction which I gave, I kept in view the principle so

admirably enunciated by Horace :

                ' Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem,
                   Quam quae sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus et quae
                 Ipse sibi tradit spectator.'
                  WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                       57

There was scarcely a boy in the upper forms of the school

who could not draw with reasonable skill a good diagram
of a condensing steam engine ; a chart of contemporaneous

history, ancient and modern, from memory ; and a genealogy
of the dynasties which have occupied the throne of Eng-

land, etc. Every boy in the school, with the exception

of the youngest, was expected to attend the weekly lectures

on chemistry, and some other branches of natural philosophy,

and subsequently to draw from memory the various ap-

paratus employed in the illustrations.    These lectures I

invariably delivered myself, partly because I felt them to

be of serious moment as respects the subject-matter dis-

cussed, and partly because I held it to be a matter of

prime importance that the minds of as many boys as

possible should come into contact with the culture and

experience of my own. The tenet of the auricula-grower,

already explained, was at all times in my thoughts ; for

I wished these young minds to ' Know me ! ' Often and
often, in days not very long gone by, have I met in the

streets of London ' Old Boys ' who, after our mutual greet-

ing, have proffered their acknowledgments for this portion

of their school learning.

    The teaching of the first rudiments of geometry I took

especially under my own auspices : I believe I was in-

duced to take this trouble from having heard that the

difficulties of geometry are regarded as insuperable to

some minds. My own conviction, on the contrary, was

is,and that our mental faculties are so constituted, that
     is

           it

                   is
every man responsible to his Maker for his reasonable

actions, competent to master the rudiments of geometry.

Plato thought so, some twenty centuries ago. On the

other hand,            possible, and      not unfrequent, for
                       is                                      a

                             it

                                    a is
pseudo-teacher to disgust his pupils, and alienate them

for ever from a knowledge and             discipline priceless in

their character.  I    fear this often the case in those great
58 CHARLES PRITCHARD

schools where the cultivation of Greek and Latin is re-

garded as the one thing needful. I believe that a part
of the truth lies in this, that the teaching of the classical
languages has been in the course of ages reduced to a

communicable system, and can be taught as a routine;

whereas instruction in the rudiments of mathematics is

left to the haphazard of the teacher. My own method,
some of you may remember, was as follows : so soon as a
class of some fifteen to twenty boys, about the age of fourteen

to fifteen, could be got together to commence geometry,

I began my pleasant work. The first question I put was,
'What is Euclid?' Various notions were elicited, but the

reply I wanted lay with me alone, and this reply was to

be repeated by each of the tyro-geometers : ' Euclid is that

which is not to be learned by heart.' This part of the
lesson being secured, I proceeded to the second part, namely,

to the promise of a half-holiday to the whole school, in
a
     is,the course of the next fifty minutes, six boys could de-

                                                                 ;

                                                  I

                                                                          if,
monstrate logically and satisfactorily to their own minds

and to mine, that there cannot exist more than five regular
solid figures, that solid figures, all of whose plane faces

are regular polygons. This, in fact, amounted to taking
the end of the whole subject by storm. To effect this, all

that was necessary was skill on the teacher's part, and
intelligent attention on the part of the pupils.* The

demonstration, which was strictly logical, was performed
with the aid of small lath of wood and the black-board,

and specially by avoiding all definitions not required for

the express purposes in view. In itself the thing was

essentially simple, and required nothing more than an

appeal to the common sense of boys' minds.  never

on any occasion failed in my object or rather, the young

minds before me never failed to secure the half-holiday

    * A good deal of stress, some of us may think, must be laid on the first of the

two conditions.
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  59

for their companions. It is generally the pedantry of the

mode of teaching which makes geometry distasteful : from
the very necessities of our environments, all men are, more

or less, born geometers, and every tolerable carpenter finds

that to be the case.

    I may mention here that when I came to the Greek

definition of Proportion I was for years put to a feeling
of intellectual distress. No modern geometer that I knew

had succeeded in explaining the true thought which lies
at the bottom of the apparently complicated character of
this most important definition. Even De Morgan had
tried and had failed. On one occasion, however, of this
recurring mental distress, the beautiful simplicity of the
Greek thought flashed into my mind. In a moment, while
walking up to the black-board, I asked myself if ' Propor-

tion is the equality of ratio ' and if * ratio is the comparison
of magnitude/ how is that comparison to be made? The

answer is obvious, viz., by the comparison of multiples of

the magnitudes to be compared. Here then was elpfaa,
and the marvellous incisiveness of the Greek mind was

revealed.

     Every alternate year, we took elementary botany in
hand a science of incalculable benefit in any scheme of

education which embraces mathematical study ; for, whereas,

the latter branch of learning depends on the formal pre-
cision of the definition of the things meant, descriptive

botany, on the other hand, calls into play the rapid

appreciation of minute differences, and an ultimate appeal

to the balance of contrarieties. It is in this way supple-

mental to, or corrective of, the mathematical habit of mind,
and more nearly resembles the consideration of those pre-
sumptive evidences on which, for the most part, the
conduct of life is determined. Botany was made pleasant
by walks into the country, and by the old inducement of
the promise of a general half-holiday so soon as at least
60 CHARLES PRITCHARD

six boys could bring back to school specimens of wild
flowers, illustrative of twelve natural orders ; the distinc-
tive characteristics of which they were individually to
demonstrate to me. I do not doubt that my eminently
distinguished old pupil, George Darwin, now holding the
post at Cambridge corresponding to that which his ante-
diluvian tutor holds at the sister university, remembers
how he asked me one day to read with him certain
portions of his illustrious father's book on The Fertilisa-
tion of Orchids. More than gladly I did as he desired,
and in clue time we succeeded in fertilising and ripening
the seeds of Oncidium Papilio ; but we did not succeed

in our attempts to induce the seeds to germinate, as

his father challenged us to do : the necessary environ-
ments were wanting.

    Of the school sports, there is little need that I remind

you : these engrave themselves on all our memories ;

pleasant hours, good fellowship, generous young friend-

ships. If ever I felt gratification, or even a possibly

pardonable pride, it was on the many occasions when I
saw some thirteen or more of you mount the drag,
looking just what none but educated English boys could
look; and I had no misgivings that the honour of the
school would be jealously guarded even in the midst of
exuberant youthful spirits. There was no one but your
boyish selves in those jubilant drags to restrain any
possible forgetfulness of propriety ; for of old time, the
rule of the school had been the inculcation of a sense of
honour. The pledge of the word was in those days
implicitly relied on ; yet there was no weakness felt or

imagined in the powers that be, but an old experience

of a heavy hand and a retribution, if ever the case
demanded it. The successful inculcation of this sense,
this rule of honour, made the government of a large

school not possible only, but generally pleasant for me,
                WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                                                    61

and for yourselves it carried with it a large access of

liberty. The chapel holiday, as we called                           it,           on the

                                                                                 ;
anniversary of its opening, you can never forget the

whole school let loose for the day, in parties for whatever

destination each selected    Richmond, the River, the
                       I
                         I

                                      ;
                                                              :
Crystal Palace, almost anywhere and no evil that                                          I
knew came of this well-disciplined sense of honour, and

my trust thereon. But        am wrong here; for a mishap

did once occur, and    was called to order by                                    a  well-

meaning clergyman in "an affair of honour," which issued

in a disaster.  I  believe that in order to check a dis-

orderly outbreak in a bedroom, gave the inmates thereof
                             I
an alternative, either that      Ishould establish a " sneak-

hole" and spy out the delinquents, or take the individual

word of honour not to repeat this destructive pastime.

The latter alternative was, as usual, accepted and relied

on, and so      was at peace, as                                 thought. But not so
I                                                                I
                                                                         I
                               !
                                                                                  I;
                       a'

                II
                                  I;

                                                         a

                                                 II
for an early post brought me a somewhat angry remon-

strance from a clerical friend, to the effect that had

administered an oath to two of his sons.                                         confess

was utterly astounded and on meekly requesting en-

lightenment as to what course he would himself have

desired me to adopt,   in due time was informed that

ought to have requested promise that by the grace                '

of God, the boys would endeavour not to be disorderly

in future       admit this was too much for my serenity,

and after short correspondence, requested to be relieved

from the example of boys subjected to such hotbed and

insalubrious culture.

These recurrent holidays remind me also of the method

adopted to teach your young ideas how to swim. The

school swimming bath was, believe, among other institu-
                a

                              I

                                                                              a
tions indicating novelty in that day, and pioneering
in a new direction of education. In order to secure that

effective pressure which boys know so well how to apply,
62 CHARLES PRITCHARD

it was instituted that so soon as six new swimmers could

accomplish about a hundred yards, the school was to be

assembled to witness the feat ; and                             amidst the general
it
   it

                    is,
                              a
                                                           if,
shouts, the hundred yards were completed, then there was

to be an adjournment for cricket. In this way, and with

patience, was a rare occurrence to find any boy who at

the end of the season was unable to swim.

Having written thus far on the subject of the school

sports, may be well to make some reference to the school

punishments, for in  large society offences must come.

These all that       the sports and some of the punish-

ments were chronicled in the school journal, printed

monthly, for the due handing down of the traditions of

the place. One of these little volumes that for 1858
now lies before me, and therein find that the mode of
a
punishment which     occasionally adopted had made the
              I
                    I
desired impression on the school at large. It seems from

the record that some five or six young boys had contracted

debts at confectioner's, which they were unable to pay.

An adjudication of bankruptcy followed, with consequent         a
sale by auction of such valuables as the young bankrupts
possessed; but, inasmuch as the proceeds of the sale were

insufficient to meet the debts,               was necessary to take
a
       a

                                          it
their coats in pledge, in order to make up the deficiency,

It so happened that the transactions occurred in winter,

and for boy to be coatless incurred the risk of a cold,

thereupon each of the young delinquents was provided with
a blanket, and ever afterwards the name of Esquimaux was

attached as soubriquet to their names. Relief came on
the arrival of the proper remittances from home. Mean-

while, the more faulty tradesman was, to his dismay,

subjected to the inconvenience of receiving payment by

the same driblets, and at the same intervals, as he had

permitted in the contraction of the debts                       !     remember

                                                                   I

also that the practice of bolstering, which appears to have
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  63

been occasionally a fashion, was for a time put a stop to,
by appealing to the boys' practical sense of justice; they
had injured the bolsters, and had put them hors de combat
for the benign purpose intended ; it was therefore but fair

that the combatants should replace them, they in return

receiving the no longer effective furniture. But I was
partly caught here in my own device, for the school
environs abounded for some time thereafter with feathers !

The fact is that there are few things more difficult in
the government of a school* than the selection of deterrent
punishments : all such are things to be avoided where
possible, and all of them become ineffectual when often
repeated. Some of you became great adepts at long cube
roots with six figures in the roots : some of you also
exhibited considerable ingenuity in abbreviating the pro-
cess : anyhow, your handwriting was not crippled by the
old and barbarous practice of writing out ' lines.' Cor-
poreal correction, provided it is not regarded as disgrace-
ful, appears to me to be the readiest and least objectionable
mode of punishment for a young boy, say under sixteen :

it should not be either excessive nor insufficient ; neither
should it be frequent. I generally offered the alternative

of an equivalent in cube roots, the former being in almost

all cases accepted ; but if so, there was also an intermediate

condition to the effect that the culprit should not exhibit
his sense of inconvenience by any concurrent sound. The

penalty thereof being a slight addition to his sufferings.

A moral offence, on the rare occasions when such occurred,
I never regarded as corrigible by such means : the offence

was regarded as a disease, and treated in a more serious

way.

     Having thus disposed of the sports and punishments
incident on the school life at Clapham, I proceed to that

     * Sir Wm. Herschel, who had opportunities of studying this question from the
opposite side, admits that 'Pritchard's castigations were sometimes clever.'
64 CHARLES PRITCHARD

which formed a very distinctive and important element

in the educational discipline; I refer to the school chapel

and its accessories. The origin of this institution lay in

many causes, and sprang from many motives. The school

had in fact become too large for occupation in a single

parish church, and, moreover, I was not comfortable in
altogether divesting myself of my functions as a clergy-
man. I had, indeed, already not unfrequently called the

school aside on a Sunday afternoon to the lecture room,

and there addressed a few words on the things that

remain, while all other things fail ; but I soon felt that
this practice was inadequate. In accordance with boy-

nature, a somewhat irreverent name was at once invented

for these addresses      they were profanely called ' Ebe-

nezers    '  that  word  having  formed  my  text  or  motto  at
        !

our first assembly. I am glad to express my entire for-

giveness to the dear c Old Boy ' who was the author of the

humorous term, specially as, on the occasion of the ' Ebe-

nezer' which I addressed to you all on the memorable 5th,

he actually reminded me of the first text selected for dis-
course in the new chapel. Even I had forgotten it. So,

having obtained the necessary consent of good Dr Dealtry,

the Rector of Clapham, and of the Bishop of Winchester,

the Diocesan, I set to work upon the new edifice, thus to

be erected as a memento and a beacon in the very midst

of you. This beautiful little chapel, for intrinsically

beautiful it soon became, was bountifully provided with
several painted windows of exquisite workmanship and

material at its first opening on Feb. 7, 1846. So soon

as I learnt the kind intentions of the boys and their

parents, I made it my duty to become acquainted with

the history and art of ecclesiastical glass painting, and

for that purpose I took a journey to the cathedrals at

Canterbury and Bourges, wherein were to be found the
best specimens of the craft; nor was the result of the
             WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER                                                              65

journey unsuccessful. In due course of time all the win-
dows of the little chapel, ' to the extent of fifteen, were

very satisfactorily filled with painted glass after the best
models ; and the chequered play of subdued colour added

no little to the reverential solemnity of the place. I had

no technical knowledge of music myself, but I was well

aware of what its effect would be on a community of men

or boys, and I betook myself to Bishop, the great organ-

builder of the day. In thus providing our place of daily

worship with these and other costly adjuncts, I was actuated
by the conviction that we are all of us greatly influenced by
our daily surroundings, and I wished that the boys should

silently but effectually feel that the chapel arrangements

suggested on all sides a reverential and loving care.*

   If I interpret your feelings and those expressed in the

Monthly School Journal aright, no part of the school economy
was at the time, or in its subsequent memory, more highly
cherished than the chapel music. The only part which I
could take therein was secondary, but I made it my duty
rarely if ever to be absent from the choir practice, and to

this expression of care and sympathy I attribute some part
of the success. I know not how the whole of this success
was effected, but with all my experience, I have rarely or

never heard anthems and hymns more touchingly and

effectually rendered, whether in cathedrals or colleges,

than was frequently the case in our own lovely little chapel.

In this way Handel and Mendelssohn, and the great English
writers of cathedral music, became familiar to the choir, and

to us all. Among the many other benefits derived from this

* Prof. Alexander Herschel wrote in 1895 : ' The pretty school chapel is spared,

aisndcointvseortldedplianytogroaun"dReefonrtmrancCeluebntseprseencohw-roionmto,"  the   street.    But the chapel itself
                                                                                     a  raised   platform filling up the

chancel ; but the painted windows all remaining, and some marble memorial

...tablets in the walls being hung over with baize, and African and Indian
"trophies."  In interior appearance the chapel now, as is natural from

the turbulent uses that it serves, is as dirty as a poultry-house or mouldering

barn compared to its once organed and benched ornateness.'

             E
66 CHARLES PRITCHARD

institution, there was one which I was particularly gratified to
hear from the lips of an ' Old Boy,' to the effect that the
Psalms of David were in some cases learned by heart as the
result of the chanting. Then, there were the choir suppers
and the school concerts, under the guidance of our much-
valued choir-master, Mr Boardman. Another result of the

practice issued in this, that two from your number obtained

musical scholarships at Oxford ; and this record reminds me

that I have entirely overlooked the fact, that the school

was at times well represented in the University Elevens,
and also in the University Eights honours not lightly

esteemed.

     But that which has left on my mind the most pleasant
and abiding impression is the annual Confirmation in the

school chapel. It was the result of the Bishop's own

spontaneous suggestion, and for eighteen years in succession

he came to us on Whitsunday mornings (the day also was
selected by himself) ; he addressed the boys from the pulpit,
and then administered the rites of Confirmation and the

Holy Communion. I find that about four hundred boys

must have been confirmed in the chapel altogether. The

Bishop* called it his ' happy day ' : I am sure it was also

mine.

    The memory of the orderly decorum not alone on those
special occasions, but the memory also of the reverential tone
pervading the place on ordinary days, is still to me most
refreshing. I hardly know how it was effected ; partly it
must have been due to the surroundings, and partly owing,
it may be, to the maxim implied in ' si vis me flere, dolendum
est ipsi tibi ' ; but it was such as to strike the strangers
who came to join in our services. I may here mention that
on one occasion the Principal of King's College, Dr Lonsdale,
came to see with his eyes what he had heard of with his
ears. At this moment I recall the expression of eager

                                                           * Sumner.
WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER  67

surprise marked on his countenance, as he looked on the

scene before him. ' Tell me how you do it/ said he, after
the service. ' Do what ? ' was the reply. * Why, what I
have seen; how do you do it?' 'By doing nothing/ I
rejoined; and then I explained that it was spontaneous
and the habit of the place, and could not have been effected

by any previous authoritative arrangements. On another

occasion, I observed that two elderly ladies frequented our

short daily morning service for a considerable time, and
I was curious to know the motive. After some little trouble,

I succeeded in ascertaining it : ' Oh ! it is so quiet/ was the
explanation given. Yet there were at the time more than

a hundred boys in the chapel.

     Such, then, were some of the institutions amidst which

thve boys of the Clapham Grammar School were educated.

On reflection, I think they were such as may naturally

account for the desire on the part of the ' Old Boys ' once

again to shake their old schoolmaster by the hand, after the
experience and the trials of life, extending in some cases

over fifty years. It was in view of this experience and of

these trials, that I, of set purpose, devised that plan of
education, and devoted very many of the best years of life
to the carrying of it out in steadfastness and sincerity. I
remember asking one of your number to what he attributed

his remarkable position in official life ? The reply was,

that it was chiefly owing to his application of a maxim,

impressed upon him by reiteration at school. That maxim

was : ' Whatever you do, do it as well as you can.' I re-
member also capping the old excuse : ' Please, sir, I did

not intend it/ by the remark, ' No doubt, you did not intend
that, but you ought to have intended the reverse! And
there is one of the secrets of the success of the Clapham

education.
               CHAPTER III

                       HIS WORK AS A SCHOOLMASTER

                   Reminiscences of Pupils and Others

GREAT as is the power of self-deception in man, it may be
doubted whether any schoolmaster ever believed himself to
have been successful in his profession unless he had really
succeeded. The boys, if no one else, would have enlight-
ened him on the point. But in my father's case there
exists much corroboration on the part of the pupils to
prove that his methods of teaching really produced, not
only the kindly feeling attested by the 1886 meeting, but
the educational results which he expected. In the words
of Mr Hemming, 'he was a stupendous fellow, and the
making of me, and no doubt of many more.' One of his
earliest scholars, the present Dean of Westminster, in an
article appearing in the Nineteenth Century of March 1884, and
entitled ( My School Days from 1830 to 1840,' has described
at length the methods of his old teacher, then a young man
' fresh from high mathematical honours at Cambridge, full
of fire, enthusiasm and original ability.'

     'He, first of all,' writes Dr Bradley, 'at a time when
the real study of comparative philology was almost unknown
in England, gave us some glimpses into what I may call
 the science of language; he taught us to try to group

 together facts for ourselves, and to form laws from what

 we observed and met. And he did more. He taught us
 something, at the same time, of the beauty and charm of

                                                                     68
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  69

literature, old and new. We were still very young boys,

even those who formed his "first class," and quite unfit to

read continuously such an author as Tacitus. But yet I

still remember how, quite early, almost at the outset of

our career, he had the courage to introduce us to the

magnificent passage that closes the Life of Agricola,
made us laboriously translate it into English, and I presume,

for I can still repeat it almost verbatim, commit it to

memory ; he revealed to some of us for the first time that

Latin authors are something more than puzzling sentences

in an unfamiliar language. I recall, too, the manner in
which, every Saturday, instead of a dull reading lesson, he
would summon seven or eight of us to read one after

another, in the presence of a roomful of our schoolfellows,
some stirring or pathetic passage from the Old or New

Testament, or from English poetry or prose, and how we

coveted above all things the distinction of being reported

at home as the best reader of the week. It was a simple
expedient, but at all events it cured us for life of either

practising ourselves, or patiently enduring in others a lifeless

and mechanical style of reading aloud. Every Saturday

also, for a time, we drew without copy, from previous study,

a map of Palestine. Physical geography was then in its
cradle, the author of Sinai and Palestine a schoolboy at
Rugby, and of the real configuration of that historic land
I fear we, perhaps our teacher, knew little ; but the interest
which the study of its history and geography inspired laid

...in one at least of his pupils the seed of a future harvest. . . .
              I think that Sir George Grove would date the first
germ of his articles on the "Geography and History of
Palestine " . . . perhaps the origin of the Palestine explora-

tion enterprise to these Saturday maps and Saturday
studies. . . . But this was not all ; no week passed and
this, it will be remembered, is a period separated from the
present by full half a century, during which science has
7O CHARLES PRITCHARD

been slowly winning its way towards obtaining a partial

admission into the regular course of an English schoolboy's

education no single week in which we did not receive and

eagerly look forward to at least one lesson in natural

science. Heat, elementary hydrostatics, mechanics and

optics, electricity, and above all chemistry to something
of the elements of all these we were introduced in turn.

There was not one among us at least in our teacher's

own class who could not at that time draw with sufficient

accuracy, not merely the proverbial common pump, but a

low pressure steam-engine of the day. What is more, we
learned, if not any very large amount of scientific knowledge

limited pocket-money and domestic objections to turning

our bedrooms into laboratories restrained and froze the

genial current of nascent science in our souls yet a sense

of the greatness and importance of the world of science,

whose door was at least set ajar for us, a sense that once

given us nothing could efface. It became impossible for

any one of us to look henceforth on science as a foe. Our

favourite literature in our homes was for a time two manuals

then in vogue, long since superseded, Mrs Marcet's Conversa-

tions and Joyce's Scientific Dialogues, together with Philosophy
in Sport made Science in Earnest. Our favourite indoor

recreation was the manipulation of a really excellent elec-

trifying machine (as it was then called), manufactured for
us by an elder brother, and the reproduction of the chemical

experiments which we had seen at school.

    ' Meantime we were led through stage after stage of the
severe discipline of mathematical study. I really dare hardly

say to what dizzy heights we had been conducted by the time

...that the writer of these pages had reached the age of fifteen
years.  I felt then, as I feel now, that even the study of

mathematics was coloured with the warm glow of the activity

and originality of the teacher's mind ; and though, from the
day in which he wisely and trustfully allowed one of his
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  /I

pupils to give those mathematical hours to reading by him-

self, in his own very sorry method, Homer and Thucydides,

I never did an hour of voluntary mathematical work, yet I
have never felt that any of the time I spent on these studies
was wholly wasted. I may add that our teacher, though he
must, I fear, have suffered much in the process, read with us,

with no inconsiderable effect on our minds, before we had

reached the average age of the fifth form at modern Rugby,
not only the Natural Theology and Evidences, and Horce
Paulina of Paley, but at least the first half of Butler's

Analogy ', a copy of which I still possess, with the date
of the year in which I laboriously read and re-read it for

him.'

     Sir George Grove writes :

    ' I had the good fortune to be under Mr Pritchard

from 1832 to 1835, an d was, therefore, at both Stockwell
and Clapham schools. After the latter date circumstances
took me into other parts of the world and of this country,

and though I am happy to say that I maintained my

acquaintance with him to the last, we did not come again

into that close and constant contact that I had before
enjoyed. I had been at two other schools which were

considered good of their class ; but with Pritchard the atmo-

sphere was very different. The master was younger and
more sympathetic, and full of a wider knowledge than I had
before dreamed of ; also, he had a great power of explanation

and illustration, and took constant interest in his boys.

One or two things I had not met with before, and they made

a great impression on me. First, the mathematics and the

natural philosophy. These were taught in a practical and

interesting way, and as connected with common life not

with the abstract world which made them always fresh.
Some of his precepts and examples recur to me almost daily.

I never see a lighted candle without recollecting how we

were taught that the flame was hollow, and that, therefore, the
72 CHARLES PRITCHARD

place to light a match at was the apex of the flame, where

the sides came together, and there was most fire.

' The teaching of Euclid, too, had a practical turn which

was entirely new, and made the propositions realities and

not mere abstract things which might be learnt by heart.

Impossible with his demonstrations !

'Another thing was the reading aloud stories from the

Bible or passages from English poetry on Saturday mornings.

I can never read the story of Naaman the Syrian or of

Jacob's dream without feeling the reality of it all, and
recalling the tones of Pritchard's voice. So, too, in our

Latin and Greek translating. He made us render the

passages as well as construe them ; and thus we felt that

they were about real transactions and people, and reflected

the same emotions as our own literature. The passage in the

Agricola Si quis piorum manibus locus will be remembered

by many of the fellows at school with me, in this connexion.

    ' A similar practical lesson was given us by the maps we

had to draw, or the diaries or travels we had to write.

Geography became a reality, and an interesting reality too.

Considering how much I have done since, in connexion with

Palestine, it is curious to remember that one of my best

efforts at school was a diary of a journey through the Holy

Land, with divers incidents got out of a book and thrown

into narrative form.

* In fact, Pritchard had an extraordinary power of teaching,

and though other masters in public schools possibly had as

much of yet in schools of our class was a great novelty,it,
                                      it
                                                          it

                                                                   is
and has resulted in the high place occupied by many of

Pritchard's pupils/

In Dr Bradley's and Sir George Grove's days                            clear

that the master's ideas of what a school should be were

already sufficiently developed, but there had not yet been

time for them to take the visible shapes of swimming bath,

observatory and chapel. Sir William Herschel, pupil of
                                      a
                                                          a
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  73

later date, mentions the 'never forgotten pride' created in

him and his schoolfellows by the possession of 'what was

in those days a simply lavish provision of fives-courts,

swimming baths, gymnasia, a laboratory,' etc. Of these

 Clapham schooldays Sir William writes :
     'The schoolmaster life of Charles Pritchard has been written

by himself in the very " manner which made the man," to

use the phrase which often pleased him as a Fellow of New

College ; and to his old pupils it is delightful to find there

described the personal causes which, through him, prepared
their " environment " for them, as well as the part they, as a

school, took in the growth of modern England. His intense
desire was not so much to teach a stock of facts as to put
his boys into possession of clear ideas, which should make

the facts inseparable parts of their intelligence for ever
after, so that the ideas set the imagination working in safe

directions, while facts were abundantly supplied by way
of food.

     ' In a letter to the father of one of them he says :

    * " One day I was showing the boys some of Faraday's

beautiful experiments for the establishment of the funda-
mentals of electricity, and the lad shouted for joy. The

contagion spread and his young companion broke forth also."

     ' It was this joyous grasp of a demonstration which it

was his chief delight to impart, since it was indeed the very
secret of his own large mastery of science, and of his
familiarity, not quite so great, perhaps, with classical litera-

ture. It certainly lent power to his apprehension of the

divine truths of theology, and to his instructions in them,

though to us boys he was always in his gravest and, perhaps,

most dignified attitude when engaged in sacred subjects.
     ' From a self-made man of his stamp the doctrine of

Perseverance was naturally made much of. It was one of
his favourite subjects, especially in relation to genius. It is

curious to see how the mathematical mind expresses its
74 CHARLES PRITCHARD

conception of the interaction of moral qualities. He put it

once thus :

    ' " I believe it is a law of God that success varies as

Perseverance | m x Genius | nt (in) being considerable, and

(ri) being unity. It is glorious to see how the knowledge of
truth dawns out of a dim twilight into brightness in an
atmosphere of perseverance."

    ' Nevertheless, if Pritchard's system had any distinctive

fault it was in making the fruits of knowledge accessible
without quite enough of climbing. That, however, was

the unavoidable result of the excitement then working

in men's mind, who, to their own surprise, found them-

selves in possession, as it were, of the mountain passes into
territories of hitherto inconceivable beauty and fertility.

It would not have been human for an enthusiastic nature

like his to treat his subjects in the cold statistical manner

which marks so many modern, as the vague didactic manner

did almost all the older schools. His was, in fact, the

happy time for any teacher who could grasp the situation

and throw himself into it con amore.  It is his great

merit, greater even than anything he did for pure science

in later days, that he seized the opportunity and turned
it to account with a practical shrewdness all his own.
He lacked, indeed, that rare gift, the crowning glory of

the ideal English schoolmaster, by virtue of which he
becomes the hero and the model of his boys ; but he came
very near attaining even this blue ribbon of his profession,

by a certain disregard a disregard which was anything but
contempt of all personal considerations of the kind, in
his earnest pursuit of any object. Some of us may
remember how we heard one day of his having met Z

coming back from an exeat to Putney with a cigar in his

lips, against all promises to the contrary ; and how we also
heard with no surprise, but without much sympathy with

the master, that he had plucked the cigar out and smudged
         REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE          75

the ashes on the offender's face in a passion of righteous

indignation. We did admire the courage of the act, for

Z was a giant ; but it was acts of roughness like this

that just lost him the prestige which we were always on

the verge of conceding to him. It was not ill-temper, but

sheer energy overleaping itself, a kind of boisterousness

that showed itself in many ways, even in his delivery of

his laboratory lectures. Here he had the habit of

tempering it with a touch almost of penitence, when, with

some slow words of unmistakable sincerity, he would carry

us with him into a tribute of admiration and gratitude for

the wisdom which had ordained what he was only dis-

playing to us. It was this unaffected consistency, with

the natural inconsistencies of humanity, that after all

made us love him and makes his memory a common

pleasure to us.

    ' He could not, of course, endure " railing accusations "

against science from any quarter, least of all from his own

theological friends. So far back as. 1863, writing to Sir
John Herschel, who was just bringing out a new edition of

his Outlines of Astronomy, he says :
' " The            had an article singing ' jubilate ' over the

astronomical error (just then determined) regarding the
sun's distance. ' Four million miles out! Astronomers

guess, after all.  Down  goes  astronomy    '  Now, in your
                                          !

note on this emendation of the sun's parallax, can you

add a word to remove such nonsense? I have measured

the thickness of one of my hairs, and find that the

correction now made in the angle means one hair at

(a distance of) 125 feet, or a sovereign at eight miles!"
     ' The suggested illustration appeared in the new edition

of the Outlines, and has ever since served as the typical

illustration, in popular lectures, of the relative minuteness of

astronomical errors.

    ' An instance of this way of looking at scientific things
76 CHARLES PRITCHARD

from a religious standpoint occurs in a letter he wrote

(October 1846) at the time of the discovery of Neptune :

    ' " I remember well how your words about the new planet

thrilled through me at South(ampton). In the words of a

..."better man than either of us, and on a better subject, ' I

thanked God and took courage.'

    ' I have already spoken of his constant reference, as a
man of science, to the Giver of all knowledge. The great

struggle between science and faith, to which he devoted so

much of his zeal and eloquence in later days, had not

acquired its prominent importance while he was teaching

at Clapham. The change in this respect has probably been
endured by few of our generation more robustly than by

Pritchard's pupils, trained as they were, by his method and

personal example, to trust themselves fearlessly to the

delights of research, while their religious faith has been

preserved warm, vigorous, and even militant like his. For
he enjoyed the combat as a soldier does, full of faith in

his leader. Assuredly, he does not over-estimate the
" abiding impression " of the Confirmation service, or of the

usual worship in chapel.'

    It was not only upon the inexperienced minds of the

boyish worshippers that the school services produced a deep

impression. Mr James Knowles, editor of the Nineteenth
Century, writes as follows (2/th May 1894) :

    * Although, when I was " little more than a boy," your

father admitted me to his friendship in the old time of his

Clapham Grammar School days, I was never his school

pupil (I wish I had been                                 came to know him from
1

                                                    !).

                                    I
attending that pretty little school chapel which he had

built, and of which he was so fond, and out of that pastoral

relationship grew my acquaintance with him in his obser-

vatory and garden, and ultimately my friendship with him
of so many years' duration.

The chapel, the garden and the observatory, each and
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  77

all of them he made * full of voices,' which I have never
forgotten to be grateful for. Even now, I can almost see the

pictures which Sunday after Sunday he painted in words so
vivid and yet so simple, that we were carried back in the
spirit to the very places and times he was reviving. He had

a marvellously strong and embodying imagination, which
made the Bible stories actual facts and not mere ancient

records, and set us, as it were, back into the real presence
of even the greatest of the actors in them. Then again,

I remember how he would pace for hours up and down the

walks of his garden, bordered on each side by all sorts and

kinds of plants and flowers, whose names and qualities and
virtues he made texts for endless illustrations of mental and

moral questions such as he loved to discuss without end, and

always without cant or boredom or affectation and in perfectly

common sense, wholesome and yet enthusiastic ways. Again,

and especially, I recall the nights in his observatory when he

brougoht all the wonders of his material heaven into one's mind
and heart as well as to one's eyes, his enthusiasm carrying one,

as in a chariot of fire, up to and beyond the highest.'
     Still more striking is the testimony of Dr Perowne, now

Bishop of Worcester, who thus describes the effect produced
on him by the school services and their founder:

    * It was here (at Clapham) that my acquaintance with him
began, some forty years ago, when I was residing in King's
College, London, where I held at that time a theological lecture-
ship. It came about in this way. Happening to see in a book-

seller's shop in Fleet Street, much frequented by Cambridge

men, that he wanted a clergyman to help him by preaching a

sermon on Sunday afternoons in his little school chapel, I

offered my services and was accepted. So began a friendship
which ended only with his death. That chapel was the pride

of his life. He had built and embellished it. Every detail
was studied with loving care. The windows were filled with
stained glass, the design and execution of which he super-
II           78 CHARLES PRITCHARDI it,
            1
             intended himself. The organ was constructed under hisit
             direction by one of the best builders of the day. The choir
             was carefully trained. Beside the masters and pupils of theit

             school, there was a small congregation gathered from friends I

             in the neighbourhood, who came there attracted by the
             reverent beauty of the service, and by the broad and manly
             utterances of the headmaster, rooted himself in the faith, but

             able to sympathise with the doubts and perplexities of others,
             and especially of the rising generation.

                  ' One Sunday in the year was always a great day at
             Clapham. Every Whitsunday the Bishop of Winchester
             (Sumner), at his own desire, held a Confirmation in the little

             chapel. It was a day much to be remembered. The solemn

             hushed stillness of the service, the wise and loving words
             of the Bishop, the reverent and devout demeanour of the
             candidates during the administration of the rites of Confir-
             mation and the Holy Communion impressed all who wit-
             nessed them. The Bishop called it his " happy day." " I am
             sure," adds Pritchard, in speaking of " was mine." As

                learnt to know more of my friend, observed with what
             diligent care he prepared his pupils, praying, as one of them
             bears record, " for and with each one " before he presented
             them for Confirmation. To many was the turning point in

             their history.
                   Those days were to me very precious. Sunday by Sunday

                attended the service, and every Sunday for some years
             remained after the service for the night. In the summer
             evenings Pritchard would take me into his garden, for every
             flower of which he had an individual regard and that
             was one link of union, for like him loved flowers and

             there, walking leisurely to and fro, or lying on the grass, he
             delighted to speak of the beauty and the wonder of Nature,
             and the marvels of Divine order in creation or he would

             discuss the great problems that lie at the roots of all life and
             the freshness and originality of his mind were healthy and
                   I

                                 a;
                                                                       ;
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  79

bracing stimulant to thought. At other times, on bright,

cloudless nights, he would show us in his telescope the moon

and the stars, and tell us the fascinating tale of their history

and structure.

     * The winter evenings were spent in his study ; and there

he would take down some book from his shelves, and we

read together Plato's glorious myths in the Republic and

the Gorgias, or his Phcedo or Second Alcibiades, or we turned

a page of Cicero or Augustine; or some modern author
beguiled us, Coleridge, or Wordsworth, or Tennyson, or Julius
Charles Hare ; for we were both of us Cambridge men, and

had the same sympathies and the same tastes in literature,

and the same convictions in theology, though he was many
years my senior. We both had the greatest admiration for

the broad and masculine theology of men like Julius Hare
and Thomas Arnold, and Thirlwall. We both of us recoiled

from what appeared to us to be the retrograde movement
and the un-English disingenuousness of the Oxford Trac-
tan'ans. We venerated Luther and thanked God for the
Reformation, and we regarded the avowed attempt " to undo

the work of the Reformation " as nothing short of treachery
to the Church. Pritchard's love for Cambridge, and especially

for the noble college where he had received his training,

was a passion. Long years after, in spite of his adoption
by the University of Oxford, and though fully alive to all
that Oxford had done to show her sense of his eminent

services, and though truly grateful for the recognition, his
heart would go back to his Cambridge days, and of all the

honours he received in later life, none, I verily believe, was so

dear to him as the Honorary Fellowship conferred on him

by his old college.
     * His wonderful power of inspiration as a teacher has

been testified by several of his pupils at Stockwell and
Clapham. No teacher ever surpassed him in the clearness of
his methods. He would make the most abstruse subjects
8O CHARLES PRITCHARD

intelligible and full of interest. I used to say to him some-

times, " If I had had you to teach me, I should have under-

stood mathematics, but Cambridge mathematical books
inspired me with nothing but aversion." He said he was not

surprised, and did not hesitate to declare that certain well-
known university text-books were disfigured by the most

extraordinary blunders. For men naturally disposed to mathe-

matical studies, the teaching ordinarily given might suffice,
but for those to whom the very elements of mathematics
presented difficulties there was very little help. The books
were badly written, the diagrams badly drawn. In the

lecture rooms we were expected to understand mechanics
without ever seeing a system of weights and pulleys, hydro-

statics without even the model of a pump, optics without a
microscope, a telescope, or even a lens. As for natural
science, it never came within the possible range of our studies
in my day. Pritchard's method of teaching was the very
reverse of all this. One of the first things he did when he
became master of the Clapham Grammar School was to
establish a laboratory, and gradually furnish it " with all
apparatus necessary for the elucidation of chemical and
physical phenomena." In a few years after an observatory

was added to the other institutions of the school. I heard

him once say that he hoped the day would come when every

manse would have its microscope in the study and its
telescope on the lawn. This was his method, the only
rational method of teaching by helping the understanding

through the eyes. In a letter to me he says :
    ' " A lecture last night from Sir H. Roscoe on technical

education, or rather on the introduction of the study of

Nature into all education. Voild ! what I did sixty years ago.
Things must come to this when mediaevals die ofT, if ever they

do. Certainly children of six months begin to draw ; savages
are great at imitative arts. My boys were compelled to
draw for two hours weekly till the age of seventeen. The
REMINISCENCES OF SCHOOL LIFE  81

change required, or a change required in education is to insist

on boys (and girls) learning intelligently, and learning to
express intelligently the great elementary principles in a

branch of Nature knowledge or language. I could give you

Latin subjunctive and heaps of such things in a few lines
not to be mistaken or forgotten. I could give you the whole
of elementary optical formulae in words and ideas never to

be misunderstood or forgotten. All algebraic or symbolical

expressions ought to be translated into words in the mind."

    ' His many-sidedness was remarkable, and the breadth of
his mental grasp. At Cambridge, it is true, he devoted
himself almost entirely to mathematics, his only excursion,

as an undergraduate, into theology being the study of Butler's
Analogy, which then formed a part of the examination at

St John's, and which he thoroughly mastered. He often
expressed to me his sense of the great value of this study,
and his regret that Butler was no longer a text-book in his

college. It had so wrought itself into the texture of his
mind and thought that it coloured all his way of looking at
theological questions. I have sometimes thought that the

strong conservatism of some of his opinions, notwithstanding
the reverent freedom with which he handled most questions,
was due to the influence of Butler. He knew pages of the

Analogy by heart, having learnt them ensconced in the
branches of a weeping willow which hung over the Cam.
He has also expressed his indebtedness to the sermons of
Professor Blunt, afterwards gathered into a volume on the

Undesigned Coincidences of the Old Testament; and to
the sermons of Julius Hare, which contributed greatly to
form the theological bias of his mind ; and " if to these," he
says, " I add the writings of Coleridge and those of the

accomplished and large-minded Isaac Taylor, I think I

should nearly exhaust the authors who, during my under-
graduateship, laid the foundation of my theological pre-

dilections."

                                                  F
                    CHAPTER IV

                   LIFE AT FRESHWATER, 1862-1870

                  By his Daughter , Rosalind Pritchard

INTENSELY interested as my father was in the training
and development of youthful minds, which had been his
pleasant task at Clapham, the time had come when he
found that a pause was necessary. His life hitherto had
been one of almost unceasing occupation, and the trammels
of routine in paths, however congenial, began to be burden-

some.

     The management of the school at Clapham had been
a pleasant but an absorbing task, and one that did not leave
sufficient time for the pursuits towards which his aspira-

tions and tastes inclined. A visit to the Isle of Wight

inspired a longing for a time of quiet enjoyment of the
country, and of uninterrupted study. Accordingly, the

school at Clapham was transferred to other hands, and,
in 1862, my father lodged his belongings in a house owned

by the Rev. Mr Bowen, father of Lord Justice Bowen, at
Freshwater, in the Isle of Wight, during the building of his
own house, Hurst Hill, which was to become his residence
during the seven following years.

     An admiration for Nature, so enthusiastic and spon-
taneous as to be inspiring to those around him, enabled

him to appreciate and rejoice in his beautiful surroundings.
The view from his library windows, overlooking the Solent
and Hurst Castle, was his especial delight. He gloried in

                                                                              82
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  83

the luxuriant vegetation of a country where climate and

soil alike combined to render aid from human hands

scarcely necessary. He watched the planting of every
tree and shrub, and was never tired of rioting their rapid

growth to beauty.

     But the seven years in the Isle of Wight were not years

of leisure. The pleasure he experienced in his garden and
in the natural beauties of his surroundings formed only an
agreeable accompaniment to a life full of many intellectual
occupations. The best of my father's theological work was
accomplished during this period. His scientific studies were

pursued, and he was able to ascertain in what direction
his life's work most usefully tended. There is no doubt
that his inclinations led him, as will presently be shown,

towards theology. A longing to testify to men his deep-

rooted faith and convictions was the mainspring of his
desire to join in the work of Christian teaching. But

while an opening in this direction had yet to be sought,

his scientific career was already begun. In the year of

his leaving Clapham he became secretary to the Royal
Astronomical Society; and with the duties of this im-

portant post, and the optical researches on which he had

for some years been consulting with his old friend, Sir John
 Herschel, he might have been thought to have provided him-
 self with occupation amply sufficient for a man well past
 fifty, who had been hard at work, without intermission, since
boyhood. All through his life the study of astronomy had
 formed one of the chief occupations of my father's leisure
 hours. The astronomical instruments which had been in

 constant use at Clapham were transferred to Freshwater,

 where two small observatories were equipped, and obser-
 vations pursued by him with great zeal. He very fre-

 quently attended the meetings of the Royal Astronomical

 Society, of which he was a fellow, and as I have said,

 secretary, and subsequently vice-president and president.
84 CHARLES PRITCHARD

His repute as an astronomer was well established, although

he professedly was but an amateur. So absorbed was he
when at work in his observatory that meals would fre-
quently pass by unheeded, and the reminding messenger
was only regarded as an irritating interruption, to be
forgotten as soon as the reminder had departed.

      Chemistry, too, had always possessed great fascination
for him. He formed a small laboratory, in which he

interested himself in experimenting. My own remem-
brance of these experiments is vivid, as he occasionally

held demonstrations for our benefit. These were frequently

of so explosive a character that we children took up our
position behind a curtain, ready to withdraw our heads

when operations became alarming.
     But scientific pursuits alone could not long content

my father. Soon he entered into the field of active dis-
cussion on questions of religion, when Bishop Colenso, in
1863, struck consternation into the hearts of many church-
men by his book on the Pentateuch, which questioned the
veracity of so much narrated in this part of the Scriptures.
Dr Colenso's reputation as a man of science, and as a
distinguished theologian, made the refutation of his con-
tentions no easy task, but one which my father felt it his

duty to undertake.
     The facts that Colenso had been a member of the same,

college at Cambridge as himself, and that his career, up
to a certain point, had been similar to his own, were of
special force in inciting my father to answer arguments
which he regarded as unworthy of an education at Cam-
bridge, and more particularly at St John's College. He
therefore set himself the task of refuting the contentions
of the Bishop, and proving them to be untenable by the
light of science and theology. His arguments, written in
the form of a letter, were published by Bell & Daldy.

     In the introduction to this pamphlet he thus ex-
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  85

plains his reasons for undertaking the defence of the

Scriptures :

     1 Our career in life for some time ran nearly parallel ;

both of us gained very nearly the same academical dis-
tinctions; both of us have written books once, more or
less adopted by our university, and we both of us attained
to the honour of a Fellowship in the same noble college.

It is this last circumstance which, perhaps, has weighed

with me more than any other ; not so much in my deter-

mination to sift your arguments as best I may, as in the
adoption of the present form of communicating the result
of the investigation. I have spoken of our college, for no

loyal member of that ancient and religious foundation can
forget how it trained, and still cherishes the memory of
learned and good men, such as Henry Martyn, and Blunt

and Selwyn ; men who have devoted or hazarded their
lives in defending at home, or in preaching abroad to the

heathen, that faith which, to our great amazement, you

now teach as resting on no secure and historical basis.

Not that I would arrogate to myself the office of defend-

ing the fair fame of the venerable society to which we

belong, but I have set myself the task of exposing what
I believe to be the fallacies of your book, partly from the

impatience which all men feel while a stigma remains upon
any object of their deep regard, and partly under the hope

that I may incite some other men of greater ability to extend
and complete the arguments which I have here briefly, and

with intentional brevity, commenced.
     'Then there is another motive which has induced me

to come forward. I greatly fear that, through an infirmity

common to minds half informed, your book may still further

encourage the belief or the suspicion that there is some

 necessary but ill-defined connection between mathematical

 or natural science and scepticism regarding the historical

value of the Sacred Record. For it cannot be forgotten
86 CHARLES PRITCHARD

that Dr Colenso is, or has been, a man of science, and it
cannot be unknown that the Bishop of Natal teaches very
large portions of the Pentateuch to be historically false.
As one, therefore, who has passed much of his life in
the pursuit of scientific learning of various descriptions,
I wish, so far as in me lies, to vindicate the compati-
bility of scientific acquirements, with a devout but in-
telligent belief in the historical veracity of the Sacred

Scriptures.'
     The argument ran to forty-two pages, and its convincing

nature called forth expressions of gratitude and admiration
from men of science and churchmen, both known and un-
known to the writer. One of the testimonies he valued most
came from the Bishop of Winchester, Dr Sumner, who,
writing from Farnham, says :

    ' MY DEAR MR PRITCHARD, I have read your pamphlet
with the deepest interest. I know not whether I ought to
speak so plainly in writing to you, but I cannot refrain
from saying that, in my judgment, it is incomparably the
best production which Bishop Colenso's book has yet called
into being. In tone and spirit, as well as in the manage-
ment of details, it leaves nothing to be desired. And this
is the more observable as by far the larger number of the
many replies to that unhappy book which I have seen,
although not wanting in talent, are greatly wanting in the
calm and serious spirit which you have maintained through-
out. The subject is too grave for sarcasm and light treat-
ment, however the offender may have merited them. The
publication of such a volume by such a man is to me a
greater wonder than any of those to which he refuses to
give credit. I am, my dear Mr Pritchard, yours ever,

                                                                     <C. WlNTON.'

     Bishop Sumner was an old and abiding friend of my
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  8/

father's, who never failed to find his way to Hurst Hill

when his duties led him to the island. The Colenso

incident also led my father into correspondence of gigantic
proportions with persons of all classes and opinions. One
interesting discussion was with the Astronomer Royal, one
letter of whose ran as follows :

                                               ' ROYAL OBSERVATORY, GREENWICH,
                                                         ' June IQ/^, 1867.

     ' MY DEAR PRITCHARD, As you are engaged in subjects
which may lead to one to which I have given much attention

    the character and results of Colenso's work would it at all

interest you to see some notes which I drew up to assist

my own memory eighteen pages of MS. ? Pray make no

scruple in rejecting this.

     ' I send by book post the MS. which I mentioned to you
   review of Colenso on the Pentateuch. You will perceive
that it is a part, in fact the end, of a longer essay. It is

perhaps a little more finished than the earlier parts, and it

embodies my leading ideas on the formation of the Pen-

tateuch. If you wish to see any more of the series, you

shall have it.

     ' Now as to your question on the scientific difficulties
attending a literal interpretation of the earlier chapters in
Genesis, I say without hesitation, and shall always be ready

to say, when it seems needful, that they are insuperable.
I say also that the two accounts of creation are irreconcilable.

And I am very confident that nothing will explain this

except the supposition that they have been derived from

two different countries, say Egypt and Assyria.

    ' How legends of this class can have arisen, I can hardly

say. But certainly with a reverential and religious feeling,
and looking at them as an educated modern, I yet regard

them with much reverence.

     ' Several weeks ago, when I met Dr Miller on Blackheath
88 CHARLES PRITCHARD

he asked me if I had seen an Oxford book reconciling
modern astronomy with the Bible. I told him I had not,

but the writer had undertaken a risky task.

    'This, I think, meets .your general questions.

    ' Now as to your case of A and B.
    * I state that the Christian religion (the only one that

I recognise) is in no danger from the investigations of

science.                  If anybody chooses to append to

    ' There I stop.

it "belief in every word of the Hebrew Scriptures," on

him be all the attendant difficulties. I quote (inemoriter)

from Paley, "To make Christianity answerable with its

life for the obscurities of the Hebrew Scriptures is to

load'        will not say with great, but with unnecessary,

       iIt,
difficulties."                in Dr Miller's mind                                               mis-
                              is
     If you think that there
                                                  iIt,

                                                                          a
understanding sufficiently serious to require  will write

to him a very few words, explanatory, not controversial.

      have Herschel'o     Schiller's Spaziergang, but have not
    I'
            I  will take  off its shelf.
read it.                                  am, always, yours
                          it

                                              I

                                                                                                                        J
very truly,                                    G. B. AlRY.

     Not satisfied to serve the cause of religion only in

controversy, such as that which the correspondence with
Colenso called forth, my father, full of active zeal, observed
with regret the want of religious facilities in the surrounding

community, too scattered for the ministrations of the one

parish church at Freshwater, many miles distant from the poor
homes at Totland and Alum Bays. Possessed of meadow
within reasonable distance of both these places, my father
felt that here was a spot which might be utilised as the site
of place of worship, with great benefit to a large number

of the population. In imagination he saw the little church
    a
                                                                                             a
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  89

already erected, and affording a pleasant prospect before
the windows of his library. The idea was no sooner con-
ceived than he hastened to put it into execution, and a

church of simple but effective design was projected on

paper, my father undertaking to raise the money himself,
and to superintend the completion of the scheme.

     In 1869, as quoted by Sir William Herschel, he wrote:

    I' am about to imitate the^Dld German students in a peri-

patetic lecture on the sun's constitution and the (recent)
eclipse, going from town to town to collect money for a new

church. The people are in gross darkness, and I have pro-
mised a good round sum, which I must collect in this way, if
I can.'

    He laid the plan before the Bishop of the Diocese and
the Rector of Freshwater, who gave their consent ; and

very speedily the necessary funds were almost collected.

It was, therefore, a matter of much disappointment that the

cherished plan had finally to be abandoned owing to diffi-
culties which arose relating to the proposed incumbency;

difficulties which had to be faced again and overcome some
years later, when the petitions of an increasing population
could no longer pass unheeded. Then a little wooden
church was erected in which my father took much interest,
helping in the simple services and with the music, himself

sometimes attending the choir practices, and encouraging
his family to assist.

     He was indeed ever ready to help those around him, as a
letter from Mrs Cameron, counting on his co-operation in a
scheme to extend intellectual light amongst the people, shows.
She wrote :

    ' MY DEAR MR PRITCHARD, I did not know, until I
heard last evening of some children having been made happy,

that you were now amongst us, or I should have written

earlier to claim of you your hearty co-operation in the work
9O CHARLES PRITCHARD

now ready to bear fruit our Freshwater Reading-Room and
...Literary Association, as it will endeavour to be.
                                                      Now

all our people spend all their leisure hours in the public-houses

which abound to entice and to ensnare ; whilst there is not one

reading-room, one spot of rest, where they can, after their

work is over, find innocent repose and turn their leisure to
...account.
             I think a reading - room is a lay church.
... I hope you will seal the success of the rooms by your

personal presence. I hope you will speak and lecture speak

often, lecture by way of a great treat. We can but hope. I

trust we shall open on Saturday next Yours always truly,

             ' JULIA M. CAMERON.'

     Mrs Cameron, so well known to fame through her photo-
graphy, lived at some little distance from Hurst Hill. She
was a quaint personality, full of intelligence and originality,
and a very great admirer of our neighbour Tennyson, of whom

she made several admirable portraits, despite the fact that he

was somewhat embarrassed by admiration at close quarters,
especially when it emanated from one of the gentler sex.
Farringford, Tennyson's residence, was the nearest habita-

tion in constant occupation, and between the poet and my
father there grew up a very sincere friendship and regard.

Both devoted much attention to the study of contemporary
thought and the tendencies of the times, and they found
interchange of conclusions and opinions very interesting.

     During my father's residence at Freshwater, he fre-
quently occupied the pulpits of neighbouring churches, and
occasionally acted as locum tenens for one of the clergy.

It was during this period of unofficial life that he preached

those sermons at Cambridge and before the British Associa-

tion which gave him a recognised place amongst leading

theologians.

     The sermon delivered at Nottingham before the British

Association, in 1866, was considered by himself, and I think
                    LIFE AT FRESHWATER                              91

truly, to have established his position as a preacher. Indeed,

it accomplished more than that for him. It was an epoch in

his career. Writing to my brother Eric some twenty years

later, and after the award of an honour received in his latter

days, he says : * I owe my position now to my sermon at

Nottingham.' Strangely enough, it was published only at the

request of one of the congregation present at St Matthew's,

Nottingham, where the sermon was delivered. The gentle-

man in question gave his own account of the incident in a

local paper. I have the cutting of this little article, which is
marked, in my father's handwriting, ' sent by I know not

whom ' :

' But the sermon that was one indeed ! Mr Pritchard

took rank in it as one of the reconcilers of the largest and

profoundest scientific thought of the age with soundest ortho-

doxy. The deepest doctrines that scientific men in the pulpit

used to avoid, and the non-scientific preachers used to bewail

as denied or destroyed by science, were treated of in a manner

most clear, earnest and eloquent. So excited was I, that,

though an utter stranger, I sidled through the departing
crowd at the close, up to the chancel, in hopes of " accident-

ally on purpose " meeting the preacher, and did so ; and there
and then, as a stranger, yet friend by Freemasonry of the

British Association, expressed a hope that it might be printed.

Of course there was hesitation. " It wanted a good deal do-
ing to it." " The thoughts were in everybody's head." " Well !
I will do what I can with it." So it is to be done, and I trust

my readers will peruse and see what the British Association
                    it,
does on a Sunday.'
                             f
Sermons thus printed at request' too often,                         to be
                                              it
feared, find no readers, with the exception,
                                                  is

                                                        it

                                                                is
                                              to be hoped,

of the persons at whose request they are printed. Very

different was the fate of the Nottingham sermon. Its effect

on two earnest and influential minds    thus described in
                                      is
                                                                            a

letter from Dean Hook, written several years later, nth Feb-
92 CHARLES PRITCHARD

ruary 1870, on my father's election to his Oxford Professor-

ship :
     ' You, a perfect stranger to me, send me a printed sermon.

Why you should even have thought of me would perplex us
if we did not see the convergence of a chain of circumstances
leading to the present happy result. I send your sermon (as
I send books that interest me) to the Chancellor [Hatherley].
He is wonderfully struck with it ; alludes to it in a publica-
tion* of his own, and determines that the author ought to
have a locus standi in the Church but where? He feels,
even more strongly than I do and I feel very strongly the
impolicy of placing a man of middle age in a parish if he has
not been habituated to pastoral work. . . . The Chancellor

commissioned me therefore to tell you that, although he made
no promises, he had you on his list for a stall.'

     The last part of the letter alludes to the anxiety which

my father had expressed, at least as early as 1866, to apply
himself, after his few years of comparative repose, 'to the
permanent duties of some pastoral charge.' To this project
he long clung, in spite of the persuasion of his new friends,

who assured him that he was meant for other work, that,

in Dean Hook's words (2Oth November 1866), 'we can get
 preachers and pastors, but not philosophers.' Out of the cor-
 respondence thus begun, there grew up between my father
 and Dean Hook a warm and constant friendship, the more
 remarkable when it is considered that the friends never met

 till one was approaching seventy and the other sixty.
      ' I rejoice to find,' Hook had written, commenting on the

 Nottingham sermon, ' that my mind has often run in the same
 groove as yours set agoing by Butler.' The influence of
 Bishop Butler, the object of my father's lifelong reverence, is
 indeed apparent throughout the sermon, which had for its
 subject, ' The Continuity of the Schemes of Nature and of

 Revelation,' and which was noticed by others besides divines.

                          * The Continuity of the Holy Scriptures, 1867.
             LIFE AT FRESHWATER                                                                      93

In its published form there were notes appended to                                                   one
a

           ;
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                          it,
dealing with the subject of Darwinism, then in the thoughts

of everyone. My father laid stress on two arguments, as to

which much more has since been said * first, that so compli-

cated structure as the human eye could not have been

improved to its present shape by any series of accidental

variations and, secondly, that there are conclusive physical

reasons for thinking that the earth cannot have been in a con-
dition to support the life of organised beings for anything like

the hundreds of millions of years demanded by geologists and
by Darwin himself for the denudation of the one district of
the Weald. On this point, he used somewhat curious argu-
             is
                          if,

                                          aa
ment, to the effect that     as physicists have asserted, the

length of the day increasing at calculable rate, owing to

the friction of the tides, then, within the limits of time re-

quired by Darwin for the evolution of present forms, we shall

find that the day must have been less than second long.

To the pamphlet, Mr Darwin replied in the following
                       :
characteristic letter
                                                                        a

                               'DOWN, Oct. I2//2 (1866?).

'Mv DEAR MR PRITCHARD,                        have read with much
             a

                          it
                                    I
interest your sermon, with its appendices, and thank you
                                                     I

sincerely for having sent me.

I*  should be very cross-grained man to object to                                                    Ia

single word that you have said. You pay me the most

elegant compliments, and attack me with much spirit and

force. Even  could you would not thank me for making
             if
               ;I
                        I
a long defence but may make two remarks. When

refer to the extremely simple eyes of the articulata (i.e.,

insects, spiders, etc.), you translate this into the human

eye*. Should there be second edition, hope you will
             I

                               a

                                                  I
correct this, for have always spoken of the human eye as

the pinnacle of difficulty.

                             * See page 183.
94 CHARLES PRITCHARD

' You speak of the necessity of various parts of the eye

changing simultaneously in order that it may become

adapted for even slightly changed work ; but many a

short-sighted person can see an object distinctly at a

distance which renders the image confused to others.

     * What a very curious case about the increasing length

of day ! I have that profound respect for mathematics

which profound ignorance gives, but I cannot help observ-

ing that when applied to uncertain subjects, such as

geology, it gives as uncertain results as geologists arrive

at by other means ; for instance, how Thomson and others
differ about the thickness of the crust of the earth and the

rate of cooling.

' My son George has been much interested by your

sermon, and begs to be very kindly remembered to you.

With my best thanks, pray believe me, yours very sin-

cerely,                                       CH. DARWIN.

     ' That is a very foolish episode of mine about the Wealden,
and was struck out in the later editions.'

Another eminent man of science, to whom the sermon

was sent, Professor J. C. Adams, the discoverer of Neptune,
         *I
wrote,       cordially agree  with  most  of  your  remarks     '  but
                                                             ;

dissented, for reasons which at the present day need not

be repeated, from my father's conclusions as to the change
in the time of the earth's rotation.

In the following year, 1867, mv father was invited to

deliver the Hulsean lectures at Cambridge. During the

time of their delivery he took up his residence, with his

family, at Cambridge, where he much enjoyed renewing
old friendships, and being in the midst of intellectual life.

What he thought of his performance may be gathered from
a letter to Mr Huggins. His subject, it may be remarked,

was ' Analogies in the Progress of Nature and Grace/
                       LIFE AT FRESHWATER                                                                      95

      ' I have just sent off the last corrections of the proofs of
  the four Hulsean lectures. I have done and produced my

  best, and let any man who has so done thank God for health

  and strength, and will and opportunity to do
          '                                                                                       whatever

                             I

                                                                               it,
  that best may be.               have greatly enjoyed my sub-

ject . . .

    He received so much kindness during his stay at

  Cambridge that he looked back on this time as one of his

happiest memories.

    Despite the reputation he had by this time attained as

  a preacher, my father himself still hoped to fill no higher

  office than that of parish priest. A letter from Sir

  Frederick Pollock shows, however, that those who knew

  his powers felt that he was fitted to adorn                                                     more in-
                                                                                                  I
  fluential position.                                                                                Ia
                                                                                                            I
                                  HATTON, HOUNSLOW, W.,
    *
                                                                                                  Ttiesday, \bth Oct. 1866.
                 a

                         I

                                       I
                                                                                       *
                                                                                               '
    MY DEAR SIR,              wish had the custody of the " great

  seal" for few days. It would give me such pleasure to

ask you to choose from the vacant livings in the gift of the

  Crown in that department. There was a clerical astronomer

  in Ireland of whom was said he might thank his stars for
                 I

                          it
Ia  bishoprick.        think your stars ought to command more

  than you own to be aiming at. As am out of office may
                                  I

  venture (though November be hastening here) to ask you to
  come and see me. It
                 's             manifest (to me, at least) that we
                      a

                            I is
  have much to talk about. . . . Most sincerely am more

  ...obliged to you forcopy of your sermon than can express.
     write at once.               entirely agree with you on the

  subject of           remark and Darwin's book. It seems to

  me gratuitously to assume that any form of created being

  may be gradually changed into any other, provided you

  give time enough for the metamorphosis; and as you have

  unlimited time before you, and behind you also, you may
96 CHARLES PRITCHARD

take as much time as is required to change an elephant into
a cassowary, or rather to derive both from a common origin
and cell. There are solid and deep-rooted objections to this

theory, derived from considerations too large to be more

than alluded to here in this present letter, but there is no

fact in Nature which affords it the least encouragement.
 Natural history has been the subject of observation for above

3000 years, and of study above 2000 years, and nothing is to
be found as a fact in favour of it ; species become extinct,
but no new ones are discovered. Darwin would say the

observation of ten or even 100,000 years goes for nothing ;
nature takes one of these steps only once in a million

years.

    1 It is possible that my philosophical views may be

prejudiced by the notion that Darwin's theory (though
not atheistically} is entirely opposed to any form of revela-
tion which the actual physical discoveries of any kind, I

think, are not. No Christian takes his notions of astronomy
from the Bible, nor of natural history (for, no doubt, hares

and rabbits do not chew the cud and                                                 should not
            a                                                               I
                     it
quarrel with anyone for doubting whether we ought toit,
take our notions of archaeology or even cosmogony fromis

the Bible.                                it

                                                                  !),
'  It may be that revelation intended to teach only what

cannot be known without and leaves the ignorance of the
...world on other matters just as
                                                                     found  it          indeed,

sometimes adopting as the only mode of becoming at all                          is

intelligible to us. Forms are used suited to our ignorance

and giving us notion, no doubt true, as far as goes, but
                                                                                    it

Ifnot giving the whole truth, which at present beyond our
comprehension.  Joshua had used language that would

have satisfied the Inquisition that Galileo was right, he would

have been utterly unintelligible to the people of Israel, and

to be understood must have put forth Herschel's Outlines of
Astronomy. . . . Take the mightiest and most sublime of
                 LIFE AT FRESHWATER                97

physical creations which our senses can perceive or our

imaginations grasp where is the "continuity" between one

nebula and another in the heavens. (See Herschel's Outlines,

sec. 868.) Look at the Dumb-bell Nebula the great Spiral,
the great Nebula of Orion and say what continuity is to be

found among them. Do they come from a cell? It would

take a man's life for light itself to go from star to star. We

see them by a salvation of light that left them ten or 20,000

years ago. Where can I find most readily anything about
the altered length of day? It is new to me quite. Your

sincere friend,                      F. POLLOCK.'

    Dean Hook, writing on I5th April 1869, questioned his
wisdom in wishing for pastoral employment. Yet in this
wish he persisted, even after his friend, Lord Hatherley,
had actually promised him a canonry, should one fall

vacant.

     While immersed in special studies, my father always

took the keenest interest in contemporary events, keep-

ing touch with all that stirred the minds of men in his
generation. One of the most interesting episodes during
this period of his life was the formation of the Metaphysical

Society.

     Of my father's share in this movement, Mr James Knowles,
writing on 2/th May 1894, says :

     'When he came to stay with us at Clapham Common
from the Isle of Wight we used to resume our old talks of the

school days about theology, physics and metaphysics, and it

was on one occasion, in 1868, when he was fellow-guest at

"The Hollies" with Tennyson, that the bard joined in so
often and so much that we made a sort of triangular duel,
and that the thought occurred to us of getting up a society to

discuss such questions formally and scientifically, which re-

sulted in the formation of the Metaphysical Society. It was

the fact of your father, as a great scientific man, agreeing to

                                                              G
98 CHARLES PRITCHARD

join the great poet and " a man in the streets " like myself,

which gave me the courage to get together that remarkable

assemblage of men of which you have heard so much. Your

father did not come much, indeed, scarcely at all, to the

meetings, though he took great interest in following the pro-

ceedings. This was, I think, partly because of residence

so far off from London, but partly also because, although

admirable and delightful in a dialogue, I do not think he

was ever so much at home or at his ease in a talk with
several people. He was always a wonderfully shy and

modest man, and rather hermit-like in his social relations
with the world. Moreover, I think, the main subject of

interest with him, at any rate one of his most frequent

subjects of talk with me, and of much of his writing, was
the reconciliation of science with the Bible. It was for

the light it might possibly  throw upon this that I think
                             of the Metaphysical Society,
he joined in the formation
which, as a matter of fact,  did not go much at any time

into that question, except quite indirectly.'

     In the Nineteenth Century', August 1885, Mr Knowles has
given a similar account of the foundation of this celebrated
society, which included among its members men of such
diverse opinions as Cardinal Manning, Professor Huxley, Mr
Froude, Mr R. H. Hutton and Sir John Lubbock. It lasted

nearly twelve years, in spite of Mr Froude's saying that, ' If

we hung together for twelve months, it would be one of the

most remarkable facts in history.'

     Attendances at the meetings of this society and those of

the Royal Astronomical Society called my father to London

at irregular intervals. These occasions proved not only in-

tellectually refreshing to him, but afforded opportunities he

very much enjoyed of visiting Covent Garden Market. From

thence he usually secured some novelty in horticulture, and

never left without one of the Covent Garden sorted salads,

which he always regarded as unequalled. He was quite a
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  99

well-known character amongst the old ladies who plied their
trade in the market, and was always greeted with a smile, in
anticipation of the banter which invariably accompanied the

purchases.
     We children always looked forward to the return from

London. We were never forgotten. The remembrance
sometimes took the form of some new mechanical toy, or small
trinket, but sweetmeats were most usual. Astonished in-

deed would those only acquainted with the graver side of his

character have been, could they have witnessed the perfor-

mances which marked the bestowal of these dainties. Com-

petitions of the most varied nature, but always grotesque or

fantastic, marked the occasion, and I have seen tears of mirth

roll down my father's cheeks as he awarded the prizes to
the eager little competitors. When he gave himself up to

our amusement, no better playfellow was to be found, and

sadly did we lament the occasional interruption of our cus-
tomary morning romp. He would recount fairy tales to us
full of the wildest flights of fancy, sing us extraordinary
rhymes, and illustrate nursery tales by means of the magic
lantern, with an interest of his own in the performances so

keen as to be infectious, and cause us endless amusement;

and thus although, through the loneliness of our situation,
we had no child companions, our lives were filled with

interests.

     For our parents greater facilities for society existed,

especially in summer, and pleasant acquaintances dwelt

within possible distance for occasional intercourse, although
of neighbours there were very few. But with one such neigh-

bour as Tennyson, social life could not be devoid of incidents
of interest. Our quiet corner of the island received many
visitors of note. At one time the scarlet of Garibaldi's attire

would be seen disappearing amongst the trees up the drive at

Farringford ; whilst at another a curious throng of villagers
collected to gaze at Queen Emma of the Sandwich Isles.
100 CHARLES PRITCHARD

But the occasions of these ceremonial visits were not those
on which my father sought the society of his friend. He
summons him on a quiet autumn evening to view stars in
particular beauty, writing :

                           1 Sept. 10, 1868.

'DEAR MR TENNYSON, You expressed a wish to see

some double stars. Four of the finest, the best cluster, the

Dumb Bell Neb. and Jupiter are all now at their best, if
IIthe night is fine, from not later than 8.15
                                               P.M., and

Hercules gets low after 8.30, but wind E. is not propitious.

To-night, if not to-morrow, if you will be alone, but bring

only one for your own sake, to gaze quietly. Yours very

sincerely,                                     C. P.'

Or Mrs Tennyson invites those at Hurst Hill to join the

family in the hay field :

' Will your little children like to join us in the hayfield

this afternoon at four o'clock? Should Mr Pritchard and

yourself also feel disposed to come, we shall, of course, be

very glad to see you.'

' Professor Pritchard,' writes Miss Weld, a niece of Lord

Tennyson, ' loved to dwell upon the many conversations on

science and religion he and Tennyson had together when

they were neighbours at Freshwater. He said he never

should forget the deep impression made upon him when,

sitting one day at Farringford with the Laureate and a

scientific friend, the latter expressed his disbelief in the

existence of a Supreme Being. With sudden vehemence

down came Lord Tennyson's hand upon the table, as

he exclaimed with the solemn earnestness of one who
knew the truth of what he was asserting, " T
      "                                        , there is a

GOD  !      '

     Walks in each other's society were a pleasure to both.
The favourite resort on these occasions was the Bacon Hill,
LIFE AT FRESHWATER  IOI

the highest point in the long stretch of downs which here
fringe the island. A simple black wooden erection, wherein

a lantern was slung, marked the spot, and proved a most

effectual landmark for many miles round. Here, where the

wanderings of the poet so often led him, now stands a far
more imposing beacon, erected to his memory, a memento

most appropriate.
     Tennyson shared other traits in common with my father

besides his habit of earnest thought. I allude to his love of

fun, which was quite as little suspected by those who knew

him slightly, as in my father's case. I had occasion once, as

a child, to admit him into the garden, when about to visit

my parents. N"ot knowing that I recognised him, he invented

a lengthy and impossible name for himself, and told me to

inform my mother of this gentleman's arrival. I could hear
him laughing to himself as I closed the door upon him. No

one was more amused than he was when a laugh was raised
against him on one occasion for absence of mind. He had

promised my mother the choice of two little puppies, our
watch-dog having died. On the day appointed he arrived,

but when he turned to show the dogs to my mother, he found

no dogs were there ; indeed, they had not accompanied him

beyond the confines of Farringford.

     Although in winter the Tennysons might be regarded

as our only neighbours, summer brought many friends, old
and new, to the island. Dean Bradley, Dean Hook, Dr
Butler of Cambridge, Lord Hatherley, Mr James Knowles,
the Pollocks, Mr Sant, the artist, and many others afforded

society which was appreciated the more highly after the
quiet winters. Years afterwards, Dr Butler, writing to my
father, reminds him of this pleasant intercourse :

     ' Your kind words lead me to (i consider the days of old

and the years that are past." They make me remember the

microscope, and the Analogy and Herschel, and throughout
the great poet was a common tie between us. He was a
IO2 CHARLES PRITCHARD

great man, and I thank God that it was my privilege to

know him.'
     When time seemed to be rolling most quietly on, and

when prospect of the possible Canonry was too indefinite to
be actually anticipated, the Professorship of Astronomy in
Oxford fell vacant. The news was instantly brought by a
friend with the object of urging him to become a candidate
for the post. My father's extreme modesty and diffidence

caused him to regard such a candidature on his part as pre-

sumptuous, and he refused to listen to the suggestion. His

friend, however, would not take a refusal based upon such
reasons as final. He interested himself in bringing other

influence to bear upon my father, the nature of which may be
gathered from the following letter of Dean Hook's :

                                                                ' CHICHESTER, 26 Nov. 1869.

     ' MY DEAR PRITCHARD, Heart and soul will fight for

you. Why, it is the very place cut out for you. I entirely

disagree with you that an eccles(iastical) appointment would
be preferable. Any pious man with a very small headpiece
will do for livings, deaneries, canonries, etc., but a man must

be a man to occupy such a post as that in which I hope

your friends will place you.

    ' It is of the greatest importance to have a religious man
in a lay position. The amount of indirect good you may be

employed in doing will probably be as important as your
immediate work.

     ' I write at once to commit myself to you. Other friends
may be in the field, but I feel so sure that no fitter man than

you can be found, that I violate my rules and do not say,

" Wait till I see what names are in the field." '

     In another letter, dated loth December 1869, Dean Hook,

writes :

    ' How clever is that first Satire of Horace (it is the first
LIFE AT FRESHWATER                               1 03

/isn't it ?) We are all of us under the notion that under a
different calling we should be happier men.      should like to

be an astronomer ! Ycu, being an astronomer, think that
you would like to be a pastor ! N.B. Any man of piety may

be a good pastor, but not one in a thousand could be a good

astronomer. So thinks my Lord Chancellor [Hatherley], who

turned a deaf ear to your application for a living, but will

fight to the last gasp for your professorship.'

Yielding at last to such kind and encouraging counsel, my

father applied for the post, and was elected, to his own sur-

prise. But that the election was regarded by others as
natural and proper, is shown by the many letters of congratu-

lation he received from all quarters. Dean Hook, who had

taken so active a part in advocating his claims, wrote on

1 1 th February 1 870 :

    ' MY DEAR PROFESSOR, I congratulate Oxford, I con-
gratulate the Church, I congratulate you on the appointment

of the fittest man that England could produce to the Savilian

Professorship.'

     After speaking of the great interest and activity displayed
by Lord Hatherley in the election, Dean Hook continues :

  c I was done up, tired and frozen, when I got back to
Chichester, and I had recourse to my usual remedy. I

popped into bed at eight o'clock, and was just in my first

sleep when there was a tap at the door a telegram from the

Professor which gave me a good night's rest, and enabled

me to rise for work at five this morning.'

    And thus the quiet life at Freshwater ended. Ended
with some regrets that a beautiful home, almost the work of

his own hands, must be given over to others, and that the

trees and shrubs he had watched from year to year would

grow on under less loving eyes, but with more of anticipation
and interest in the new work before him. He had learnt to
IO4 CHARLES PRITCHARD

realise that a larger pulpit was about to welcome him than
the narrower one from which earlier he had hoped to preach
the lesson he ardently believed in, when he said : * Nature
and grace as I see them are not in conflict, they are in
continuity.'
                    CHAPTER V

                  FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD, 18701881

                     By his Daughter ; Ada Pritchard

THE Savilian Professorships of Astronomy and Geometry were
founded in 1619 by Sir Henry Savile, provost of Eton, and
once Greek tutor to Queen Elizabeth, who in the following

year, septuagenarian as he was, delivered the first lecture in
geometry himself. By this foundation his name, says Wood,
will be made < honourable not only among the learned, but
the righteous for ever, even till the general conflagration
shall consume all books and learning.' Professor Turner,

who has made some interesting notes as to the position of
astronomy at Oxford in yet earlier days, gives a list of the
Savilian professors of this science from the beginning. It
does not include the name of Edmund Halley, who, though
a Savilian professor, was not a professor of astronomy ; and
the most famous, astronomically, of my father's predecessors

    no doubt, James Bradley, who was elected to the Chair in
1721. But to those who know my father's devotion to archi-
tecture, an art in the practice of which he would even main-
tain that his powers would have found their fullest scope,

   interesting to observe in the list of professors the name of
Sir Christopher Wren.

    My father's election took place early in 1870, and late in
the autumn of the same year the family left the Isle of Wight.
We ourselves were then too young to remember those early
days at Oxford at all distinctly, but letters written in his hand,

                                                                             105
is is,

                                                                                           it
106 CHARLES PRITCHARD

which have been sent to me since his death, show how

dominant in his mind was a characteristic sense of gratitude

for the honour which had been conferred on him. ' As a

security against any undue sense of elation/ he writes to his

brother from Freshwater, immediately after receiving the news

of his appointment, ' I resorted early to the house of God.'

1 I am, indeed, full of a deep sense of humility ' ; and this feel-

ing rather increased than diminished as years went on. The

work was always held in honour by the worker. From letters

of this date we learn also my father's high appreciation of the
place in which his lot was now cast. It was late in the year

when he arrived, and the beauty of Oxford, enhanced by her

garment of autumn foliage, awoke in his mind an enthusiastic

response ; indeed, the first dim memory we have preserved

of our introduction to the city was a walk he took us to see

the colour of the creepers on the Founders' Tower at Mag-
dalen College. Years afterwards, his own * ampelopsis ' on

the observatory in the parks almost outrivalled that at

Magdalen. In those days houses were difficult to procure,

as the Oxford of 1870 had not attained the proportions it
displays at the present day. North Oxford was more or less

a builder's castle in the air, and within the city there was not

much more accommodation than was required by those whose
work was connected with the university. Life wore a more

serious and thoughtful aspect before the quiet country

meadows surrounding the old city were turned into long labyrin-

thine rows of suburban villas. The place, as my father first

it,

                           8

                   if

                                                                                             ;

                                                                it

                                                                                                              a
knew was nothing not academic but this state of things,

however respectable, presented certain difficulties to the new-

comer, the greater, as his occupation lay strictly within the
enchanted circle. Two suitable houses only were procurable
when we arrived, and of these one was to be pulled down in

year's time, while the other, demonstrably lacking in accom-

modation, was also confessedly badly drained. At last we

decided upon No.  Keble Road, and while  was being
FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD  IO/

enlarged by the addition of several new rooms, took up our
abode hard by in apartments in St Giles'. Keble Road, then
newly built, being just beyond the college after which it was
named, was conveniently close to the scene of the new profes-
sorial duties, the tiny building at the back of the Museum,
then dignified by the title of the * University Observatory.'
As a matter of fact, this observatory was smaller in dimensions
than either of the two which my father had built for his own

private use in our garden at Freshwater. It consisted of one
room, with a small dome, of which Mr Plummer,* writing to

me, says :

    'When I went to Oxford in 1874, your father's ten-inch

silver or glass reflector occupied and fitted that dome fitted it

to such an extent that it was almost impossible to move about.'

     But more than the restricted space allotted to him, my
father bewailed the want of enthusiasm for astronomical
studies displayed by the younger generation of Oxford men.
He himself, as far back as he could remember, had been a
student of the exalted science ; and the absence of even one

inquiring mind on such a subject was to him almost incredible.

Perhaps the thought that his election had been probably due,

in some measure, to his reputation as a teacher, made it the

more painful to him to experience so great a difficulty in

finding anyone to teach. But, in fact, he had before him at
Oxford, work which was to make him, as no tutorial suc-

cesses could have done, a true successor to that ' incomparable

Bradley/ of whom he had spoken so enthusiastically in his
inaugural lecture on May loth. ' He must,' said my father

 on that occasion, ' be a gifted, not to say an ambitious, man

indeed who cannot be contented to sit in the shadow of such
 a memory ; and he must be unworthy of his office who has
 not resolved to be within the limits of his power loyal to
 the example and the traditions which such a man has be-
 queathed to his successors.' And indeed, as it is the glory

                                  * My father's much esteemed assistant.
IOS CHARLES PRITCHARD

of the illustrious discoverer of the aberration of light to

have imparted an accuracy, previously undreamed of, into the

celestial measurements of his successors, so it was certainly

a task not unworthy one of them to demonstrate the pos-

sibility of applying photography to the detection of that

stellar parallax which had eluded Bradley.

Letters of my father, which are almost the only record

we have of these years, show plainly with what energy he

set himself to instil something of his own enthusiasm into

those around him. His ambition to do some work that

should be worthy of Oxford grew as his delight in Oxford

itself increased. On one occasion we find him writing :

' But it is not in these tokens of architectural genius

and munificent benefactions that is to be found the true

source of the fascination of the scene. The enchantment

comes from the memory of famous men who, gifted with
the highest and brightest types of cultivated intellect,

through centuries have given life and animation to those

material fabrics which so delight and instruct the eye.

And then, around all this fair scene, so suggestive of mental

energy and social progress, there seems to hang an atmo-

sphere of repose and dignified prosperity. It may well

remind us, in this place of ancient learning, of that spec-
tacle of national magnificence wherewith the Athenian

orator and statesman sought to allure his countrymen

away from mere passive admiration and animate them in

practical act, spy^ faupevws. The perceptions must be dull,

and the emotions cold,      at the sight of all this sugges-
    a it

                       if,
tive grandeur, be easy to repress the struggle ready to

break forth into shout of joy and thanksgiving and hope.'
     In Oxford, then, my father found much to do, and

did with an energy peculiar to himself. But in the
it

midst of his varied occupations he could always find time,
as in the old Isle of Wight days, for the claims of his

wife and children.  I  do not think that he ever went to
            FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD            1 09

London without bringing a present for our mother and for

each one of us. A certain sweetshop in Covent Garden

knew him well. There he would spend a small fortune

on the family, and a flower stall in the market was often

bereft of its best contents for our mother.

     In 1872 his latent (if one may so use the word) love
of clerical work suggested a scheme to his mind for the

long vacation months. He decided upon taking a foreign

chaplaincy, that he might be enabled to carry out some

favourite theories as to the right method of 'expanding

the minds of his young children.' 'Geography should be

impressed in a practical form/ he often said to us, and

he was no less emphatic in his resolution that, besides

geography, we should learn German in Germany. He

always felt it a serious omission in his own education

that he had never been taught German.

He had made very serious attempts to learn it during

the early years at Clapham, often going abroad for the

summer holidays with that intention, but we are told that

he gave it up, declaring 'it was harder than Greek/ and

that he never could get more than one word into his head,

which  was  ' Schloss    '  No doubt languages are harder to
                       !

learn in mature life than in youth, but he might have

achieved it had not his attention been distracted by other

subjects. Another deficiency in his education which he
lamented too late was the want of skill to play on any

instrument. This being an art, can certainly only be

acquired by early practice; but his taste and judgment in

music were excellent, and in this, as in other things,

nothing short of the best would content him. The .music

in the chapel services at Clapham was worked up to a

very high pitch of excellence ; and he delighted in the

popular concerts at St James's Hall, where, he tells us,
he used, while listening to the music with my mother, to

enjoy working out mathematical problems.
IIO CHARLES PRITCHARD

     This apparent incongruity seems not unknown to a
modern writer, Mr Conan Doyle, who makes his detective

hero, Sherlock Holmes, work out a perplexing case while

listening to a performance by Sarasate.
    With respect to German, he went so far as to attribute

the success of two of the best known English philosophers

of the day to the fact that, at a time when it was not, as

now, considered essential to an Englishman's education,
their knowledge of the language had brought them into

touch with the greatest minds in Germany.

    At Carlsbad, which he had selected as the scene of his

chaplaincy, he was as supremely happy in his pastoral work

as he could have hoped, the more so as he found himself
surrounded by many interesting people. His sermons filled

the little English church to overflowing ; and after organis-

ing a choir and making the services at once hearty and

responsive, he proceeded to busy himself with plans and

collections for its enlargement. A motley congregation it

was which assembled there in the fierce heat of those

Austrian Sundays. They came, for the most part, out of
pure curiosity to hear the English astronomer, persons of
all nationalities and all opinions. In a letter written at

that time, my father says :

     * An abominably dishonest Jew banker said to me here,
" You are an astronomer ? " " Yes ; at least ought to be."
" And                  "
       a  clergyman       " No  doubt."  " You can't believe what
                     ?

you  are  preaching    "  " Friend, you don't believe what you

                     ?

are saying." This fellow,' proceeds the letter, ' made a bar-

gain with me and a great Armenian banker to sell a bit of

land for the new church, and told me to go and get the

money. I did so. When got and offered, the man would

not sell it to me, and when referred to his repeated promise,
he said, " Das vas only words." '

    The new church, nevertheless, was built. It was said of

my father that he was never happy unless he had some build-
FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD  III

ing scheme on hand (here his architect predilection was

practically evinced), but the completion of this particular
scheme did not leave him long unoccupied. He returned to
England to set about the erection of the new University
Observatory, a building which has since been described as
'the enduring memorial of the spirit in which Professor
Pritchard interpreted the duties of his office.' Its story is

authentically told further on in this volume by Professor
Turner : ours is only the memory of childhood. But it
serves to recall very clearly the energy with which my father

threw himself into the work.

     After quitting Carlsbad he left us all in Germany, still
little students of the language he expected us eventually to

master.

     We were in a hotel at Wiesbaden, with our mother, a

governess and a nurse throughout that winter, father coming
and going at each month end. He thought little or nothing
of the journey, and each day, as was his custom when separ-
ated from her, he would write long, detailed, characteristic

letters to our mother. These letters were full of the progress
of the observatory, so bound up were his thoughts with the
beloved building which it was his pride to be raising ' in this
queer place, full of greatness and narrowness both at their
maximum,' as he wrote to her once, * where I have asked for
nothing not granted.' And he asked, it may be added, for a

 great deal.

     It is in accordance with my father's entire simplicity and

 modesty that evidently none of his letters were intended to

 be quoted or even kept. They were, indeed, for the most part,
 penned on odd sheets of paper, generally the ordinary MS.
 paper he used for writing his lectures. Always written on
 the spur of the moment, they were all the natural outcome of

 a mind entirely free from self-consciousness.
      The handwriting of these quaint, original notes was, for

 its beauty, a never-failing source of admiration to his corre-
112 CHARLES PRITCHARD

pendents : strong, characteristic, legible to the last a hand-

writing which had its own little band of imitators. All

persons who worked with him or under him would assimilate
their style of writing more or less to my father's. He
tried to instil into his family an ambition to write well ;

urging us all to sign our names 'not conceitedly, but as if

you were proud of them.' Once a niece sent him a copybook
of the new-fashioned, upright mode of teaching handwriting.
He immediately wrote back, ' I am a convert/ and covered
sheet after sheet with absurd imitations of the new style. He
often illustrated his sentences with grotesque pen-and-ink

drawings. If anything in public affairs had excited his feelings

of disapprobation, a gallows with the political offender hang-

ing therefrom was not unfrequent among these decorations.

Otherwise, I do not think he took any strong interest in politics,

thereby avoiding the rock on which his father's fortunes in
Shrewsbury had been wrecked. Perhaps some tradition of

that catastrophe had made an early impression on his mind,

and helped to inspire the strong aversion he always expressed
to anything \\keparty spirit

     Life in Oxford is a busy enough one during Term time to

a professor who works up to his academical requirements ;
and my father, by all accounts, did not confine his work to

the actual sphere prescribed to him by the university canon.
Besides the observatory work proper, all that could be done
to interest his fellow-citizens in his own particular science he
certainly tried to do. He would show the stars himself, and
spare no trouble to explain away any difficulties which were
present to people's minds. How many times he would go
over to the observatory after dinner, late in the evening, for
this purpose, cannot be numbered. There was a private door
to the Parks near our house, and through this he and his man
Mullis, lantern in hand, would go, at the request of anyone
who wished to see the moon through the big telescope in the

De la Rue dome. It is certain that people thus coming and
                   FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD                     113

going occupied no inconsiderable share of the precious hours

of each day ; but he gave his time willingly, ungrudgingly
4 to the inquiring mind ' which concerned itself either with

science or religion. He often presided at the meetings of the

Oxford Bible Society and the Christian Evidence Society,

sparing no pains with his addresses on such occasions. On

this subject Canon Liddon writes, in 1877 :

    * I am very glad indeed that you are at liberty to give

the address suggested by the Christian Evidence Society,

Whether any of my colleagues have been applied to by
the society, I do not know ; but certainly, as far as I

am concerned, I rejoice to think that you are in my place.

Physical science has great advantages over divinity on.
an occasion of this kind ; its witness is certain to be more

...accurate, and be generally believed to be more disinterested
than that of a Professor of Theology.     I had some hesi-

tation as to handling such a subject in a popular way in a

place like Oxford, which your knowledge of the state of

minds in this place would suggest to yourself. But pro-

bably this is not the best way of looking at the matter.

Indeed, whenever you are so good as to call, I should

think it a great honour to have a talk with you over these

things.'

     I remember long after this my father saying to some

friends who were calling : ' A celebrated scientist, who is

now dead, said to me on my appointment to the Savilian
Professorship, " Do not mix up theology and astronomy at

Oxford. Times have changed ; they like these matters kept

distinct. You are there as a Professor of Science, and not as
                "
a  Theologian      and  yet,'  added  my  father,  ' I have  never
               ;

attempted to separate the two.'

   Looking back now on a life so varied, so many-sided,

it is hard for us to transfer any just impression of it to
others through the medium of pen and ink. Passing,

as he did, in a single day through a hundred shifting moods,

                               H
114 CHARLES PRITCHARD

he was by nature ever ready to sympathise with his sur-
rounding friends, to weep with those that wept, and laugh
with those who laughed. And how he could laugh !

    It needed but the shortest of acquaintance with my father
to discover his sense of humour, love of fun a quality,

indeed, which was apt to manifest itself somewhat unex-
pectedly, alike in his conversation and letters. His horror
of any suspicion of posing for effect had something to do
with this habit. He often threw off the effect of an emphatic
and pathetic sentence by quoting the speech of an old
Shropshire market woman which had seized on his early
childish fancy, " ' Ah, well, you see, things bees as they am,'
or, as Bishop Butler in his Analogy puts it less elegantly,
' Meanwhile, things are, what they are.' " He was very fond
of quoting this speech, though its theory of non-resistance
was not perhaps much in keeping with his own more vigorous

philosophy.
     When, after a year's absence abroad, we returned to him

at Oxford, we found his interest in the progress of the new
observatory at its height. But in his rare holiday hours
he would delight to wander about the beautiful home of
his adoption, and point out to his family what struck him
most. And so many new thoughts and fancies did strike
him, that a walk or drive with father was always more or
less of a revelation to those who were his companions.
Nothing was lost on a mind attuned like his, to love

Nature in her every phase and mood, and as we listened
we used to catch something of the enthusiasm of the

speaker ourselves. For not only had he the gift of a deep
sensibility to the beauties of Nature, but the rarer gift of
expressing it in a manner both unique and impressive. He

early taught us to study Nature, to love and admire her.
He was our instructor in botany, and our half-holidays were
devoted to searching for specimens out in the meadows and

ditches beyond the river at the end of the parks. We
                   FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD            115

thought a great deal about the loss of those half-holidays.

I don't think we half appreciated what was bestowed upon

us by the father who so indefatigably worked to enlighten

our lesser minds.

He would say to us that it was our duty to appre-

ciate the beautiful a duty, as he would lament, too often

neglected. Many there are who still remember how, by day and

by night, he would exclaim in his home on the hill at Fresh-

water, ' How beautiful,  how  beautiful,  and  how  beautiful  '
                                                                  ;

and to us he would say it long afterwards when, in his

old age, seated in the Oxford garden, with his eyes facing

his flowers and the city spires, behind him the observatory,

and above him the firmament and the stars, ' How beauti-

ful, how beautiful, and all are of GOD and point to GOD.'

Indeed, his passionate delight in the beauties of Nature was

ever present in his speech, and found expression in his letters.

After a visit to the New Forest, he writes to Dr Perowne

(then Dean of Peterborough) :

    * Till you have seen that> when the trees put on their new

clothes, with the birds, you have seen nothing of woodland
scenery. It is the glory of GOD selected and appointed.
We saw a mile of conifers, thirty years old. It was like the

Nebula of Orion or the Alps seen for the first time. Les

Alpes, les Alpes ! Ah, it is a beautiful world, and He who

fashioned it is good ; yes, good to all His children. Sua si

bona norint. Glory from the little chionadoxa or the daffo-

dils, up to the cedars of Lebanon.'

The allusion to 'the birds' in this letter reminds us that

we cannot pass over without mention his great love of them.

One of his greatest pleasures was the possession of the large

aviary which he added to the observatory. It was full of

singing birds, and to their music he worked, as he did

(mentally) to that in St James's Hall. Ruskin, who had
also a great love of birds, used to go over to see them,

and in this way he and my father often met.
Il6 CHARLES PRITCHARD

     Then in the same letter he goes on to speak with
enthusiastic admiration of his own garden, where he had

his tulips, 500 or so (early and Gesneriana), daffodils a
thousand, and where wall-flowers, yellow alyssum, white
and yellow candytufts and tulips were ' all aglow like
the meteorites without collision.'

    It was during the first ten years of life in his adopted

University, and when he really wanted rest and quiet, that he
settled upon a small cottage in the Malvern Hills to which
he could repair and ' think.' The garden of the cottage ran
up the mountain side, and his study, built on by himself,
commanded a view of the plain stretching away in front to

a far distant horizon. Here, nominally resting, he, in fact,
worked hard. He wrote a number of sermons, afterwards
preached in Westminster Abbey, Salisbury, Hereford and
Worcester Cathedrals, and in the Abbey Church at Great
Malvern. Here it was, too, that he prepared his lectures

on his much-studied Butler's Analogy.

     1 Good, kind Mr Ffoulkes,' he proudly wrote, * has given
me now carte blanche for four sermons or lectures on Butler's
Analogy ', to be delivered in the University Church at
Oxford. Somehow, this has been one of the desires of my

later life.'
     Here also he gave his children lessons in Greek and

algebra and botany. In after years he often talked of the
happiness the quiet life at Malvern had brought him. When
the lease of the cottage was up we spent most of the Oxford
vacations abroad. He had himself a large acquaintance with
the Continent, which he much wished his wife and family to
share with him. And what we saw on these tours has ever

remained indelibly impressed upon our minds, so much
interest did he manage to infuse into the scenes and

places we passed through.

     It always seemed to us, his children, that he had an

extraordinary knack of giving broad general facts in a
                           FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD

specially interesting manner; to a child's mind he paid

the invaluable compliment of crediting it with an intelli-
gence equal to his own. In 1878 he took abroad with him
his son, Eric who thus describes the wonderful month he
had alone with his father :

   'A FEW REMINISCENCES OF A JOURNEY TO CENTRAL
                   FRANCE WITH MY FATHER (1878).'

                            By Eric Pritchard

    'In 1878 my father made up his mind to visit for the

second time the volcanic districts of Central France.
    1 Once before, I believe in the year 1859, he had made this

expedition, and partly as the result of a conversation with
Sir Joseph Prestwich, then Professor of Geology at Oxford,
partly as the result of a re-perusal of Scrope's Extinct
Volcanoes of Central France, he determined to refresh his
memory by a second inspection of this interesting locality.
It was a principle he always acted upon himself, and never
failed to impress upon others, that to remember a thing
you must see it; in fact, one of his favourite quotations
was Horace's enunciation of this principle.

    * Although only twelve years of age at the time, I can

well remember my father explaining what a magnificent
object lesson it would be for me to accompany him on this
journey : " Travel," he used to say with Bacon " in the
younger sort is a part of education." Indeed, the entire
neglect of my education in some other branches during
this period of my life inclines me to think that he looked
on it as the chief part.

    * It was indeed a proud moment of my existence when
it was finally arranged that I was to be my father's com-
panion. Never shall I forget the preparations that were
made for this journey. As an old traveller he had very

decided ideas as to how such an expedition was to be
II 8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

conducted : no detail was to be left to the occasion, all

was to be thought out and arranged beforehand, written

in black and white. As I write now I have before me on the
flyleaf of Scrope's Geology a full itinerary of our expedition

from start to finish, from the train by which we were to

leave the Oxford station until our return to the same about
six weeks afterwards. As an instance of the minuteness

and accuracy with which such itineraries were arranged,
my sister reminds me of an entry which he once made for

her benefit, before starting on a journey to Switzerland.

It was to the following effect : " Half-an-hour at the
Devil's Bridge for Rosie and Ada to sketch."

    ' My father had a theory of disposing of his travelling

impedimenta in such a way that everything was packed

in a multitude of small bags and parcels, to the exclusion
of larger and more convenient receptacles. " We must not

take anything we cannot carry in our hands," was the regular

formula on such occasions ; and as I was quite a small boy
at the time, and the weight which I could carry proportionate,

our baggage finally resolved itself into about twelve separate

packages. These small parcels were my bugbear during

the journey. I could not carry more than three or four

at a time, and this necessitated repeated journeys to and

fro between carriage and carriage, or between waiting-room

and train. I was in constant fear of being separated from

my father by the train moving out of the station and

carrying him with it whilst I was returning to the central
depot for a further load. My father never carried anything

himself except his umbrella and his small handbag, the
latter containing our tickets and money, which " must have,"
he said, " his undivided attention." The fact was, he was

just then beginning to feel a diminution in strength and

activity, owing to increasing age and corpulency, and he
was very reluctant to own to it !

     1 He once wrote : " I have a great love and admiration
FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD  119

for youth. I do not love old age, and I don't want to

grow old a day before I must." He further insisted on
taking with us two or three spare canvas bags. He made

rather a mystery about their subsequent employment, but

persisted that we should find them useful. Later on I

discovered their use, when they came home full of minerals,
lava, volcanic cinders, fossil remains, and other lithoidal
mementos of our journey. This collection proved a con-
siderable stumbling-block to the Custom House Officers,
and in spite of our protestations the contents of our sacks

were shot out on to the floor and submitted to the rude gaze
of the officials and our fellow-passengers. They have since

been presented to the Oxford Museum.
     ' My father made me a present of a small diary, and

insisted on my taking full notes of what I saw ; and though

I have long since lost what would now be a useful record

of our doings, it is doubtless owing to the fact that I did
keep such a memorandum that I can still recollect much

of what took place so long ago.
     * On our way to Marseilles we made but one break in

the journey, and that was at Paris, where we stayed the

first night and following day. My father, who had not
visited France since the days of the Commune, was much

interested in the changes which had taken place since his

last visit. He frequently stopped at the corners of the

streets and pointed out to me how easy it would now be
to put down a riot by placing artillery in the centre of the
squares, and thus commanding miles of street in all direc-

tions. During the day he took me to see Notre Dame,

then decked in deep mourning for the death of Pope Pius
the Ninth. The entire Cathedral was draped with black

cloth hangings from the ceiling to the floor, constituting

as dismal a picture as it is possible to imagine. It was

highly characteristic of my dear old father that he should

improve the occasion by making me calculate how many
120 CHARLES PRITCHARD

yards of cloth were hanging on the walls, and at a rough
estimate how much it would cost the ecclesiastical authorities.

    ' He was exceedingly fond of chaffing any of his fellow-
tourists, and I can remember on this occasion he acted as

a sort of self-constituted guide to a small party who were
making the tour of the cathedral. I don't know what

nonsense he did not tell them, but I believe they implicitly

accepted all his statements. On one of these occasions,

when he was chatting to a large tourist detachment, some-

body asked him if he were one of Mr Cook's party. " No,"
he replied, " I am Gaze."

    ' At Marseilles, where we stayed a couple of days, I

was encouraged to pick up a few colloquial expressions,

and was allowed to buy whatever I could ask for myself.
In this way I soon knew how to become an extensive
purchaser of oranges, fresh dates, French pastry and creams.
I can vividly recall my poor old father sitting in a chair

in a tempting patisserie shop, talking to the shop girl,

and making jokes about me as I tried to eat gracefully a

marvellous cream tart, the contents of which escaped on

all sides at every mouthful.

    'From Marseilles we travelled to Hyeres, and took up
our quarters at a most delightful hotel, by name " Hotel

des Isles d'Or." According to the tariff in our guide-book,

my father had discovered that we could obtain board and

lodging at 7 fcs. 50. The proprietor, I remember, made a

great demur at thus taking us in at the minimum rate, but
my father, by threatening him with " exposure in the English

Times!' obtained his point, and secured rooms on the top
floor. Although it was a great exertion to him to clamber

up so many stairs, he submitted to the discomfort rather

than "be done," as he put it.

     * Although seventy years of age, and very stout, my
father was still exceedingly active, and every day he took

me for a long walk in the country. A keen botanist, he
                 FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD                          121

took great interest in the almost tropical vegetation of the

surrounding neighbourhood. He wrote on his return home :

  " I now have some idea of the East, for I have seen a

palm tree growing out of doors." He liked nothing better

than to wander through, the market gardens and inspect

the early vegetables for the Paris and London market.

* He liked me to be able to put my hand to anything,

and it was always a joke against him that on one occasion

he made arrangements with our family baker at Oxford

to teach me how to make flaky pastry and three-cornered

puffs ; I don't know whether anybody else appreciated the

results, but he himself declared them to be excellent.

He often used to say that when he was a boy the house-
                                          "
hold  word  was  " Education,  education      ;  he  certainly  never

forgot the lesson he then learnt, for my education, up to

the time I went to school, was, I should say, the most

heterogeneous that ever boy received.

     ' From Hyeres we made a few excursions down to the

sea, which was only a few miles off. A considerable

industry was carried on along the shore in the removal of

sea-weed for manure, and for the subsequent preparation

of bromine and iodine. My father explained to me the

process, and described to me the uses and chemistry of

these two elements. He had a remarkable facility for

putting even dry matters in an interesting form, and what

he told me then made a far more permanent mental

impression than what I heard subsequently at lectures.
We also saw the preparation of crude salt, which was

effected by the evaporation of salt water in large tanks

placed a small distance above high water mark.

' One of our walks led us to the church of Notre Dame,

situated in a most picturesque spot on the top of a

neighbouring hill.  On our way thither, we came in

contact with a pilgrim procession, which was slowly wend-

ing its way in the same direction. For some reason or
122 CHARLES PRITCHARD

other, I wanted to get to the other side of the road, and
in so doing, I had to pass through the ranks of the
procession. I made a dash through the first appearance
of a gap; a stout peasant, however, barred the way, and

a volley of abuse was hurled at my head for a sacrilegious
infidel. My father was very angry with me, and told

me that I ought to have known better, and that these

fervent catholics were very touchy at any disrespect for

their superstitions or observances.
     'Before reaching the Auvergne district, my father had

arranged to visit Toulon, Nimes and Aries, all places of
interest ; and at the former he made me arrange with a

boatman for a sail in the wonderful harbour, and at the

two latter towns he showed me the old Roman remains.

At Aries we spent a long time wandering about the
amphitheatre. For many years the huge building, with a

diameter of nearly 500 feet, was filled up with a dense mass
of miserable hovels, which afforded shelter to some 2000
of the poorer inhabitants ; more recently this rookery has

been cleared away, and the amphitheatre remains much

as it was in the time of the Romans. It now affords

shelter to innumerable lizards, which we found sunning
themselves on the stone and marble slabs. The outer

masonry is in a wonderful condition of preservation, and

remains almost as complete as the Coliseum at Rome.
Near Aries there is a curious plain covered entirely with
large boulder stones; it has a mythological interest as

the battle-field of the combat between Hercules and the
Ligurians. My father was very anxious to show this to
me. He showed me a passage in our guide-book which
described the battle, telling how Hercules ran short of
arrows and would have lost the day had not Jupiter
intervened and afforded him a heaven-sent reserve of

stones. These he hurled at his enemies, and hence his
victory and the stony plain. He added that, as a matter
        FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD  123

of fact, the true explanation was that this was one of the
original beds of the River Rhone.

    * The town of Clermont is surrounded by mountains,

forming a series of volcanic chains, the highest apices

of which occasionally rise to a considerable height. The

Puy de Dome is the highest of them, being nearly 5000

feet above sea level. At the top of this latter mountain

there is a small meteorological station in telegraphic

communication with Paris.  Towards this so - called

observatory my father used to cast longing eyes, and

bitterly complained that he was not so active as he had

been. He told me that it was on this mountain that

Pascal made his original determination of the weight of

the atmosphere, and 1 suppose it was this fact that made

him insist on my taking a few practical lessons in the use

of the aneroid, and measuring the height of the different

mountains we ascended. I believe it was the Puy de

Pariou, a mountain of less ambitious height, that he made

an attempt to climb. We took a carriage, drove as far as

the road would allow, and then secured the services of a

guide.  I remember his chaffing the good - natured

mountaineer, and telling him that he also was of his

fraternity and a guide of Mont Blanc, a statement which

must have been received with doubt, when after about

half-an-hour's climb he refused to go any further, and

left me to complete the ascent by myself. As we neared

the top of the volcanic crater, my excitement became most

intense, for I had only vague ideas of what I was going
to see. I thought, however, that there was some element
of danger connected with it. I expected to find at the top

the orifice of a bottomless pit, and I had visions of having

to lie on my stomach and carefully peer over the edge

into the darkness below. My astonishment was, however,

great to find merely a bowl-shaped hollow, like an enormous

pudding-basin, the steep sides of which were thrown into
124 CHARLES PRITCHARD

regular ridges, covered with grass and a few low bushes,
and right down at the bottom some half - dozen sheep

quietly grazing.

    * I had been told to descend into the crater as far as I

could, and measure, with my aneroid, the depth of the

depression. According to my calculation I had descended
about 300 feet. As I stood at the bottom the sensation was

peculiar; the air was motionless and warm, not a sound to

be heard, and nothing to be seen except grass and blue sky

and the grazing sheep. I felt so lost in the solitude that I
was quite relieved when I clambered up again and joined the
guide, who had wisely waited at the top. I certainly was

much disappointed at not being able to find a hole at the

bottom, if only to indicate whence the fire, smoke and lava
had originally issued. Grass and sheep were not what I had

expected to find in the interior of even an extinct volcano.
     ' On joining my father at his halting-place, I found that he

had been spending his time in tracing out with his eye the
course which the lava streams from the various volcanos had

originally taken. That from the mountain on which we
stood could be easily recognised as a distinct and isolated
ridge elevated slightly above the level of the surrounding

ground, and presenting a distinctive and rugged surface.
     ' On our way down to our conveyance he produced one of

his empty canvas bags and began to select various specimens

of lava, cinders, pumice, etc. Two particularly interesting
specimens, by a curious coincidence, we found side by side ;
one of them, for which we had been hunting for some time,
was what my father called a galvanic bomb. It was a doubly
conical-shaped mass of lava. The other specimen which we
found lying alongside was a piece of iron which had splin-
tered off an altogether different kind of bomb, namely, a
 modern shell which the artillery, in their practice, had thrown
on to the mountain side. My father was as pleased as a child

 with this discovery, and both specimens were subsequently
FIRST YEARS AT OXFORD  125

preserved side by side in his cabinet and shown to all

comers.

    ' Of Le Puy, our next halting-place, I have very distinct
recollections. In the centre of the town stands a lofty and

imposing rock, keeping watch over it like a solitary sentinel,
and it was explained to me how this extraordinary mass
came to be situated in the midst of what is otherwise a

considerable plain. On the summit of the rock is a huge
metal statue of the Virgin, hollow within, like the Trojan

horse, and containing an iron staircase by which one can

mount into the head. It is made with the cannon taken
from Sebastopol about 212 pieces. My father insisted on

climbing to the top of this structure, and from the oc-

casional chinks in the iron he prospected the neighbouring

country.
     ' We made numberless excursions into the neighbourhood,

and in a few days completed our sojourn in Auvergne,
returning to England by Lyons and Paris.'

     This picture of our father, as he appeared on his travels,

may here be supplemented by the following quaint letter from
himself, showing that advancing years robbed him neither of
his power of enjoyment nor of his pleasure in arranging for
the enjoyment of others :

                                                   'CHAUDE FONTAINE,

                                                    'June 2.ist (I think), 1881.
                                                               ' Anyhow, Tuesday, 4.30 P.M.

    ' MY DEAR WIFE, Having nothing better to do, I took
a return ticket here a place I have long wished to see. It is
more lovely than ever I expected, in a valley basin sur-
rounded by wooded hills. From fir woods at the top, where
I have been, is a grand amphitheatre view. You must come

and spend a long day, and you will be delighted. Woods,

water, hills. Behind me, about ten yards, are sixty-five

people at a marriage feast. I saw the whole party disem-
126 CHARLES PRITCHARD

bark from about twenty carriages. There they go 1 Not a
beauty among them ! but such tons of bouquets. Some

well-to-do people from Liege.
    * You might have sent me a post-card daily. Nothing for

me at the post to-day at 11.30.  Please do write someone, if
not too late.

     * Bring everything you want to make you comfortable.

(Studs for me, Mullis will get them.) You may bring my
favourite kettle it will be useful.

   ' I will try to meet you at Antwerp. If I don't, you must

appeal to the steward to help you. On the quay close by

are cabs. The real fare is one franc, but you may be asked

five, or even six ! Demand quietly the tariff. There is

a new station half-a-mile from the quay. Your train leaves

at a quarter-past one, mind that, else you will have to wait

at Malines if you go off earlier ; you can go and see the

pictures and the cathedral again. But should you arrive in

time for the nine o'clock train (and you may) then get off by

that. But I expect to be there. If I miss you by chance at

Spa, then Hotel Britannique. To-morrow, Wednesday, I send

to General Steam Navigation to have on board the steamer

return tickets for all of you.

* Ask Mullis to get Mr Plummer to send me a report of

the Obs. by you. Mullis is to devote himself to you all

Thursday and Friday, mind that.

    * I hope I have given you all directions. I have said all,
but I do so wish someone had written me, even a penny post-
card daily. Love to all. Your affectionate husband,

                                                                                     <C P.'
                   CHAPTER VI

                       LIFE AT OXFORD, 1 882- 1 886

                    By his Daughter ; Ada Pritchard

IN the year 1879 the Radcliffe Observatory was placed under
my father's control during the interregnum caused by the
death of its director, his friend, Mr Main. It was a pleasure
to him to find time for the working of two observatories

at once, and he went so far as to express the sentiment
that ' we are never so happy as when we have a little too

much to do, and do it'
     I have many letters about this, but the following to

Dr. Acland seems best worth quoting :

                                                                  ' UNIV. OBSERVATORY,
                                                                'June loth, 1878.

    ' MY DEAR DR ACLAND, I well know the lively interest

which you take in all that appertains to Oxford, and not the
least to the astronomical branches of it.

    * I have now been for a few weeks in temporary charge
of the Radcliffe Observatory. It is a very noble establish-

ment, and contains the elements of an institution which
I am convinced might, without great difficulty, be one of
the very first in Europe. There are, however, details and

arrangements within it which I feel convinced are not

fully within the cognisance of the trustees, but which seem

to me to require their consideration, and this, I think,

                                                                               127
128 CHARLES PRITCHARD

can only be given effectually before a successor to Mr
Main is appointed.'

     In this spirit (of delight in ' too much work ') he gave
his aid to a project for the establishment of a series of
'City Lectures' in 1880, himself lecturing in the Town
Hall on ' The Life and Discoveries of Sir William Herschel/
perhaps in the hope of arousing in the town that interest
which he had found wanting in the University. * The
man himself, William Herschel,' he said, 'was a romance,

and a very noble one, and so are his wonderful discoveries.

But I must guard myself against misleading you into the

thought that astronomy, in its other branches, is a romance
or merely an intellectual treat, to be enjoyed or avoided

as the taste suggests. Let me remind you that men have
mouths as well as minds, and that it is owing to astronomy
that the produce of the East and West is brought to our
markets ; by the aid of astronomy that the Atlantic cables

are laid and can be found again at the very spot where they

need repair. By astronomy we maintain our intercourse
with our countrymen throughout our empire, on which the
sun never sets.' It was not in Oxford alone that he was
ready to help in any public spirited scheme ; and, two years

later, a more formidable task was undertaken, when, in 1882,
the Rector of St Edmund's, at Northampton, in conjunction
with several other clergymen, wrote and asked my father

to address an assembly of Mr Brad laugh's adherents on
certain difficulties which, it was alleged, stood in the way
of their acceptance of Christianity. 'The project seemed
at first to be beset with perils, and to offer but little prospect
of eventual good/ he remarks, but finally, despite some mis-
giving as to his self-ascribed lack of ' readiness,' he agreed to

do as he was asked in this matter.

     His sceptical opponents he thought 'little enough
versed in the real drift and strength of their own assumed
LIFE AT OXFORD  129

opinions. They followed, as it seems to me, the dicta of

the more vivacious leaders whom they have selected,

whether from conviction or from fashion, and have per-

sonally but little worked out the causes or the consequences
of their own objections.'

     After the address a discussion was invited, and, in my

father's words :

     4 There rose up, amidst considerable applause, a gentle-
man, who seemed to be a corypheus among them. He
said that one result of his own studies had been the con-
viction that the form of religion in any place very much

depended on its latitude and its longitude, and he there-
fore wished to ask the learned lecturer whether in any

place it might be lawful to worship a crocodile. He sat

down amidst applause even greater than that which oc-

curred when he rose to put this presumed annihilating
question. I remarked that I so far agreed with my
ingenious friend that it did seem a fact that locality

and surrounding circumstances modify the purely external

forms of religion, and that if my friend lived in a country
abounding with crocodiles, and if nothing within his own
mind and spirit, and if nothing external to them, suggested

a different form of worship, then he had better worship
a crocodile than nothing at all ; but inasmuch as my friend

lived in the beautiful town of Northampton, where I had

failed to find either zoological gardens or an aquarium,

if he in Northampton elected to worship a crocodile, in
lieu of any other object of worship at all, then the responsi-

bility rested with himself.'
      No doubt my father's prolonged enjoyment of work de-

pended largely on his power of enjoying leisure to an equal
degree. His holiday spirits at this time were still exuberant,

overmastering, infectious ; and those were red-letter days to
us when he would go with our mother and ourselves up
the river, or away for the day on some longer excursion,

                                               I
130 CHARLES PRITCHARD

leaving his books with their grim array of figures be-
hind.

To understand father in his ' computing ' room was

not by any means to understand him on a holiday, unless

you had previously grasped the fact that whatsoever he

did, he did with his whole heart and soul. He had a happy

knack of throwing off his work, and this it was that I

think kept him so young, for, up to the last, he was

positively youthful in his power of appreciation and enjoy-

ment. He often said of himself that he had been the most

'juvenile' guest at a dinner party, and Mr James Knowles,
revisiting him in these Oxford days, writes of him that he

was 'always the same man, or rather almost boy, in his

enthusiasm and curiosity and courage.'

    A striking proof of these qualities was now to be given.

In the course of the preparations for the great work on

the comparative brightness of the stars to which the

resources of the Oxford Observatory were being applied^
it had occurred to him that the question of atmospheric

absorption might be profitably studied by comparing results

obtained in the Thames Valley with others obtained in

the 'proverbially transparent atmosphere' of Egypt. To

Egypt, therefore, at the beginning of 1883, he betook him-
self, with my mother as his companion. Mr Jenkins, his

second assistant at the observatory, went too, and the

big telescope accompanied them at least, it looked very

big when it was packed.  A letter direct from Lord

Granville protected this unusual piece of luggage against

any undue custom-house interference.

Before they started on their journey, father, with his

customary insistance on such matters, said to us, ' You must

write every day. I have left a memorandum of where we

shall be on such and such a day, and we shall expect to

hear daily. In the same way a report will be forwarded

from the observatory.'
LIFE AT OXFORD  131

     At Alexandria, the Khedive's barge was despatched to

 convoy ' L'Astronome,' who installed himself with my mother

 at Shepheard's Hotel.
      ' My own first view of the Pyramids/ he writes later,

 1 was from the top of a roof over the side of my telescope,
 the oldest and the grandest specimens of the art of to-day.'

      * The day after we arrived/ he wrote home, ' your mamma

and I and Mr Jenkins, and a nephew of Mahomed Pasha
Fallaki, started to arrange for Mr Jenkins to go and live at

Abasseyah. The observatory, as you know, has been placed

at my disposal. The building is terraced, and has as lofty a
tower as the Radcliffe. The instruments are small, but

adequate for moderate purposes ; a small elaborate T. C,

2 inches in aperture, and 12-15 inches about, and a small

Theodolite. Mr Jenkins has Arab servants who can't speak
a word of English, but signs do the work of language. We
chose a capital room with sofas all round it; and after

enjoying the prospect we left, regretting, too, that we were
not going to live there ourselves in the sun and the solitude/

     Mr Jenkins relates a rather curious incident in connection
with his sojourn at this place. Feeling, when the sun was

gone, the solitude extolled by my father somewhat oppres-
sive, he remembered with pleasure that a box of stores had

been despatched to him by my parents from Cairo, con-

taining all creature comforts calculated to sustain a living
Englishman left without company in the land of the dead.

Turning, therefore, to a large box at his side, he applied
himself to the task of tearing out nails and forcing up the
lid with a zeal sincerely regretted when it became evident

that his labour was mis-directed, and that by way of
enlivening his solitude, he was interrupting the repose of

a mummy !

     My father's letters from Cairo were filled in turn with

bright thought, deep reflection, humour and pathos. Every

day, according to his wont, he wrote to us at some length,
132 CHARLES PRITCHARD

keeping us in close touch with his surroundings. He entered
into the social life with a curious new zest, which our mother

declared was quite unlike anything she had seen in him
before. Cairo was described then as being at the zenith of

its social brilliancy, and Shepheard's Hotel was filled to

overflowing with interesting people.
     ' Under the verandah we all meet,' they wrote home,

' a motley crew the Duke of Sutherland, Lord Napier of
Magdala, Sir Evelyn Wood, Sir Archibald Alison, Sir

Charles Wilson, the Brasseys and ourselves. It is very

entertaining here, inside ; and outside, the bright panorama,
passing constantly before our eyes, under the vivid blue sky,

is hardly less remarkable.'
     Conversations with many of these people intersperse the

letters. 'They are all so cordial in their welcome to the
wandering astronomer,' we hear, ' and most kind.' . Into

the political problems presented by Egypt at that time

father threw himself enthusiastically.
     ' Our Government,' ran another letter, ' has given Sir

Evelyn Wood carte blanche to choose his own officers for
the re-formation of an Egyptian army. He has chosen

men of prudent enthusiasm for right, and these- men (one
of whom, Col. Duncan,* I know) tell me much about the
affair. They are trying to raise the character of the Fella-
heen conscript soldiers by treating them with justice and

truth for the first time in Egyptian (the world's) history ;
then, in due time, letting them go home to their villages
and tell their brethren what things they have seen and

heard, how their pay is good, and regularly given, to their

utter astonishment, which they do not fail to express : then

fthey .are not allowed to be beaten by their officers, indeed,

* Late M.P. for Finsbury.

t Curiously enough, Lord Salisbury, speaking on this subject (May 1896),

corroborates the anticipatory remarks made by my father thirteen years
Ipreviously. "There were persons who told us, relying on experience
                                                                     may say the
         LIFE AT OXFORD                    133

their officers have been arrested already for striking them.

. . . They always prefer English officers over them. Our

general is bent on raising the character, if possible. His
mind is set upon it ; I heard much concerning this vital

question at the Commander-in- Chiefs dinner the other

night.'

Another letter of a more personal nature, dated 6th.

February 1883, runs thus:

   'I had accepted the offer to go with a young artilleryman

to the Mocattam Hills, to the place where Newton* and-
Company, in 1874, observed the transit of Venus. This is

the highest ground of Cairo proper, close to the grandest
Mosque of Mehemet, and all Cairo and the Nile lies before

you. . . . We got out of our carriage, and, like mad people,

commenced our ascent by zig-zag winding roads, amidst

sand, rocks and quarries ; no real road it was. After three

miles I gave in. I lay down, tired out, with a bit of rock
for my pillow, sun 140, on my back. I had no umbrella,

no " nothing," and we had madly gone on a journey no

sane people attempt save on donkeys. Still, there was

a delicious breeze, as there almost always is here, and

I resuscitated in half-an-hour. The view is an amphi-

...theatre, complete. All Cairo, as I said, at your feet, the
Nile, Egypt ; a view unique in the world.  By dint of

perseverance we got down to the carriage, drove to the

artillery mess, had lunch, and got home.'
     After this came the voyage up the Nile to Kamak and

Thebes :

    'We have the chief cabin, and we expect great things,'

irrelevant experience of twelve years ago that we should find that the Egyptians

will never fight, and that our expedition, if it is to be carried out, must be carried
out by English troops. I do not attempt to forecast the future of the campaign ;

Ibut am justified in saying that the calumny that the Egyptian troops will not

fight has been satisfactorily disposed off (cheers). They have fought as gallantly
as any other troops could fight, and it is no wonder that they should have fought
well."

      * An Oxford pupil of my father's.
134 CHARLES PRITCHARD

my father writes. 'You have seen nothing till you have
seen Thebes, Lord Dufferin told me at dinner the other

night.'
     From their floating home vivid word-pictures describing

the realisation of their expectations were sent home to the
family at Oxford, and, added to the word-pictures, many an
illustration, too, from mother's brush. ' I cannot imagine a

greater treat than floating up this marvellous river in good

company as your mamma and I are doing. It is a glorious
day, but all days are glorious here. I hope to show

some friends of ours on board the moon and some double

stars through my small telescope. Jupiter and Saturn are

here too high in altitude, they would be inconvenient to

see. The Pole star is lowered greatly, and many stars set

which do not in England. It is in fact a little puzzle at
first to recognise one's old familiar sky. Your mother

has drawn you a little sketch of the Southern Cross as
she saw it early one morning from the windows of our

Dahabiyeh cabin.'

     We hear of many adventurous donkey rides across the
plain to outlying villages. My father in one letter describ-
ing himself as 'winner of the Derby/ and as 'cantering'
back to the shores of the Nile where the vessel lay moored.
That day he had made a ride of three hours, a feat which,

to appreciate fully, one must consider the rider's heavy

weight and 'seventy-four summers,' as he put                                for his
        is

              I

                         a

                             I

                                                          a
                                                                       it,
seventy-fifth birthday was celebrated at  State dinner

party given by Lord Dufferin at the end of that same

month.

But all through these letters, which came daily without

fail to us, there shown constant and touching remem-

brance of the children at home.

'Of course our thoughts recur daily to you all at Oxford.

We are still sailing away from you, already 2,000 miles off,

and still on and on.  believe am here within the field
                          LIFE AT OXFORD                       135

of my duty, else I should not be so blithe as I am. GOD

bless you all.'

    The sight of the Karnak ruins made a deep impression

on his mind, and from Athens, which he visited on his

way home, he wrote to his son Eric :

    * I preached a sermon at Cairo, just before I left, on the

nature of Egypt and its present state, and asked wherein we

are better than No-Ammon (Thebes). I took great pains,

and my mind was full. Lord Napier heard   and was so
                                          '
struck that he asked to be introduced, and gave us such an
                                               it,
instructive talk his estimate of things agreed with my      a
   a;
              a                                           I
previous one. Before we left, he gave us a letter to a lady
here, Miss Jule, most cultivated woman. He told her how

he had been struck        rare thing, said she to me, for dear

Lord Napier to be struck in that way by anything. So am
rewarded and encouraged. Now/ he adds, do you do your

...best always, we don't know what may come of it.
The work of my youth paying me now by exquisite enjoy-
ment and comprehension of what see. You in your school-
                          is

                                      I

days have great possibilities.'

Elsewhere he tells, with some regretful comment, story

of this journey, which shows that his eloquence was not

invariably successful  :

*  We were anchored on Sunday morning off Karnak and

the ancient Thebes on the banks of the Nile. Morning

service was celebrated on the deck of the steamer. We

formed a heterogeneous assemblage in respect of religious

denominations. The Church of England and of Rome were

represented, and two Presbyterian and Nonconformist

ministers on board. Still, the wonderful quietude around us

and the superb sky above us soon reduced our spirits into

harmony, and was agreed that should read the Litany
   it

                            I

in the Prayer Book, while the earnest Scotch Presbyterian

minister should preach the sermon. It was an occasion

unforgetable by us all magic in its circumstances and sur-
 136 CHARLES PRITCHARD

roundings. The Christian hymn must have been echoed
along the walls and the columns of ancient Thebes back to
the hills beyond.

     ' During the service we had been watched, I saw, by the

Mahomedan dragoman on board ; he was a man full of

intelligence, and had greatly contributed to the enjoyment
and information of all on board.

    ' The service concluded, I cautiously commenced, or

rather attempted, a conversation with him, directed more or
less to what he had seen and heard. The eyes of the man
indicated emotion within him ; suddenly he drew himself up,

and he said, " Sir, I am a Mahomedan ; not as good a
Mahomedan as I ought to be, but I hope to grow better.
I am a Mahomedan ; you Christians worship three Gods,

Mahomedans worship one," and there ended our brief con-

ference, within sight of the ruins of Karnak. It was useless,
I felt, to continue the conversation ; nothing that I could say

would have convinced him that he had mistaken the Athan-

asian creed.'

     Much as my father enjoyed Egypt, his visit to Greece seem
to have delighted him even more. Of Athens he says :

     ' We both agree that what we saw to-day of the Acropo-

lis is by far the most glorious and exciting sight we have
seen. Even in point of beauty alone, the sea, islands,

mountains, colouring, foreground, background, are altogether
overwhelming. Whilst Karnak holds its own for sublimity

and majesty, here is the intellectuality of perfect beauty.
The whole Greek education here comes back again, and you
understand it for the first time ; all my old Greek readings
return to me now as realities. The old sites are so distinct
that you have no difficulty in re-peopling Athens as of old.
These Greeks were of gigantic intellect. Their mountainous
country, with their sparkling seas, inspired them, and their
free popular institutions. The associations as we stood by

the Acropolis were overwhelming. I cannot wonder at the
LIFE AT OXFORD  137

enthusiastic patriotism of the old Greeks for their city. You

 should read Paul's address to the Athenians here, at this

 sacred spot.'

     ' Your mother and I are on our way back,' he said,
 when next he wrote. ' We shall soon be all together again.'

      On his return, my father devoted himself with zeal for
the next two years to the important work he had taken
in hand, completed by the issue, in 1885, of the Uranometria
Nova Oxoniensis. The attempt to determine accurately, on
a novel principle, the apparent magnitude of all fixed stars
visible to the naked eye in more than half the entire Heavens
was an undertaking of no light order, and we heard of little
at that time except 'the relative brightness of the stars.'

I remember how night after night he would beg my mother

and us to come out with him and compare the brightness of

the twinkling orbs up in the sky. After a time we became

more expert in this task, and at last were even able to assist ;

but my father's eyesight was, I think, keener even then than
ours, ' because I have really used it,' as he was wont to

explain.

     While engaged on this work, he snatched a brief summer
holiday at the English lakes, a country which aroused in
him many memories of the far-off days when, during his

Glapham holidays, he had had as companion in the self-
same spot the idol of his boyhood, the poet whose skill has

immortalised it. ( I knew him as a man, studied him as a
poet,' he said to us once. And much of Wordsworth's poetry
father knew by heart ; he did all he could to instil the same
admiration into us, but I am afraid the half-holiday hours
we spent over * The Excursion ' were not regarded by us quite

so favourably as he expected. What was to him a recreation

was to us a task. Our Sunday afternoons, too, when we
were children, had to be spent on the study of Wordsworth.
Later on, when we were children no more, these Sunday

afternoons were set aside by my father himself for the recep-
 138 CHARLES PRITCHARD

tion of a certain number of special friends a custom only
gradually admitted, for he was by early education a very
strict Sabbatarian.* But, little by little, he gave way, and

ended by looking forward to these visits. It was, indeed,

not easy to see him alone on week-days without interruption,
and the Sunday receptions came to be attended by many
intimate friends, old pupils like Sir William Herschel, neigh-
bours like Professor and Mrs Presswich, the Rev. E. Ffoulkes
and Professor Sylvester; in later years, also, Professor Max
Miiller and Professor Nettleship. Referring afterwards to
these visits, Sir Henry Acland, a guest ever welcome in my

father's study, wrote :

    ' Great as was his age, your father's loss is to me, and I
feel sure to all, irreparable. I never saw him but with the
deepest interest, instruction and respect. . . . His tender
kindness, his cheering geniality, the breadth of his views,

boundless kindness to me at all times, will never be forgotten

by me while I remember anything or anybody.'
    Another constant visitor on Sundays was Lord Tennyson's

niece, Miss Agnes Weld, who had been known to my father

from Freshwater days. Of his conversation with her on

these occasions, she gives the following reminiscences :
     ' With my hand upon the latch, " Bob " started up from

his seat at the Professor's feet, and his last notes of welcome

having subsided, and the knowing animal curled himself up

to sleep on his master's desk or easy-chair, the Professor

would begin, if it happened to be term time, by asking me to
give him a resume of the morning's university sermon, which

he would criticise at considerable length, making it a text
from which to unfold his own views on religious matters, which
were characterised by the greatest possible breadth consistent

with strict orthodoxy, a breadth to which he had gradually
attained from the starting point of rigid Puritanism, to the

   I* can remember, in 1837, his demurring to my writing a letter on a Sunday.

E. O. WARD (his niece).
LIFE AT OXFORD  139

straitest sect of which, he used to tell me, his parents be-
longed, and in which he was himself educated. One relic of
his bringing up he retained to the end of his life his absten-
tion from work of all kinds on Sunday, and to this he was

faithful, even at times when the Sunday rest involved a great

press of mental labour on Saturday and Monday.
     ' But he rested, not to make the Sabbath a day of gloom,

but a time of leisure in which to pursue those theological
studies which his scientific duties crowded out during the
remainder of the week. Had there been more Sundays in

the year, he might have finished the volume he had in pre-

paration, the achievement of which, he believed, would
have been of more value than all his scientific labours a
treatise on the gospel contained in St Paul's writings. He
often conversed with me on this subject, saying that, to his
mind, the strongest possible proof of the trustworthiness of
the four evangelists is contained in the fact that so much of
what they taught was committed to writing by St Paul in

epistles, whose genuineness has never been called in ques-

tion, years and years before a line of their gospels was

penned.

     ' Though the keynote of his Sunday conversation was
pitched in a grave and occasionally a minor key, his keen
sense of humour often peeped out in some racy story that
came in apropos, or some tale of the merry schoolboy pranks
he used to play. The thought that seemed to make him the

happiest in reviewing his past life was the direction for the

good of themselves and their fellow-men he had been, by
Divine aid, enabled to give to the lives of so many of the boys
who were entrusted to him. Tears used to come into his dear

old eyes, and his voice used to quiver with emotion as he
spoke of his prayers with and for them at the time of their

confirmation, and how abundantly those prayers had been

answered.

    ' I often regret that I did not jump at Dr Pritchard's
it,I4O CHARLES PRITCHARD
                           a
repeated offers to be my teacher in Greek and geometry.

He said if I could spare him an hour a day for five months
it was just like him to put it that way, instead of alluding to
the sacrifice of his valuable time the arrangement would have
involved he would undertake that I should read Homer with
pleasure at the end of that time ; and as to geometry, he de-
clared that if I would give him seven sittings he would indoc-
trinate me into that science, adding, " You'll be astonished to

find what common sense it invokes, and to find also, with
M. Jourdain, that you have been geometrising all your life."

     * He took the broadest possible view of inspiration, which

he used to say he was by no means disposed to shut up
within the covers of the Bible, but considered to be the motive
power of every good and great ideal and work of the present
day, so that God still speaks by the mouth of living men, not
in the Church of England alone, but in the Universal Church.

It seemed with him, as it was with one I knew in my youth,
the late Lord Rosse, that the study of the stellar universe
lifted him nearer to heaven itself

     His Sunday evenings my father loved to spend in the

drawing-room, listening to my mother's playing on the organ,
a very beautiful instrument of Bishop's making, and presented
to him by the maker as a token of affection. He had a great
love for music, which what with organ, piano, violin and
violoncello played in concert or singly held so important a
place in our home circle that no account of his Oxford life
would be complete without some mention of it. He took the

deepest interest in our musical education, spending lavish

sums of money upon and was proud to hear of any studies,
whether in the practice or the theory of the art, being on foot.
To him music had been not merely source of pleasure, but
an aid to reflection. This curious effect he has noticed in his
Annals, and he told us that some of his work for the Royal
Astronomical Society was prepared while listening to concerts

at St James' Hall. Music, he saiH, helped him to think.
LIFE AT OXFORB                                              14!

     In 1885 my father was elected to serve on the Council of,
the Royal Society. But it was in the following year, 1886
that honours were showered most thickly upon him. In

February his four years' labours at the Oxford Photometry

were rewarded by the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical

Society. On this followed what was, perhaps, in hjs own

eyes, the highest honour of his life the enrolment of his

name among the very few Honorary Fellows of his old

'ICambridge college, St John's. With pride he would recall

the day when, in his own words, found myself invited to

reassume, in a more honourable form, those intimate relations

which, half a century ago, had existed between me and the

venerable college where I had been educated and encouraged.'

He appreciated nothing that fell to him above this. Much as

he loved his adopted University, yet that love never interfered

with or took the place of his love for his own Alma Mater.

Then in July of that same year his old pupils of the

Clapham days gave that dinner in honour of their venerable

master, to which reference has already been roade.

    The Dean of Westminster presided over this meeting,
which was held at the Albion Tavern, Aldersgate Street,

where nearly a hundred ' Old Boys ' appeared to answer to the

roll-call. For, as my father himself wrote shortly after :

1 Perhaps the most touching, and, to those assembled, the

most memorable part of the proceedings, was the expression
of the desire to have the old " roll-call " re-enacted, after the
lapse of an average interval of a third of a century. Accord-
ingly, each " Old Boy " stood up in his place, in order to show

himself to such of his old schoolfellows as might remember

him, and generally, with a voice well recognised, answered to
his name in the ancient fashion, with " Here, sir," and his

right hand upraised. Grisly beards and grey heads predomi-

nated, the former overclouding or concealing the features, but

the voice remained. Shouts of welcome naturally prevailed

at the several recognitions.'  \.'^.
142 CHARLES PRITCHARD

    ' To say that the affair was a brilliant success conveys no
adequate idea of this unique scene/ writes his cousin, from

Carton Tower, Stoke Poges. * The mixture of the humorous

and the pathetic, the friendly greetings, the old stories, and

even the old names, created an impression not to be de-

scribed. Deeply touching was it to see Dr Martin carried

upstairs in an invalid chair. Very amusing was it to hear the

Professor accost a highly-respectable looking divine with the
        " Why,                "
words,          it's  Hippo      At first all were like boys on a
                             !

holiday the Dean, laughing and joking, addressing me as

Fred, and taking me by the arm. After dinner, the muster

roll was called, and grey-headed warriors, divines, judges,
lawyers rose, held up their hand, and said, " Here, sir," amidst

thunders of applause. The Dean made a charming speech.
Then " the old man eloquent " began, " Old Boys," and the

storm was something fearful "there are supreme moments,

which occur once or twice in a man's existence, when all the

chords of his life are gathered into one. Here are assembled

men of mature, almost maturest, age, who have won their

spurs in the battle of life. These men are met together with

one accord to give a loving greeting, in the evening of his

days, to the man under whose auspices they started on life's

rough road, and, if I may be allowed to say so, to express

their recognition of those principles early learnt, and which

have so far conducted them upon their way."

    ' At the conclusion of this interesting meeting,' continues
his cousin, ' " Please, sir, may I have my exeat ? " came from

many a voice, and we separated, not to meet again, perhaps,

till the universal exeat be granted, and master and pupil

answer to the roll-call on the last day.'

My father's success in this year met also with recognition

of a sort which does not often attend scientific accomplish-

ments at the present day. One of his warmest and most

loyal friends at this time was Professor Sylvester, the occu-

pant of the other Savilian Chair namely, that of Geometry.
LIFE AT OXFORD  143

The following sonnet, from the pen of this distinguished
mathematician, appeared in the Oxford Magazine :

TO THE SAVILIAN PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY IN THE
                      UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

                 ' Pritchard ! thy name be lifted to the skies,
                   Who in the starry fields find'st pure delight,
                 To note each ray that gilds the brow of night,
                   And the near hour of severing worlds surmise.

                     Press on, where Fame's sublimest summits rise
                   Time's stroke falls lightly on his sacred might,
                   Who ploughs from morn to eve his furrow right,
                   Then sinks to rest midst sunset's gorgeous dyes.

                 Hail ! faultless herald of the bright-eyed throng,
                 Heir to the wand, once Tycho's, to assign
                   What place and precedence to each belong
                   While yet with watery ray yon Pleiads shine,
                   Or strew with sands of gold their hair divine,
                 Thy praise shall flourish in immortal song.'
               CHAPTER VII

                    LAST YEARS, 1887-1893

                   By his Daughter^ Ada Pritchard.

IN the speech recorded towards the end of the last chapter,

my father, then in his seventy-ninth year, had described

himself as * in the evening of his days.' But the phrase,
so appropriate to the age of the speaker, had as yet little
application otherwise. For him there was none of the
resting from labour which the term would suggest. He
had completed, it is true, a particular line of work at the
observatory, but only to commence another.

     Nevertheless, the time was now at hand when the vigour
of his earlier years began, on the physical side, though on
that side only, to show signs of diminution. And from
this time he became more than ever anxious that all grate-
ful acknowledgment should be paid to his assistants at
the observatory Mr Plummer and Mr Jenkins. ' How can

I ever repay them for their extra trouble,' he wrote to
his pupil, Dr Spitta, of Clapham Common, * especially as
for years, owing to growing infirmities, I have never been

able to look through a telescope.' This was two years
before his death. For his senior assistant, now director
of the Liverpool Observatory, Birkenhead, he cherished
a sincere affection, which he expressed in such a manner
as to leave no doubt of his feeling towards the man who,
in recent years, was so very closely associated with him

in his researches.

                                                                             144
                    LAST YEARS                                  145

His work, indeed, was going on as energetically as ever,

and much outside work, too, beyond the actual province

of astronomy. For his interests in other subjects were
legion. He gave a series of lectures about this time at

the observatory, which were open to all. ' I shall not die
content until I have awakened an interest in these matters

among Oxford people/ he often said. The lectures were

of a semi-familiar nature, and illustrated by original slides

on the screen in the big lecture room.

With his usual interest in scientific movements, my

father became an original member of the new British

Astronomical Association. Fearing that it might not be

financially strong enough to maintain its Journal, the

general plan of which met with his approval, he suggested
to the president the formation of a subscription list for

its support. * But/ as the Journal afterwards said, in

mentioning the above, ' although this has not proved

necessary, yet it illustrates the quick sympathy with every-

thing tending to the promotion of science which Professor

Pritchard showed.'

At this time, too, my father was giving an hour and

a-half daily to the study of Hebrew, stimulated, perhaps,

to this exertion by certain criticisms then appearing on

parts of the Bible, which he wished to read for himself.

In this study he persevered for about two years. At its

commencement he writes to Sir W. Herschel :                     than

    ' I took a drive out to Littlemore, hoping, rather
expecting, to see you, and I missed you accordingly.

* I rather wished to see you on a question of Hebrew !

There broke out recently a recrudescence of some old family
troubles, and I thought that an effectual way of forgetting

them was to occupy my mind with batches of ten minutes

nine times a day at Hebrew. I once knew a little, a very

little, about it. Nothing can make me a Hebrew scholar,

even if I wished but may serve purpose. You must
                    it,

                             it

                                                             a

                    K
146 CHARLES PRITCHARD

remember some of your early difficulties in this intractable

...tongue, and I shall be thankful for a little useful informa-
tion and direction.              I shall be glad to have another

fructiferous    talk  with  you    '
                                 !

     But these manifold exertions could no longer be en-

countered without fatigue. It was about this time that,

in a letter to his friend, Dr Huggins, he says :
    ' I do envy you and your wife fishing and sketching by

the banks of the Thames. If I don't get some fishing, or

something like soon, shall be doubled up. Too many
                      it,

                                I

                                                                              a
irons in the fire.'

    All we could do to persuade him to take rest we did.
It was no easy task. But mother took the matter into her

own hands and insisted we should winter away somewhere.

Father really needed an absence from the daily round of

duties he imposed upon himself at Oxford. Accordingly,

that winter (1889), we went down to Bath, where the

life presented no resemblance to that of Oxford. It

was intended to be an absolute change; and so                                    turned
                                                   .
out.                                                    .

                                                                 it
          Writing to an astronomical friend about the place, he

said
          'I
             :  This Bath has brought much to me.  . Here came

in neighbour, Mr Hippisley, one of the most ingenious
          a

          men have ever met with full of lovely contrivances of
                                            ;

rough but effective work. We have been talking one thou-

          sand five hundred to the dozen, we two young ones. He

          eighty-eight years old, an old Oxford double second, the
is
          best degree man can take for his intellectual sake. . .
        I.We are expecting visit in few days' time from an old
          college rival, the man who thrashed me in exams, sixty-
                a                                 a
                           a                                 a
                                               a
                                                                                                              .
          ...one years ago, certain Canon Whitley,* cleverer man
                      a
                                 I.

                                        is
          than  This Bath evidently receptacle of nona-

               * Canon Whitley was Senior Wrangler in Pritchard's year. See the account
          of the examination in Chapter
LAST YEARS                                                  147

genarians. Blomefield * is here. I have seen him several

times. There are many interesting people in and round

the city who interest me, and are full of kindness and

hospitality. We do not find it dull. We leave here in ten

days, what an hundred days, Deo Gratias. A flight rather
than a holiday, for every day I have heard from Oxford

about Parallax or Photographic O. G.'s, or,' he adds char-

acteristically, ' my carnations or my daffodils  the medley

of life.'

     This visit to Bath was, in part, suggested by some failure

of eyesight, not wonderful in a man of his age. Nothing

in his physical constitution had been more surprising, up to

this time, than his powers in this respect.

     In a letter, dated loth April 1889, he puts a P.S.
* Written without spectacles ' and enclosed a humorous speci-

men of handwriting, signed at full length, though he makes

a slight mistake as to his age. He was then eighty-one,

not eighty-two, having been born (according to a document

in his mother's handwriting) in February 1808.

His acquaintance with Mr Hippisley, referred to above,

ripened as time went on, and continued after we left Bath

and returned to Oxford. A correspondence between the

old country squire, ' a scientist by choice,' and the astronomer

by profession, kept the two minds in contact, but 'we two

young ones,' as father described them, did not meet again.

The letters which passed between them were quite

touching in their youthful enthusiasm over problems which

had been present to the mind of each for some sixty years.

The rest and change to the Somersetshire capital did my

father real good mentally, but whether it was having 'too

many irons in the fire/ or from the more natural cause

    * Mr Leonard Jenyns, of Bottisham Hall, Cambridge, who had taken the

name of Blomefield, was the well-known naturalist, the friend and fellow-worker

of Charles Darwin, at whose request he wrote on the Fishes of the Voyage of the
Beagle, Before the appointment of Darwin as naturalist in the Beagle, the
position had been offered to Mr Jenyns.
148 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of his advancing years, his health seemed to us all to show
sad signs of breaking up. His spirit and unflagging energy

kept him, however, from giving way in any sense. But the

summer following he had to renounce all kinds of exercise.

In the autumn he writes to his niece :

'My "poor" foot, as you call
it                                                                                                        better at last, but

                                          a
                                                  a

                                                I it,

                                                                         is
                                                                            is
                                                                                    a
has not assumed its natural condition yet. Each day the

girls take me out in my basket chair, Bob accompanying

us, of course, running on ahead, or lying stretched his whole

length across the rug at my feet.                                                                         miss your visits, but

hope you are enjoying yourself. It                                                                        glorious weather

here; we have tea in the arbour at the observatory every

day. Your aunt . presides, and we have people coming and

going all the time.'                                                                                      mere passing

    Of these afternoons of which he speaks in

sentence, others, who joined the circle there, have carried

away memories perhaps of less passing nature.

It was so unique  scene the wonderful glow of the

garden flowers, the wide stretch of park around, the towers

and spires of the lovely city behind the belt of trees. Nor

did the attraction of those summer afternoons lie in their

framework alone the surroundings were indeed something,
                ;
                                     *

                                it
but they were not everything. The charm lay, as friend
                                                                                                          I
has since written to me, in the central figure there, in the old
                                                                                                                      it is a
white-headed man who bade us welcome to come and sit at                                                                      it
his feet. Only he never put like that. He would say, " Come

and honour me with your company," and the listening we

gave him was perhaps no more humble than what he gave us!
Alas for the treachery of memory Would could rejnember
'
              ;

                 '

                it

                        is
                                                                                                       !
some of the conversations we had then, the spirit of which

alone remains.

For so          with us, his children, who were so much with

him our memories have played us false also. It only the

 spirit of those times that we remember. But perhaps was
not in the words alone, or the substance alone, was in
LAST YEARS  149

the manner of the speaker that the secret lay. A manner
which, if emphatic at times, was at others tentative; but

the sincerity of the utterance, the simplicity of the nature
revealed, were of themselves convincing ; one recognised

that what he said he felt, and what he felt he said.

     Few things in life he loved more than the long hours in
that sunny garden, to which so many letters to familiar

friends refer. It was not a large garden, but it certainly was

a lovely one in so far that there were flowers in profusion.

Mullis, the factotum of eighteen years' standing, looked after
all these, and was justly proud of his work. In the arbour,

months after its owner had passed away from us, we found
some old gardening memorandum books, horticultural diaries

in fact, books to which my father gave a daily attention. In

these were careful little entries to mark when the seeds were

sown, when they came up, when the carnations were potted,

or new daffodil bulbs planted. All and every entry such as

the most zealous professional gardener could produce.

     His love of flowers, which was shared in an equal degree
by our mother, was deeply rooted in his being. ' I see quite
as much to reverence in my garden as I do in my observa-
tory/ he would say. * When I see a lovely plant, I take off
my hat to it/ This idea was indeed a favourite one with
him. ' I recollect/ writes Mr Knowles, ' his taking me one

night into his little study at home, after showing me in his
observatory the fringes of infinity in the double star and

nebulae, and, pointing to a gas jet above his table, saying that,

to his mind, it was almost more baffling and overwhelming in
its suggestiveness of the infinity of minuteness than the vast

nebulae were which had just overwhelmed me with the
measureless dreams of infinite vastness. He said that his

mind reeled when trying to follow the systems within systems

of whirling, revolving atoms within that flame deep under-

neath deep quite as much as it reeled under the immensities
of space/
150 CHARLES PRITCHARD

But greater after all than the wonders of the heavens and

the earth, he would say, are some facts very near us, and one

of the greatest of these is the human mind and brain.

     In the autumn of 1890, with lessened physical energy, but

though severely hampered in his health, active as ever in

mind, he writes to Lord Tennyson :
     ' I am told that you are bringing forth yet much fruit in

your old age : longo intervallo, I am in a similar case, and if
life and liveliness be preserved till Christmas, I may hope to

leave behind me, for students, an intelligible and rational

account of disturbed elliptic motion z>., solar, lunar and

planetary theories a tough bit of work, but highly useful if

properly done, but vita summa brevis spem nos vetat inchoare

longam.

    * I rejoice, and others also, in your advice of long ago that
I gave my attention professionally more to astronomical

...matters than matters theological, but my interest in the latter
is supreme as ever.  I am, myself, as I have said, en-

abled to work with some effect in celestial photography and

photometry the new astronomy. In fact I am, I believe r

well in advance and in the van.'

In the desk at which he had written for forty-five years

of his life, among masses of heterogeneous papers, I found,

after the writing-table had ceased to be used by its owner,

an old record, jotted down in haphazard manner, of a day's
work of that period of father's life. It was headed :

                   23RD JANUARY 1891  left hand almost
9.30. Down to the study : memoranda

              unusable.

10. Massaged.

11-12.30. Consultation with practical engineers about a new
                   delicate measuring instrument. (Micrometer.)

    1 P.M. Lunch.
   2 P.M. Taken in bath-chair to observatory to see about

                   preparation for lecture. One and a-half hours.
LAST YEARS  151

3.30-5 P.M. Odds and ends. Dozed. Wrote to my brother

                      John.
     5-6 P.M. Massaged.

  6.30 P.M. A hasty dinner.

   7.30 P.M. Went to observatory and lectured from
8-9.30 P.M. Lectured in bath-chair. Home. Tired.

    Very seldom it was that father was ever heard to admit

that he was tired; neither through the long course of that

active life was he ever known to have a headache. The
letter * to my brother John ' mentioned above ran as
follows :

                                                       * OXFORD, 23^ January 1891.

    ' MY DEAR JOHN, I was glad to see your handwriting

again, and as you think you will be interested by tidings
from me, I proceed to send them, cutting out all that may

not be couleur de rose. Firstly, thanks, deep and great, to

the Great Father, we are all in good health. All have

escaped colds here this dreadful six weeks of arctic winter.

The girls have been incessantly skating, chiefly on a small
lake in Worcester College Gardens. The youngest, Lily,
by dint of hard work and a certain natural gracefulness,

has made herself an accomplished skater, so she more or

less presides over young Oxford, who meet on the lake.

She has been elected into the International Skating Club
after trial of her skill. (My girls' skating was com-

mented on eulogistically in the Queen newspaper.) . . .
She is kind to others, as they all are, and not conceited.

This is the same girl who two summers ago swam across
the broadest part of Windermere. All this is pleasant and
healthy to think of. The other three, Rosie, Ada and

May, are all well on in various accomplishments ; they
are all singularly bright girls. Rosie sings in Balliol Hall
some Sunday evenings ; Professor Jowett openly expressed
his admiration the other day. She sings sacred songs from
152 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Handel, etc. Ada paints and draws well (exhibits), has

made a study of both ; and May, too, who plays the organ

and does many things, and does them well. You ask
for pleasant news, else I would not refer to these, as

savouring of boasting to me they are simply topics for

hearty thankfulness for the various privileges. Rosie is

filled with desire for active life, and she tried nursing at

St Bartholomew's Hospital ; she greatly liked             but the
           a

               it
                                                             ;

                                                                                     it,

                                                                                                                                                                     ;
life was strangely hard and rough walking to the hospital

dormitory mile at night, and in all weathers very absurd

so she gave up reluctantly. They do better there now.

She has had some literary work connected with the hospital

world offered her in London, which she commences to-

morrow. Her education has been magnificent, and she

has seen much. My son Eric has all but finished his

education at St Mary's Hospital, and takes his M.B. and

M.A. degrees here after Easter. So here am at eighty-
                             a
                                a

                                               is

                                            I
two permitted to use and enjoy great variety of interests

...of life. My mind ought to be thank-offering, and think
often is.     My friend Perowne has been made BishopI
                                                            I
of Worcester, and on Monday week he to be consecrated

in Westminster Abbey. Ada goes up with me, and all the

family unite at dinner at the Westminster Palace Hotel.

go in bath-chair to-night at to give a lecture. We all
a                            8

unite lovingly. Yours,                             C. P.'

When, some months earlier, in the autumn of 1890,

the news reached us of Dean Perowne's appointment to

the Bishopric of Worcester,  I       remember my father's ex-

citement.     cannot suppress the outburst of mind pent
1
up within me. Why should   I         he writes to Canon Farrar*
          I'
                                 ?'

in reference to this.      rejoice with joy and in January, to
                       I'            ;'

the Bishop Designate, he writes himself:

MY DEAR FRIEND, My dear wife says that                    I  may

                                      * Canon of Durham.
            LAST YEARS                                   153

hope to attend at your consecration on February 2d, with

caution, so I hope. To me it will be deeply touching ;
you . . . and in Bradley's Abbey. Such is the course of

Providence, wherein "the thoughts of many hearts will be

revealed."

' So I have written to Bradley to ask him to make things

...smooth and convenient for me if it can be done. One of
the girls will go with me.  We shall be at Westminster

Palace Hotel. Then I would get home again with all speed

and thankfulness. My dear Bishop, yours affectionately,

                            * C. PRITCHARD.'

     During the early part of 1891 the state of his health
for several months caused us great anxiety, though he him-
self did not seem to realise what serious grounds we had

for our fears, but preferred to contrast the happiness and
comfort of his own lot with that of too many of his

neighbours.

     In the long watches of one of those anxious nights in

the winter he said to our mother, who had been reading

aloud to him, ' How thankful one must be for the mercies
vouchsafed us. Think of the misery and illness around in
poorly-conditioned homes. I shall like to make some thank-
offering to GOD for the merciful winter I have passed

through.'

     In March, in answer to a hearty request that he should

attend the Gaudy at St John's College, Cambridge, he
writes :

    1 How I wish I could personally join, my dear master,

in the fray to-morrow. My whole spirit will be in Cam-
bridge, but an octogenarian just recovering from illness
must stay at home a bit. . . . Again and again, warmly
and consciously, I feel grateful for the "all round" educa-

tion given me years and years ago at St John's College.'

    All through that time of illness and 'recovering' to which
154 CHARLES PRITCHARD

he alludes, he had been nursed and attended by our mother,

to whose care, perhaps rightly, he attributed his ultimate

recovery ; but in the early summer, before, indeed, he had

been able to go about himself, and when his eyes were yet

in bandages, she of whom he ever spoke as ' his sweet wife '

was taken from the happy home circle at Keble Road.

Very suddenly and with but little warning this happened,

and we dreaded what the shock would be to him to whom

she had ever been a right hand. To distract his thoughts at

this saddest time my father set himself to work. He declared

that work after a while would help him, and in the quiet time

which followed he completed an elaborate paper on the ' Dif-

fraction Effects of Gauze Screens, Photographical and Visual/
' My little bit of an observatory has turned out some work/

he remarked later on.

He lectured three or four times in that October term ;

going to and from the observatory in the bath-chair which

had by now grown a familiar spectacle in the parks. Three

sunny months at Hastings after Christmas worked wonders

in his health in fact, almost completely restored it. And I

think we were never more astonished at his pluck than at

that time when, with his eyes bandaged, he kept up a daily

written superintendence of the observatory.
     Mr Plummer sent the daily report, which we immediately

read aloud to him, word for word. Then he would dictate

back long detailed answers and directions from his bed, where,,

undaunted, he lay with his eyes all bandaged up. Dr Vicker-

man Hewland, who lived two doors off us at Eversfield, at-

tended my father during that illness, and so successfully that,

as he declared, ' I went back to Oxford in comparative youth.

Not an ache nor a pain about me. I shall never be better
...than I am now. But my feet are not like hart's feet.
                                                         I

have a lot of work before me, and I shall do it.'

But exciting as was father's own individual work to him

he always found time to keep that of his friends also in view.
LAST YEARS  1 55

His own researches could not absorb him, nor entirely separate
him from what was going on around him. Thus, in 1891, he
writes to Dr Huggins:

     1 Any thinking and competent man must be delighted and
astonished at your results . . . but don't be daunted, there
are two of you (you and your dear wife), a spectacle for men
and angels. It is charming and epoch-making to see woman-
kind asserting its power and natural gifts. Look at Miss
Clerke's book, just sent me, an excellent history, and one
which will prove itself a useful one.'

     And in his own nearer domain father had many instances
of womankind 'asserting its natural gifts' as he put it.

Among those at the observatory who were working under
him in the final Honour School of Mathematics he had more
than one lady student. For years previous to this he had
been very much disinclined to credit the female brain with

any mathematical ability. One or two women had stood out

above their fellows, he admitted, but they were exceptions.
Miss Caroline Herschel, for instance, whose name was most

justly enrolled among the members of the Royal Astronomi-
cal Society, and of whom he would never tire of talking. And
there was Mary Somerville ; but still these were exceptions.

    It was not till he saw them working, side by side with

men, at the abstruse subjects under his own immediate direc-

tion that he recognised, and recognised in the fullest degree,
that the capacity of the female brain was less limited than he
had supposed. When the Astronomer Royal engaged lady
computers to work at Greenwich, my father further freely ad-
mitted the expansion of his own views on the subject.

     He took the deepest interest in his pupils, and would in-

vite them to his house, and give them hours of his time be-
yond the mere * lectures ' demanded of him by the academic

canon.

    At these lectures, it should be mentioned, one small figure

was ever present, in dumb, devoted attendance on his labours.
156 CHARLES PRITCHARD

This was the dog Bob, his constant companion. In fact,

they were quite inseparable these two. Bob was my dog by

possession, his by adoption. During five whole years he

regularly attended his master's lectures, sleeping right through

them until my father's voice ceased, when Bob would get

up and enter the bath-chair, which he knew well would con-

duct the lecturer home. Father had a very tender heart

where animals were concerned, an especially tender one for

Bob. The dog ruled, in fact, but I don't think either knew

it ; the master was unconscious of and Bob never took ad-
;

                                             it,
                                                       it
vantage on one thing only he insisted he must always and
at all times be with his master. And so happened that

even at lecture times he admitted no break in the rule he had

laid down for himself; only once was he known to miss his

attendance, and that was not his own doing.                                                   more

     He was the lecturer's timekeeper, too, and one of
                                       a
assertive nature than the clocks which abounded both at homea

                                                           is
and at the observatory. On one occasion, at crowded public

address, Bob, who was sleeping away on the platform, got
'

                                 a it
up, yawned and stretched himself, looking hard at the
speaker. My dog reminds me that my appointed hour up,'

father quickly added, and put speedy termination to his

speech.

    Of course, Bob's master was teased about his love for the

dog, and many story told at his expense on this head-

The late Professor Minto, for instance, was the teller of one
of these stories. It was on the occasion of an annual enter-
a
               is

tainment we gave in the big lecture-room at the observatory,
to the employees of the G.W.R. My brother-in-law, Mr
Chalmers Mitchell, brought Professor Minto, who was staying

with him, but after his presentation to the host, Bob, to whom

he remained stranger, set up barking. This                                                    my dear
a
                                                                                           *

                                                                    is

dog Bob,' father hastened to explain. 'We always bring him

to the observatory with us, he makes our friends feel so at

home;' the humour of which speech was lost upon the
LAST YEARS  157

speaker. Bob was completely on a pedestal. He, and He
only, was allowed the free upsetting of the ink and gum
bottles, or the scattering of the papers on the Professor's

writing-table, and many a time have we seen father give up
his own easy-chair to Bob, that he might make himself

more comfortable.

     This love of Bob was fully shared by the whole family,

but my father's devotion to him assumed the most unseU
fish proportions. There is an old photograph still extant
where master and dog are taken together, 'hand in hand,'

as father gravely ordered it. Behind them both is the big
black board, with its hieroglyphical figures, a background
to ' throw Bob's white coat up.'

     It was really touching the love of these two, and the

faithful Bob has never allowed anyone to take his dear

master's place in his affections a place indeed not easily

filled.

     It was in 1892 that my father accomplished the second
of the great researches carried out at the Oxford Observa-
tory under his direction the application of photography
to the delicate and laborious work of detecting any paral-
 lactic variation in the places of the brighter stars. ' Pro-
 fessor Pritchard was led,' it has been written, 'to restrict
 the number of observations made on any individual star,

 in order that more stars might be examined, his aim
 being to obtain within a short time a general estimate of
 the parallax of all stars to the second magnitude; and this
 object he attained. The idea of mapping out a research
 on such lines that it could be completed in a few years is
 characteristic of the professor, and although it may have
 originated in his own case, from the knowledge that the
 remaining years of his astronomical life, already a long and
 active one, could not be many, it is also particularly appro-
 priate to a university observatory.'

       But while this work, soon to be honoured with the
 158 CHARLES PRITCHARD

highest scientific recognition, was still incomplete, my
father found time to throw himself zealously into the great
international scheme for obtaining a photographic chart
of the entire heavens, a scheme in which he was determined

that Oxford should play a part. A letter, written early

in 1892, and retranslated from an Italian newspaper, the
 Voce delta Verita, with its accompanying comment, places
the activity of the aged astronomer in a pleasing light.

'THE ASTRONOMER PRITCHARD AND THE FATHER DENZA.

     'The illustrious English astronomer, C. Pritchard, director
of the University Observatory at Oxford, one of the most
hard-working cultivators of celestial photography, in send-
ing some photographic proofs of the chart of the heavens
to the Vatican Observatory, wrote to the director the letter

which we here quote, which letter proves the uprightness
and goodness of soul of the said astronomer, and shows

how the study of the heavens, rightly understood, by itself

alone, raises the mind to God.

     * " MOST NOBLE AND MOST REVEREND FATHER DENZA,

In reply to your request I have begged Mr Plummer to
send you an original negative of the catalogue as well as
of the chart.

   '"I have also enclosed a copy of the negative of the

Pleiades, with a complete description for those who are not
astronomers.

    * " It would be for me a real pleasure, and more than a
pleasure, if His Holiness, the Pope, would deign to bestow

a glance upon this wonderful achievement of modern as-
tronomy, showing him how the aspect of the marvellous
group of the Pleiades is now recorded by means of photo-

graphy. It might serve to divert the mind of the venerable
Pontiff, even if only for a few moments, from his multitudin-
LAST YEARS                  159

ous cares. And if that personage of great heart and

goodness should be pleased to send his good wishes to
our observatory, they would certainly be welcomed with

gratitude. If you think fit to inform him of anything

with respect to me, you may tell him that I am eighty-four
years of age, and that I have myself now completed the
measurement of the distances of all the stars of the second

magnitude from our earth.

     '"This is not an astronomical letter, but, for me, it is
a great pleasure to help Rome from Oxford. Many of

us hope to meet each other in the celestial regions, beyond
the stars, round the throne of God, where, merged in the

eternal light, we shall lay aside all our differences.

    * " It may perhaps interest you if I further inform you

that, many years ago, I was charged with the reception of

Archbishop Manning when he took part in the periodical

dinner at the Royal Astronomical Club. I was then
secretary, and afterwards president of the Royal Astrono-

mical Society.

     1 " I wish you every good success in your astronomical
work, and I remain, dear Father Denza, your most devoted,

                                                '"C. PRITCHARD,

                                                      ' " Director of the Observatory at Oxford"'

     This letter was written at the beginning of 1892, and

 received the following courteous reply from the Pope:

FROM THE POPE'S SECRETARY.

                                                             'VATICAN, ROME, March 1892.

    ' I am pleased to announce, honoured sir, that, con-
formably with your desire, Father Denza has presented
your fine work on the Pleiades to the Holy Father, Leo

XIII. He has admired and studied it with great satis-

faction and delight. At the same time, he heard with

great pleasure of the feelings that you entertain towards
his person, and of the praiseworthy desire that you show
160 CHARLES PRITCHARD

to help .Rome from Oxford. Whilst His Holiness returns
your feelings with a sense of sincere goodwill and merited
esteem, he hopes from his heart that the observatory of
Oxford may continue to be useful, as it has been hitherto,
to the progress of astronomical science, especially under

your intelligent care.
    ' In manifesting to you these feelings and wishes of

the Holy Father, I embrace, with pleasure, the opportunity

of signifying to you my own most distinguished esteem.'

In the autumn of the same year my father's Oxford labours

were rewarded with the Gold Medal of the Royal Society.

On hearing of the honour intended him, he wrote to the

Bishop of Worcester :

'The news should come from me to you personally.

This morning came a notification from the secretary of

the Royal Society that a royal medal was awarded me

for photometry and stellar parallax. . . . My friends may

rejoice in this unexpected recognition                                            seems almost
a

              ;

       I*
                          I

                                           I,

                                                 I (it
                                                                                                                                                        !
                                                                  I
like dream) of an old man's long-continued efforts.                               At

began my astronomical work really at seventy

eighty-four these are three hymns which daily con: (i)
"Holy, holy, holy" (morning); (2) "Rock of Ages"
(evening) (3) " Father,  know that all my life " (noon).'

He adds,  am working in the Pleiades daily.'

My father went up to London to receive the medal, and

with him my brother Eric and Eric being permitted to

enter even the sacred enclosure of the Council Rooms at

Burlington House with my father, who was on his arm.

Lord Kelvin, in presenting the medal, dispensed with all

ceremony, and himself descending from the steps of the dai's,

gave into my father's hand He returned home the same
it

                                                                               '
day, as he did not wish to appear at the dinner which

followed on the ceremony. Professor Huxley, who presided

on the occasion, remarked that there were two medals every
LAST YEARS  l6l

 year, and they were usually allotted, one to physical and

 chemical science, and the other to biological science. They
 were usually given to younger men, and it was so in his own
 case over forty years ago. On the present occasion, the first

 of these medals was awarded to the present Director of the

 Astronomical Observatory in Oxford, Professor Pritchard,

 and he was told that there was no observatory in the three

 kingdoms in which* so much admirable work of observation
 was being done. Only a short time ago the Royal Astrono-
 mical Society awarded its gold medal to the Director of
 the Oxford Observatory. He was further told that the

 Director was tackling what he understood was one of the
 most difficult pieces of astronomical work parallax deter-
 mination ; and that he had already printed off more stars
than anyone else. Besides this, he was hard at work on the

great International Chart of the Heavens. It was obvious
that this gentleman must be in the full vigour of youthful

energy, and therefore he treated with contempt a rumour

that had reached him, that the director was in his eighty-
fourth year. (Laughter and cheers.) They would join with
him in wishing Professor Pritchard a long continuance of the

health and strength which were turned to such splendid
account.' (Times, ist December 1892.)

      Professor Huxley's kindly wish was, however, not to be
realised. This was the last public ceremony in which my

father took any part, except at our neighbouring parish

church of St Giles', five months before his death where, he

gave away his daughter May, on her marriage in December

1 892, to Professor J. Bretland Farmer, of the Royal College
of Science, South Kensington.

    All who spoke to him on that occasion were struck with

the vigour of his mind a vigour which seemed almost to
overcome the growing frailty of the body. His brightness

and ready humour were conspicuous among all at that happy

scene. His old friend, the Bishop of Worcester, was perform-
                                           L
1 62 CHARLES PRITCHARD

ing the ceremony ; his old pupil, Sir William Herschel, was

at his side ; much there was to cause him happiness, and his

interest in life was keen, perhaps keener than ever.

    ' I saw him,' writes the Bishop of Worcester, ' for the last

time at the marriage of his daughter May. He was then

unable to move, except in his chair, but he was cheerful, and

his intellect was as clear and his mind as active as ever.

Indeed, he had been wheeled to the Observatory, had given

his lectures during the previous term, and there was no

apparent abatement of the interest he always took in his
astronomical work. On this occasion some of his old pupils

were present, and it was touching to note the affectionate

homage which they paid to their old tutor.'

     His health was now remarkably good, as, indeed, it
continued for the remaining months of his life ; and if his

' orbit,' as he expresses it in a letter to his colleague, Professor

Sylvester, ' was circumscribed to the radius about the Observa-

tory in the Parks,' yet within that limit all was happiness.

But for the one lost link in the home circle, father always

said the last year of his life was the happiest he had passed.

    And I think it was. The ' orbit,' of which he speaks to

Professor Sylvester, was restricted only in geographical area ;

socially, it presented a marked increase.    For in his later

life my father lost much of the inherent shyness which had

characterised his earlier years, and became daily more soci-

able. The mornings, up to a week before his last illness,

were spent in work, the afternoons he gave up to social

intercourse; and how good and kind people then were can

never be forgotten by us.

    ' There was no flagging of the mental powers,' writes Miss

Weld, 'on the last Sunday I spent with him, less than a

week before his death. He explained to me (in that lucid
way of his which made difficulties vanish like magic) a
technical point in crystallography, and talked of the progress
he had been making in his work at the Observatory, which
LAST YEARS  163

he hoped would soon leave him sufficient leisure to finish
that (to his mind) greater work on St Paul, which his heart
yearned to accomplish. He went on to speak of his family
in those terms of warm affection he habitually used of them.

I thought I could trace a slight vein of sadness in his
parting words to me, but so slight that I doubt whether

he had any presentiment that this was the last Sunday he

would pass on earth.'
     After dinner every night, unless he lectured, we played

cribbage ; a game into which he threw his whole mind most

earnestly, as though the winning or losing were to him a

matter of real moment. A record of these games we entered

on the cribbage board, and they present a vast array to
the good on his side, for it must be understood that while

he really enjoyed winning, he always thought it was through
his own good luck that in two out of every three games
played in the bosom of the family, success fell to his share.

     About May we all noticed a change, a slight indescrib-

able something that perhaps we did not acknowledge even
to ourselves. The work at the Observatory tired him more ;
he often came home exhausted. But there was little in the

symptoms that could cause any definite alarm on our part.

He was entirely free from any anxiety himself. Of an

afternoon he would see fewer friends, and his spirits were not
so good, that was all. But by the end of the month matters
had assumed a more definite form. The doctor and my
brother Eric, who were both in attendance, recognised the

gravity of his condition. He was mercifully spared a linger-
ing illness, and his sufferings lasted but a week. We were
with him throughout, as well 'as the old nurse and Mullis ;

and though for the most part he was unconscious, yet at
times he showed a momentary recognition of us all, while
Bob, lying at his master's feet, evinced a grief and under-

standing which were pathetic.

     And it was on Sunday, Trinity Sunday of 1893, that
164 CHARLES PRITCHARD

he passed away from us at the ripe age of eighty-five, and
entered into the Sabbath of a well-earned rest.

     * The end/ writes the Bishop of Worcester, * did not take
him by surprise. He had long been looking forward to it.

In a letter from him, dated 7th December 1881, written in
answer to one in which I had asked him to preach in

Peterborough Cathedral, he says:

    c " Yes, I dare not, while life and voice remain, excuse

myself from an invitation such as yours. So make it a

late Sunday in Lent, when I am freed from lectures. My
text may be * With whom is no variableness.' It has been

much in my mind and my thoughts of late. I find my old

friends dropping off fast, and here all is abnormally variable.
Yesterday my old friend Steel, of Harrow, was called away.

He came here to settle after his retirement. Mine was the

last house he was in before his death. He showed me a spot

on his finger just lanced. I said, ' Why don't you go to

London and see the best man? /should.' In ten days he
was removed, a man of a free and generous spirit. I had

said to him when he came, ' Well, you are one of the very

few men with whom one can  interchange  one's  thoughts  '

                                                           ;

and now alas ! So there is but One with whom there is

no variableness."

   , c But he did not give way to sorrow. Healthy occupation
and joy in his work were characteristic of the man. In the

very same letter he writes :

    ' " My hands and my head are full of work, Deo Gratias !

and I am sitting in my little room with much that is fairest

on this earth before me. Garden, park, professors' houses,

Bodleian, Radcliffe, towers of All Souls, New College,

Magdalen, St Mary's spire, all before me. This is a fair

earth of ours ; fallen though it be, yet it is redeemable and

redeemed. There is a joy in life : at present I feel it in the

midst of more troubles and anxieties than I venture to let

pass through my mind. What is it that makes me buoyant ?
LAST YEARS  165

Humanly speaking, it is the thought and the knowledge of

the order and the beauty of Nature ; occupation among the
lights of heaven, and then there are the beautiful things that
clothe the earth in profusion. Truly my spirit seems to leap
among these and shout for joy. Thanks be to God that in
youth I was taught the existence of Nature (which so many

around me ignore), and then I learnt, as time went on, its
glory and its orderliness. And I was taught and led to see

a Father's hand everywhere, and never so plainly as now.
There is nothing but the variableness of beauty there : no
doubt there is the variableness of decay, but there is the
budding and the new life of spring. In this way the light of
God is reflected into the soul from the glory of His works

outside. Would that I and all of us felt more of the Light

that springs up from within, kindled by the Spirit of Him who
is the True Light ! I did not intend this half-homily to you,

but my old friend is called away, and so thoughts supervened,

and I cannot help it."

     * Gradually and peacefully the end came. There was no

pain ; the intellect was clear almost to the last ; then there

was a brief period of unconsciousness, and then the earthly

career was closed, and the spirit which had so long pondered
the mysteries of the universe passed within the veil, and

beheld them with unclouded eye; and the faithful servant
entered into the joy of his Lord.

    * As I write there rises before me the recollection of a sin-

gularly vigorous and original mind, a marvellous buoyancy
of spirit, a lively sense of humour, an almost boyish joyous-
ness of disposition, a warm and affectionate heart, a keen

delight in the magnificence, the beauty, the variety of Nature,
an ardent pursuit of knowledge in many and various branches,
a love of literature, of art, of poetry, ancient and modern, as well
as of mathematics and the natural sciences ; a perfect lucidity
of expression, a transparent honesty, and all this controlled,

sobered, animated by a devout reverence, and a sincere and
1 66 CHARLES PRITCHARD

unshaken faith. To him there was no antagonism between

Faith and Science. The God of Nature was to him the God

of Revelation ; to him the Revelation of God in Christ was,
in the deepest and largest sense, the interpreter of the

world.

' The loss of such a man is great, not only to the friends

who loved him but to the many young and ardent spirits of

our generation who are troubled and perplexed by what they

are led to believe is the irreconcilable antagonism between

Science and Revelation.

'Charles Pritchard was a man of science. None could

question the eminence in that field of one who made an

important addition to the astronomical knowledge of his

day, yet he remained to the last a humble, devout believer in

Christ. Writing to me in January 1889, he says :

    "'The Son of Man and the Son of God, one with the

Father in some way beyond my conception and beyond the

necessities of my being to know I don't know, who does ?
but I adore. I would follow Paul as Paul followed Christ,

and ask no prying questions." And again, a little earlier,
" The best prayer you can offer for me
                                        is,

                                                I
                                                                I
                                        that may finish

my course wisely and well, and always be ready to depart.

have seen enough of the vicissitudes and uncertainties of life

not to 'die daily.'"      Service, the week after my

    At the Commemorative

Father's death, in the parish church, the vicar said                    :

'  We have to thank God that again and again in the

annals of our race there have been those who have com-

bined the fullest knowledge and appreciation of the world's

vastness possible to the human intellect with the sincere

and devout conviction that God's thought and providence

are in every part. Such were Pascal and Leibnitz in the first

dawn of modern science; such, in our own land, was the

great Sir Isaac Newton coming nearer to our own day, such
        ;
                                                                     ;
too was Michael Faraday, the electrician and as no un-
LAST YEARS  l6/

worthy follower in their steps, we in Oxford at least will not
hesitate to add the name of Charles Pritchard. He passed
away, as most of you are aware, last Sunday, just after

you had been praying in this place that God would deliver
him in the hour of death. Many who knew him but little
will miss that familiar chair on its way to the Parks, where
in his observatory and garden around it he loved to trace
the Divine wisdom equally manifest to him in the infinitely
small as in the infinitely great. Those who knew him more
intimately will long remember with affectionate regret the
Christian kindness and the thoughtful sympathy of one who

knew the better perhaps how to help and encourage others
because his own youth and early manhood had been passed

in the school of patient struggle and privation, in the school
of long disappointment, of scant and tardy reward. On the

other hand, for those who knew him neither as neighbour
nor as friend, it may suffice to mention that for many years

to come a portion of the standing work of every great
observatory in the world will be to carry out the method for

mapping out and measuring the heavens, in the inauguration
of which he took an active and important part, so rendering

to natural science a solid service of which Oxford may well

be proud.
     ' Amen ! Even so, with hearts uplifted by his words, we

would bid him a last farewell. Farewell, Charles Pritchard !

Skilful astronomer, humble Christian, tender friend, faithful
witness to the Truth ! Dear, right dear to thee were the
counsels of thy God ! Through many a long day and far
into the watches of the night, it was thy delight to count
what might be counted of their mighty sum, to trace and
treasure every token of the Almighty's hand ! And, now,
we doubt not, Death has been to thee the awaking to a
nearer Presence and a clearer vision of thy God in the
heavens, which are not seen but eternal.'
Theological Work of Charles Pritchard

                                               BY THE

                   LORD BISHOP OF WORCESTER
THEOLOGICAL WORK OF CHARLES PRITCHARD

By the Lord Bishop of Worcester

IT is under a sense of sacred obligation that I have

undertaken to contribute from my reminiscences to my dear
friend's biography, and in particular to add a chapter with

regard to his religious beliefs.

    Writing to me just after Dean Stanley's death (in a
letter dated Spa, 2Oth July 1881), he says: 'This reminds
me of something. When my time of departure has come, will
you render as true and unvarnished an account of me as you
are able ? May I leave you that legacy ? You know almost
all my foibles and some of my best aspirations. No one

else does or ever did. I am seen with all my excrescences

about me, and few get below the husk. Lord Hatherley and

Hook and John Herschel entirely loved me ; so I am so far

solaced. Don't let me pass away without one word in behalf

of my memory. I have long thought of writing this to you ;

perhaps Farrar* also knows a little of me. Stanley's death

brings this matter practically before my mind's eye.'

    I have already in the previous pages indicated here

and there my friend's religious opinions ; but as the

deliberate convictions of a man of science, who not only

occupied a distinguished position as Professor of Astro-

nomy at Oxford, but had made important contributions to

astronomical knowledge, they deserve something more than

a merely incidental and passing notice. I propose, there-

      * Rev. A. S. Farrar, Canon  of Durham,   and Professor  of Theology in the

university.                               171
172 CHARLES PRITCHARD

fore, in this chapter to give some account of Pritchard's

attitude towards the great religious questions which have

agitated men's minds during the last fifty years, and I shall

do so first with regard to the movement emanating from

Oxford which has left so marked an impress on Church life

in England during that period ; and next in relation to all

those controversies concerning Nature and Revelation, and

the authority and inspiration of the Bible, whether arising
from the side of science or the side of criticism, which, in

the minds of all thoughtful men, must possess the deepest

and most abiding interest.                                             As I
     First, then, as regards the Oxford movement.

have already intimated, he had no sympathy with it or

with its leaders. He had no patience with the dishonesty

which, as he considered, stamped     even by the admission
c

                                                                    ?

                                      ? ' it,I
                                                         I*
of the men themselves. In his letters to me, and in conver-

sation, he often expressed his astonishment at the influence

that Newman had acquired.

What made Newman so great he asks.                                     mean great

in his influence over some minds      can discern few or no

elements of the great man about his writings. To me they

are subtle, and very subtle, scarcely sincere in their aspect.

His surely must be an essentially weak mind which could

be upset by Hume's arguments and seek for safety in the

authority of the Church.'

Pritchard's estimate of Pusey was somewhat similar.

Writing in 1878, he says
                   is
                               :
Pusey's intellect          of a subtle order not bright, nor
*

       I
wide, nor deep, but subtle, and now sacerdotally dishonest,

a beacon and a warning to the mind theological. Don't

suppose   am unaware that correlative pitfalls lie in the

way of the mind scientific.       I  suppose that, apart frcm a

growing union with the One perfect mind, all are more or

less open to shibboleths and dogma.'

Then, too, as he had little respect for the leaders of the
                               THEOLOGICAL WORK

movement, so he abhorred their priestly assumptions. He
held that the very soul of the movement was sacerdotalism.
His friend Hook (the Dean of Chichester) wrote to him in
1866:

    ' I do not hesitate to say that you have got the bull by

the horns when you say that the top and bottom of the
present distresses of the Church lies in that word hpevg. This
will come out fully in my next volume of the Archbishops,
which will reach the Reformation. . . . The form in which
this subject will come before me as an historian, not as a

controversialist, is this : I shall have to show that the whole

principle of our Reformation consisted in changing the Mass
into a Communion, whereas at present we find that the whole
object of the Ritualists is to change the Communion into the

Mass.'

     This is striking testimony as coming from a High
Churchman like Hook ; but then he was a High Church-
man of the old school, a High Churchman after the pattern
of Andrewes and Cosin, not after the pattern of Pusey and

Newman.
     But besides this, Pritchard was indignant because he

thought the proper work of the university had been lost
sight of in the feverish controversies which so occupied men's
minds as to leave no room for anything else. Writing to
me shortly after the publication of Mozley's Reminiscences ;

he says :

    ' Yesterday and to-day I have spent on the Mozley Re-

miniscences. They lead me thoroughly into the Tract times

and to some men whom I know or have known. Alas, alas, for

poor Oxford ! The things divulged speak not for her health.
Not a word is there in all these pages redolent with the
action of tutors, or speaking of tutorial work. The raison
detre of this noble university, the education of British youth,
is therein, through the record of years, utterly ignored.
Politics and polemical theology form the stuff and staple
1/4 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of the history. We are a little better now, but the old

leaven still heaves up. The whole controversy, correspond-

ence and all relating to Keble, Newman, Pusey, Mozley,

etc., leaves me more decidedly an Evangelical than I was,

though softened, and more sympathetic for the historical

and corporate aspects of the Church of England as they
bear on the " High Church." Again : * My mind is fearfully
depressed at what I have been reading of Mozley's letters,,
and his friends. Try and wade through them; though a

Cambridge man, they will let you into the pith or backbone
of the activity of the Oxford " Movement " more than any-

thing I know. It was for The Church, and not for the Christ

within the heart of His flock.'

     Somewhat later, however, he writes to Mr Ffoulkes to

thank him for giving him more insight into * Pusey's ways

and  thoughts  '
                 :

     ' But to me,' he says, ' Pusey and Newman are phenomena
not wholly within the grasp of my conceptions ; my own
mind and culture have been cast in very different moulds,

Pusey's way of writing was to me obscure full of special
pleading : so much so that I have at times been inclined to
question his sincerity. You may readily suppose that I

have never been able to sympathise with his appeals to the

authority of ancient doctors. In my own line I can make

at this moment a catena of astronomical doctrine which will
not stand before more recent investigations, some of them

my own, and not admitting of a question as to the modern

results being nearer to truth than the old ones, yet neither

old nor new absolutely true and exact. In Nature our know-
ledge is approximate ; so also, I think, is our knowledge
of Grace. Hence I can with difficulty sympathise with
doctrines expressed in language which admits of no " shake,"

unless it be in the ipsissima verba of Scripture, that also

admitting of an ever widening and deepening explication.
So Pusey to me has ever remained a phenomenon out of or
           THEOLOGICAL WORK  175

beyond my sympathies or intelligence, med culpd no doubt.

So I feel indebted to you for your throwing more couleur de

rose over the character and being of this remarkable man.

The few remarks you make regarding Newman, side by side

/with Pusey, are in perfect accord with my own less mature
judgment.  had almost rather doubt than be satisfied

with and rest on the dogmata of Rome. The former is me

judice a nobler form of mind, evyevsttrspos. Au reste, I have
no right to intrude my notions or judgment on you, but I

may at all events tender you thanks for your (to me) deeply

instructive words in the Oxford paper. . . . Still, I do not

see anything so very remarkable in a man retaining his con-
victions of the truth of Christianity throughout his life. For

surely in many men, by God's grace, the religion of the Cross

is their very inmost life, and no man questions that. The

phenomenon of Pusey to me was not his uncompromising

defiance of infidel tenets and suspicions (the Daughter of
Zion laughs them to scorn), but it was partly this : here is

a man who doubtless had Christ within his heart living and

directing and communing there in utter personality and sub-
jectivity, yet he ventured to " direct " souls in a Roman

priestly sense (not simply as a minister of Christ), and he
yearned and strained over a material Eucharist.'

But in controversies of this kind Pritchard took no open

part. Naturally, the greater part of his theological studies

lay in a different direction. The controversies respecting
the character and limits of Revelation, and the relation of

Revelation to modern scientific discovery, the possibility of

miracles and similar questions had a powerful attraction for

him. Invited on several occasions to preach at the gatherings

of the British Association, and at Church Congresses, he

availed himself of the opportunity to show that God's

revelations of Himself in the book of Scripture and in the

book of Nature were so far from being in antagonism that

there was a real harmony and a vital connection between the
176 CHARLES PRITCHARD

two. Thus his subject before the British Association at

Nottingham  was   '  The  Continuity  of the  Scheme  of Nature
                 ,

and Revelation;' at Dundee, 'The Analogy of Intellectual

Progress to Religious Growth ' ; at Exeter, ' The Testimony
of Science to the continuity of the Divine Forethought for

Man.' ' Modern Science and Natural Religion ' was the

title of the address to the Church Congress at Brighton in

1 874 ; ( Aspects of Nature in relation to Miracles and Pro-

vidence' of that at Swansea in 1879. At Dublin his subject

was ' Scepticism and Truth considered in their Relations to

the Progress of the Knowledge of Nature/

But his most sustained and most eloquent effort in the

same direction was in his Hulsean Lectures, delivered in

Cambridge in 1867. The title of these was 'Analogies in
the Progress of Nature and Grace.' This was one of his

favourite themes. In the first lecture he traces, in a passage
of splendid eloquence, the slowness of the creative process

and the marvellous preparation during long ages for the
coming of man, the future Lord of the earth, and the subtle

and secret prophecy of his appearance, a prophecy which

could not even have been guessed at till its fulfilment ; and

then he asks whether we may not reasonably expect a like

slowness and a like mystery in the process of redemption

and the work of grace. The passage will be found in extenso

in the note at the end of this chapter.

There were some few papers and sermons on these and

kindred topics which contained many valuable germs of

thought, but it appeared to me that, scattered in newspapers

for the most part, or published as pamphlets, they presented

only a fragmentary and perhaps fugitive character. I

accordingly suggested to him that in sight of the prevalent

scepticism, and the mischief done to young minds by the

arrogant and pretentious Agnosticism of certain authors,
it might be well to collect those of his writings which he

judged best worth preserving, and publish them in a small
             THEOLOGICAL WORK     177

volume. He was greatly pleased with the suggestion.
' That's a valuable and kind thought of me and for me,' he

writes ; and in a day or two he sent me a summary of the
book. Besides the addresses and sermons to which I have

already referred, he republished in it his article on the ' Star

of the Magi ' from the Dictionary of the Bible, a remarkable
paper on the standing still of the sun and moon at Joshua's
command in the battle of Beth-horon, and another on the

 Creation Proem of Genesis ' (both of which appeared originally
in the Guardian), together with some addresses delivered to

working men in St Edmund's Church, Northampton. No-

thing in these papers is perhaps more striking than the way

in which he deals with the two miracles, the one recorded in

St Matthew, the other in Joshua. The German astronomer
Ideler, following a suggestion of Kepler's, had attempted to

explain the appearance of the star which brought the Wise

Men to Jerusalem as nothing more than a conjunction of
the planets Jupiter and Saturn, which took place about the

time of our Lord's birth. Pritchard goes carefully into the

question, and demonstrates that a conjunction which would

have made the two planets appear as a single star, even to

a 'weak eye' (Ideler's gratuitously absurd assumption), was
impossible, that no conjunction of planets could have been

described as ' going before ' or * standing over ' the dwelling

in which the Young Child was, and that, if the narrative is

true, then some particular star or meteor must have been

created for the occasion.

Not less remarkable is his argument with regard to the

miracle in Joshua. Here he examines the attempt made to

explain it on purely natural grounds by ' the simple law of

atmospheric  refraction  '     shows that such an explanation
                            ;

proceeds from an entire ignorance of the nature of atmo-

spheric refraction, which could never produce the alleged

effect ; and then goes on, after having thoroughly examined
the geographical features of the country, the position of the

                               M
1/8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

two armies, and the place of the sun and moon in the heavens,

to vindicate the supernatural character of the transaction.

It must be observed, however, that he admits a somewhat

important qualification. For he does not insist upon a
literal suspension of the movements of the heavenly bodies,

but only on 'a miraculous continuance of daylight,' which

might seem to Joshua * to involve the staying of the course of
the sun and moon.' His words are ' To me the records are

in their general drift and intention substantially true. In the
case of the battle of Beth-horon, in which the very existence
of the Hebrew nation was in peril, the narrative may be

satisfied by the miraculous continuance of daylight, which,

in a rude age, and to Joshua and his host, might seem to
involve the staying of the course of the sun and moon.'

     In a letter, dated 1880, to Miss Agnes Giberne,

authoress of Sun, Moon, and Stars, and other works, he

says, with reference to these and other miracles :
    ' I believe in the reality of the New Testament miracles

for reasons which you  will see alleged ; and as my friend
Dean Perowne writes
miracle possible.'"    to me, "You have made Joshua's

     Elsewhere in the same volume he goes more fully into
the question of the credibility of miracles, and argues thus :

What is meant by saying that a miracle is contrary to the

known laws of Nature ? ' Nature,' he says, ' is only another
name for the sum of all created things, all that exist, or

have existed, or ever will exist or can exist, whether in the

universe of matter or the universe of thought, seen or unseen.
You have indeed a scheme, a system, a constitution of

things, in which, though the several parts manifestly cohere

and interact with an astonishing connection, nevertheless is
a scheme in which " it is impossible for us to give the whole
account of even any one single thing whatever," " the whole

account, that of all its causes, ends and necessary adjuncts
I

     is,
                                        it
adjuncts, mean, without which could not have been/"
THEOLOGICAL WORK  179

What do we mean, he asks, when we speak of the Laws of

Nature? The expression is used commonly in a sense
which he thinks is far too restricted. As commonly em-
ployed, it seems ' to limit the conception of law as meaning
merely " a sequence," as it would do apart from a Law-giver.

I regard it rather in this sense I am placed in the midst of

a vast scheme called the scheme (or plan) of Nature. Can I

discover the laws or any law on which that scheme is con-

structed by Him who framed it?' By patient observation

'we find that certain circumstances, certain collocations of

matter, for instance, or of the planets, recur again and again,

and then we find that certain other consequences invariably

ensue, and so far as such and similar collocations are con-

cerned, we rightly conclude that we have at length discovered

the plan, the law, the natural scheme after which this matter,

or those planets, or those collocations or environments are

so far constituted. And this we call a Law of Nature : a
law expressing so far, and so far only, the will, the scheme
of the Author of Nature. But of how few instances of

things, and of how infinitesimal a part of Nature, have we
discovered such laws. You may count them on the fingers
of your hands. There are the laws of motion, for instance.

Some of these we do know, for Galileo and Newton dis-
covered them and taught them. And Joule in more recent
times taught us the convertibility of motion into other forms
of energy. And Young and Fresnel taught us a little of
the nature and laws of light. And Faraday gave us some
notion of the mode of action of electricity. And Herschel

pierced through a rift or two of the veil which interposes

between us and the starry vault. But you have now
traversed the realms of certainty and of known natural
law, and as for the rest of things, the law (i.e., the scheme of
the things) is displaced by presumptive evidence, and pro-
bability alone becomes the guide of life.'

     Then he goes on to apply all this to the case of Revelation :
ISO CHARLES PRITCHARD

' If it pleased the Author of Nature to send us, His children,

a revelation of things in which we are most deeply concerned,
but regarding which the visible parts of Nature could give

us no information ;                on this behalf, there appeared upon
                      if,
this earth One who assumed to be a messenger from Heaven,
                          ;
and to know the secrets of the Most High      he claimed for
                          if              ;

                                            ; if

                                                            if,
Himself a Divine origin, and exhibited in His conduct a

moral intelligence far beyond any that we conceive attainable

by the children of men               He taught and lived as none other

being ever taught and lived before or since and in the

course of His ministry this Unique Being, appearing under

this unique environment, claimed, and was said and seen to

exhibit, power over the diseases of the body and over the

elements of Nature, nay, over life and death could you,
                                          it ;
                                                            I
ask, under these unique circumstances, and considering what

the scheme of Nature has been shown to be, viz., to us illimit-
able and unknown could you, with any show of reason,
                it
reject the narrative simply under the plea that was contrary
                     is ;
to the Laws of Nature  ?

As, therefore,                    'impossible for us to make any such

assertion with our finite knowledge, the whole question turns

on the credibility of human testimony. Did the allegedis

occurrences really occur? 'And the case even stronger

than this, when referred to Nature in her immaterial phase.

For the wonderful works of the Unique Being are attributed
to the force of His Word, and the energy of His Will: and
who knows anything of the relations of the Will of such a
Being to the motions of material atoms?'

     The Person and His Mission were unique, and the whole
environment belongs to a part of Nature hitherto undisclosed,
                                     a

                                          it

                                                    is,
                                                      it

                                                                                                                            *
and the laws which govern            were, and still are, unknown.

Under this aspect, whatever occurred might be, or must be,
essentially miraculous, part, that of the general scheme of
Nature, but nevertheless part of hitherto not by us ex-

perienced.'
THEOLOGICAL WORK  l8l

    Finally, Pritchard insisted much on the power of the Will

in this Unique Being. ' The power of the human will, nay,
the power of all animal will, is as great as it is mysterious.

By it we every moment introduce a force a natural force
which overcomes gravitation in the motion of our limbs ; we
control the wills and the actions of other men ; we " overcome

kingdoms." The Christ of the Gospels said that His Will was
the Will of Him that sent Him. Are there any limits to the
power of that Will, other than the limits of Beneficence and
Wisdom ? What wonder then that at a word of His, other, and

to us stronger, forces come into action, and so "the blind

receive their sight and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed

and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have
the glad tidings preached to them." ' *

                                     EVOLUTION.

     He wrote to me :
    ' I don't believe in Darwinism ; I do not think any true
mathematician could. Dear old Herschel vented his piercing
ridicule on it. Phillips, our soundest practical geologist, in
several walks I have had with him, assured me it had not a
leg to stand on, when viewed in the palaeontological light of

geology ; the evidence, he assures me, is absolutely against it."

     Not that he is afraid of evolution :
    ' As to the evolution of man,' he says, ' not so much from

a zoophyte or a monkey, as rather through zoophytes from

the interaction of the atomic forces in a nebula ; if such can
be shown to be the order of Nature, that is to say, if such has
been and is the Will of Him who ordered Nature, I bow and

have no objection to make.'

     For he holds with Butler that an intelligent Author of
Nature being supposed, it matters not whether He acts in

     * The above remarks are taken partly from his book, Nature and Revelation,
pp. 152-156 and 216, and partly from his letters to me.
1 82 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Nature every moment, or whether he at once contrived and exe-
cuted his own part in the plan of the world. But, neverthe-
less, he thinks the theory lacks proof. He does not believe
' that any amount of evolution, extending through any amount
of time, consistent with the requirements of our astronomical
knowledge, could have issued in the production of that most
beautiful and complicated instrument, the human eye. There

are too many curved surfaces, too many distances, too many

densities of the media, each essential to the other, too great
a facility of ruin by slight disarrangement to admit of anything
short of the intervention of an intelligent Will at some stage
of the evolutionary process.' (Nature and Revelation^}

     But it may be well to let him speak more fully on
this subject; for it is a point of very considerable import-
ance. In a note to his Nottingham Sermon (preached
before the British Association in 1866) he discusses at
some length Darwin's theory of ' The Origin of Species by
Natural Selection.' After expressing his ' admiration of
Sir W. Grove's philosophical acumen in grouping together
the plans and operations of Nature under one felicitous
term ' (Continuity), and observing that ' he appears to have
accepted the Darwinian hypothesis as explaining the origin
of that continuity which undoubtedly exists in the natural
world,' Pritchard proceeds to state why he is himself
unable to accept that hypothesis, ' at all events in its
length and breadth, without some reserve.' He says :
' As an illustration of the general nature of the objections

which I entertain, I will take an instance from that branch
of physics with which it is my lot to be most familiar;

the optical structure of the human eye. From the

cornea to the retina, the eye is an optical instrument.
But what an instrument ! The computation of the curves

and distances of the refracting surfaces in this instrument,
and the assigning of the proper law of density for the
several layers in its principal lens, would require the
THEOLOGICAL WORK                                183

application of a mathematical analysis, such as I hesitate

not to say was never yet possessed by a human geometer.

The mechanism required for instantaneously changing the

forms and distances, and in one instance the magnitude,

of its component parts, would require a handicraft such

as never yet was possessed by a human mechanic. I say

nothing of the chemistry required for the composition of
the several constituent media. I presume Mr Darwin

would admit that this description is not exaggerated.

Now, let us attend to the process of " natural selection,"

by which this marvellous organ is said to have come into
being. " I can see," says Mr Darwin,* " no very great

difficulty (not more than in the case of many other struc-

tures) in believing that natural selection has converted

the simple apparatus of an optic nerve, merely coated

with pigment and invested by transparent membranes,

into an optical instrument as perfect as is possessed by
any member of the great articulate class," i.e., as perfect

as the human eye.f And next comes the mode after which

this simple apparatus of the coated nerve, by insensible

additions gradually but accidentally made, is said to be
converted at length into the eye of man. " We ought in

imagination to take a thick layer of transparent tissue

with a nerve sensitive to light beneath, and then suppose

every part of this layer to be continually changing slowly

in density, so as to separate into layers of different densities

and thicknesses, placed at different distances from each

other, and with the surfaces of each layer slowly changing

in form. Further, we must suppose that there is a power

always intently watching each slightly accidental alteration

in the transparent layers, and carefully selecting each

alteration which, under varied circumstances, may, in any

way, or in any degree, tend to produce a distincter image.

We must suppose each new state of the instrument to

f* Origin of Species, 1st edit., pp. 188, 189.  See Darwin's letter, pp. 93, 94.
1 84 CHARLES PRITCHARD

be multiplied by the million, and each to be preserved

till a better be produced, and then the old ones to be

destroyed. Let this process go on for millions on millions

of years. . . ." Now, we must here ask, What is this

" power always intently watching each slightly accidental

alteration?" A few lines further down in Mr Darwin's

page we read : " NATURAL SELECTION will pick out with

unerring skill each improvement."                      But what is this

" Natural     Selection    "  We must here take Mr Darwin's

                         ?

own definition : " This preservation of favourable variations,

and the rejection of injurious variations, I call Natural

Selection."*

' Now to me there appear three objections, which in-

dispose me to accept the above description of the processes

by which the human eye could have been formed^ and

I will state them as succinctly as I can. First, consistently
with such knowledge of optical combinations as I happen

to possess, I cannot understand how, by any series of

accidental variations, so complicated a structure as an eye

could possibly have been successively improved.        The

chances of any accidental variation in such an instrument

being an improvement are small indeed. Suppose, for

instance, one of the surfaces of the crystalline lens of the

eye of a creature, possessing a crystalline and cornea, to

be accidentally altered, then I say, that unless the form

of the other surface is simultaneously altered, in one only

way out of millions of possible ways, the eye would not

be optically improved.        An alteration also in the two

surfaces of the crystalline lens, whether accidental or

otherwise, would involve a definite alteration in the form

of the cornea, or in the distance of its surface from the

centre of the crystalline lens, in order that the eye may

be optically better. All these alterations must be simul-

taneous and definite in amount, and these definite amounts

                         * Origin of Species > p. 81.
THEOLOGICAL WORK  185

 must co-exist in obedience to an extremely complicated

law. To my apprehension, then, that so complex an
instrument as an eye should undergo a succession of
millions of improvements, by means of a succession of
millions of accidental alterations, is not less improbable
than if all the letters in the Origin of Species were placed
in a box, and on being shaken and poured out millions
on millions of times, they should at last come out together

in the order in which they occur in that fascinating, and

in general, highly philosophical work.
     ' But my objections do not stop here. The improvement

of an organ must be an improvement relative to the new

circumstances by which the organ is surrounded. Suppose,

then, that an eye is altered for the better in relation to one

set of circumstances under which it is placed. By-and-by
there arise a second set of circumstances, a second environ-

ment^ as it is termed, and the eye is again, by Natural
Selection, altered and improved relatively to the second set
of circumstances. What is there to make the second set of

circumstances such that the second improvement (relative to

them) shall be an improvement or progress in the direction of
the ultimate goal of the human eye ? Why should not the

second improvement be a retrogression away from the
ultimate organ now possessed by man, and necessary to
his well-being ? But all this suiting of the succession of
circumstances is to go on, not once or twice, but millions

on millions of times. If this be so, then not only must

there be a BIAS in the order of the succession of the

circumstances, or at all events, in the vast outnumbering

of the unfavourable circumstances by the favourable ; but

so strong a bias, as to remove the whole process from the
accidental to the intentional. The bias* implies the exist-

ence of a Law, a Mind, a Will. The process becomes one

     * On this subject of bias, see a highly philosophical review of ' Quetelet on
probabilities,' in Sir John Herschel's Essays.
186 CHARLES PRITCHARD

not of Natural Selection, but of Selection arranged by an
Intelligent Will.

     ' In considering the state of things just described, we must
also take into the account that the successive variations of the

eye are said to be accidental. What, then, but a constantly

exerted Intelligent Will could cause the occurrence of new

circumstances so as to meet these accidental variations, and
concur ultimately to produce a certain definite result, that is
to say, an instrument possessing the necessary and truly

wonderful contrivances of the human eye ? But is such a
process to be called Providence, or Miracle, or the Inversion
of Providence ?

     ' Further still. Mr Darwin considers that the process of
natural selection must have gone on for millions on millions
of years, in order to have produced the results which surround
us. It is difficult to assign any approximate limitation to the
meaning of the term millions on millions of years. But in
turning to page 287 of the Origin of'Species , I find the author
considers that the denudation of the Weald must have

required some three hundred millions of years ! This denuda-
 tion is but a trivial process, indeed, compared with the

 mighty geological evolutions which have occurred between
 that denudation and the present time, and inconceivably
 trivial compared with other evolutions which preceded it.
 Mr Darwin says, page 489, " As all the living forms of life are
 the lineal descendants of those which lived long before the
 Silurian epoch, we may feel certain that the ordinary suc-

 cession by generation has never once been broken, and that

 no cataclysm has desolated the whole world. Hence we may

 look with some confidence to a secure future of equally in-

 appreciable length."

    'If then we assign a period of one million of millions of

 years to have elapsed, during which natural selection has
 worked for the production of a human eye, we may presume
 we are within the limits contemplated by Mr Darwin.
THEOLOGICAL WORK                                         1 87

     ' Now, I do not hesitate to say that this assump-
tion is entirely out of harmony with the existing state of

knowledge.

     ' For during the deposition of the Silurian strata, there

must have been a deep ocean, and terrestrial things were then

proceeding, Mr Darwin says, on pretty much the same quiet
model as at present. But it has been rendered extremely
probable by the researches of Adams, Hansen, Delaunay,
Airy*, and some others, that owing to the combined action of
the ocean and the moon, the length of the day has been, and

is now, undergoing a constant increase.

     ' On reading Mr Darwin's enchanting volume, we seem to
be, as it were, in the hands of a great magician, who leads us

up and down Elysian fields, pointing out to us on this side
and on that new aspects of things which, though true, were
beyond the reach of our expectations ; nevertheless, when, as
we hope, we are nearing the hill-top and getting a sight of the
primordial genesis of organised beings, the chariot on which
he has mounted us rolls down the hill like the stone of

Sisyphus.

* " With hands and feet struggling, he shoved the stone
    Up to a hill-top ; but the steep well-nigh

    Vanquished, by some great force repulsed, the mass
     Rushed again obstinate down to the plain.

            Tall trees, fruit-laden, with inflected heads

               Stooped to us ; pears, pomegranates, apples bright,
              The luscious fig, and unctuous olive smooth,
              Which, when with sudden grasp we would have seized,
              Winds whirled them high into the dusky clouds." '

                                                                     Odyssey, Book xi.

    Pritchard, as I have said, was a devout believer in Christ.

He had no leaning toward the fashionable agnosticism ; he
accepted from the heart the miracles of the Bible.

    1 Did I tell you,' he writes to me, ' a grand thought ex-

                        *Acld to these names, Professor G. Darwin, 1889.
188 CHARLES PRITCHARD

pressed by Dr Caird at the meeting of the British Association

in Edinburgh? It referred to  's arguments regarding
the knowableness of God something to this effect : If I

assert the unknowableness of God, I assert my knowledge

that He is unknowable, which is a contradiction in terms.

And then the new creed is that this unknowable Being is to

be treated with reverence ; but how can I feel a reverence for
what I know not and cannot know ? He may be all power,

or all unconcern, or all unapproachable greatness or even

diabolical, for aught I can know. What folly, then, to tell

me that I must revere Him ! And then he went on as you

or I should go on : He is known in the image of Christ. And
you know what would follow. It was grand to hear him set

forth this before so many young, unbelieving savants. Now,

can you tell me what makes so many young savants deists or

theists in effect ? I put it to this, partly : in old days savant-
ship was difficult to attain to. A few choice spirits, under

difficulties, did become men of true science : Faraday,
Brewster, Davy, etc. To these add others with a grand

Cambridge training, physicists before metaphysicians, men

carrying weight, ballast, true knowledge, slowly acquired.

Now, nothing is easier than to pick up a little chemistry, and

a little of this and of that and so forth : hence a host of soi-
disant savants, who fancy it is " the thing " to doubt. These

are men who never learnt three books of Euclid nor a pro-

position of Newton/

                           THE BIBLE AND SCIENCE

    Every page of Pritchard's published works, every letter in

which he touches upon these subjects, shows how profound
was his reverence for the Bible. Gifted with a strong imagi-

nation, he had brought it to bear on his interpretation of the
Bible stories to his pupils at Clapham. It was the same in

his sermons : a few graphic touches put the scene and the
                THEOLOGICAL WORK                                         189

actors before the eyes of his congregation, before he proceeded

to draw the practical lessons which the passage suggested.

Writing to me, even in 1882, he speaks of the Bible as 'the

vastest and most valuable and most permanent monument

among the sons of men/ and hopes, if life is given him, to do

something more for its illustration. But, at the same time,
his reverence for the Book was no slavish reverence ; he had

no theory of inspiration ; he was ready to admit whatever the
facts, honestly looked at, compelled him to admit. Thus he

wrote to me (in 1887):       you as to the   " divers  manners "         of

    ' I entirely agree with

the Divine teaching myth, parable, history, example, pro-

phets, etc., etc. We can only discern the manners by the
facts. Hence we may learn from the Divine Vision of Crea-

tion, and the Divine Myth of Paradise and the Fall. But

what about the intrusion of the "Giants"? How did they

get into the Sacred Book ? Are we left to sift them for the

Pearl of Great Price?'

Still, he sees the need of caution :

' Before enunciating the mythical, should we not most

carefully enunciate the principle that God may and has
                                   "
taught  us  by  " divers  methods        We  z>., theologians and
                                      ?

" Fathers " have taught exaggerated conceptions of divine

inspiration in the Scriptures, and now has come "the
Nemesis of Disproportion." '

But then again he insists upon that we have no right
                                         it it,
                                                 it

                                                                      a
to discount the real essential worth of the Bible because of

the difficulties which crop up. His own dealing with such

problems as those presented by the first chapter of Genesis

was quite in this spirit. He accepted ex animo as divine

revelation, but adapted to the times and circumstances and

state of knowledge of those to whom          was originally

addressed, and therefore not necessarily in accordance

with the discoveries of modern science, nor designed to

be so.
190 CHARLES PRITCHARD

He is ' thoroughly convinced that Genesis I. is a revela-

tion, made to the child-man, of as much of cosmical truth

as lay within the reach of his undeveloped capacity to

understand, with the intention, or with a provision, for

the gradual rectification of his conception of this cosmical

truth, as his curiosity, his wants, his intellectual powers

expanded. I once told             , at a clerical meeting that

if I found a compatibility between Genesis I. and our

present knowledge, it would be to me a very serious

difficulty in my accepting Genesis I. as a divine revela-

tion : and I mean this very seriously. For I do not

find it to be the general method of procedure with the

Great Father to provide His children with anything for

the acquisition of which He has endued them with faculties

equal to the task. He did not reveal to them spectrum an-

alysis, which gives them greater particular insight into the

constitution of the Cosmos than is afforded by Genesis I.

But He did inspire His children with curiosity, perseverance

and intelligence, all capable of development, and out of these
inspired powers and faculties came at last the revelation of
the analysis of light. It is all God's doing, and it is marvel-

lous in our eyes. Hence I, for once, read Genesis I. now in

my old age wifh a deeper reverence and a more admiring love

than I did in the wonder of my childhood, when I believed

the words to be literally true.'

     In a letter to the Guardian (loth February 1886),* he
explains at length the difficulties which stand in the way of

the various attempts which have been made to reconcile the

Biblical story of creation with the ascertained facts of science ;
and, still later, in a paper which appeared in the Expositor

appended to my Notes on the First Chapter of Genesis), he

takes the same line :

    'Taken in its plain and grammatical sense,' he says,
' this majestic proem, if regarded as an account of creation

* Reprinted in his little book, Nature and Revelation.
THEOLOGICAL WORK  19 1

in fact, contains statements which, to my apprehension,

are irreconcilable with what we at present know of the

constitution of Nature, and there is offered no appreci-
able hope, that I can discern, of a reconciliation from

future discoveries.'

     He then gives his reasons for thinking that this proem

could not have been originally intended to give a scientific

account of creation in its precise order or method or limita-

tion of time. These are (i) The statement of the existence
of waters before the appearance of the sun ; (2) The clothing

of the earth with fruit trees and grass, each bearing its fruit,
before the creation of the sun ; (3) The successive orders or
stages of creation occupying each one single day. There are
other difficulties connected with the geological record on

which he forbears to remark, and is apparently satisfied with
the argument which Dr Huxley has adduced to show that no
reconciliation is possible between Genesis I. and the facts of
 Nature so far as it is at present known. He is particularly
 severe on the attempt to harmonise by taking the ' days ' in
 Genesis I. as so many thousands of years or indefinitely pro-
 longed periods of time. No, ' one honest solar day,' he says
 (in a letter to me), ' must have been intended by the writer,
 and nothing else ; and as to a thousand years equal to one
 day, etc., it is all irrelevant nonsense : an evening and a

 morning day cannot be a thousand years a non-natural in-

 terpretation dragged in to save a case. No, the writer in
 Genesis, whoever he was, did mean seven true solar days ;
 he did mean that the fruit trees were created on the third

  day, and the sun, moon and stars on the fourth. He did
  mean a good solid expanse a firmament with waters above
  it and waters below it. Other interpretations as to the order,
  meaning and intention, are as non-natural as anything New-
  man even ever wrote.'

       But with these difficulties staring him in the face, he

  refuses to regard the Genesis cosmogony as a merely human
  IQ2 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 invention or tradition. He is convinced that ' a superhuman
 element ' runs through the proem * from its beginning to its

 end.'

     * It is not, and it cannot be, simply a mere tradition from
 antecedent generations. For the record in Genesis is sui

generis in the world's history ; in all the annals of literature
 there is nothing that approaches it. Not all the poets and
 philosophers that have ever lived could have combined their
genius to compose the like of it in its succinctness, its
concinnity, its majesty. The myths of Plato on the origin
and destiny of things, wonderful as they are for their exqui-
site beauty, are utter childish babble when placed by the side

of the Mosaic proem. All other cosmogonies add grossness

to infantine senilities.'

     In other words, Pritchard sees in this magnificent proem

the human element as well as the divine.
     ' Things are so constituted,' he argues, ' that the whole

truth in its absoluteness is never taught, and is never

attained ; the light is sufficient for the day, and often for that
day only ; and more light is generally attainable by a more
diligent and skilful use of existing faculties and natural
endowments. Further, the object of the proem seems to be

to impress on a rude and primeval age, in a clear and

emphatic manner, the Fatherhood of God over the whole

creation, but its object was not to teach the order, the

method, or the time in which that creation proceeded.'
     He regarded the whole as a vision vouchsafed to some

ancient seer :

     ' To him the darkness of his own deep sleep was the
"evening"; then came the divine panorama, or parable
enacted, and then dawn, or "morning" of his waking, and
so on with all the seven.' * The order of the visions ' he takes
' not to have been necessarily the exact order of the progress
of the divine created work.' ' The man records what he saw
in a vision, and it is so far ahead of any other old-world
THEOLOGICAL WORK  193

conceptions, that I regard it as truly a divine intimation of

as much knowledge as man then needed ; but a vision, not

absolute naked intolerable truth, the glare of which the mind's

eye cannot bear, any more than Moses could endure the
vision of God without a veil.'

     Such a * free handling ' of the Genesis narrative, it may

be supposed, was not allowed to pass unchallenged. Dean
Burgon wrote a caustic reply in the Guardian, in which he
contended for the literal truth of ' every word, every syllable,

every letter ' of the Bible ; but it needed no refutation, and

Pritchard did not trouble himself to reply. A more serious

criticism, however, came from another quarter. In the English
Mechanic and World of Science (26th February 1886), Prit-
chard was assailed by two writers, one of whom called in
question his facts, quoting M. Faye, the French astronomer,

against him ; and the other, his attempt to accept the
inspiration of the record while denying its accordance with

the most recent scientific discoveries. So far as I am aware,

Pritchard took no notice of his critics. But he had at least

the satisfaction of knowing that two other eminent scientific
men took substantially the same view that he did of the
creation story in Genesis, and, like himself, believed that it
could not be reconciled with 'what we at present know
of the constitution of Nature.'

     When I was preparing my Notes on the First Chapters of
Genesis for the Expositor, I asked Sir George Stokes, at that
time President of the Royal Society, and Dr Bonney, Pro-
fessor of Geology at University College, London, as well as

Professor Pritchard, to give me their opinions, in writing, with
respect to the questions at issue. I had always felt that the

weak point in all commentaries on Genesis was, that the

writers, not being scientific men, their conclusions on these

questions were valueless, and I accordingly determined to

consult the highest authorities. These eminent men kindly

allowed me to publish their letters to me. They were all

                                                       N
194 CHARLES PRITCHARD

sincere and devout believers in the Christian Revelation,
accepted cordially the inspiration of the Bible, did not even
question its miracles, bowed implicitly to its authority in all
matters touching human conduct, but they all held, never-
theless, though with some variety as to detail, that in the
present state of our knowledge it was impossible to reconcile
Genesis I. with science, and they all took practically the
same ground, that it was no part of God's purpose to reveal
scientific truth, much less to anticipate the discoveries which
lie within the reach of man apart from revelation.

                           THE HIGHER CRITICISM.

     Towards the ' Higher Criticism ' Pritchard's attitude was
anything but sympathetic. Still, he was prepared to make
admissions :

     ' Such a collection as the Bible, Old Testament,' he wrote
to me, ' is open to any amount of insidious, ingenious criticism,
and unanswerable questions unlimited in number : it is to be
taken as a whole, with all its environments. Part of the
confusion, I think, comes from the perpetual lapses of the
people into the idolatries around them, so that they pre-
vented the establishment of the various religious institutions
foreshadowed in Leviticus and Deuteronomy.'

     He is of opinion ' that an intelligent and reverential, yet
fearless, honest and dispassionate investigation of the Old
Testament books is required,' and he is prepared 'for con-
siderable modification of the old orthodox conceptions and
interpretations.' But he was never able to reconcile himself
to the extreme views of the more thorough-going critics;
indeed, it would not be too much to say he regarded these
with alarm. This was in some measure due, no doubt, to his
own habit of mind, which being intensely scientific, led him
to distrust the critical methods, but partly also to the tend-
ency, natural to all men as they grow old, to fall back upon
        THEOLOGICAL WORK                  195

first principles, to cling to what they have found, by their

innermost experience, to be true.

    It must be admitted that he hardly did justice to the
immensely fresh impulse given by the critics to the study of

the Bible, and the fresh interest which it acquired indirectly,
even when the conclusions of the critics were most glaringly

wrong.

Writing so late as 1 892, he says :
1 My spirit has been a good deal " put out " by the

(I cannot help calling it) disloyalty of  . I admit all

the alleged apparent difficulties of the Old Testament.

I admit it is a literature and may have been redacted, but

my mind and common sense revolt at the conjectural

criticism which professes to have found a clue out of the

labyrinth. I don t believe with           that no Psalm is

Davidic. I don't believe the Book of the Law was a forgery,

and I am strongly inclined to think the safest course, and the

one leading the nearest to the truth, is to accept the divine

books as they stand.'

     And again :
    * I want to talk over with you this so-called " High "

criticism, or, in all cases, conjectural criticism, and in some,

I fear, audacious. I trust the words of Paul and Jesus
infinitely beyond the hypotheses of       and Co. I admit

intense and immense difficulties, but very many of them

arise from an utter ignorance of the environments of the

cases in question. I have neither time nor knowledge to

investigate the matter by myself, and I get distracted by the

confident opinions of the divines, clashing like meteor stones

and ending in fire and smoke.'

     And he sums up by saying that he falls back on the
words of our Lord and of St Paul ' What said Christ and
what said St Paul?'

    'As I read (he is not a clear writer, nor is he, as I
think, a clear thinker), the conclusion I come to is that
196 CHARLES PRITCHARD

the books of the Old Testament, or many of them, have
been very seriously, consciously, and in some instances
largely and designedly interpolated, the result being that
what an incautious reader might take as a veracious
and continuous history is a mosaic, made up or com-
piled at various periods of time, separated from each
other by centuries. No notice is given of the compila-
tion, and even fifty years ago, was such a compilation
even suspected? Now, the effect of such a state of the
composition of the books destroys, it may be urged, their

authority.'

     In a similar strain he writes to Professor Sanday, who had
sent him the syllabus of his Bampton lectures :

* To Professor Sanday.

                                 ' OXFORD,
                        ' 27// February 1893.

    6 DEAR PROFESSOR SANDAY. I have to thank you for a
copy of your syllabus of four Bampton lectures. Naturally I
have read it with intense interest.

    ' It occurs to me that this modern criticism raises far more

difficulties than those which it endeavours to explain or to

remove. The methods pursued do not seem to me to

resemble those which have been hitherto successful in re-

vealing some of the secrets of the natural world ; to me they

bear the aspect of haste and conjecture  but I believe my

mind is open ; I try to keep it so.

' I presume facts show that the degrees and kinds of inspira-

tion are very various ; the divine afflatus coming and going as
He wills in wisdom and love no doubt. There we agree.

    * I don't doubt our early preconceptions of the Bible were

in various ways imperfect or erroneous ; at present we have

not the Bible of our youth, but chaos, and the attempts to

illuminate that chaos have issued in the destruction of the

faith of thousands alas ! I know many myself.
                   THEOLOGICAL WORK                                    197

' Our Lord's appeal to " Daniel the Prophet" is involved in

serious difficulty, and to my mind, the hypothesis that our

Lord merely takes the current accepted notions as he finds

them, in reference to this particular quotation, very difficult
4
and hazardous. There are also other similar instances, as you
      is,
know.

      The account of " development " of the law by the priests

and others concerned                    very trying to old-fashioned or
                  I
                                    is
simple minds       don't think modern criticism has found the

right clue yet.
      You let down the Song of Songs more tenderly than
it *                                                             is

                                                                     I
should be disposed to do                think the forced interpretations
                   is is
of by divines have not been wise . . but this not
                       I                                   .
                                    I
important. The source of the modern forms and directions
of " criticism "
                   German, eminently German. . .              .        Their

bias of thought    (in my mind) not generally conducive

to thought. But       own this remark does not help on

these difficult questions.

1  Search you will, and search you must, and pray that

you may be enlightened in your search.                     I  suppose
                                                                I
" your duty in that state. .                                         I
                                                                                   it

                                                                                           is
           I                                               Meanwhile, and in the midst
                                                        .
                                             ."
of the chaos, shall keep my mind as that of Locke's " Plain

Man," and use English common sense.                           think Paul was an

incomparably abler man than any modern critics or divines

his opportunities in many ways greater, and his intentions

more u inspired." So, as am unable to trace out all, or any
                            I
                                       II
of the matters in question myself, shall adopt his opinions,
and they lead me to the Christ of the Gospels implicitly,

whose words, as therein recorded, accept as TRUE. Yours

gratefully, etc.,                                                C. P.'

     The extracts which follow are from four letters written
at different times to Agnes Giberne, authoress of Sun,
Moon and Stars, to which Pritchard contributed Preface.
                                                              a
198 CHARLES PRITCHARD

               'OXFORD, Aug. 1879.

' I have long long felt that the secret of the holy life lies

very much in the looking unto Jesus but therein looking
very much into his own life and words as recorded in the

Gospels specially in that by His earthly friend. The

bye-words shadows of his spirit observable to those who

look for them to be found in the sacred narrative are

simply marvellous.

   If' you want a suggestive book on this subject, you will

find it in Stier's Words of Jesus six long volumes translated
in Clarke's series a glorious book to those who will set

aside his long-winded discussions and get to the marrow

and pith of the thing. I know no book like it to me it

has opened out veins of thought and stores of nourishment

indescribable an exposition often of the mind of Christ in

his daily life and conversation memorable and salutary.

And then there are words of F. W. Robertson's never

forgotten when once received I hope you for your own

sake will not be frightened at the writings of that man of

God I know his peculiarities as to the scheme of redemp-

tion, and I don't share his views but some of his sermons
are not equalled in our language. " The loneliness of Christ,"

...the feminine side of His human nature is grand and
fructiferous.  I am rejoiced that words of mine in the

Hulsean Lectures set your mind into motion THAT was

their object to suggest to originate thought in minds.'

                                                                                                                           1880.

     ' My greatest delight is and long has been philosophical
divinity : to see the way of the Great Father in the conduct
of the worlds Nature in all its extent so far as we can at
present see it a great little way.

     ' My spirit leaps within me at the contempation ; I speak
sincerely. But sometimes the thoughts are sad as were
the Psalmists, " I do see the ungodly," etc. But then I
THEOLOGICAL WORK  199

have a distant hope (no more) that in some way the
Father's own way the moral waifs may by moral means

possibly redemption and grace yet come to cry Abba

Father, "And all is cleansed when the marble weeps." I
don't say this is revealed to us ! I am sure the contrary

is not absolutely and unmistakeably stated. But such
thoughts are not the business of life. . . .

     In March 1890 he writes:
    ' My ditties to you remind me of dear old Dean
Hook's packages to me I have a lot of them but he
was a practical man, and avoided all such questions
as mine.' . . . (Writing concerning a geological work).
' But does not the Great Father teach and inspire
His children with truths or half truths limited to their
capacities ? Has He not done so ? But then see what a
door we open by the word Relative Truth, from the Author
of Truth. Enough. I shall repeat to myself after this
Miss Waring's hymn, " I would not have the restless will,"
etc., etc. What a wonderful book the Bible is what
thoughts it leads to, read amidst the book of Nature.' . . .

                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                           1891.

    ' I see you adhere strongly to the old orthodox teachings
of your childhood as regards the texts and texture of Scrip-
ture. Happy for you. I am a LITTLE modified ; the evidence

of a divine influence in the composition of the books is to
me greatly enhanced by a modification of my views regarding

the obviously human elements in the Scriptures. I see a
"continuity" in the inspired and the cultured intellect in
the Scripture and human histories ; my convictions of a

Divine Revelation are strengthened by the studies of my
life but my views of the MODE of it are a little changed.'

' In matters theological it does seem to me to be a most
200 CHARLES PRITCHARD

happy thing for God's children to take their Father's book,

and read it by the living light of a sanctified heart seeking

at first for no other guide (but Him).
    * But we all have had environments from childhood and

have them still, and the light from these environments gets

reflected to us, little as we think it : in this way our notions

are, many of them, not our own outcomes after all ; and we

can't help  it,   is    law of our nature, and no doubt a wise
                     a
              it

one. God therein may be giving us helps.

   No Christian think, isolated from others, and with
(                       : if

                  I

the N. T. alone, could or would evolve modern Christian

notions and arrangements St Paul, ween, would stare at
                                      I
                                                   it
our ecclesiastical Christianity. We are all in and can't get

out of it. So much for the absolute originality of your or

anyone's conception of Heaven, etc.'
THEOLOGICAL WORK  2OI

                                 Note L

            THE SLOWNESS OF THE CREATIVE PROCESS

                                 (From the First Hulsean Lecture.)

     1 And now, for the purposes of illustrating our argument,
I must ask you for a moment to summon forth that divine
creative faculty wherewith God has lovingly endued us for
the clearer apprehension of his manifold works. In imagina-
tion I must ask you to ascend with me some old Silurian
hill on the primeval earth, ages upon ages before God had
fitted it for the abode of man. Picture to yourself some
mighty stream like the Ganges or the Amazon rolling its
waters from far distant mountains into an ancient sea. You
observe the broad interminable belt of forest which, stretch-

ing inland further than the eye can reach, rises in wild
luxuriance from the swamps which fringe the stream. You
may trace there the majestic pine, the graceful fern, the erect
gigantic moss, fluted and towering columnar reeds, and a
strange fantastic undergrowth, unknown to the flora of the
age of man. The oak and the elm, the sycamore and the
noble acacias of the west, you will not find, for as yet they
are not created. There are no cattle grazing * upon a thou-
sand hills,' for God as yet has not clothed those hills with
grass. In the thick jungle of these primeval forests you will
not hear ' the young lions roaring after their prey,' for as yet
there is no meat provided for such by God. Those forests
are tuneless of the glad carols of the birds, for as yet ' the
herb yielding seed, and 'the fruit tree yielding fruit after his
kind' are not created for their food. Apart from the low
croak of the reptile, and it may be the shrill chirp of many
an insect, there is the hush of the silence of non-existence
amidst those matted fronds, save when the voice of the Lord
is heard in the thunder or the wind.

    ' And if in the strength of this creative gift you still keep
202 CHARLES PRITCHARD

your stand upon your watch-place for ages beyond your
power to count, you will see nothing but the decay and the
renewal of that interminable umbrageous belt. The ferns
will fade, the gigantic moss and the columnar reed will
shrivel, and the pines will decay and fall to their mother

earth, but all this only to make way for another and more
luxuriant growth. And so for ages.

    * At length the scene changes, and through some mighty

pulsation, some throb of the earth's bosom, ordained of God,
you see the waters of the broad swampy margin deepen and
deepen, and then pile upon pile of forest growth and forest
decay are submerged and gone. But wait awhile for the
lapse of years: I know not how many, for science as yet
has found no unit for the measure of cycles such as these.
Whatever the periods may be, the divine faculty within us
concentrates and apprehends them all as but a whiff of
vaporous time. Wait awhile, and then upon the broad silted
margin of the everlasting stream piles upon piles of other
forests again rise and decay, and by slow successive pulsa-
tions of the uncompleted earth in their turn disappear be-

neath the swollen tide.

    ' Now if in spirit you saw all this, and only this, would
you be able to decipher the meaning of the riddle ? Would

you imagine, for instance, that all this mysterious prodigality
of decay was a divine elaborate contrivance for the produc-
tion and storing of fuel for the service of races of beings
yet unborn ? As you witnessed the successive growths and
submergence of those forests, could you forsee or conceive
in what way such an arrangement of things could one day
materially conduce to the development of the genius of
intelligent creatures who were destined to be in remote
futurity the last and chiefest denizens of the earth? And

if some bright messenger from the throne of God stood at

your side, and at the beginning of the vision had told you
how, in other forests of far different growth, the fowls of
                 THEOLOGICAL WORK                                   20$

heaven would one day "make their nests, and sing among
the branches " ; if he had told you that cattle would graze

upon a thousand hills, and that " by the springs in the valleys
                                                "
the  wild asses  should  quench  their  thirst      ;  if  he  had  told

you that God would place upon the earth a being clothed

in the majestic image of His own mind, to be the lord and

master of created things ; then I think that at the first

you would receive the revelation, though in wonder yet in

thankfulness of spirit, and you would wait in the fulness

of hope for the accomplishment of the promise. But if

the vision proceeded through incalculable time, and for ages

you had seen nothing but what, for want of better know-

ledge, seemed to you an endless prodigality of waste,

would you in your impatience be tempted to say, Surely

that bright messenger of God spoke to me in parables ;
for I see nothing, and for ages I have seen nothing, but

a constant inflexible uniformity of Nature; as for the grass

which he told me was to cover the hills, and the thousands

of cattle which were to fill the plains, all such creations

would be inconceivable, miraculous interruptions of that

Nature which for thousands of centuries I have observed

unbroken in its course. And as for the advent of that being
who is to be the lord of that new earth, " where now is the

promise of his coming, for since the beginning of the creation
all things continue as they were ? " '
204 CHARLES PRITCHARD

                 Note II.

PREFACE TO THE SERMON DELIVERED BEFORE THE
   BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT NOTTINGHAM IN 1866.

I have already remarked how profound was the impression

produced on Pritchard's mind by his early study of Butler at

the university.  It has left its trace on all his theological

writings. That the God of Nature is the God of Revelation

is the key-note, whether in undertone or in full expression, of

all his published sermons and addresses. But it is perhaps

nowhere more strikingly evident than in the preface to his

Sermon before the British Association at Nottingham in 1866.

* This discourse was written at Nottingham immediately

after the delivery of Mr (now Sir William) Grove's address
to the British Association.* Those who had the privilege of

then hearing, or who have subsequently read, Mr Grove's dis-

course, will at once perceive that his remarks on the System

of Nature suggested mine on the Scheme of Divine Revela-

tion. That eminent philosopher pointed out, with a graceful

comprehensiveness peculiarly his own, how a Law of CON-

TINUITY pervades and embraces the whole physical universe,

so far at least as our knowledge of it at present extends. There

are no gaps, no sudden leaps in nature, he observed, pro-

bably not even in the interstellar spaces themselves. Modern

discovery seems to indicate with more or less distinctiveness

that the sun and the larger planets are in their turns suc-

ceeded by smaller asteroids, and these again by swarms of

revolving meteoric or planetary dust ; the position of many of

these swarms being at least partially determined, and the

times and places when they become entangled and inflamed

in our atmosphere being accurately known. Saturn, again,

has his systems of rings of meteoric matter, and it may be

     * The late Sir William Grove was President of the British Association in the
year 1866, when the Society met at Nottingham.
THEOLOGICAL WORK  205

that the sun is surrounded by that mysterious substance from

whence proceeds the zodiacal light. All these systems of

matter moreover, are either identical in composition, or at

all events contain many terrestrial elements in common.

Naturalists also tell us that the same sort of unbroken

gradation or CONTINUITY exists in the organic world ;

species melting into species, they say, so that the further
our knowledge extends, the more difficult it is to decide

where one ends and another begins.

     ' The evidence that such is probably the constitution of the

things we see, was perhaps never more clearly and succinctly

detailed than in the discourse to which I refer. While listen-
ing to this account of the constitution of Nature, Origen's

remark, quoted by Bishop Butler, could scarcely fail to occur
to the mind of any person at all versed in theology, and it

certainly occurred to mine. Butler, indeed, for the purposes
of his treatise, somewhat narrows the scope of what that most

philosophical of ancient divines intends to imply, for the
version which he gives is this : He who believes the Scriptures
to have proceeded from the Author of Nature may well expect to

find the same sort of difficulties in them as are found in the con-
stitution of Nature* Origen's remark, however, does not
appear to be restricted to the question of difficulties alone, but

to include any and all generic relations of created things

 which may be discovered by human research. Had he
spoken in the language of our day he would probably
have said, " There is a Continuity between the Scheme of
 Nature and the Scheme of Revelation, as recorded in the

 Scriptures."

     ' In this point of view, and so far as the very restricted
limits assigned to me would permit, I have endeavoured to
 show how the great scheme of redemption may be regarded
as a grand continuation, or rather as the divine climax, of that
 system of intervention and vicarious suffering which not only

                 * Analogy, Introduction. See the original facing the Preface,
206 CHARLES PRITCHARD

pervades the natural world, but without much merciful
alleviation, that world would become a scene of hopeless
misery. Butler, as is well known, has already shown the
same thing, under the idea of Analogy, which I here present
under the thought of gradation or continuity. I then proceed

to show that faith in the Redeemer is a grand continuation

also, or rather is the divine climax of that principle of trust-
fulness in each other, which forms the very cement of the

social fabric. Lastly, I have given my reasons for represent-
ing the restoration or sanctification of man's moral character
by communion with God, as in the main a sacred extension
of that Imitative Principle acting through association, which

it has pleased God to implant in our nature for many wise
and moral purposes, and which in this case He adorns with
His especial grace.

     ' I do not pretend that there is anything essentially new
in these thoughts ; if there were, this very novelty would

have been, to me at least, a sufficient reason for a very

guarded reconsideration. But then the grouping, I believe,
is new, just as the grouping of certain acknowledged
principles in the scheme of Nature, under the term Continuity,
is new on the part of Mr Grove. I think, also, that this
mode of viewing the scheme of Revelation, as contained in
the Holy Scriptures, is not without considerable importance.
For surely it must be a matter of great interest to the
Christian student, to see how each fresh accession of human
knowledge which God has permitted (and as I think has
intended) His creatures to make, regarding the natural

world, not seldom serves also to illustrate and confirm

our faith in that scheme of divine government or dispensa-
tion which is revealed to us in the Bible. It was mainly

this consideration which induced me to select this new

topic of Continuity as the proper subject for an address
from the pulpit to the members of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science ; and I have to express
                   THEOLOGICAL WORK                   2O7

my gratitude for the patient and respectful hearing which

they gave to my remarks.

    ' It may not here be out of place to observe, that the

word Continuity is not the only philosophical term for
which we are indebted to Mr Grove. This term he has

applied to the plan of Nature throughout its known extent ;

but he has also proposed another word which groups

together the forces of Nature in a singularly happy and
expressive manner. These forces co-exist, interlace, osculate

with each other ; they are capable of evolution in a definite
manner, the one from the other. The associations of

matter with motion, light, heat, electricity, magnetism

and chemical action, are all (in the language of Mr Grove)
CORRELATED, and within prescribed limits, are interchange-
able in quality and in quantity. This CORRELATION of
the physical forces may, I think, be regarded as, upon

the whole, the most remarkable discovery since the

discussion  of the Laws of Gravitation by Newton ; and
there are
attraction  not wanting reasons to expect that even the

            of gravitation itself may be found to be a link

in the same physical chain. Now, since it is thus shown

that the Divine Governor of the universe has seen fit

to bind, in one bond of Correlation, the forces acting
in that part of His dominions which are seen ; ought we
not, in the spirit of Origen's remark, to look for a similar

Correlation between those principles or laws, which have

their proper functions in that part of the Divine Government
Ifwhich, though not seen, is revealed ?
                                         we seek for
'
                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                                       ?

                                                                                              it,
we shall find it.

For where do the laws of Providence, for instance, end,

and where do the laws of Grace begin are not both of

them phases of the same Divine loving care  Does not

the one presuppose the other? And a similar remark

holds good regarding the functions of Faith, and Hope,

and Love, and Obedience. Is not Hope the twin-sister
208 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of Faith ? And is not Obedience the daughter of Love ? *
And what becomes of Obedience when Faith is under a
cloud ? And in the great scheme of Man's redemption,
does not an apostle tells us that Justification and Sanctifi-

cation co-exist and interlace ? and may not this fact go
far to explain the interminable and sometimes unloving
discussions regarding their true origin and their distinctive

functions ?
     ' Hence the sagacious remark made by Origen some

fifteen centuries ago, like the expressions of other com-

prehensive truths, proves to be prophetic, and reaches to

us and embraces our children. And this leads me to

observe how unnecessary and how suicidal is that timidity,
not to use a stronger term, with which many religious

persons, and, I regret to add, some divines among us,
receive the successive disclosures of the constitution of

natural things, which of late years have come upon us in
thick abundance. Such timidity is unnecessary, because

each new fact, each new truth, when fairly presented to

the mind, if only it be a truth, cannot fail to become a
new illustration of Him whom they know to be The Truth,
and whom they profess to love. For my own part, and
I hope I say it with no affectation, and I am sure I say

it with no reserve, from the results of modern research,
I have gathered additional reasons for resting in the
simplicity of the ancient Christian faith, and in modern

discoveries I have found many a new and unexpected
trace of the Creator's majesty, of His power, His wisdom,
and His love. Some instances of what I mean will, it is

hoped, be found in the Sermon which follows these remarks.

May I be permitted to say, that if the progress of know-

ledge shall, on a calm and impartial review, induce theo-
logians somewhat to modify, here and there, a popular
or hasty, or merely human interpretation of one or two

                                    * See Wordsworth's ' Ode to Duty.'
                 THEOLOGICAL WORK                                 20Q

portions of the Divine Revelation, then, judging from my

own experience, I feel assured that, with this increase of
intelligent perception of the Will of God, there must be

associated the exaltation of our reverential love of His

Word.

' But it seems to me to be worth considering whether this

suspicious timidity regarding science and scientific men,
may not after all be grounded on an entire mistake. For
after all, is it true that the pursuit of science has any

inherent tendency towards religious scepticism? I would

venture to ask whether Kepler, or Newton, or Leibnitz,

or Euler, or Linnaeus, or Cuvier, were sceptics? If it

were not that obvious reasons forbid
                 I                                                could put,

                       it
                                       is, it

                                               is
                                                             it,

                                                          I
without misgiving, the same question in reference to the

great majority in the long phalanx of living men, who

are devoting God's noble gift of genius to the elucidation

of God's works.     do not say that the fashionable Agnos-

ticism of the day has not found some adherents among

men of science, as  has found many among educated

men of every class. But              pre-occupation of mind,

rather than science, which           and ever has been, the

prolific parent of scepticism and of indifference in religion.

Are not the pre-occupations of high position, the pre-

occupations of ambition, of literature, of money-getting

and of money-spending, of conceit, of sensual habits, and

even of idleness, at least as unfriendly to the hearty

acceptance of the Christian revelation, as are the pre-

occupations of scientific pursuits?  trust am not guilty
                 a
of speaking in                                                    venture to
                                          I
                                                  if I
                                                      I

                                                                                              is
                    presumptuous spirit,

remark that enormous mischief has arisen from ill-judged,

unmerited, and often very igno'rant attacks which have

been made upon the supposed tendencies of science, and

che supposed scepticism of scientific men, from the pulpit,

in religious circles, and in religious publications. It

agreeable to no man to be pointed at with the finger of

                            O
2IO CHARLES PRITCHARD

suspicion ; and men of sensitive and independent minds
will leave, and within my own knowledge have left, a

ministration of God's word, not from any original distaste

for revealed truth, but because they have found themselves,

and the at least innocent pursuits they love, made the

object of covert, and unkind, and ignorant comment. It

can be no exaggeration to say, that such an alienation of

any highly gifted and influential mind is nothing short

of a public loss, and that, therefore, the timidity in question

is suicidal.

     ( On the other hand, it cannot be doubted, and it may not

be concealed, that there is a reticence, and I wish I were

wrong in adding there is a growing reticence, observable in

the writings of some able men, which is both disappointing

and painful to religious minds. It is a reticence regarding

that Eternal Father, Who, even on principles of natural

religion alone, is the Prime Cause, and the Governor of

that universe, the frame-work of which is the object of the

researches of these thoughtful men. It may be that one

cause of this reticence the natural reaction from certain
        is
violations of good taste and propriety, which at one time
          I
                                    ;
                     I

                          I
                                           is,

                                     I it

                                                   it is
                                                             is
abounded in the (after all, well-meant) writings of second-

hand writers and religious sciolists. It may be that another

cause to be found in the fact that these great writers have

in their own minds intentionally distinguished the subjective

from the objective, separating the things of sight from the

things of faith but whatever the causes may be, the fact

remains, and as have said,      both disappointing and

painful.      will only venture to add one observation more

upon this subject, and am sure that the great writers to

whom with unfeigned respect allude, will bear me out in

the justness of the remark and                                   this; the giants of

old, who were the pioneers of modern knowledge, the

Keplers for instance, the Newtons, the Bernoullis, the

Eulers of ancient fame, had no such reticence. Why
THEOLOGICAL WORK  211

should the sons be more reticent than the fathers? In

this behest I cannot do better than conclude with a few
passages out of that magnificent Scholium with which

Newton closes the Principia, and if I give the original it

is because I despair of making or of finding a version

which could reproduce the eloquence of Newton's words :
    " Elegantissima hacce solis planetarum et cometarum corn-

pages, non nisi consilio et dominio entis intelligentis et potentis

oriri potuit. Et si stellce fix(Z sint centra similium systematum,

hcec omnia simili consilio constructa suberunt UNIUS dominio.

. . . Hie omnia regit non ut anima mundi, sed ut Univer-

sorum Dominus. Et propter dominium suum, Dominus Deus

UavroKparup did solet. Nam Deus est vox relativa, et ad servos
refertur ; et deltas est dominatio Dei, non in corpus proprium,
uti sentiunt quibus Deus est anima mundi, sed in servos. Deus

summus est ens csternum^ infinitum^ absolute perfectum. . . .

Non est <zternitas et infinitas, sed ceternus et infinitus ; non

est duratio et spatium, sed durat et adest. . . . Ut cczcus non

habet ideam colorum^ sic nos ideam non habemus modorum^
quibus Deus sapientissimus sentit et intelligit omnia. . . .

Corpore omni et figura corpored prorsus destituitur^ ideoque
videri non potest, nee audiri, nee tangi, nee sub specie rei

alicujus corporece coli debet. . . . Hunc cognoscimus solummodo

per proprietates ejus et attributa, et per sapientissimas et

optimas rerum structuras et causas finalesy et admiramur ob

perfectiones ; veneramur autem et colimus ob dominium.

Colimus enim ut servi> et Deus sine dominio^ providentid et

causzs Jinalibus nihil aliud est quamfatum et natura. A ccecd

necessitate metaphysicd, quce eadem e,st et semper et ubique,

nulla oritur rerum variatio. Tota rerum conditarum pro

locis ac temporibus diversitas, ab ideis et voluntate entis

necessario existentis solummodo oriri potuit. . . . Et hcec de

Deo, de quo utique ex pJioenomenis disserere ad philosophiam

naturalem pertine t"
     ( In the notes, I have given what appear to me valid
212 CHARLES PRITCHARD

reasons, drawn from astronomical and physical considera-

tions, why I cannot accept, to its full extent, Mr Darwin's
Theory of Natural Selection, as explaining the development

of the human eye from some greatly inferior organisation.

If the arguments are correct, they extend to other organs

also. In the strictures on this theory, I trust not a word

will be found inconsistent with that respectful admiration
which I, in common with most educated men, entertain for
the author of some of the most charming books in our lan-

guage. I hope, also, Dr Tyndall will find no just cause
for complaint in the manner of my taking exception to some
of his recent remarks on Prayer.

     'The great mental agitation on subjects connected with
Religion, for which this age is remarkable, so far from
furnishing a reasonable cause for despondency, may fairly
be viewed as a providential opportunity for learned and
high-placed divines to exhibit and enforce such new aspects
of truth as they may consider to have been overlooked. It
was in this light that Augustine habitually regarded the
controversies of his day. It is anathema, and not modera :
tion in argument, that is a sure sign either of a falling or
a weakly supported cause. In contending with an opponent,
nothing is gained by that assumption of a tone of superiority
or by that " look of offence which, though harmless in effect,
nevertheless," in the words of the greatest of ancient his-

torians,* " is troublesome and painful to those who endure it."

                                          * Thucyd., lib. ii., cap. 37.
Astronomical Work of Charles Pritchard

                                                           BY

             Professor H. H. TURNER, F.R.A.S.
                 CHAPTER I

                                      INTRODUCTORY

AN endeavour to give some account of Professor Pritchard's
astronomical career is beset with peculiar difficulty. Two
kinds of knowledge are requisite that of the biographer, and
that of the astronomer. This primary difficulty is not at
first sight an exceptional one ; the biographer of an eminent

man requires in all cases not only literary skill, but a technical
knowledge of the work which filled the life he attempts to
describe. In the case of a man of letters alone are the two
sorts of knowledge identical ; in all others the biographer
must be chosen from one of two classes, which are in too
many instances mutually exclusive fellow workers who are
well acquainted with the facts of the life and work in
question, but are not perhaps able to convey to others their
true or full meaning ; and those who could ably expound
and interpret the facts, but have not the leisure to spend
in acquiring a complete knowledge of them.

    It must be admitted that this obvious dilemma does not

often become serious in practice ; more especially in the

case of men of science, when, so long as the facts are
clearly stated, the manner of stating them may well be
further disregarded. Another worker in the same field has
generally acquired a sufficient familiarity with proper methods
of stating such facts clearly if only in publishing the results
of his own work to be a competent biographer. From this

point of view I undertook, though not without many mis-

givings, to give some account of the astronomical life of

                                                                             215
2l6 CHARLES PRITCHARD

my predecessor in the Savilian Chair at Oxford. It was not,
however, until I had begun to collect the materials, and
reflect upon them, that I saw how inapplicable was the

general principle above stated, and what an exceptional

difficulty was to be encountered. It would not be an

adequate account of Professor Pritchard's life to state clearly,
whether in technical or popular language, what pieces of
work he had accomplished. This would indeed be excep-
tionally easy in his case owing to his manner of work his
method of rounding off and completing a definite research,

and leaving no straggling ends to be gathered together after
his death.

     Possibly this methodical habit may have been partly
a result of his beginning his professional career as an

astronomer at the age of sixty-two it was more of a possibility
to him than to younger men that each new undertaking
might be his last, and this may have made him more careful

to arrange for its completion in a limited time.
     But these researches, important as they are in themselves,

and admirable as the work of so old a man, must after all
be accorded only a secondary importance. The pictures of
Pritchard as a man of method, who added three or four
well-shaped stones to the astronomical tower, and even of
Pritchard as a veteran of youthful vigour, accomplishing
more than men half a century younger, must be subordinated

to that of Pritchard as a pioneer. It is not, after all, what

he accomplished that should be here clearly stated ; but what
he was among men that should be depicted with the artist's

skill. His labelled achievements and his astronomical life
his works and his work, if the quip may pass are so distinct.
They are separated, with but little straining of the facts, by
an actual date, that of the building of the Oxford University
Observatory in 1874. All his important researches (labelled

 as his, though he was ever the first to acknowledge what was

due to his assistants, Mr Plummer and Mr Jenkins : he was
                           INTRODUCTORY  217

 the architect, they the builders) were subsequent to thisit,
 date ; but his position as an astronomer may be said to have   a

 culminated just before when, after passing the Presidential                      it
 Chair of the Royal Astronomical Society, and being elected
 Savilian Professor at Oxford, he persuaded the University toit

 spend a large sum on an observatory at time when the;

isscience was being more and more neglected in the sister;
 University the home of Newton and Adams.
                        ;           a
     A summary of Professor Pritchard's scientific work of the
                           a
 usual pattern would thus deal almost entirely with the period
;
subsequent to 1874. If reference were made to earlier years,

 would perhaps be chiefly to express surprise that one who

 ultimately showed himself to be capable of accomplishing
 so much, should have left little on record during so long.
 But from the other point of view when we consider Professor

 Pritchard's relations to his fellow workers, and to the history
of astronomy the very meagreness of the record becomes of
 importance. How was that a man of few actual achieve-
ments enjoyed so full a measure of the confidence of his

 fellow men? a confidence in no sense misplaced, as the

 result abundantly proved but derived almost entirely (as
remarked above) from what he was as contrasted with what
he did.

     It easy to remark briefly that Professor Pritchard was

throughout his life a man of the most liberal sympathies

that whether as a schoolmaster, divine, or an astronomer,

his interests in enterprise and in the advance of learning were
of the keenest and that his place, ever among the pioneers,
gave him his prominence and distinction. But to give an
adequate account of a life of this kind obviously requires the
technical skill far more of biographer than of an astronomer.
The readers of this volume have presented to them in another

section the position occupied by Professor Pritchard as a
divine the same skill might well have been brought to the
task of portraying his astronomical life. The central motive
2l8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

is indeed the same in both ; the never-failing freshness and

vigour of thought and action, which waxed rather than waned

with the advance of old age. In their later years, most men

acquire a gentle conservativism in their habits and ideas ;

Professor Pritchard was just as ready a few years before his

death to enter upon a completely new astronomical enterprise

in the mapping of the heavens by the new methods of photo-

graphy, as he was to examine the foundations of the Christian

Faith.

It seems to me, therefore, that I may be allowed a few

words of apology for undertaking the present task. Until it
was undertaken, I did not realise how hopeless would appear,

on nearer view, the attempt to sketch this career, especially in

                                          it,

                                                             ;

                                                            it
the earlier portion. Having undertaken    however, only

remains to make the attempt as best one can this lesson,

at least, thoroughly taught by the study of the life before
J. I

        is

                                       ;
us. must gratefully acknowledge the help given by Sir

W. Herschel, who has very kindly entrusted me with a

series of letters from Professor Pritchard to his father (Sir
John Herschel) to Dr W. Huggins, who has similarly
allowed me the use of letters received by him and of Miss
                                                ;

Ada Pritchard, who has assisted in ways too numerous to

mention.

It disappointing to find that so few letters remain or
        is

              ;

                              is

                         if
can be deciphered. Letters, which can so often be left to

speak for themselves, are especially valuable in the present

instance but in many of the press copies which have been

preserved the ink so faded that the writing quite illegible.
                                              is
It would be well                          those who have charge of old letters,
                                                 I
and especially of old copies of letters, could find the leisure to

examine them at intervals, and have re-copied such as were

fading, but worthy of preservation. The old copying ink of

fifty years ago does not seem to be permanent.      remember

noticing that many of the letters copied at the Royal

Observatory, Greenwich, show the same signs of fading.
                  CHAPTER I I

  ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER

A SERIES of letters to Sir John Herschel, the replies to which

have unfortunately not been preserved, affords almost the

only recoverable information concerning Mr Pritchard's
scientific life at Clapham in the earlier years. The first letter
does not touch on astronomical points, but is of general
interest. It indicates that the correspondence arose partly
in the exchange of letters concerning a son of Sir John's (now
Professor Alexander Herschel) who was at the famous Clap-
ham Grammar School under Mr Pritchard's care ; and partly

in a common interest in some novel experiments which were

at the time being made by Mr Gassiot one of those wealthy
amateurs who have done so much for science. The letters

are not dated, but a hypothetical date has been supplied.

                                                                                       'CLAPHAM,
                                                                                          ' Tuesday

     ( DEAR SIR JOHN, The day you mention is perfectly

convenient to me and to Mr Gassiot. I propose, if quite

agreeable to you, that you should reach my house on
Monday next, a few minutes before six. We will then take

a little refreshment and adjourn to Mr Gassiot's, where, I
expect, we shall meet Faraday ; at least, this is not improb-
able. I can very conveniently give you a bed on Monday
evening, which very possibly will be more convenient to you

than moving late in the evening.

   If* there is any particular experiment which you would like

                                                                   219
220 CHARLES PRITCHARD

to see, Mr Gassiot and myself will, with the greatest pleasure,

endeavour to arrange it.

  <Apropos of experiments, I hardly know whether you are

aware that Frauenhofer's lines are (many of them) visible
through an indifferent prism without a telescope or dark

room. I have seen 3 of them with a piece of glass off a

lustre in my drawing-room with the shutters open.

    ' I am rejoiced to say your little boy's health has been upon
the whole very satisfactory, and I think his progress hopeful.'

    The next letter (dated merely July i8th, probably in 1848-
50) refers to the purchase of an equatorial, and is interesting

as showing the state of practical optics at the time. The
price of a five-inch object-glass is now given in an instrument
maker's catalogue as about 25. Mr Pritchard writes fifty

years ago : * I have received from Munich an object-glass
47/10 in. clear aperture which I have covenanted not to pay
for unless it is pronounced by Mr Dawes quite first-rate
(cost .40). So I shall hope. I presume it ought to

separate Cancri (distance i"'2) or Bootis. But what im-
presses me is the difficulty there seems to exist in getting

an optician to try his instrument before he sends it away.'

    A few years later he begins to wish for a larger object-

glass, and shows an inclination to attack resolutely the
practical problems of optics, to which later on he devoted
much labour. We do not, however, hear any more of this

project at the time, though the subject is recurred to later.

Only one letter written to Sir John Herschel during the next
seven years has been preserved probably there were no
others of importance and this gives the briefest possible
account of a visit to Rome in 1855. We will therefore pass
on to three letters relating to the Total Solar Eclipse of iSth
July 1860, which attracted so many observers, and Mr
Pritchard among the number, to Spain. The event has
taken its place in history as the occasion of the first successful
*ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 221
                 '
application of the photographic method to the representation
                    it,of the chromosphere and inner corona ; and fully to under-
stand the letters and Mr Pritchard's enterprise we must
                                                       *recall, in some detail, the circumstances of this eclipse, which
the rapid advance of photography, rather than the mere
                                                                    ismarch of time, has rendered so unfamiliar.
                                                                       is
     On the occasion of a total solar eclipse, when the dark
;body of the moon has advanced over the bright disc of the
sun, and completely covered there flash into view portions
         itof the sun which are never seen by inhabitants of this earth
except on these occasions. The corona, which has been
compared to the glory round the head of a saint, seen
stretching in all directions from the black central disc of
the moon, and close to this black disc reddish flames of
very irregular shape are seen. We now know that these

appearances, the glory and the red flames,' the corona
and the prominences, are parts of the sun, and form the

permanent solar atmosphere, and that we only see them

during total solar eclipses, because on other occasions the
enormously more powerful light from the body of the sun
obliterates all traces of them. We have further learnt to

detect the prominences by the spectroscope when there
no eclipse, and hopes are entertained of ultimately photo-
graphing the corona without an eclipse. But in 1860 all

that was known with certainty of these appearances was that
they occurred during total solar eclipses; whether they
represented real envelopes of either sun or moon, or were
of the nature of optical illusions (were due, for instance, to
the refraction of the sun's light by a lunar atmosphere), was
not certainly known. The prevailing opinion was that both

flames and corona belonged to the sun, and had a real
existence but was only an opinion, not an established
fact. We cannot do better than glance at the evidence for
the character of the red flames as summed up in Grant's

History of Physical Astronomy, published in 1852. Grant
222 CHARLES PRITCHARD

shows, in the clearest manner, how it was surmised, but not
proved, that these prominences belong to the sun. [His
further speculations as to the real nature of these 'red
flames' which we now know to be portions of a solar
envelope, and to consist of incandescent hydrogen or metals

   have been swept away by the spectroscope, and are now
only valuable as indicating the precarious nature of the
conclusions arrived at in 1852.] These conclusions had not
been seriously modified in 1860, for there had been no
opportunity of revising them, no total eclipse of importance
having occurred meanwhile. And while the question whether
or not the red prominences belonged to the sun still awaited
its final solution, a new question of a totally different kind
had arisen in the supposed though, as we now know, unreal
discovery of a new inner planet, revolving between the sun
and Mercury, for which the name of Vulcan had been
proposed, and which it was reasonably expected might,
though generally lost in the sun's rays, become visible in
the semi-darkness of an eclipse. The total eclipse of 1860
was visible from Spain, and thus specially easy of access.
Seeing what important questions were awaiting settlement,
we can well imagine with what eagerness observers flocked
to the points favourable for observation. The three letters
to Sir John Herschel, describing Mr Pritchard's share in this
enterprise, run as follows :

                                                                                         CLAPHAM,
                                                                            'June 23^, 1860.

    6 DEAR SIR JOHN HERSCHEL, May I venture to ask
your opinion and counsel regarding the eclipse. Your
opinion on the what and the how of what I propose, and
suggestions regarding what I may have omitted.

    ' i. I take the means of ascertaining latitude and longi-

tude and time, viz., 2 chronometers, and a small altazimuth.

    1 2. A telescope (good) 3^ aperture, 46 in. focal length :
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 223

mounted on a very firm tripod, so as to have a polar motion

adjustable to any latitude.
     ' The eye-piece is a diagonal of glass one half polished

glass, the other half polished silver (deposited by De La Rue),
and capable of easy sliding when the totality comes on.

    ' There is a fixed wire micrometer (a diagram is given of
seven vertical and seven horizontal wires, of which four, the

second and sixth of each pair, are thicker than the others,

and form a square ; see p. 228). The thick square holds the
moon at Vittoria, and is 0*45 in. The powers are 30 and 40.

     ' My object is to ascertain the time and place of first

contact, and the time and place and motion (if any) of some

one prominent rose-flame.

    ' As this power is low, I propose to adjust a very light

telescope of 2*25 in. aperature. with a power of 120 on the
other larger telescope, with the view of seeing the form and

details of the flames better.
     ' This is my work. Only is it worth while to adapt any

polarising matter to the little finder to see if the red flames
are polarised ? And if so, what is the nature of the observa-

tion ? Is it simply a double refracting prism, and to observe
any difference of intensity in the two images ?

     ' My assistant takes a dry and wet bulb thermometer, a

minm. thermometer and a black bulb in vacuo, a barometer
and an actinometer. His work is the actinometer. An-
other assistant will be charged with thermometers and

barometer.

     ' My two friends, men of great intelligence, will be charged
with observing general phenomena with the eye or a good
opera-glass. The queries being written down beforehand.'

     (The remainder of the letter refers to other matters.)

MY DEAR SIR JOHN,                                      ' CLAPHAM,

                                              'July 28/, 1860.
                   I venture to send you a diagram,
224 CHARLES PRITCHARD

rough enough, to give you some idea of the eclipse as seen by

me and my assistants (see p. 227). Of its general accuracy I

feel confident, and you will judge on what grounds.

     ' The assistants were railway engineers employed by the

contractor in the construction of the works. I gave them a

lecture on the phenomena to be expected, and on the mode

of observing. Each selected his own work, and erected a

plumb line over Sun's centre, and calling the vertex 12 o'clock

and so on round the imaginary dial. My own work was

the telescope with the shifting glass diagonal, half of polished

deposited silver and a beautiful compound wedge (parallel-

epiped) of neutral tint (Dollond), all working most admirably.
So my image was the queer sort of inversion you can under-

stand. Upon putting my observations side by side with those

made by the eye and smoked glass, the coincidence was most

satisfactory. There were three spots on the sun, one about 3'
long, the other two scarcely but so sharp were their practised
eyes that they brought me the correct time of passage of the
                              is ! i',
moon over the three spots
                                    is
'''' *    The diagram send you as seen by me in my diagonal
                   is I
eye-piece. The following a succinct account
                          is                is
          The thick circle the sun.                              :

          N the north inverted to my vision.

          EW the direction of (diurnal) motion as seen by me.

          The thin black circle the moon at the commencementis

of totality. The thin dotted circle           the end of the

totality.

' ' ' '*  The following are results  :

      The corona was distinctly seen before totality, and after
the sun's reappearance, all agree.

          Venus and Jupiter for from 10 minutes to 20 minutes

before and after.

          The brightest part was about broad, little more and
                                        2'
                                                        a

                                                                                               ;

then shaded off indefinitely.

          The disappearance of the sun and its reappearance were
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 225

both undulating or beaded (but not interrupted). Of this I

have no doubt . . . my focus was exact.

    ' Unfortunately my eye first caught the prominence (a). I

observed it for perhaps a minute, but perceiving no change

...of form or position I looked round the corona and then saw

(j8). (5) was at first a dull white, then pale rose ; pre-

sently I saw (y) and (3) assuredly not there at the first.
Finally, at the reappearance of the sun I just saw a very

bright point at the tip of (/3).
     ' Put these observations together, and you cannot doubt

the motion of the moon gradually disclosing or covering the

prominences.

* No prominence much exceeded 2 ' in height ; the colours

were pale and unequal.

    * A telescope is a bad tool to observe the eclipse with ;

hence I did not see the fasciculi A, B, C, D, but they were
observed by three independent observers who " minded their
plumb line " in accordance with the directions written on the

head of each paper of instructions.

     ' These bundles of rays in the midst of light diffused among
them, extended some half or more of the sun's diameter.

    'Throughout the eclipse I kept my eye on enormous

faculae nigh to the sun's edge, but no prominence or fasciculi

appeared there.

'Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Saturn, Procyon, a Hydrse,

Regulus and another star were seen.

' Shadows of trees unearthly.

' The light on the under part of clouds capping a moun-

tain in N.E. light sunset on Savoy Mountains ! The upper

part leaden and ominous.

' Two small birds in their terror caught.
' Sheep dispersed centrifugally.

...' Horses looked up and then grazed.  eat it ! "
' " I offered a dog a crust, and he

                 ( Vide a report of assistant.)

                                        P
226 CHARLES PRITCHARD

     ' The smallest print in the Times legible, after rubbing the
eyes to get rid of the remains of green sunlight.

     ' My secretary wrote and read easily during totality with-

out lamp. But the small Times print I now send you was

best * visible when held away from sun and facing the clouds

in the N.E. (illuminated by the corona ?).
     ' The black bulb in vacuo fell 50. 7 Far. during totality,

the Spaniards stuffing themselves in the heather to get
warm.

    ' A singular stereoscopic effect was observed by four or five

of the engineers.
     * The moon hung as it were in space space between it

and the corona unquestionable.

    ' And now comes a matter which puzzles me much.'

     ' 52m. after the appulse, from the S. cusp P., absolutelyit,

from the apex, I observed a decided " bright" line PQ slightly
inclined to the wire EW, and on each side of it suffused light.
I shouted out, " Oh, that I could draw this." It continued
from 2h. 34m. to 2h. 5im., latterly feeble. It could hardly
be eye water on the neutral tint wedges, for I shifted it about

from time to time, and the effect was too definite and decided

and persistent. The suffused light on the moon was ob-

served by others (? corona light). Captain Jacob did not
see but had seen something like on former occasion.

       What think you of
              it

                   ?

                                it

                                             a

        think have now told you all or the main. Comments
' *I
        aI

           I
from you shall greatly esteem or queries.

   My position on the wild height 2170 feet was magnificent

indeed  table land with mountains, rocks, villages, bold

escarpments and valleys, etc.

'  Weather abominable, like Lancashire or Borrodale.

                                                            I

saw the stars once, and one sunny day in seven. Thermo-

        * Query least or best; the MS. not clear. H. H. T.
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 22/
meter 91 in the shade, and next day 58 at maximum, actino-
meter useless, but rain gauge or mist gauge in requisition.
The railway experience is 15 per cent, under average for
work. Vignolles caught in a cloud, and Whewell but little
better. He does not like to say so.

     ' Please send back the print from the Times!

    PQ the bright line . . . and diffused light over the moon . . . 52m. after the

first appulse.

    D the broadest fasculus of rays from corona.

     C the longest.

  ...5 much like a mitre.

  ...^3 the last seen of this was a bright spot just at emergence of sun.

                                                                                      * CLAPHAM,

                                                             'July 3U/ (1860 ?)

    'DEAR SIR JOHN, For your letter, thanks ; but I did not

receive the small print of the Times.
     ' When you see our meteorological journal you will see how

utterly impossible actinometer observations were except on
228 CHARLES PRITCHARD

one day when two or three series were taken, and then the
instrument broke down from heat and leakage, but we

mended it. The star I did not mention was not Vulcan, but
a fixed star set down in the R. Ast. diagram.

    1 Of the correct (approx) places of the four prominences,
there does not admit a doubt, because I dictated to my
assistant what I saw and in the order I saw my telescope
inverted, about the declination parallel in the centre of my

field and was equatoreal.
     ' Whereas my engineer assistants saw with the naked eye,

plumb line and imaginary clock face micrometer.

    * My micrometer was arranged thus :

              6,1 6,2 6,3 6,4 6,5 6,6

              5,1 5,2 5,3 5,4 5,5 5,6

              4,1 4,2       4,3 4,4     4,5 4,6

                                                             w

              3,1 3,2 3,3 3,4 3,5 3,6

              2,1 2,2 2,3 2,4 2,5 2,6

              1,1 1,2 1,3 1,4 1,5 1,6

' I dictated the squares thus numbered, and they (i.e.,

prominences so marked) entirely agreed with the places as

marked by the engineers on the clock face hours.

* Curiously enough, when I got to Vittoria Captain Jacob
       " Did                                              "
said,         you see  the  prominence  like  a  mitre       On my
                                                        ?

referring to the engineer's drawing, his diagram could not be

mistaken for anything else but a mitre ! / / I should add my
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 22Q

assistants observed on a hill a mile from me (to divide the
crowd of spectators).

     ' The stereoscopic effect was, to the vision of many beyond
a doubt, " black ball suspended in space in front of the

corona."

' Could my bright line be a part of the fasciculi of rays

from corona?

' M, Foucault considered that he saw corona light half an

hour before totality ; so said he to me in Paris.

* I don't vouch for the absolute shapes of the prominences

except the mitre ; their places, I do. One was described to me

as J agged and toothed and reaching from " 12" nearly all the
way to " i." Yours ever sincerely,
                                    C. PRITCHARD.'

     We gather immediately from these letters that the;

writer prepared for himself a simple and definite programmeis,
                  a;
before his expedition ; that he was favoured with fine weather

at the critical moment, and carried out his programme ; and

thereby ascertained a definite fact, which added to our
knowledge of the sun altogether a most successful * eclipse

expedition ' in every way. And yet I can nowhere find any-
published account of these observations, which are appar-
ently here printed for the first time.

     The fact the observations were rather thrown into the

shade by the more complete demonstration obtained photo-
graphically, and hence were not put forward. Had the photo-

graphic method failed, however, they might have become

historical.

    A careful report of nineteen pages (folio) of MS. was

written out, to which was appended the report of his assistant,
Mr Vincent Fasel and these MSS. were preserved. They
have recently been presented by the family of the late
Professor Pritchard to the library of the Royal Astronomical
Society as also book of letters, sketches and photographs
relating to the eclipse, collected by Mr Joseph Bonomi, who
230 CHARLES PRITCHARD

was also a member of the expedition. These MSS. were
apparently sent to Sir G. B. Airy to assist in the preparation
of his general account of the Himalayan Expedition (Mon.
Not. R.A.S., xxi. pp. 1-16), but are not therein referred to,
and were never published. There is no reference to them in
Mr Ranyard's Eclipse Volume (Mem. R.A.S., Vol. xli.).

    But at the risk of being tedious I should like to draw
particular attention to these observations of Mr Pritchard.

He knew that there would be many observers, and he

chose a very modest programme, but a thoroughly good
and important one. His chief object was to 'obtain the
time and place and motion (if any) of some one pro-
minent rose-flame/ and thus obtain a definite piece of
evidence as to the character of these objects. He succeeded
in noting the behaviour of several prominences, and was
satisfied immediately that the ' motion of the moon gradually
disclosing or covering the prominences ' could not be doubted ;
and that the prominences were of solar origin.

     This fact was established much more completely by the

photographs taken by that distinguished amateur astronomer,
Warren De la Rue. He obtained two successful pictures

during totality, agreeing in all details except for the advanc-
ing disc of the moon ; and thus Mr Pritchard's observations

were thrown into the shade. Recognising this fact, he did
not publish them ; and the only published reference I can

find to his eclipse visit is a sentence in the Bakerian lecture
given by De la Rue in 1862 on this total eclipse, which reads

as follows (Phil. Trans., 1862, p. 357) :
     1 The time I could spare was far too short for any exact

observation of the corona ; however, I know that Mr Pritchard^
Mr Qom> Mr Bonomi and other observers intended to make

special delineations and measurements of that phenomenon/
     Even this sentence does not agree with Mr Pritchard's

letters, for the references to the corona are meagre. ' It was

distinctly seen before totality and after the sun's reappearance,
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 231

all agree. The brightest part was about two minutes broad,
a little more, and then shaded off indefinitely ; ' and of course

there were the drawings which were made by the engineers
who ' minded their plumb line.' The corona did not ap-
parently attract much attention in 1860. Its time was not

yet.

     Some of the minor observations recorded by Mr Pritchard
are of considerable interest, especially the ' matter which

puzzles me much/ viz., the bright ray from the cusp some
time before totality. Similar observations are rare, but not
unknown. In the Eclipse Volume (Mem. R.A.S., Vol. xli.)

above mentioned, Chapter XL is devoted to the discussion of

them. At this same eclipse Mr Buckingham saw a brush at

the same cusp, but at 2h. 58m., six or seven minutes
after it had disappeared to Mr Pritchard. Captain Jacob
records ' long coloured rays issuing from the thin crescent
of the sun ' at 2h. 46m. Others saw brushes after
totality. No good explanation has yet been given of these

appearances.

     I dwell at some length on these observations of the eclipse,
partly because of their general interest, and partly because
they seem to me thoroughly characteristic of Mr Pritchard.
The undertaking was very definite, and originated with him-
self; but he took pains to get advice from the best authority
he knew. Unfortunately Sir John Herschel's reply is lost to
us. Further considerable ingenuity in devising instruments
suitable for the purpose is manifested. The plumb line for
the unskilled assistants, with the imaginary clock face, was
admirably suited both to occasion and persons. The cross
reticule with a simple enumeration of the squares was an
excellent method of rapidly estimating the positions of
prominences. There is no time to waste at a total solar

eclipse. Such ingenuity was afterwards shown in the de-
vising of the wedge photometer and in other ways. Finally
we may perhaps say that the successful issue of the enter-
232 CHARLES PRITCHARD

prise was characteristic, though this point obviously cannot
be pressed, in view of the important part played by the

weather.

     After these eclipse letters, there is no other of importance
written to Sir John Herschel until 1863, when Mr Pritchard
was secretary of the Royal Astronomical Society. His as-

tronomical activity entered on a new phase about 1860. We

may perhaps date the change from 1859, when he was elected

on the council. With his election to the Secretariat it became
marked. It will be convenient, therefore, to conclude here the
 ccount of his earlier years before proceeding to the time
when he was in full work for the society. The astronomical
records of this first portion of his life are scanty, and the work
done was not generally considered worthy of publication ; but

the few letters quoted show quite sufficiently the scientific
enthusiasm and ability of the writer.

    The printed record of these years is not, however, entirely
barren. In the year 1853 Mr Pritchard contributed to the
Monthly Notices * of the Royal Astronomical Society a paper
' On an improved method of using mercury in observations by
reflexion/ in which he suggests the use of an amalgamated
copper trough of special form for ' artificial horizons.' A
considerable number of experiments leading up to the con-
struction of the best form had been made, and are detailed

with admirable clearness in twenty numbered paragraphs.
Troughs of amalgamated copper, as suggested by Mr Prit-

chard in 1857, are now in use at the Royal Observatory,
Greenwich; but they were not introduced until 1888, when
the French officers who were co-operating in the determina-
tion of the Paris-Greenwich longitude pointed out their ad-

vantages.

    A more important paper, which was in 1857 printed in the

Memoirs of the Society, * represents a laborious piece of cal-

culation undertaken in the interests rather of chronology

* Vol. xiii., p. 6 1.  t Mem. R.A.S., Vol. xxv.
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 233

than of astronomy. Its object was the correction of an error

' which appeared to be gradually increasing in prevalence and

importance ; ' namely, a mistaken attempt to explain the Star
of Bethlehem in terms of well-known astronomical pheno-

mena. In a German work entitled Handbuch der Mathe-

matischen und Technischen Chronologic, the celebrated Dr

Ideler had discussed the theory that certain conjunctions of

the planets Jupiter and Saturn fulfilled the conditions and

phenomena recorded of this star. He had come to the con-

clusion that, of three conjunctions which occurred in the year

B.C. 7, the first was of a nature sufficient to arouse the

attention of the Magi and send them on their errand to

Jerusalem, and that the last of the three conjunctions was

so close that to weak eyes the discs of the two planets might
appear diffused into one ; ' and would satisfy, moreover, the

condition of being in a proper position at sunset to conduct

the Magi from Jerusalem to Bethlehem.

    It remains to add that, though such conjunctions are of

common occurrence, great importance was attached to them

by astrologers ; and this importance would be much enhanced

if the conjunction were triple as above, or very close, the

planets not being far north or south of one another. It is

certain that a triple conjunction, with the further addition that

one of the approaches was very close, would have caused the

greatest excitement among astrologers at the time; and, if it

could be shown to have taken place near the time of the

Nativity, might be connected with the Star of the Magi not
unreasonably. It at least appeared to Mr Pritchard 'very

desirable that the astronomical part of the question should,

if possible, be once for  all  set  at  rest    '  and  with this view  he
                                              ;

undertook the computations of the places of the planets for

the year B.C. 7. He found that, so far as the fact of there
having been three conjunctions during the year, Dr Ideler's

statement was confirmed ; but the dates assigned to the con-
junctions by him were not correct; and still less was it true
234 CHARLES PRITCHARD

that any such proximity occurred as to make it possible that

the planets could, to any observer, have presented the appear-

ance of a single star. The hope of settling the true date of

the Nativity by this method must therefore be definitely

abandoned. The result is a negative one, but thoroughly

worthy of attainment, and eminently suited to Mr Pritchard's

skill and sympathies.

Another research undertaken somewhat later, may be con-

veniently considered here, though slightly out of chronological

order. For some years Pritchard worked hard at the theory
of the object-glass, under the impression, which he ultimately

found to be a mistaken one, that he could materially assist

the practical optician by constructing elaborate tables of the

proper curvatures for the surfaces. An achromatic object-
glass is made up of two lenses, one of flint glass and the
other of crown glass, each of which has two surfaces, which

must be ground to definite shapes (depending on the par-

ticular kinds of glass selected for use) with the utmost nicety
if the image is to be sharply defined and free from colour.

How is this nicety to be attained ? The conception of the

difficulties formed by Pritchard (and by others both before

and after him) was a numerical one. He thought that if the

proper dimensions were once expressed in figures very ac-

curately, the optician, who might otherwise have shirked the

labour of obtaining these figures, would then be able to work

to them, and produce a good result with certainty. He knew

that, as a matter of fact, the method in use by the practical

optician was to start with approximate figures only, and

make the lenses in the rough, so to speak, correcting them

afterwards by rules of thumb which were the outcome of

practical experience ; and he thought that this apparently rude

process could and should be superseded by giving the optician

accurate data to commence with. Many others have made

the same mistake (for mistake it as Pritchard found after
                        it
                            is

                                              is,
some years' work), and  not easy to make clear the reasons
ASTRONOMICAL WORK AT CLAPHAM AND FRESHWATER 235

why it is so. In the first place, the above statement of the

optician's method of work is in many ways unjust to him.

The work of a sculptor might be described in the same way

as a rough-and-ready process compared with that of accu-

rately measuring all the dimensions of the model, and fashion-

ing those of the statue to correspond. The work of the

          in fact, as has often been remarked, that of an
optician  is,
                                                      is
                                                               a
artist, and must always remain so. A few figures are useful

to him, as to the sculptor, but there                             point beyond which

he cannot work by means of figures. A particular instance

of the way in which figures cease to be useful to him may

suffice. The theoretical conditions for an object-glass tell

him that the radius of curvature of one of the surfaces should

be 39.36 inches. He has in stock a grinding tool of radius
38 inches, but none nearer the required radius than this. Is
he to be at the expense of making a new tool for this one

particular surface? No he knows that the object-glass be
          is
                                                      ;

                                                 is

                                                      it

                                                  if
                                                    I
made with this (theoretically) erroneous surface he can, by

slight modifications in other surfaces, over which his art gives

him command, produce as good a result as though he had

been at the expense of a new tool.

This      only one out of several good sound practical

reasons why figures cannot help the practical optician beyond

a certain point. The subject a most interesting one, and

deserving of a fuller treatment than has yet received in

print, though more cannot be said here.                           do not know

whether even yet the mathematicians and the makers of

object-glasses can be said to have arrived at a clear under-

standing of one another; and certainly the list of those

mathematicians who have more or less failed to appreciate

the methods of the practical optician includes many great

names, such as those of Herschel and Airy.
             CHAPTER III

  OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY

THE Astronomical Society came into existence on Wednes-
day,* January 12, 1820, and obtained the royal charter in 1831,
when Sir James South was president. From the very
first the movement was most successful. The meetings and
proceedings quickly assumed a definite form, which for many

years has remained substantially the same. Meetings are
held on the second Friday of each of the months, November to

June inclusive. At all these, excepting that of February, the

chief business is the reading of papers on astronomical
subjects, followed in most cases by a keen discussion of the
points of interest raised. This keen discussion at the ordinary
meetings is perhaps the most distinctive feature of the society.

     The meeting in February is an annual general' meeting,
when the treasurer presents his yearly accounts, the secre-
taries read a report on the affairs of the society, and on the
progress of astronomy during the year, and the gold medal
of the society is presented to some distinguished astronomer
for reasons which are expounded in an address by the presi-
dent. In the early years medals (both gold and silver) were
 awarded more freely ; but in 1831 it was decided that not
 more than one gold medal should be awarded in any one
 year, and sometimes there is no award.

     It will be seen that the officers of such a society hold no

 sinecures. The preparations of the presidential address and

       * The usual meeting day is now Friday, but apparently this inauspicious day
  was not that of the first meeting.

                                                                      236
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 237

of the annual report on the progress of astronomy are pieces
of work on which the greatest English astronomers have
expended their labour and skill. The ' instructive eloquence,
masterly arrangement, and comprehensiveness of view' which
distinguished the presidential addresses of Sir John Herschel,
have been extolled by Pritchard himself, who cites par-

ticularly the glowing and impressive speech delivered at the
presentation of the medal to Francis Baily on the completion
of what might well have seemed a dull and prosaic piece
of work; viz.: the society's catalogue of stars. And it
would certainly be difficult to find a better illustration of
the demands made upon a president on the occasion of the
award of a gold medal, and of their successful satisfaction.

     Demands of the same nature are, in a lesser degree,
made upon the writers of the annual report, especially
in those portions of it where tributes are paid to the memory
of deceased Fellows. Other portions of the report involve
considerable research, and a careful exercise of judgment in

assigning the proper credit to workers in the same field whose

claims are often to some extent conflicting. A paragraph of

a few lines, which a reader of the report might suppose to
be the work of a few minutes, may often represent hours of
careful study and deliberation. And this is perhaps enough
for our present purpose concerning the work of officers of the

Royal Astronomical Society. It should however be added

that the keen interest which at the ordinary meetings takes
the form of frequent and animated discussion, and which is

typified in the care bestowed on the president's address and
the annual report, extends also to the meetings of council, and
all else connected with the society. The attendance at the
council meetings is always large, and it is by no means a rare

occurrence for the whole council to assemble. A seat on the

council is estimated highly, and there is often a brisk contest

at election times.
     Pritchard, who had been elected on the council in 1859,
 238 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 was made a vice-president of the society in 1860, when Robert
 Main was president ; and after being appointed secretary
 in 1862, was elected president in 1866. The years from
 1862 to 1868, during which he was secretary and president,
 are thus those of Pritchard's most important work in the

 society.
      The topics which were then engaging the attention of the

 society were not all suited for the discussion to which we

have already called attention as forming the chief feature of
the meetings. Thus the work of Adams on the secular
acceleration of the moon's mean motion, splendid though it

was, could not be discussed save by a few mathematicians.

His work on the November meteors was more nearly related
to a topic of popular interest. The great shower of 1866 had

been watched by numerous observers, who all had something
to say at the next meeting. The spectroscopic work of
Huggins and Miller, again, was well suited for comment at a

meeting, though such comments naturally took the form of

inquiries at a time when spectroscopes were possessed by
few. But as a topic for discussion, the solar surface was
perhaps the favourite. The results obtained at the Total

Solar Eclipse of 1860 were still fresh, and De la Rue, who
obtained them, was the chief figure in the society. The
Indian Eclipse of 1868 was being eagerly looked forward to
as an opportunity of trying the photographic method under
more favourable conditions. De la Rue meanwhile was
working hard and successfully at the photography of the sun
(as well as the moon); Carrington had completed (in 1863)
his great work on solar spots; and a number of observers
(Dawes, Hewlett, Fletcher and others) were making a special
study of the sun. We can thus readily understand that a
question of fact as to the appearance of the solar surface

aroused the greatest interest, and was discussed with some
warmth at more than one meeting. The letters of Pritchard

to Sir John Herschel faithfully reflect the spirit of the times,
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 239

for after a long silence following the letters on the eclipse of

1860 he renews the correspondence on the subject of 'willow-

leaves/ The question of fact was as follows. The surface of

the sun, when viewed through a telescope, does not appear

uniformly bright, but mottled, or porous. Sir W. Herschel

had noticed this in 1799. 'The whole disc,' he says, 'is
strongly indented.' Again, ' The whole disc is very much

marked with roughness like an orange. Some of the lowest

parts of the inequalities are blackish.' ' The indentations are

very uniform, but not round. It seems they admit of every

possible shape.' (M. N., xxiv., p. 60.)
     Now Nasmyth claimed to have made an important step

in the explanation of this appearance. He declared that

scattered over the surface were numerous solid bodies in

shape like * willow-leaves  '     that  these were uniform  in size,
                               ;

but oriented in any direction indifferently, and that the inter-

stices between them, through which the dark body of the sun

showed, gave rise to the mottled appearance of the surface.

Other observers, however, generally failed to recognise these

willow-leaves, until the occasion to which we shall immedi-

ately refer. Some confirmation of a doubtful character was

forthcoming. In the president's address on presenting the

gold medal to De la Rue in February 1862, there occurs the

following sentence :

' More recently still, photographic pictures of the sun

have been obtained by Mr De la Rue, not only exhibiting its

well-known mottled appearance, but showing traces of Mr

Nasmyth's " willow-leaves." '

There is evidence, however, that Mr Nasmyth's observa-

tion was not generally accepted. He himself attributed this

lack of confirmation by others to the bad conditions, instru-

mental or atmospheric, under which they worked. ' In order

to obtain a satisfactory view of these remarkable objects, it

is not only requisite to employ a telescope of very consider-

able power and perfection of defining capability, but also to
240 CHARLES PRITCHARD

make the observation at a time when the atmosphere is
nearly quite tranquil and free from those vibrations which
so frequently interpose most provoking interruptions to the

efforts of the observer; without such conditions as I allude to,
it is hopeless to catch even a glimpse of these remarkable and
delicate details of the solar surface/ (M. N., xxiv., p. 66.)

    At this point we may allow the letters of Pritchard
to Sir John Herschel to take up the thread of the

story. The first letter of 1863, October, was probably
in reply to an inquiry by Sir John Herschel as to some-
thing which had already appeared either in a letter or
in print.

                                              ' HURST HILL, FRESHWATER., I.W.,
                                                                     'Oct. igfti, 1863.

     1 DEAR SIR JOHN, The apparition of the " willow-leaves "
was as follows :

    ' Mr De la Rue was in my observatory at Clapham, looking
through a telescope of Cooke's, aperture 6.7 in. ; he was ex-
pressing great admiration at its defining power when I pro-

posed to him to put on a diagonal solar eye-piece, in which
(after a suggestion of your own) the image from the object-
glass is received on a piece of plate glass, and then viewed

with the full aperture of the telescope by means of an ex-

quisitely finished neutral tinted prism, over the Huyghenian

eye-piece.
     ' De la Rue was expressing his astonishment at the

definition of a spot, when all of a sudden he called
out, " Here are Nasmyth's willow-leaves, sure enough."
My turn to look came, and after a little teasing of

focus I saw them myself, and I have seen them since;

but, like Frauenhofer's lines, you must know what to
look for.

     * Of all men's eyes in a matter of telescopic vision, De la

Rue's are peculiarly trustworthy.
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 241

     ' I attribute our seeing them

    *(i) To the calm way in which, with my eye-piece (con-
structed most successfully by Dollond for the eclipse), we were

able to took at the sun persistently.

    ' (2) To the goodness of the object-glass and its size.
     ' (3) To De la Rue's practised eye.
    ' Under similar conditions I believe these strange entities

are at all times visible.
     ' Apropos of the " solar eye-piece," will it be well for you to

claim this successful form of eye-piece tyou suggested it in

your Cape book, but it is claimed both by Dawes and my
Ifcolleague Hodgson.
                      you have never seen the sun with

this contrivance, you can have no conception of the effect ;

indeed, you cannot be said to have seen the sun at all. I

speak, of course, comparatively. I have written to De la Rue
to save time if you have not already written to him ; and if

you have, no harm's done. Yours most truly,

                      ' C. PRITCHARD.'

' DEAR SIR JOHN,      ' HURST HILL, FRESHWATER, I. W.

                                          'Dec. 15^, 1863.

     ' We had a strong debate on "willow-leaves " last Friday
evening. Mr Dawes will have it that he sees nothing but a
" flocculent precipitate." Our " willow-leaves " are a sort of

" crystalline precipitate." I urged that the question is after
all little better than one of words. Any precipitate would

furnish solid particles for illuminating power.
     ' Hoffman was with us, and agreeing as he did fully in the

question of the non-luminosity of such gases as hydrogen and
hyd. + ox., he did not know what to do with the blue flame
of cyanogen.

    ' I forgot to instance arsenic in arseniuretted hydrogen
deposited on cold porcelain in Marsh's test. Did you ever

see this beautiful action ?

                                                             Q
242 CHARLES PRITCHARD

' In the case of burning cyanogen, no carbon is deposited

on paper. So you see the direction which this question takes.

Can you see aught of the way out ?

* Our friend the Astronomer- Royal argued in opposition to

my argument which involved the necessity of some solid form

of incandescent matter. " Why, don't you see the gaslight
              "
before  you      Of course, he was nowhere.  Believe me, yours
             !

very sincerely,                              C. PRITCHARD.

     ' Did you read my obituary last year    of the  American

astronomer? If not, you will be amused.

     ' We give Bond the medal.'

                                             ' FRESHWATER,

                                                 l jan. idth, 1864.

    * DEAR SIR JOHN, You will be pleased to hear that Mr

Stone at Greenwich applied the " Herschelian contrivance " to

the large refractor at Greenwich, and there saw at once what

?...?...?...puzzled him. The sun covered with what

with, as it were, RICE (rice) ! He thought from pictures that

Nasmyth's willow-leaves were dark, and rest of sun bright !

But lo ! the converse he saw bright rice, and plenty of it.

How strong a confirmation and how independent and beyond

question, and how much more graphic a description of the

phenomenon than willow-leaves.      Henceforth       the rice

stratum, or rather strata. Truly yours, believe me,

                                             ' C. PRITCHARD.'

     We gather then that in this controversy, which occupied
the attention of the Royal Astronomical Society for some
time, Pritchard was on the side of Nasmyth, and believed in
the 'willow-leaves,' or 'rice' or other structure symbolising
the appearance of the sun's surface. There seems to have
been considerable diversity of opinion among Nasmyth's ad-

herents as to the best symbol for the objects actually seen.
Nasmyth himself was not at all sure that willow-leaves was
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 243

the best term. On a visit to Rome in 1865 he (Nasmyth)
had ' the pleasure to pay his respects to Father Secchi, in

company with Otto Struve. On our entering the observa-
tory we found him at work on a model representation of the

solar photosphere, which consisted of a blackboard thickly

/scattered over with oat grains ! Father Secchi at once re-

marked, " That is what see as to the structure of the sun's
surface. 5"* Nasmyth goes on to say that he leaves it to
others to settle the question of name for these objects.

Pritchard apparently much preferred the term 'rice' to

* willow-leaves ; ' but was none the less an ardent supporter

of Nasmyth. The 'strong debate' referred to in the letter

of December 15, 1863, was opened by a paper from Dawes -\
on the * Telescopic appearance of the envelopes of the sun

and its spots/ in which the author declared that though in

the vicinity of spots which are rapidly expanding or clos-

ing the appearance of the surface at the margin resembles

small bits of straw or thatching interlacing in all directions,

still he had not been able to verify the ' willow-leaves ' of Mr

Nasmyth. Mr Huggins followed on the same side, as also

Mr Howlett. Dr De la Rue and Mr Pritchard were strong

advocates for Nasmyth.  We may perhaps reproduce

the words of the latter as given in the Astronomical

Register, (Vol. II., p. 5).
     Mr Pritchard observed that Sir John Herschel had

written to Mr De la Rue and himself on the subject, and

described the appearance as a 'slow precipitation of floc-
culent matter.' 'The sun,' continued Mr Pritchard, 'is

covered with small objects bits of straw, flocculent matter, or

what you like exceedingly brilliant and different from the

other parts of the surface : and this not only in the neighbour-

hood of the spots. It matters not what you call them there

   f* Astronomical Register, iii., p. 223.                   probably from  ill-

        Mr Dawes was apparently not present at the meeting,
health. The paper was read by the secretary, Mr Hodgson.
244 CHARLES PRITCHARD                 it,

they are ; and Sir John Herschel's description is perhaps?
better than Mr Nasmyth's. The " willow-leaves " were wanted.
An incandescent liquid or gas, such as we suppose the sun'sis
atmosphere to consist of, will not give out light : we there-
              it
fore wanted something in or where could the light come
from The advancing state of our philosophy required theit
" willow-leaves," and they came just in the nick of time.'
    is
    It to be feared that these remarks are now out of date.
                                           *
The 'advance of our philosophy' has completely swamped         '
them, and many who read them will marvel that only thirty
years ago was stated as commonly accepted that 'an in-                  '
candescent liquid or gas will not give out light.' With the
disappearance of this theoretical reason for the existence ofit
the 'willow-leaves' they themselves have been shelved, and
                         '
      only by recalling this forgotten raison d'etre that we can
realise the importance of the discussion. The conflict wasa

renewed at many subsequent meetings, and carried on in theit

press. At the next meeting of the society Mr Nasmytha
replied to Mr Dawes, and the subject occupied nearly the
whole evening. Pritchard was not present. At the March
meeting Mr Stone and Mr Dunkin, of the Royal Observatory,
Greenwich, suggested the term rice grains.' A handful of

common rice, let fall gently, would very well represent what

was seen.' But Mr Pritchard said that, in justice to the man

who, years ago, saw them for the first time and got no one to

second him, would not be well to alter the name of the
" willow-leaves. " At the April meeting Mr Dawes replied

again unconvinced, and so the controversy went on for some
years. Pritchard took considerable share in it. We see from

the letters to Sir John Herschel that originated in observa-
tions by De la Rue at his telescope, and he was throughout

    staunch adherent of Nasmyth. Want of space compels

me to omit several more letters written in 1866, when the

controversy had lasted three years, but was apparently
still in full blast. They illustrate the fact that Prit-
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 245

chard acted as a sort of centre, drawing the fire of all
the combatants; and it is important to remember this

side of his character.

     One further point may be noticed in connection with the
letters to Sir John Herschel on 'willow-leaves.' Pritchard
was convinced that their confirmation by De la Rue and
himself was due to the use of a diagonal (plain glass) solar
eye-piece, and was anxious that the credit of first suggesting
this form of eye-piece should be secured to Sir John Herschel,
who had first suggested it in his Cape Observations. There

are several letters extant, which need not however be here

reproduced, showing that Pritchard took considerable trouble

to this end : and these two small enterprises for securing the

recognition of Nasmyth's discovery of the 'willow-leaves,'
and of Sir John Herschel's invention of the diagonal solar
eye-piece, are apparently characteristic illustrations of his
work about this period. They are such as often fall to the
officers of scientific societies; and in zealously prosecuting
such enterprises, Pritchard was fulfilling admirably one im-
portant part of his functions as secretary of the Royal Astro-

nomical Society.

     For another important function of a secretary (though
one rather difficult of definition) Pritchard was well fitted.
He stimulated work and enterprise in others. When he
became, later in life, the director of an observatory, this
faculty was especially characteristic of him, and of the
greatest value ; and I was delighted to come across the
following direct testimony to the same power of stimulation
during his official life in London. Mr Dawes suffered from

very bad health, and to him the exertion necessary for
publishing observations was specially distasteful. Those

who have had experience of publishing their observations
will know too well what it must have cost him to prepare for
press the three hundred and seventy quarto pages of double
star measures which appear in Volume xxxv. of the R.A.S.
246 CHARLES PRITCHARD

memoirs. This is the work to which he refers in the follow-
ing letter :

                                                  ' HOPEFIELD, HADDENHAM, THAME,
                                                                      ' i%th December 1867.

    1 MY DEAR MR PRITCHARD, Many thanks to you for your
hearty congratulations on the completion of my large work.
And I assure you I feel that you also may most justly be
congratulated on the success of your encouragements and

kind stimulations to the needful exertion ; and I beg you

to accept my warmest thanks for the interest you took
in pressing me forward to the requisite "sticking point,"
without which, I candidly acknowledge that it might very
likely have crept on so deliberately as scarcely to have

reached the " Finis ' while I was at all capable of complet-
ing it. The possibility and the prospect of its appearing

in the same volume, or at least about the same time, as

Sir John Herschel's, was one of the chief stimulants to
the necessary exertion. . . . Yours faithfully,

                                                                 <W. R. DAWES.'

     In his purely business duties, Pritchard was active and
efficient, as is illustrated in the next letter to Sir John
Herschel (omitting a few which deal with the claim to the

solar eye-piece above mentioned, and in which the conduct

of a rival claimant is discussed with more warmth than

admiration).

                                               ' HURST HILL, FRESHWATER, I.W.,
                                                              'Jan. 24//fc, 1864.

     'DEAR SIR JOHN, May I ask if you remember a
"Beaufoy" clock which you once borrowed from the R.A.
Society so far as to tell me anything of its features, appear-

ance, or maker's name ?
     ' The council have been at issue about this clock now

for twenty years with the Royal Society.

     'We lent it to them for Sir J. Ross and the Antarctic
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 247

Survey, and till ten days ago could get no intelligence

thereof until I got on its trail by perseverance.

     * We believe it is in cases (never yet unpacked) at Gene-
ral Sabine's office at Woolwich so he (the General) thinks ;
but he would be glad of marks of identification, and we fear

you are the only living person who has looked upon its face.
    * Will you present my best regards and respects to Lady

Herschel and your circle. Ever sincerely,

                                                                  C. PRITCHARD.

' P.S. I am, as in duty bound, drawing up the pro-

gress of astronomy during the past year for the Annual

Report R.A.S. Would it be a trouble or inconvenience

for you to cast your eye over it when complete, and just

pencil any hint? This, of course, would be private, and

without the slightest responsibility.  I know what your

hints are worth, and I distrust my own powers. Pray say

"Nay" if you feel any hesitation.'

     Some of the letters to the assistant secretary of the
R.A.S. tell us more about the hunt for this missing
Beaufoy clock. Here is one of them :

1 DEAR SIR,   I am endeavouring               ' FRESHWATER,
                                           ' 1864, January ^th.

                                       that you should be

permitted .(on some day to be appointed by General
Sabine) to proceed to Woolwich, there to inspect certain
cases which the Pres. Roy. Soc. has in his office. These

cases were landed from the ships employed in the Antarc-

tic Survey, and were said to contain clocks and pendulums

which were proposed to be used by Sir James Ross in
verification of certain observations he had made with them

near the South Pole. These experiments were never made.

The cases are at Woolwich now in General Sabine's office,

and you will there probably find the truant instruments.

Yours, etc.,                           C. PRITCHARD/
248 CHARLES PRITCHARD

A hunt like that for the Beaufoy clock often entails

considerable correspondence and trouble, and this may be

taken as one instance out of many. By the irony of Fate

it fell to the present writer, in his capacity as secretary to

the same society, to indite a very similar letter to Pro-

fessor Pritchard in 1892 concerning an instrument borrowed
by him from the society some quarter of a century before.

No immediate news of the instrument was forthcoming,

but it was ultimately discovered at the instrument maker's,

having been left there unclaimed for about ten years.

How the Pritchard of 1862 would have delighted in bring-
ing to book the Pritchard of 1892! Few matters escaped
the vigilance of the former younger gentleman (then only
about fifty-four years old), not even the treasurer's accounts.
It might have been thought that, with his duties as secre-

tary, liberally as he interpreted them, he would have had

enough to occupy him without concerning himself as to

the manner in which those of other officials were discharged.

But it occurred to him that since the treasurer's ac-

counts were printed in the Annual Report of the council,

and since he, as secretary, was responsible ultimately for

the whole of this report, he ought to examine these accounts ;
;m.and he accordingly found a small discrepancy of
                                                    33. 6d.

between the printed and audited accounts. This naturally

made a little trouble. The poor assistant secretary, who had

of course done all the work on systematic lines, could not

understand whether he was being accused of dishonesty

or merely of incapacity. The discrepancy was ultimately
traced to a fault in the method of reproducing arrears of

subscription, and it was shown that there had been no

real error in fact, only in appearance. We of the present

day undoubtedly owe to Pritchard the establishment of a

proper method of keeping and stating the accounts; but

those concerned at the moment do not seem to have en-

joyed the experience of having it established.
 OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 249

     It must not, however, be supposed that there was any

 permanent friction between Pritchard and the assistant
 secretary. On the contrary, they were on the best of terms,
 as the correspondence of the assistant secretary (all most
 carefully preserved, and lately arranged and stored by Mr

 Wesley, his successor) most clearly shows.
      Perhaps Pritchard's best work as secretary was shown in

 the preparation of the eloges, as he preferred to call them, on
 distinguished Fellows and Associates of the society. He was
 painstaking in collecting the facts, and his style was clear
 and vigorous. The same good work was manifested from
 the presidential chair in the preparation of the addresses to
gold medallists. Pritchard wrote the eloges of Wilhelm
Struve, Sir W. Rowan Hamilton. Admiral Smyth, and others ;
some years later, of Sir John Herschel. The eloge on
Wilhelm Struve was reproduced at length in the Astronomical
Register for April 1865, which maybe taken as evidence of
its importance and interest. He took a great deal of trouble
in drawing up the Annual Report generally. To him we
apparently owe the practice of dividing the Notes on the
Progress of Astronomy during the Year into separate para-
graphs with headlines. This division appears first in 1865.

     The average reader will no doubt skim lightly over this

rather dry catalogue of secretarial duties : there may, however,
be some Fellows of the Society for whom it will call up
a picture of the times. In looking over the old records I

have found them speak so eloquently for themselves that
I should have liked to reproduce them here with as little

comment as possible, in the hope that others might find

them similarly effective in recalling the events and surround-
ings of a period only thirty years past, and yet so different

from our own. In this hope I here add a few extracts

from the reports of the meetings of the society, as given in
the Astronomical Register. The extracts have not been made
at random, but are still tolerably representative. I have
250 CHARLES PRITCHARD

naturally endeavoured to select discussions in which Pritchard
took some share, and which referred to matters occupying a
prominent place in his later life.

     The first gives us a notion of the expectations beginning
to be formed of photography. Some are sanguine of its
success as a new power, others sceptical ; Pritchar.d does not
commit himself.

ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY MEETING, IOTH JUNE 1864.

(The subject of the discussion is the Orion Nebula^}

Mr Stone said that the nebula had been carefully observed

at the suggestion of M. Otto Struve, who thought there was
evidence of change in its form ; and Mr Carpenter, having

been entrusted with the observations, had appealed to him,

and he considered Mr C. correct in thinking the squareness

of outline in Prof. Bond's drawing exaggerated, and that

Sir J. Herschel's represented the object better, thus tending
to show that the nebula remained as when seen by Sir J. H.

at the Cape. The importance of the subject justified drawing

attention to and he hoped other observers would take theif it,
                   :
next opportunity of comparing the drawings with the object.
     Mr Pritchard Are you speaking of drawings or engrav-

ings because, the latter, we find impossible to get engravers
it ?                       it

    isto do justice to drawings. Allowing for this difficulty of engrav-

ing, probable Professor Bond's representative very right.is

    Mr Hodgson We have got the American and the
           ;:

                   I
English drawings but should like to see with them the

Russian drawing and exhaustive paper of Liapunow.

Mr Stone It should not be overlooked that, with regard
        :

to change in the nebula, our strong feeling of the accuracy of

Herschel's drawing indicates no change. As to the Russian

drawing, Dr Winnecke, who  is  here, can perhaps tell us

something.            In the drawing referred to, the stars are

    Dr Winnecke:
is,OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 251it

laid^down with extreme accuracy; but I don't think it can:if
be relied on for exact detail of light and shade.              ?
        if
     Mr Lockyer remarked that the Rev. Mr Webb, who had;it
looked much at the nebula last winter, agreed with Messrs
                               it
Stone and Carpenter.                    !

     Mr Pritchard again adverted to the difficulty of engraving
drawings of such objects.

     Mr Vignoles : Photograph them.
    Mr Hodgson : It won't do.
    Mr Vignoles : It will. Excuse me, but I am in the habit
of having maps and drawings constantly photographed with

the best result, and the Government do so extensively,

reducing plans most perfectly.

     Mr Hodgson : I suppose engineers say photographs are

sufficient for all practical purposes.

     Mr Vignoles : Absolute correctness is required, and is

obtained.

     Mr Hodgson : The difficulty is in the shading.
     Mr Beck : Photographs can be taken so perfectly from

pencil drawings as not to be distinguished from the original.

    Mr Hodgson : Will you reproduce a drawing of a nebula
we have received from Mr Lassell, and which we are afraid

cannot be done justice to ?

    Mr Beck : I have no doubt I can, but must see it first

     Mr Pritchard : Will any patriotic member do this ; that

   reproduce Mr Lassell's drawing like the original If so,

we will gladly pay him or he may do without he likes.
Mr Lassell, in his zeal for the cause of astronomy, has built

a magnificent telescope, has expatriated himself, as were,

and we are bound to carry out his wish of reproducing his

drawings properly, possible.

    Mr Vignoles Two to one on Mr Beck

     As regards the following extract, need only be remarked
that the last piece of work completed by Professor Pritchard,
252 CHARLES PRITCHARD

for which he received a Royal Medal in 1892, was a series of

determinations of stellar parallaxes by the photographic

method.         9,R. A. S., JANUARY

                                         1863.
A letter was read from Herr Auwers, of Gotha, on the

Parallax of Stars, the result of researches carried out at

Konigsberg. Mr Pritchard asked if the Astronomer-Royal

would kindly give the meaning of the lette in plain words.

The Astronomer-Royal said the meaning was this that

Bessel found the parallax of 61 Cygni to be

                 o"'366, with a probable error of O'OI2 ;
while Struve, with whom Auwers very nearly agreed, found

it to be

          o"'5iO7, with a probable error of o"'O282.

Mr Pritchard asked what was the Astronomer- Royal's own

opinion as to these probable errors.     are not worth a pin.
                                         a considerable doubt
    Mr Airy : I say those probabilities

     Mr Pritchard : Does it not throw

on the whole subject of parallax ?

The Astronomer-Royal replied that to some degree it

certainly did.

    Finally we have an occasion on which Pritchard occupied
not the secretarial, but the presidential chair. It should be
remarked that there are no meetings of the society in the

months June to October.

       ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY. First Meeting,

                                November 9th, 1866.

 The Rev. C. Pritchard, M.A., F.R.S., President, in the chair.
               Secretaries Mr Stone and Mr Hodgson.

     In expressing the pleasure he felt in meeting the members
of the society after the recess, the president said it was
coupled with a regret that no great astronomical progress was
to be reported. No discovery of importance had been made
           OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 253

           since the last meeting ; but astronomy was an accumulative

           science, and much valuable matter had doubtless been

           treasured up, to become available for future use.

                But at any rate he might say that something had been
           done by astronomy something of great importance. As-

           tronomy had, in fact, recovered the Atlantic cable ! An

           illimitable ocean with an almost invisible thread at the

           bottom of at a depth of two miles what a fine problem
                   a1
it it it it  was to findit,  it      A reward of ^"30,000 was once given

                                  !

           for chronometer for finding the longitude this,
             a                                    !
           however, would not have discovered the cable, althougha
                                                                   a
                                                                                      :
             was the longitude which was really wanted. The

           longitude was, in fact, obtained exactly; and how was

             done? Not by any chronometer, but by                                      system

           of signals sent direct from Greenwich  And therefore

             was due to astronomy, and to the strong faith of

           men, that the cable was picked up.

               The president also wished to call the attention of

           the members to the expected great shower of meteors

           on the 3th or I4th of the month. If any man went to

           bed on either of those nights, he was not worthy to be

           called an astronomer; he therefore appealed to his con-

freres not to go to bed on this particular occasion. After
   few remarks as to the extraordinary variable T. Coronas,
is a
           and the correspondence and observations regarding
                                     a                                                   the

                                                                          ; it,
           president concluded by alluding to what had been done

           for the comfort of the members during the recess. There

             such thing as physical comfort no one could go on

           observing night after night in state of discomfort. Sir

           John Herschel, in his Cape Observations, found the greatest
           difficulty in keeping himself warm, and at last he had resort

           to kitten. (Laughter.) Now our difficulty has been, not

           to keep ourselves warm, but to keep ourselves cool an

           attempt has, however, been made to ventilate the room,

           with what success remains to be seen. The president added
254 CHARLES PRITCHARD

that Mr Williams had succeeded in providing a complete
printed catalogue of the society's library, which any gentle-
man might have at a charge of 2s. 6d.

    With this brief but characteristic address of Mr Prit-

chard from the presidential chair, we might well close this

chapter of his life in relation to the society ; but to prevent

misconception it must first be emphatically remarked that
his activity and interest in the affairs of the society did not
cease when he had passed the chair. He remained on

the council till 1876, several times being a vice-president,
and was re-elected to it in 1883 ; but in 1887 he perman-
ently retired, feeling the necessary journeys from Oxford
too great a tax on his advancing years. His interest in the
affairs of the society was, however, not even then lessened

in any degree, and only a few months before his death
he took a prominent part by the issue of circulars in one
of the elections of officers.

    Of Pritchard's undertakings subsequent to his official

life, but connected with the society, may be specially men-
tioned his eloge on Sir John Herschel, his editing of the
Double Star Catalogue of Sir John Herschel (in collabora-
tion with the Radcliffe observer, Rev. Robert Main),
and his circular proposing a memorial to Sir William (and
Caroline) Herschel at St Lawrence Church, Upton, Slough.

All these illustrate Pritchard's great reverence for the work
of the Herschels, which appears in other ways in these
pages. The Catalogue of Double Stars forms Volume

xl. of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society ',
and was published in 1874. It was the result of an under-
taking by Sir John Herschel, to which the following two

letters refer.

DEAR SIR JOHN HERSCHEL,  The  ' FRESHWATER,

                              ''April 17 'th, 1866.

                              question of the
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 255

catalogue of your father's double stars was brought before
the council of the R. Ast. Soc. on Friday last.

     4 The unanimous feeling of the council was that nothing
on their part ought to be wanting which could conduce
to the completion of the catalogue for publication in the
memoirs of the society. At the same time it was felt
that the catalogue itself is now in a condition which
requires only the direction of a mind towards a consider-
able amount of mechanical work this latter we at once
know you ought not to undertake, hence it was resolved

and unanimously carried that

    ' " A sum not exceeding fifty pounds be placed at the dis-

posal of Sir John Herschel towards defraying the expense
of preparing the catalogue of Sir William Herschel's double
stars for publication in the transactions of the R. Ast. Soc."

     * Of course no restriction whatever is implied in your
choice of a computer, but I am not wrong in stating that
if Mr Alex. Herschel has the leisure and the inclination
to undertake the hard work, we have an idea that it would be
more ably and satisfactorily done, both to yourself and to
those who hereafter will refer to the catalogue, than by a
stranger having nothing beyond a pecuniary interest in the
work. I am, my dear Sir John, very sincerely yours,

                                                           'C. PRITCHARD.'

    P. S. Airy has distinctly seen the willow-leaves the

assistants always see them in the large Greenwich equa-
torial, when the definition is really fine: power 120 about.

                                                                                             ' COLLINGWOOD,

                                                                 ' April 23, '66.
    ' MY DEAR SIR, My best thanks are due to yourself and
the council of the Astronomical Society for the assistance

you and they have been so good as to accord me towards
making out the catalogue of my father's double stars in as
    CHARLES PRITCHARD

complete a form as the recorded observations will permit,

and for the kind consideration which prompted the wish to

alleviate to myself as far as possible the more laborious and

mechanical part of the work. The sum named
                                                                                      y           suppose,

more than amply sufficient for the purpose. As soon as my                                    is,

                                                                                             I
son Alexander returns, shall set him to work at it. What
I

                    is

                              I

                                                       a
propose a catalogue of double entry i.e. an index cata-

logue by classes and numbers, and a working catalogue in
order of R.A. brought up to prospective date. These two

will give room in their columns for all the recorded particu-
lars or their mean result The identifications of the non-

identified stars will, however, be the chief difficulty, and                                         I

have some notion of rigging up my old clumsy equatorial

stand as an out-door stand, and mounting my 5-inch Tulley's

object-glass and finder, and setting Alexander to work to

look them up by the descriptions given of their places, nous

verrons. It may be good while about, but                                              ifit      not done
    a                                                                                       is

under my own immediate eye, could not trust to anyone
       I                                                                                  it

else, for will need constant reference to myself. Believe
it

me, my dear sir, yours very faithfully,

                                                          J.  F. W. HERSCHEL.'

     Sir John did not, however, live to complete the work.
The catalogue published by Main and Pritchard corresponds

to the working catalogue, the second of the two proposed by

him. But the editors also carefully arranged his synoptical

tables of measures in MS. and indexed them. It may be said

that they carried out the wishes above expressed in the best

way possible under the circumstances. In review of the
c

                                                             it
                                                                        is

                                                                                     a
catalogue by Otto Struve which appeared in the Vierteljahrs-

schrift der Astron. Gesellschaft for 1876,                                            observed that

The Royal Astronomical Society has, by the publication

of the above catalogue, fulfilled an act of piety towards its

deceased illustrious Fellow, Sir John Herschel.'

Before passing, in the next chapter, to Professor Pritchard's
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 257

life at Oxford, several letters of interest relating to the period
of his life we have just been recalling may be here put on
record with the briefest of comments. They practically tell

their own story.

                                       ''November 17? 1866.
                                                     ft,I
      DEAR SIR JOHN, Thanks for the meteor paper for
  *I I
our M.N. My own eye was steadily fixed with few interrup-

tions on the Sickle, and from the Sickle to Orion.           had

made the same note as you on the radiant point, and yester-

day wrote to friend to that effect. The radiant point
        a
beyond all doubt was well within the hook, and had in my
            !                             I

chart, the day before yesterday, put the radiant for Nov. 3th1

close to the star X How curious                                 aI
                                   I!
'*    The battery of meteors was so overwhelming that

confined my attention to counting meteors which pelted

Orion, keeping an eye also on the Sickle. The rise to

maximum and the fall from was singularly uniform.
               I
      observed the apparition of the new meteor stars without
                     it
trains in the hook of the Sickle.      saw one persistent cloud

for several minutes, but observed no rotation, but only      a

wafting onwards to the south. Ex pede leonem.        read the
                                       '
long article in the Times.
                                           a

                                                  I
'     hope Aleck saw all at Glasgow, but 'tis nebulous place.

Yours, dear Sir John, very truly,'' I

                                       C. PRITCHARD.'

                                                                         March 27 tk, 1867.1

     MY DEAR SIR JOHN, A correspondence with'Mr Dawes

on certain astronomical " priorities " disagreeable, but fear
not always evitable subjects has put certain thought into
my head, which venture to put out of into yours
has not been there before.

      Did you not at one time think of editing your father's
papers in the Phil. Trans.? The labour may" be too much

                                                       R
        I                              a

                                            it
                                                              I

                                                               if

                                                                       it
258 CHARLES PRITCHARD

for you to undertake unaided, but will you pardon me for

suggesting (it may be ignorantly and officiously, and if so,
forgive it for the motive's sake) that Is it possible for Aleck
to do it ? With a few hints from you in the way of reference

to the additions or corrections of modern times, he, I imagine,

could complete the matter sufficiently well.                   I can-
     ' These papers are not very accessible even to me.

not help thinking the task might be a very grateful one to the

grandson, and it might assist in putting him into the scientific

position which he may justly claim.

' We are binding up your star allineations, so that nothing

may be lost. Your star catalogue is in the printer's hands.

( What brought up the thought of Aleck to my mind is

the probability that your father did see and describe the

' rice  grains/  ' granulations '  or  ' willow - leaves    '  but  not
                                                          ;

having by me the proper original, I am all at sea.

' In Good Words of next April I give some account of

Frauenhofer's Lines and T. Coronse, * and at last just ven-

ture on the speculation that it may be an old worn-out sun

waxed dim Faye says with a crust on it ; and then a

planet and a satellite went crash or scrape into it. If so,

the ocean of the planet might afford the hydrogen and the

blue that (as when the wind blows over gas), and the crash
of the satellite (oceanless) might have caused the second out-

burst ! ( Valeat quantum?}
     ' Hoping this may find you in health and happiness in-

cluding in you all your circle believe me dear Sir John,

sincerely yours,                             C. PRITCHARD.'

     ' MY  DEAR SIR JOHN,                                        ' FRESHWATER,
           intellectual treats                             ''March \\th, 1869.
greatest   I found a parcel
joyed.                              I have recently had one of the

                                   I remember to have ever en-

                                   of your great father's memoirs

                  * The 'New Star 'of 1866.
OFFICIAL LIFE IN THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY 259

in the library of the R. Astr. Soc. I have arranged them

read many, and glanced at the contents of all. I find

there are seventy in all, but M. Struve in Etudes Stellaires

speaks of seventy-three. Before I take any steps to collate

them with the R. S. Transactions, I hope you will ex-

cuse my asking you whether you have any separate copies

of any of these memoirs which you would feel disposed to let

us have in order to complete the set before I proceed to get
Ifthese very precious papers properly bound.
                                              you have any

such by you, I will send you the list of the three or four missing

ones. I have seen none on the first discovery of the Georgium
Sidus. The first is 1780, on o Ceti (Mira) and on Lunar
Mountains. The last is June nth, 1818, on the relative dis-

tance.

* I am amazed at the grasp of mind and the unwearied

industry exhibited in these great memoirs always with a

purpose and going straight to it. I am almost as much

surprised that they are so comparatively little known among

Iastronomers, and have not as yet been collected so far as

know. I consulted them on the subject of the structure of the
universe for a paper I am preparing for Good Words, and that

led to my examination of the whole so far as we have them.

     ' This leads me to a question which puzzles me considerably,

and which I venture to ask you, if I am not unreasonably bold.

     ' Whereabouts have we ground for supposing are the

nebulae and clusters which abound towards the pole of
the Milky Way; are they outside of our strata? You say

that the telescope does in places pierce through our strata.

Is this probably the case of the nebulae or of any or most
nebulae ? I hope I am not putting a very ignorant question,
but I feel bewildered. Sir W. H. seems to have changed

his views after years of patient observation if so it does

not appear that we know the exact form of the boundaries
of the galaxy, but it seems conceivable that it has been

pierced in its thinnest section.'
                   CHAPTER IV

                    LIFE AT OXFORD

ON Thursday, February 10, 1870, the Rev. Charles Pritchard,
M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., late President of the Royal Astrono-
mical Society, and formerly Fellow of St John's College Cam-
bridge, was elected to the vacant Savilian Chair of Astronomy
in the University of Oxford.

     It was remarked in the Introductory chapter that his

appointment was due to the knowledge rather of what man
he was than of what things he had done. His concrete
undertakings had indeed been hitherto singularly unpro-
ductive. He had suggested a new form of mercury trough,
but it was not adopted on his suggestion ; he had made a
long calculation on planetary conjunctions in order to dis-
prove a point in theological chronology a purely negative
result ; he had observed the eclipse in Spain with success,
but his observations were quite overshadowed by De la
Rue's, and were not even mentioned in print ; and he had
undertaken a heavy piece of optical work on lines which

he found after its completion to lead to no useful result.

Carefully studied, the record is one which shows clearly
the ability, enterprise and versatility of the man ; but to
a casual glance there is very little to catch the eye. His
painstaking work for the Royal Astronomical Society, and
the trouble he took in settling questions of controversy (in
which a man of his varied accomplishments could venture

to take a prominent part, although not a principal in the
dispute), were not the least important part of his work

                                                                    260
LIFE AT OXFORD  261

up to the time of his election as Savilian Professor. Such

work, though not known to the general public, could not

fail to be appreciated by the astronomers, especially the
Fellows of the society. And it is creditable alike to the
society and to its ex-president that it was the influence
of several prominent Fellows which secured Pritchard his
appointment. Without such an organisation a man like
Pritchard might have been lost to astronomy ; by its help he
was placed in a position to do full justice to his great powers

   powers of which he had perhaps failed to give evidence,
save in ways of which the society alone could take note.

     As above remarked, Pritchard was elected Savilian Pro-
fessor of Astronomy in February 1870. In the University
Gazette for April 26 he announced a series of popular lectures
on ' Modern Astronomical Discoveries/ the first of which,
given on Tuesday, May 10, at noon, was his Inaugural
Lecture. And without following the detailed announce-
ments further it may be generally remarked that the Pro-
fessor's work soon resolved itself into two parts the delivery
of lectures on Mathematical Astronomy (Newton's Principia,
Lunar and Planetary Theories, with the purely mathematical
parts of spherical astronomy), and the instruction in practical
astronomy. The mathematical lectures were suited to the
requirements of those reading for the final mathematical

schools, and were continued on much the same lines so long

as Professor Pritchard was able to take an active share in the

teaching work. They need not further concern us here.

    It is with the development of practical astronomical work

in the University, with the establishment, rapid development
and great success of the University observatory, that Pro-

fessor Pritchard's name is inseparably connected : and to this

piece of history I must now endeavour to do what justice I can.

     There was a small observatory under the control of the
Savilian Professor when Pritchard was elected, which he
describes as ' a small but sufficient building, containing what
 262 CHARLES PRITCHARD

had once been a good five-feet transit, a clock, and a small
altazimuth. The two former had been provided mainly at
the expense of his predecessor.' Pritchard began to make
use of these instruments for practical instruction in 1871, and

before this he had, at his own expense, repaired the instru-

ments and building. In 1872 he provided an assistant, who

attended every evening for three hours, so that the small

observatory might be at all times accessible to students, even

when the Professor was unable to be there.
     But the inadequacy of this equipment was soon realised.

One most important defect was the absence of an equatorial
of any kind, and though the Professor tried to mount one of
his own, he found the building quite unsuitable. His thoughts
naturally turning to the possibilities of better instruments and
a better building, he determined to ask the University for a
large refracting telescope. He proposed * that the University
should be asked to provide a refracting telescope of 1 2\ inches
aperture, equatorially mounted, and furnished with all the
accessories required for the prosecution of modern astronomi-
cal research. Such an instrument would rank among the best
of modern telescopes, and be worthy of Oxford.

     'The cost of this telescope and of the building to contain
it would not exceed the sum of ^"2500. It could be in a
workable condition before the end of 1873.'

     This application was made through the museum delegates,
and brought before Convocation on March 4, 1873, when it

was carried nemine contradicente.

    It will be clear from the estimate of time and expense

given above that Pritchard had already made preliminary in-
quiries before making his proposal. He had in fact been in
correspondence with Mr (now Sir Howard) Grubb, of Dublin,
and learnt that he had materials for a 12^-inch object-glass
already in hand. The earliest letter of Mr Grubb preserved
in the observatory records is dated Decembers, 1872, and

opens :
                   LIFE At OXFORD                   263

' I have been considering the matter of the 1 2-inch equa-

torial, and have decided that, having the materials for the

objective on hand, I could supply you with the equatorial

complete for 1200, delivered at my works.'
     After the money was voted in Convocation, a formal con-

tract was drawn up, and the terms definitely settled by the

end of May 1873. Apparently the hopes of having the equa-
torial erected by the end of 1873 were not based on anything
Mr Grubb had said, and he could not undertake to make the

object-glass in so short a time ; but he promised to do his
best for speed, and by March 4, 1874, was able to report that
' the equatorial was erected, the object-glass attached, clock-

driving apparatus complete, and all in fact ready for trial.'

It was at first hoped that Professor Pritchard would go over

to Dublin to try it himself, but ultimately he asked Dr

Briinnow to do this, and a very favourable report was re-
ceived from him on March 25, and soon after this the instru-
ment was ready for delivery at Oxford.

     Meanwhile the building to receive the instrument had
been designed by Mr Charles Barry ; a site had been chosen
for it in the parks, and building operations had been com-

menced.

    But a modification of fundamental importance had been
made in the whole scheme. Dr Warren De la Rue (on
whom the University had conferred the honorary degree of
D.C.L.* in recognition of his astronomical work) had

       * The year 1870 was that of Lord Salisbury's installation as Chancellor of the

University in succession to Lord Derby, and a large number of honorary degrees

were conferred. In the list we find the names of J. P. Gassiot, the Earl of Rosse,
Warren De la Rue, William Huggins. The following letter to Dr Huggins refers

to the ceremony :  ' OXFORD, 9 KEBLE TERRABE,

                                   'June 19, 1870.

' MY DEAR MR HUGGINS, I will see about an abbreviated robe for you

you will find it at Standen, a tailor in High Street but what is as necessary is a

Icap. If you have none of your own from your recent Cambridge use, think you

had better send the exact measure of your hat in its two horizontal axes and its

inner circumference to the above Standen to-morrow by telegram. Else you may
264 CHARLES PRITCHARD

offered to present his splendid instruments to the University,
and his offer had been accepted.

     This valuable gift necessarily made a great change in
the plans for the building. Mr Barry was consulted as to
the housing of the new instruments, and arranged for
additional buildings to be attached to that already designed
for the refractor. But it was clear that the whole would

now be a well-equipped observatory. Originally it had
been contemplated to leave the transit where it was, in

the small observatory near the museum, separate from the
new refractor. But it was now obviously the best course
to do away with this small observatory and collect all the
instruments in one place. The result was the present fine
observatory in the parks, just as it stands, with the exception
of the large lecture room, which was added in 1877.

    It was not, however, the plans for building alone which
were altered by Dr De la Rue's gift. An even more

important change was introduced into the aims and objects
of the general scheme. Professor Pritchard had originally

asked for an educational instrument a telescope 'suitable
for the instruction of his class,' * albeit ' furnished with all

the accessories required for the prosecution of modern

astronomical research.'!

get into some inconvenience, seeing there are 50 D.C.L.s, and you won't like a

Igreasy old cap. Both Gassiot and De la Rue have been down here to settle their
robes.  will tell Standen you may telegraph to him for this cap, as a contin-

gency. His shop is next door to St Mary's.

     ' A great error has been made by omitting Lassell, but Main and I will see

about D.C.L. for him before a year is out. Of course you have notice about the
                                                       If you find you have no
special train for all you D.C.L.s on Tuesday morning.
other engagement, you will, I hope, dine with me at my college hall (New

Coll. ) on Wednesday, with a heap of others.
       ' Thanks for Hofman's address. Believe me, yours very sincerely,

                                                       <C. PRITCHARD.'

       Pritchard was thus able, in his first year of office, to take some share in
honouring his friends.

     * Univ. Gazette, February n, 1873.

    t /., etc.
                      LIFE AT OXFORD                    265

     He did, indeed, promise to * make it his endeavour to
lay in Oxford the foundation of a school of astronomical

physics,'* but the 'educational point of view' was kept

prominently forward.

But with the accession of the instruments which had

done such good and historic work in photography, the

possibility of an observatory for research in astronomical

physics became a reality, and henceforth the observatory

was ' the new Savilian Observatory for Astronomical Physics

at Oxford.' Under this title Professor Pritchard describes

it in the 'Monthly Notices' for December 1873; an d in a

letter to the Times (January 3, 1874) he announces that
1 the University has led the van in England for the first

foundation of an observatory for astronomical physics.'f

In thus insisting on a change in the character of the

institution, Pritchard was in no way breaking faith with

the University. This change was clearly put before the

committee on the acceptance of Dr De la Rue's gift, and is

clearly stated by them in their report to Convocation.

They were satisfied that the arrangements already made

(the refractor and building) were ' suitable to meet the

requirements  of astronomical teaching  in  the  University    '
                                                             ;

and they admit that no fresh application in aid of astro-

nomical research might have been expected for some

years. Nevertheless 'there are other interesting and im-

portant branches of astronomical research recently opened

out by the rapid advance of scientific inquiry,' and the

' Committee feel that the conditions of the question are

entirely changed by the proposal of Dr De la Rue to

present to the University his own instrument, already

famous in celestial photography, and thus to anticipate

     * Univ. Gazette, February n, 1873.

     t The foundation of such an observatory had been vigorously discussed at the

council meetings of the Royal Astronomical Society ; indeed, the question which
had the honour of first proposing it was in itself debated with some warmth,
266 CHARLES PRITCHARD

an improvement which, at some future time, the University
would itself probably be desirous of making.'*

     One other point should be noticed with regard to this
new feature in the observatory. The term 'astronomical
physics' has somewhat changed its meaning since 1874.

It then included astronomical photography almost com-

pletely, as well as spectroscopic work ; to-day we should
not be so ready to call all photography ' astronomical

physics.'

    It must not be supposed, therefore, that in adopting this

title for the observatory Pritchard meant to devote all, or
even the greater part of his attention to the spectroscope.

It was rather of the photographic camera that he was

thinking, and of this he never lost sight in his subsequent
work, though the spectroscope was practically never used.
This was also the view of 'astronomical physics' taken
by De la Rue, as will be clear from the following interest-

ing letter, apparently intended to be laid before the

committee on his proposed gift The 'use to which he
would like to see his reflector applied,' viz., the 'deter-

mining whether or not the moon has a physical libration,'

was one of the first pieces of work undertaken by Pritchard,

but we should, perhaps, now hesitate to call it ' astronomical

physics.'

                                              'no BUNHILL Row, E.G.,

                                                                                 ''October 21 st, 1873.

    ' MY DEAR PRITCHARD,. . . I cannot give you a better

illustration of the fact that in order to complete your equip-
ment of a physical observatory at Oxford you ought to
possess not only as perfect a refractor as you can command,
but also the means of photographic work, than to recall to
your recollection that the Royal Society thought it expedient
to furnish Dr Huggins's observatory with a stand on which
both a refractor and reflector could be placed. Dr Huggin

                             *Univ. Gazette, November 18, 1873, P- 3 IQ -
LIFE AT OXFORD  267

has, in fact, two telescopes, and apparatus for interchanging

them as required.
     ' The reflector supplements the refractor in several ways

(first) you cannot obtain photograms of celestial objects in
anything like perfection with an achromatic achromatised for
the visual rays ; (second) in spectroscopic work the ordinary
refractor does not afford the opportunity of grasping the

chemical spectra indeed the material (glass) precludes the

possibility of so doing with any form of refractor ; (third) in
studying the colours of stars and planets the reflector, especi-

ally the silvered glass speculum, presents manifest advantages.
     ' Were it not for the inherent difficulty of the open tube in

case of reflectors, I should give the preference to the reflector
for all purposes. The open tube increases the atmospheric

disturbing causes by introducing in addition to external
currents the currents within the tube (even a lattice tube).

     ' Consequently one is enabled to use a refractor under cir-

cumstances (difference between internal temperatures, etc.)
when the reflector does not perform perfectly.

    * One use which I should like to see my reflector applied

is the determining whether or not the moon has a physical

libration ; for this purpose, photograms of this planet would

have to be taken as often as practicable, and the original
negatives measured by means of a properly constructed
micrometer, so as to determine the apparent distance of
selected craters from the moon's limb after allowance for

the shifting produced by the optical (latitude), the orbital (long-
itude) and terrestrial station librations, the residue would be
the true libration due to the centre of gravity not coinciding
with the centre of figure. . . . Yours very sincerely,

                                                'WARREN DE LA RUE.'

     While the refracting telescope was being constructed by
Mr Grubb, the building to receive it had thus expanded into

the ' New Savilian Observatory for Astronomical Physics
268 CHARLES PRITCHARD

at Oxford.' For a more detailed description of the obser-
vatory I must refer those interested to two papers by Pro-
fessor Pritchard.* I content myself here with a short extract
from the first paper, characteristic of the writer.

     ' The revolving domes are peculiar in their construction.
Inasmuch as by the great liberality of the University
permission has been given to place this observatory in
the most convenient position within their beautiful park, it
was thought proper to consider the architectural character
of the building, at anyrate to the small extent permitted
by the astronomical exigencies of the case. With this
view the form of a lofty, truncated dome was selected
for the revolving roofs, rather than the usual and con-
venient form of a drum. This necessitated difficult and
unusual contrivances for the shutters.' The contrivances

first devised were indeed unmanageable, and some years
later had to be replaced by others. What are the archi-

tectural merits of the domes I must leave to others to
judge ; I have heard them abused.

     This extract is not complete without a footnote appended
to it in the original directly concerning the park, but leading
up to some considerations on the general attitude of the
University towards science : and I therefore reproduce this
footnote also.

     ' The ground for this park, consisting of about sixty acres,
was purchased and laid out by the University, and then, with
admirable liberality, thrown open to the public. The situa-
tion of the new observatory is remarkably fortunate, and
free from any injurious obstruction to the view in every
direction. Nevertheless it lies within easy distance from and
communicates with the University museum, where are to be
found the lecture rooms and laboratories of the various
scientific Professors. This museum, again, is another in-
stance of the munificence of the University in providing at

                      * Monthly Notices, xxxiv,, p. 49, and xxxvi., p. i.
LIFE AT OXFORD  269

vast cost for the wants of hef students in the natural sciences.

Should the University see fit to assign, as is proposed, a
portion of the park contiguous to the new observatory for
the purposes of a botanic garden, then this remarkable
aggregation of appliances for every branch of natural
philosophy round a common centre will form an arrange-

ment which, for compactness and completeness, has no present
rival in the world a monument and pledge of the generous
care of a true Alma Mater.'

     We have here Pritchard's testimony to the liberality and
the liberal spirit of the University. Many other such pas-
sages might be quoted from his writings. He was deeply
impressed by the readiness with which the University lis-
tened to the demands made upon its resources by the newly-
established faculty of science. It may not be generally
known how lavishly the University has, during the last half

century, spent money in the endeavour to do justice to

studies hitherto neglected by its students I say hitherto,
for in spite of this endeavour the science schools do not yet
take their proper position in comparison with others. There

is an inertia about old institutions which is perhaps adequate

to explain this tardiness of apparent result. But the Uni-

versity has generally responded when application has been
made to it in a sound cause, by a man who could state a

strong case. Pritchard was recognised as a man of this
kind; and he on his part was prompt to recognise the
liberal spirit of the University. But it was a considerable
achievement to convince the University of Oxford of the
necessity for their building an astronomical observatory
perhaps Pritchard's greatest achievement: and I have ven-

tured to take this view in the introductory chapter (see

p. 217).

     The new observatory was not built in a day, though we
need not follow the details of its construction and the
trials of the Savilian Professor in the meantime. In the
270 CHARLES PRITCHARD

second of the above-mentioned papers read to the Royal

Astronomical Society on November 12, 1875, the building

is declared complete, and the Professor tenders his grateful

acknowledgments to Mr Grubb and Mr Charles Barry for
their great care and skill. The engineer, Mr Baly, was no
longer alive, but letters from De la Rue refer to him in
terms of high praise.

     There were, however, considerable trials and annoyances
for the Professor in the building of the observatory. The

details did not work out as he at first hoped, especially the
shutters, and a new form was devised. The contractors

did not fulfil their engagements to time ; and the total
expenses were found to be more than 1000 in excess of
the grants approved by Convocation. Finally, when Convo-

cation was petitioned, May 20, 1875, f r money to discharge

these excess bills, the petition was refused by one vote

(25 to 24) ; but a wish was generally expressed that the
application be repeated, and it was then acceded to (June

3, 1875).

     To this account of the establishment of the observatory
it should be added that Dr Gassiot (who received an honor-
ary degree at the same time as De la Rue) presented a
valuable spectroscope to the University, and the thanks of
Convocation were conveyed to him by decree of November

17, 1874.

     The observatory being completed, the next step was
to appoint an assistant or assistants. Provision for an assist-
ant had been made by Convocation, and the appointment

was made during the progress of the building. It would

be difficult to over-estimate the good fortune which secured
Mr W. E. Plummer (now Director of the Liverpool Observa-
tory) as the first assistant. He was thus identified with
the University observatory from the very beginning until
within a few months of Professor Pritchard's death, and
during the whole of that time was conspicuous for un-
LIFE AT OXFORD  2/1

swerving devotion to the observatory and a skill in carry-
ing on its work far in excess of what might have been
reasonably expected from the conditions of his appointment.
Professor Pritchard was already an old man when the ob-
servatory was built. His mental activity remained unim-

paired to the last, but bodily infirmities came upon him,

and he was in consequence often compelled to conduct the

affairs of the observatory from a distance. That he should
have done this with such conspicuous success is in great
measure a testimony to the zeal and ability of his assist-
ants, and especially to the senior assistant. Mr Plummer

acted on many occasions for the Professor, not 'only at

the observatory, but elsewhere as, for instance, at the

International Congress on the Astrographic Chart at Paris
in 1887. I cannot but feel how much more adequately
the account of Professor Pritchard's life at Oxford would
have been treated by Mr Plummer, who knew it all person-
ally; but circumstances would not allow of this, and I may
perhaps derive some satisfaction from the consideration
that at least I am able to say something which he could
not of the great services rendered to the observatory by
himself services which Professor Pritchard so constantly
acknowledged during his lifetime, and would have been so
anxious to have placed on record here.

     Mr W. E. Plummer came to Oxford from Mr Bishop's
private observatory at Twickenham, where he had been

for five years. Previously he had been at the Royal Ob-
servatory, Greenwich, 1864-1868. He sent an account of
his work and qualifications to Professor Pritchard on June
4, 1874, together with a letter from Mr Hind, the senior
assistant at Mr Bishop's observatory, and was forthwith
appointed. The buildings at Oxford being not yet com-
pleted, Mr Plummer did not remove from Twickenham

immediately ; but his duties had practically commenced

on July 2, when he sends to Professor Pritchard an account
272 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of a visit to Lambeth, where the domes were being con-

structed. Several such visits were made and reported upon.
He also, in August, drew up a list of books necessary for

the library of the new observatory, and was assisting

Professor Pritchard in other ways in July and August.

His definite appointment and removal to Oxford was
dated from September 2, 1874; and his initial salary fixed
at 160, leaving a very narrow margin of 4.0 from the
annual grant of Convocation for unskilled labour and con-

tingencies. It was soon seen that this was not enough,

and the grant was raised to 300 from January i, 1875,
allowing of a servant at 50 a year, the rest going for
taxes, gas, water, coal and photographic expenses. Con-

siderable economy was even then necessary in all trans-

actions.

     When work was definitely commenced, however, it soon

became clear that more assistance was required. There was
no house for the observer (a fact which Mr Plummer deplores
in his letters ; he had not been able to get a house within
easy distance of the observatory, and suited to his small
salary, at all) ; and the strain of working two equatorials be-
sides the minor instruments, from a distance, was far too

great. The applications to Convocation has already been
numerous, and hesitation was felt about making any more at
the time. Dr De la Rue came to the rescue, and offered an

annual grant of ;ioo for three years (ultimately four) for

the provision of a second assistant. Mr C. A. Jenkins, of the
Royal Observatory, Greenwich, was thus appointed, and he
also remained at the observatory through practically the
whole of Professor Pritchard's directorate.

     There was a third member of the establishment who,

though not styled an assistant, was by no means an unim-

portant part of the whole. It would be somewhat difficult
fully to describe the various accomplishments of Mr John

Mullis, and the numerous uses to which they have been put
LIFE AT OXFORD  273

in the history of the observatory. As mechanic, carpenter
and gardener, he is equally competent and hard-working ;
equally ready to describe the course of an otherwise forgotten
drain, to make a model of a new micrometer, to build an

observatory hut, or to adapt a bicycle wheel for driving a
dynamo. He is still at the observatory, and long may he
remain so. His name will not occur again in these pages,
but his work was none the less essential to the smooth
working of the institution and the success of the researches

there carried out.
CHAPTER V

WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY

THE history of the new observatory was prosperous from the
commencement, albeit rather in the direction of research

than of education. But this was only a movement in the line

of least resistance. I have already referred to the fact that

the lavish expenditure of the University upon scientific

institutions and apparatus has not yet produced any very

startling result in the schools. Such a result was perhaps

scarcely to be expected, and may not be desirable. In the

opinion of many competent judges, the chief strength of

Oxford lies in her great school of Literce Humaniores^ and
until 1853 this school had no rival except that of Mathe-
matics, which it completely overshadowed. In 1853 two new

schools were founded, that of Natural Science and the com-

bined school of Jurisprudence and Modern History, the

former of which may be considered an offshoot of Mathematics,

or at least an allied growth with and the latter similarly
a
          ,
            it,

                              a
                                                                                                   ;
allied with Literce Humaniores. And in the new schools the

same disproportion was manifested. The school of Juris-
prudence and Modern History flourished from the first like

its parent, Literce Humaniores and in 1872 was divided
into two separate schools, each of which has grown healthily

as has also the school of Theology, added in 1870. But the
Natural Science school was weakling, like Mathematics in

Oxford, and for many years showed only the feeblest signs

of life.                                      strong growth

    It may be that the previous existence of

274
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  2/5

like the school of Literce Humaniores is inimical to the well-
being of organisms not akin to it ; or again, without assuming
any deleterious influence of one organism or the other, the
flourishing of the former may be an indication that the en-
vironment is not suited to the latter. In the one case vigorous

efforts to cultivate the new growth might be successful, though

the old growth might possibly suffer in the process ; in the
other case such efforts would not be so hopeful. But leaving

such speculations on one side, there seems to be no doubt of
the fact that the teaching of science as a part of the University
curriculum is attended with great difficulties ; and if Pritchard
achieved nothing very striking in this direction, it need excite
no surprise. He never neglected this part of his work ; his

formal lectures were continued, to those few who showed an

interest in astronomy, throughout his tenure of office, ex-
cepting the last year or two, in which Mr Plummer lectured
for him. And the MSS. of these lectures show that they
were prepared with great care ; indeed, his heart had been in
educational work all his life, as his success at the Clapham
Grammar School is sufficient to demonstrate.

     He was untiring in his efforts to make practical work
with astronomical instruments easy and attractive to students.
Those who have ever done any teaching work of this kind
know the difficulties of it. The conditions of working in the
dark and in the open air are perplexing and often uncom-

fortable ; astronomical apparatus is not multiplied so readily
as laboratory apparatus, and several persons must be instructed

at the same instrument, awaiting each their turn. Finally, the
weather enters as a distractingly uncertain element. These
difficulties Professor Pritchard resolutely attacked. After
giving elementary instruction for some years in the open air,
he built in 1885 a students' observatory on the roof of the
lecture room, in which he placed the instruments from the
old museum observatory, and some of his own which he

presented to the University.
2/6 CHARLES PRITCHARD

This situation not being found to give a steady enough

foundation, after a few years' experience he determined to

build a more suitable structure on the ground, which, however,

was only completed very shortly before his death.
    To those students who had acquired some knowledge of

the elementary facts about instruments, the course of the

researches being conducted by means of the chief instruments

of the observatory was then explained. Much more than this

could not be done in the few hours that students were able

to devote to astronomy, which was never more than a mere

incident in their course of study ; but considerable pains were
taken to achieve so much. The peculiar constitution of the

University made it practically impossible to do more.*

Pritchard was not satisfied with this state of things, as

may be imagined, and several times looked about him for

other students more ready to devote themselves and their

time to his instruction. In 1881 he refers to 'three very
different classes of persons ' towards whom he considers he
has duties. ' First there are the students and their require-

ments in regard to the studies prescribed by the University.

Next to these there are graduate members engaged in public

tuition, who have from time to time applied for more advanced

and complete information than is required for the purposes of
the schools. And thirdly, there is a large and increasing, and,
in some points of view, a very important class of young men,
whether connected with the University or outside of who,
                                                        a
                                                              it,
without possessing any considerable knowledge of mathe-

matics, desire to obtain as much acquaintance with fascinat-

ing science as may serve for recreation or parergon in leisure
I

                   is

             Ia

                                           it
* Extract from the report of the Savilian Professor on June 4, 1879  :         Until
                                                                            '

some material advantages are offered to students, in some degree corresponding to

those valuable and numerous rewards which are at once reaped from the other

studies of the University, can hardly expect that justice can be done to the diffi-

cult subject of astronomy, or to what believe to be the unusually great oppor-

tunities provided by the University for the students at the observatory. In plain

language, the study of astronomy  supposed not to pay sufficiently well in the

public examinations to encourage students to take up.'
              WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY         277

hours. Each of these three classes has claimed the Professor's

attention during the last year.'

 . In the next report (1882) he is still impressed with the

same idea.

' I have adhered to the plan proposed for the lectures

which I indicated in my last report (June 1881). It
                              I                          as

                                             I

                                                                                  is,
                                                                                        a
there explained, intended to embrace three different classes

of persons thus lectures were offered to the students on the
              ;

lunar and planetary theories, and on more elementary and

practical subjects. On three occasions invited the attend-

ance of schoolmasters of elementary schools in the city and

its neighbourhood, and to some twenty of these important

officers  II  expounded what  considered to be the proper

method of teaching geometry and cognate subjects. It

seemed to me that this attempt was within the lines of my

duty to the University. On account of the apparition of

comet which was expected to present features of unusual
interest, also offered lectures on the whole theory of these

singular bodies, both mathematical, observational and physi-

cal. regret to say that no member of the University availedI
himself of the offer. The stimulus which applied to the
                                 is

cultivation of other branches of learning, by means of scholar-
ships and other modes of practical and material encourage-

ment, non-existent in the case of astronomy. The con-is

sequences are obvious, and cannot be effectually removed

except by extending to that branch of science that same

fostering hand which  is  so bountiful in regard to other

studies.'

    Enough has perhaps been said to show the kind of effort
made in the direction of teaching, and the reasons why only

a moderate success was to be expected. In later reports no

special comments are made on the subject, and the Professor

seems to have accepted the situation and turned his atten-

tion more completely to research and here the success of
                              ;

the new observatory was assured from the very beginning.
2/8 CHARLES PRITCHARD

Two great pieces of work, on stellar photometry and stellar
parallax, were completed, each of which was crowned with a
medal ; and the inception of a third of even greater magnitude
occupied the closing years of Pritchard's life. Besides these,
several other researches of considerable importance were

undertaken and brought to a successful issue; but I have

Pritchard's own authority for dividing up the seventeen years
of his labours into periods, according to the aforesaid three
great pieces of work. In his report for 1891 he writes : ' The
completion of the whole scheme of the determination of

stellar parallax, as originally conceived, may be said to con-
stitute the second epoch in the history of the University ob-
servatory. The publication of the photometric work in the

Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis I regard as the first. In like

manner the third epoch now commences with the construc-
tion of the photographic star chart, or, at least, that zone of it
which is assigned to this observatory.' The division between
the first and second epoch in 1886 was well marked, one work

being completed before the other was projected ; but in 1891
much had already been done on the star chart for it turned

out to be no small labour to get a suitable instrument, as

Pritchard had done. I mention this lest it should appear
from the comparison of the date (1891) with that of Prit-

chard's death early in 1893, that he had not time to accom-

plish much in the third undertaking. I shall presently show
that this was far from being the case. The work of

the astrographic chart really began in 1887 with the Inter-
national Congress.

    I do not consider it necessary here to describe in detail

all the pieces of work done at the observatory during Prit-
chard's directorate. For the purposes of biography it will be
better to select one or two of them as representative. But
before proceeding to such description of any, I give here
for reference a very brief summary of his Annual Reports
to the Board of Visitors, presented each year in June.
       WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY        279

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE RESEARCHES, AS SHOWN IN
       ANNUAL REPORTS TO BOARD OF VISITORS.

     1876. Double stars (34 nights). Photos of moon (150).

Venus (21), Jupiter (18). Saturn's satellites (32 nights).

Observations of chromosphere (i day).
     1877. Photos of moon (426). Double stars (259 measures

of 117 stars). Orbits graphically determined (several).
Comets (3 observed on 16, 48 and 23 nights; and elements

and ephemerides computed). Saturn's satellites (88 measures).

Chromosphere (22 days).

    1878. Photos of moon (600). Double stars (i 10 measures
of 45 stars). Orbits of double stars (2). Comets (2 ob-
served on 4, and 14 nights ; 5 orbits computed and i
ephemeris). Saturn's satellites. Pleiades (31 stars in R.A.

and Dec., as well as distance with duplex micrometer).
First volume of observations published.

     1879. Photos of moon (300). Measurements of these
for physical libration, and diameter. Comets (2) observed.
Pleiades measures with duplex micrometer.

1880. Lunar libration discussion nearly completed.

Pleiades measures. Also measures on 39 Messier.
     1 88 1. Lunar libration completed. Memoir on possibility

of accurate measurement of photographs. Comets. Double

stars. Measures on 39 Messier.

1882.  Memoir of last year (on photography)  com-

pleted. Pleiades measures discussion complete, nearly ready

for press. Wedge photometry commenced. Comet Wells

(brightness of). Hours of bright sunshine.

1883. (No report printed in the Gazette, nor preserved at

the observatory. Professor Pritchard was in Egypt in the

early months of the year.)

     1884. Three memoirs appear in Vol. xlvii., Mem.
R.A.S., from this observatory. ' On the Moon's Photographic

Diameter and on the Applicability of Celestial Photography
280 CHARLES PRITCHARD

to Accurate Measurement' (Pritchard). * On the Solar
Motion in Space' (W. E. Plummer). 'Photometric Deter-
mination of the Relative Brightness of the Brighter Stars

north of the Equator ' (Pritchard). A memoir on Pleiades

nearly ready. Photometric work preceeding, and Uranotnetria

Nova Oxoniensis projected.

     1885. Pleiades memoir complete. Photometric work
complete.

1886. Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis published, and gold

medal of Royal Astronomical Society awarded. Novae

Andromedae and Orionis watched. Parallax work projected.

1887. Parallax of 61 Cygni determined photographically.

Parallaxes of  Cassiop. and Polaris commenced. Some
               /a-
photographs of Pleiades with De la Rue reflector.
                                                                    it
     1888. Parallax work proceeding (ten or twelve stars).
Testing of capacities of two mirrors of different focal

lengths for the Royal Society.

     1889. First volume of Parallax being printed. De la
Rue gave astrographic telescope, and testing of trial object-

glasses commenced.                    First volume of results
     1890. Parallax work proceeding.  of trial photographic

printed and distributed. Testing

objectives.

     1891. Parallax nearly completed down to second-magni-
tude stars. Preliminary investigations for star chart.

     1892. Parallax work complete, and volume ready for
press, with a history of the subject. Photometry of specified

areas for star chart. Nova Aurigas.

    It will be gathered from the foregoing summary that be-

sides the memoirs contributed to the Royal Astronomical
Society and the Royal Society, four volumes of observations
have been issued as the definite result of work at the Oxford
University Observatory. The first volume, though contains

some excellent work, does not call for any very special mention.
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  28 1

In a brief introduction, the director gives some particulars of
the observatory and its work up to the end of 1877. Then
follow the observations of Saturn's satellites, double stars,
comets ; and the calculations of the orbits of g Ursae Majoris,

70 Ophiuchi, and /a2 Bootis all excellent work, but not very
novel ; well adapted for showing the capacities of the
observers (generally Mr Plummer) and the instruments, and
by no means useless, but not of the same striking character
as the work which was to follow ; like a serious and earnest

trial of a racing crew, and no mere paddling, though not the
actual race itself. There was no doubt about the race when

it did come. Such a metaphor would not apply to the work

of most observatories, which is extended over many years, if

not centuries, on a uniform plan. But Pritchard worked in a

different way, in comparatively short, sharp bursts ; and his
undertakings might very well be compared to races, with

their well-marked start and finish, their definite result, and

their reward for victory.

     The second volume of publications of the University
observatory might have been expected to contain the work on
lunar libration. It will be remembered that this was a re-
search indicated by De la Rue as suitable for the employ-
ment of his reflector (see page 267), and Pritchard lost no
time in complying with the wishes of his friend and bene-
factor. Some thousands of photographs of the moon were
taken with the instrument by the second assistant, Mr

Jenkins. Many of them were carefully measured with a
' measuring engine/ also provided by the liberality of De la

Rue, and the results were collected and discussed, as appears

in the above summary. In 1880 and 1881 Pritchard
announces that the discussion of the libration is nearly com-
plete, and suggests that when complete it will fitly form the
next volume of the publications. But the volume never
appeared. There was some hitch in the final discussion what

I do not exactly know and the work was laid aside. The
282 CHARLES PRITCHARD

papers are still in the observatory, and I shall hope at some

future time to examine them. But Pritchard certainly saw

some reason for withholding the publication. I do not think

there is any reason for not stating this fact plainly. I have

lost a little time myself hunting for the published results of

which references in reports, etc., led me to expect the exist-

ence ; and to have it down in plain words that the results

were never published may save others similar lost time in

searching. It is clearly another case similar to the optical

tables. Pritchard found, when the work was all but complete,,

that there was some flaw, and withheld the publication. It is

not likely that, as in the former case, the whole work was

practically useless ; but there was some cause for dissatisfac-

tion, and the work was laid aside. It would have been more

satisfactory to know the exact difficulty from Pritchard him-

self, but I cannot find that he has left any record of
                                   a                                          and
                                                               it,
we must therefore be content with general explanation.

Pritchard was sufficiently successful on other occasions to

allow of the plain statement of this comparative failure. It

   possibly the duty of a biographer to draw attention to such
is
               afailures more particularly forundoubtedly an encourage-
                                it
                it it
                                    is
                                         a

                                            it

                                                   a
                                                                   a

                                                                      is
                                                                           a
ment to others to know that the undertakings of successful

man are not always successful.

The work on the lunar photographs was, however, not

without useful issue. Incidentally was made clear that

photographs were susceptible of very accurate measure-

ment; and this was a most important fact, and, at the

time, comparatively new. That      photograph                                 very

close copy of the original must have been obvious from

the first              was the essential merit of photograph. But

the demands of astronomers are of the most exacting

kind and               was in 1880 not yet clearly established that

they could be satisfied by the photographic method. Those

who have never examined         a  photograph closely would

be astonished to find what an amount of distortion can
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  283

escape notice in a general inspection by the eye. A paper

print of a portrait, for instance, is always more or less

distorted, owing to the different shrinking of the paper
Ifin different directions.
                            the paper has a well-marked

grain or structure, as is usually the case, the portrait may

be given a long face or a wide face by suitably placing

this grain ; and yet the eye would still recognise the
likeness. - But a measuring apparatus would at once re-

veal these defects ; and such a photograph would be use-

less for astronomical purposes unless special precautions

were taken.

We now know that in a photograph on glass such

shrinkage or distortion is sufficiently small to render a

photograph available for measurements of great astronomi-

cal precision ; and Pritchard took an important share in

the work of establishing this fact. A few quotations will

show his historical position.
     On the occasion of the transit of Venus in 1874, a

large number of photographs of the sun, with Venus in

transit, were taken by the British expeditions ; and it was

hoped that careful micrometric measures of the distance of
Venus from the sun's limb (as the edge of the sun is

termed) would supplement or even supplant the eye obser-
vations of the moments of ingress and egress. But after

many attempts and much labour, this hope was relinquished.

I quote the words of Sir G. B. Airy, then Astronomer- Royal,

under whose superintendence Major Tupman and his com-

puters worked:
     ' After laborious measures and calculations, it was thought

best to abstain from publishing the results of the photo-

graphic measures as comparable with those deduced from

telescopic view. The considerations which led to this de-

cision are stated by Major Tupman in a paper in the

"Monthly Notices," R.A.S., Vol. xxxviii., p. 508. They
are mainly embodied in this that, however well the sun's
284 CHARLES PRITCHARD

limb on the photograph appeared to the naked eye to be
defined, yet on applying to it a microscope it became in-
distinct and untraceable, and when the sharp wire of the

micrometer was placed on
1                                                 entirely disappeared.'

         is
                                             it,

                                         it
Again, referring to some images taken with Janssen's

apparatus

    'They have not been further reduced. The ardour of

the observers had been much cooled by the apparent general

failure of the photographic principle, and they were unwill-

ing to spend further time on these reductions.*

1881, June 10.                                    G. B. AIRY.'

This historically a most important statement. Airy

had taken the greatest interest in everything connected with
the transit of Venus, and although he was getting old, and
was not able to deal with the mass of work done at the
royal observatory with the vigour and keenness of his

earlier years, he would not have made any such sweeping

assertions without being well satisfied of their general

correctness. We may lay all due emphasis on the fact

that in 1881 Airy regarded the 'photographic principle'

as having generally failed.' Fortunately for astronomers,'a
this decision was reversed within very few months, both'a
in England and America. In May 1882 Pritchard wrote

his memoir On the Moon's Photographic Diameter and

on the Applicability of Celestial Photography to Accurate

Measurement' (Mem. R.A.S., Vol. xlvii.) and on p. 16
of this memoir he remarks, as the summary of preceding
                                                  ;

                                                          a

discussion
a

     '
          1
                                :

                             is

                           it
So far, then, seems that the accuracy of the photo-

graphic method established on secure basis and appends
                                                  ;'

footnote:

     Since this paper was completed for publication, the
elaborate discussion by the American astronomers of the

     * Transit  Venus 1874. Printed at H.M. Stationery office. Appendix V.,
p. 19.          of

                                  >
       WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY                285

results of the photographic measures of the transit of

Mercury in May 1878, have amply confirmed the con-

clusions regarding the reliability of photography properly

applied as derived from the present investigation.'   (See
                                                     these
Am. Journ. of Set., Vol. xxii., Nov. 1881.)
     No comments of mine are needed to supplement

striking phrases, which show at once that Pritchard was
one of the first to pin his faith on photographic measure-

ment with good reason. But the work and faith of De
la Rue must not be forgotten. It was De la Rue who

had first applied the photographic method in 1860 to a

solar eclipse, and who had measured his photographs

with great care and labour. It was De la Rue who gave

his own instrument to Oxford, in order that such photo-

graphs might be taken ; who suggested their measurement ;

who bought and presented the micrometer to measure them

with; and whose keen interest in the result was doubtless

a powerful factor in the progress of the work. It is no

disparagement to Pritchard to recall these facts; the pair
of friends each needed the other, and by their happy coali-

tion work was done which neither might have done alone,
but in the accomplishment of which both had ample
opportunity to show their powers, whether of munificence

and suggestion, or of appreciation, skill and determina-

tion.

Some years later, in the parallax work, Pritchard was

to test the photographic principle still more severely, but

after this first essay (with which, as I have already remarked,

he was not quite satisfied) he turned his attention in a quite
different direction, and it is from this point that he con-

sidered the real history of the University observatory to

begin. I proceed to describe very briefly the scope of the

photometric work summed up in the Uranometria Nova
Oxoniensis. In an introduction to this volume, Pritchard

has given such an admirable account of the work and its
286 CHARLES PRITCHARD

historical relations, that " little more than quotation is neces-
sary. Much of what follows is accordingly taken bodily
from this introduction ; but to avoid the use of inverted
commas, of which there are already so many in these pages

as to tire the eye, I state my acknowledgments here.

     The Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis is a large octavo volume
containing 117 pages of tabular matter, and 27 pages of

introduction. It represents the work of three years on the

photometry of stars visible to ordinary and unaided eyes,
from the North Pole to about ten degrees south of the
Equator. This work was one of the earliest attempts to
measure the brightness of the stars by an instrument specially
designed for the purpose, called the Wedge Photometer. Up
to this time systematic classifications of the stars according
to their brightness had been conducted by means of the eye

alone, or the eye aided merely by a telescope ; and the

fundamental principle of working was the comparison of two

stars to see which was the brighter, or whether they were so

nearly equal in brightness that no difference could be de-

tected. It is clear that in this way a number of stars could

be arranged in order of brightness; or that a number of

classes could be formed, each containing stars brighter than
those in the class below. But it is also clear that the differ-
ences between one class and the next might not be always
the same ; there would at least be no guarantee of uniformity

in these differences. It might turn out that the eye was so

constituted as to assign a constant difference between the

classes throughout, but this would have to be established by
independent means. Curiously enough it did turn out very
nearly so. Ancient astronomers (Hipparchus and Ptolemy)
divided the stars into six classes. They assigned the ' first
magnitude,' to a small group of the brightest stars, and then

proceeded step by step in successive groups to the 'sixth
magnitude,' which included all stars shining with the feeblest
lustre admitting of appreciation by the naked eye. When
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  287

systematic measurements were brought to bear on these

classes, it was found that each was about 2\ times brighter
than the class below. It may excite surprise that the differ-

ence in lustre was so marked ; and it must not be supposed
that the brightness of the stars can be arranged in nearly
uniform classes differing so abruptly one from another. In-

termediate steps between these classes were soon established.
Ptolemy himself sub-divided each magnitude into three, an

amount of precision which seems to have been subsequently
abandoned by his successors. His work remained practically

unimproved from his day (A.D. 150) to that of the elder
Herschel at the close of the eighteenth century. In this

interval some few attempts were made to improve Ptolemy's

estimations as by Abd-al-Rahman Al Sufi (A.D. 930), Tycho

Brahe (circa 1570), Hevelius (circa 1680) ; while Bayer (1601)
applied the letters of the Greek alphabet to denote the stars
in a constellation more or less in the order of brightness,
without any re-examination of Ptolemy's work. Finally
Flamsteed (circa 1689), the first Astronomer- Royal, and the

first astronomer who applied the telescope to systematic

celestial measurements, re-introduced the sub-divisions of a
magnitude into thirds, by means of the notation now in

general use ; but in other respects exhibited either negligence
or unconcern in his estimations of relative stellar brightness.

It was this disregard of precision on Flamsteed's part which

mainly induced Sir William Herschel * to turn his own atten-

tion to the subject. He divided a constellation into small

groups of two or three or four stars of nearly equal brightness,

and he then arranged the stars in these small groups in the
order of their lustre. Stars common to two groups formed

the connecting links. It was, however, no part of his inten-
tion to form a complete catalogue of magnitudes, but to
record the means of detecting any the slightest variation
which might occur at future periods in any of the stars form-

                                    * Phil. Trans. 1746, p. 166.
 288 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 ing any of his groups. His son, Sir John Herschel, during
his busy life at the Cape of Good Hope (1835-1838), proposed
to apply to the southern heavens that same sort of scrutiny
 which his father had applied to the northern. But he ex-
tended and somewhat modified the scope of the work, so that
it might have furnished him with a systematic catalogue of
magnitudes if completed. Further, he invented a photometer
of a rude kind, but the first photometer applied to the bright-
ness of the stars. It consisted of a pole, a small lens of short
focus, a few strings and a graduated tape. With these

materials properly arranged, he could obtain in the focus of
the lens a microscopic image of the moon, and this he could

view in any direction, and at any measured distance from
the eye, so that, being brought into the line of sight of
any particular star, he could alter the distance of the tiny
image, until it and the star appeared to be equally bright.

In this way the brightness of some sixty-nine stars were
compared with that of a Centauri, and the results were

tabulated.

     About this time Argelander was at work at Bonn on
astrometry, and completed a large systematic catalogue. In
1843 ne published his Uranometria Nova, containing the
estimated magnitudes of all the stars visible to the naked
eye in Central Europe. This, in fact, is the first successful
attempt made by modern astronomers to arrange in an
original and independent catalogue the relative brightness
of the stars. Argelander has not recorded the details of the
method which he adopted to secure his results, nor is it

possible to say by what means or mental impressions he
preserved a fair uniformity of scale, and a general con-
formity to the magnitudes recorded by his predecessors.

     His first work was soon followed by another of far greater
magnitude and importance. With the most able assistance
of Drs Schonfeld and Kriiger, he recorded the approxi-
mate places and brightnesses of about 324,000 stars (down to
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  289

the ninth magnitude), using in this case a telescope to assist

the eye.
     Other workers in the field were Heis, Houzeau, Flammarion

and B. A. Gould.
    After this rapid glance at the history of the determina-

tion of star magnitude by estimation, we will briefly consider
the various proposed forms of photometer for measuring the
brightness and expressing it as a physical quantity.

    Almost the first devised was that of Sir John Herschel
mentioned above, wherein a minute image of the moon was
placed at different distances from the eye. The scale of the

photometer was thus expressed in distance, and the brightness
was inferred from the law that it varies inversely as the

square of the distance.
     About the same time, Steinheil, at Munich, was arranging

a more refined instrument, which was subsequently used by

Seidel. It consisted of a small telescope with divided object-

glass, each of the halves of which was furnished with a re-
flecting prism, so that by means of suitable mechanism the
images of two stars might be viewed side by side in the

telescope, and thus compared.
     Zollner devised a photometer in which he successfully

applied Arago's suggestion of the method of polarization.
The comparison star in Zollner' s instrument was formed arti-
ficially by means of a lamp, the light of which could be re-

duced by double refraction through a measurable quantity,
until it was judged to have the same intensity as that of
any required star in the same field of view as the arti-
ficial star itself. This photometer has been largely used,
chiefly by Zollner himself, Peirce, Wolff, Miiller and Linde-

mann.

     Professor Pickering of Harvard dispenses with the divided
object-glass of Steinheil and Seidel, with the lamp of Zollner,
but combines other principles of both instruments in his
1 Meridian Photometer.' There is a telescope tube placed

                                              T
290 CHARLES PRITCHARD

horizontally at right angles to the meridian in which are

placed two object-glasses, with their axes slightly inclined to
each other, and each armed with an adjustable reflecting
prism. Images of Polaris and of another star to be compared

are thus brought near together, and equalised by the polariza-
tion method of Arago and Zollner.

     In all these instruments the light of the star is compared
directly with the standard light.

     We now return to the Wedge Photometer, which is of a

different kind. It is constructed on the principle that light,

in passing through a transparent homogeneous medium,
loses an amount of intensity depending on the thickness
passed through. When we adopt the usual definition of
stellar ' magnitude,' the law of this absorption is as follows.
The alteration of apparent magnitude is directly propor-
tional to the thickness of the medium passed through. The

medium adopted in the wedge photometer is a glass prism
or wedge of very nearly neutral-tinted glass (we may quote

the exact dimensions of one such wedge, viz., 6J inches long,

I inch broad, and 0*145 inch thick at one end, 0*02 inch thick
at the other). Cemented to it is a similar wedge of white
glass placed the reverse way, the whole forming a glass
plate of uniform thickness. The white glass, however, does
not absorb the light of a star viewed through the plate, while
the neutral-tinted glass does ; and the absorption is greater
near the thick end of the neutral-tinted wedge, less near

the thin end. It will be readily seen, from the law of absorp-
tion above quoted, and from the fact that the thickness of a

wedge is directly proportional to the distance from the edge,
that the alteration of apparent magnitude in a star caused
by the absorption of this wedge is directly proportional to
the distance from the edge of the point through which the
star is viewed, and in practice this principle is made use of as

follows.
     The wedge slides in a groove on the brass cap of the
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  291

 eye-piece of any telescope, close to the chromatic eye-lens,
and is thus placed between the eye of the observer and the
 telescope. In the focus of the eye-lens is a diaphragm,
 pierced with a number of small holes, which vary from the
hundredth of an inch to a quarter of an inch in diameter,
and in one of these small circular holes the telescopic image
of a star is carefully placed, and there viewed through the
wedge. Further, the eye of the observer is directed along the
axis of the lens and of the telescope by means of an external

eye-hole close to the wedge, and varying from one-twelfth to
one-fourth of an inch. This direction of vision is important.

      Looking then through the wedge at the image of a star,

the observer slides the wedge in its groove until the image is

just extinguished by the wedge. A scale on the wedge and a

fiducial mark on the brass cap give the position of the wedge
when this happens ; and usually the image of a star is extin-
guished five times independently, the mean of the five scale

 readings is taken, and the result is called the wedge reading

 for that star.

      From what has been said above, it follows that the differ-

ence of wedge readings for any two stars is directly propor-
tional to their difference of magnitude ; or in symbolic

language, if m be the magnitude of a star and w the wedge

 reading, then

where A and B are two constants. The constant B is inde-

pendent of weather, and is 'called the scale value of the wedge.
The constant A, representing the magnitude of a star just
extinguished at the zero reading of the wedge, is affected
by the state of the sky on any particular night, and is

deduced from observations on a standard star, which must be

repeated sufficiently often to follow any changes in the
weather. Generally speaking, the determination of this con-
stant presents no difficulty. But the determination of the
constant B is fundamental, and calls for particular notice.
292 CHARLES PRITCHARD

All the measures are made in terms of this scale value, and

any error in it affects all the results, in the same way that all

measures of length depend upon the yard measure or other

unit of length with which they are made.

     The method adopted by Professor Pritchard for the deter-

mination of this scale-value is described by him in Mem.

R.A.S., Vol. xlvii. (under date May n, 1883). It depends on

the use of a doubly refracting prism of quartz and a Nicol

prism, but the details need not be repeated here. Using the

scale-value so determined, the deduced star magnitudes were

in good accordance with those found by other observers.

Curiously enough, reason has since been found for doubt-

ing the accuracy of this method for determining the scale-
value. In the Monthly Notices for March 1890, Dr Spitta

describes some experiments in which he applied the wedge

photometer to the extinction of some artificial lights, the

relative intensity of which was previously and independently

known. The scale-value had been determined at the Oxford

University Observatory according to the method described

by Professor Pritchard, and was subsequenly confirmed by
Dr Spitta using the same method ; but to his astonishment
Dr Spitta found that the consequent evaluations of the artificial

lights did not agree with the independently known ratios.

After some considerable trouble he found that the deter-

mination of scale-value was interfered with by internal and

other reflections, which, however, could be got rid of by

using a suitable diaphragm ; and with this precaution he

obtained a scale-value corresponding to the known facts ;

and this value was confirmed by Captain Abney using a quite
independent photographic method (Monthly Not, Vol. p.
                                                a
515). Professor Pritchard promptly re-examined the scale-
                                                             ].,
value of the Oxford wedges, 'duly attending to his (Dr

Spitta's) remarks as to the necessity of using  proper

diaphragm in order to obviate the internal and other reflec-

tions which he regarded as the source of error in his own
             WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY                                      293

case. The result was that no correction could possibly be
made in the co-efficient of absorption of the wedge used for

the Oxford Uranometria (Mon. Not., Vol. p. 512). The
                        is

                                                                   ;

                                                     is
                                                             is

                                                                                                            1.,

                                                                                                              a
           discrepancy     curious, and has not been explained satis-

factorily. Professor Pritchard was, perhaps pardonably,

little impatient of criticism and after the brief paper from

which the above quotation                       taken, wherein he gives the

figures on which this conclusion                                                 based, refused to discuss

the matter further. There seems to be no doubt that the

scale-values adopted for the wedges in the Uranometria Nova
Oxoniensis are very near the truth,* though Dr Spitta's re-

searches point to the conclusion that this fortunate result

must be considered as more or less accidental.

     Systematic work with the wedges was commenced at the

end of 88 1. The wedge photometer was described to the

Royal Astronomical Society on November 1881 (Mon. Not,
xlii., i), and sufficient observations had then already been
             p.
                           to justify the expression of hopes for its
                   1

                       it
made with

great utility and accuracy. The MS. of the earliest observa-

tions has by some accident not been preserved, the first MS.

book being numbered and the first observation recorded in
                               2,
                                          2
                                            is
it         being under date 1881, December 22. Stitched to the

          1cover of this book Number            a printed copy of the paper

           from the Monthly Notices, and the following interesting letter
           from Dr Huggins
                           :
                                                                              1  UPPER TULSE HILL S.W.,

                                                                                                  February 1882.

             MY DEAR PROFESSOR PRITCHARD, In 1865                                had
           constructed by " the last of the Dollonds " an instrument com-        I

                                                                                            p.
           bining Dawes's "aperture diminishing eye-piece" and his
           " photometer of neutral-tint glass " (Mon. Not., Vol. xxv.,

           229). At the time took some pains as to spectral uniformity
                        I
                            I
               * In saying this, anticipate the publication of independent re-determinations

           made recently by Captain Abney and Dr Spitta. II. H. T.
294 CHARLES PRITCHARD

of absorption of the neutral-tint glass wedge. On referring to

my paper in Phil. Trans., 1866, p. 394, when this apparatus

was used for light of nebulae, I find that I speak on this
point in these words : " An examination of the neutral-tint

glass with a prism showed that the absorptive power of the

glass for all refrangibilities in the brighter portions of
                                        "
spectrum  was  very  nearly  uniform       and  I considered  the
                                      ;

glass screen I used and also the graduated wedges to be

quite uniform enough for my purpose.

    ' I delayed replying to your note to re-examine the wedges
and some other specimens of neutral-tint glass I have obtained

since 1865.

    ' The above statement from Phil. Trans, is correct so far as

the dim metropolitan light we get here permits me to form

an opinion.

* There is absorption from about B A-wards, and there is also

a very faint want of uniformity of absorption in the brightest
part of the spectrum.

    'Now as to your direct questions: i. Star Spectra. I

Ifound, as a rule, that the light of stars after passing through a

spectroscope of the power used was too much weakened to
allow of good observations below C, and therefore I did not

attempt to observe below that point. No doubt nearly all

bright stars observed through a single prism under most

favourable circumstances for light, "have observable light

about and somewhat less than B."

   ' If one star had a bright line about B, and another had

the continuous spectrum about B nearly blotted out by

absorption lines, no doubt the wedge estimation would differ

(theoretically at least) from an eye-observation by some other
method.

' Your second question whether practically the wedge canis,

be trusted. No doubt that in the case of the stars visible to

the naked eye, among which there are no very red stars, the

wedge would give results quite comparable probably with
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  295

those of any other method, because any small errors arising
from the want of absorptive uniformity would doubtless be
much smaller than the unavoidable errors of estimation

coming in from other causes. The light about B in any

ordinary light, giving a continuous spectrum, takes a very
feeble part indeed in influencing our estimation of the

brightness of the light.

    ' Practically, for your purpose, I should think your apparatus

would not lead you sensibly wrong, but, of course, it is open
theoretically to such objections as those of Loewy.

    ' I think the very faint want of uniform absorption in the
brightest part of the spectrum, which is so feeble in my glass

as to be scarcely more than suspected, would not sensibly

affect your results.
     ' Some specimens of neutral-tint glass I have are more

perfect in this respect than some others. Yours sincerely,

                                                'WILLIAM HUGGINS.'

     This letter reminds us of the novelty of the enterprise
and the doubtful questions to be resolved at the time of
undertaking. The instrument was not yet thoroughly
proven. The road to be trodden was a new one : were
there pitfalls unavoidable ? Pritchard took every precaution
against them. He made the first few steps himself, and re-
ported progress to the Royal Astronomical Society ; but the
ease with which they were made did not render him careless.
He was unremitting in his care that his footing should be

secure ; and especially does this appear in his consultations

of the best possible guides to the new country. I am not sure
whether a certain characteristic of Pritchard has been made
sufficiently clear in what precedes that, namely, of always
asking the best advice he could get. In reading over the
raw material letters and notes of all kinds this character-

istic forces itself prominently into my view ; but it may have

been lost in the inevitable selection from the incoherent
296 CHARLES PR1TCHARD

mass. Pritchard was thoroughly capable of striking out a

new line, the foregoing pages must indeed have been badly

written if this does not appear clearly, but he was desirous,

to the point of anxiety, of confirmation by the best authorities

available ; and his embarking on a new enterprise is always

marked by a crop of letters to those in whose opinions he had

most confidence. The above letter from Dr Huggins must

stand as a representative of a considerable number, wherein the

fundamental principle of the wedge photometer is discussed

with astronomers of ripest experience in this particular line.

This discussion guided, but did not replace, direct experiment

at the Oxford University Observatory. The date of the above

        will be noted, some months subsequent to the paper
Iletter

             is,describing the preliminary and successful experiments, detailed

             a itto the Royal Astronomical Society in November 1881.
                     B itTo return to the actual work with the wedge photometer,

  give here, in the words of the introduction to the Urano-

metria Nova Oxoniensis, the method of using the instrument.

About ten stars were selected for a night's work, such that

they could be observed at nearly the same altitude as Polaris,

in order that might not be necessary to correct the measures

for absorption of light by the atmosphere. The two photo-

meters A and were attached to two telescopes, the one of

four inches, the other of three inches aperture, each telescope

being in separate dome the four-inch telescope being under

the charge of Mr Plummer, the senior assistant, and the other

under Mr Jenkins, the junior assistant. Each observer was

independently to measure the several stars specified. The

complete plan was that Polaris should be extinguished at the

beginning, the middle, and the conclusion of the observations.

The readings of the wedge were taken five times with the full

aperture of the two telescopes. A cap was then placed on

each object-glass, reducing the linear aperture to one-half,

and five readings for extinction were again made. The

reason for thus altering the aperture was to establish thereby
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  297

a check on the former sets of five measures by means of a

virtually new instrument.
     Each of the other stars whose magnitude was to be com-

pared with that of Polaris was then observed altogether with
twenty extinctions consisting of independent sets of five ex-
tinctions. The wedge readings were usually brought to me

on the following morning, and were reduced to magnitude by

the method shown in the example on page 21, on the scale

that the magnitude of Polaris should be 2-05. If during

the observations any suspicious circumstances had arisen re-
garding the clearness of the sky in the neighbourhood of

Polaris, or of the stars observed, the sky was scrutinized out
of doors, and the observations if necessary discontinued.

     With this representative programme for a night's work, a
campaign of some three years was undertaken and carried to
a successful conclusion. In all, 2784 stars were examined,

their brightnesses carefully determined, and the results

tabulated in a convenient form in the catalogue known as

the Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis. I hesitate to add further

details which might weary those not especially interested,
and which those who are will find in the volume itself. But
one point of some importance remains to be noticed. The
apparent brightness of a star varies with its altitude, because

of the varying thickness of the atmosphere by which its
light is partially absorbed. The original observations made

at the telescope must thus be corrected for this systematic
error, and for this purpose a knowledge of the law of
absorption of light by the atmosphere is required. Observa-

tions were made with this object at Oxford; but 'so im-

portant and essential to his inquiry did Professor Pritchard
consider an accurate knowledge of the value of the absorp-
tion constant that, with his accustomed vigour, he resolved
to compare the results of the observations made at Oxford
with others determined with the same instrument and ob-

server in some climate steadier and more uniform than
298 CHARLES PRITCHARD

that at Oxford. Accordingly, in January and February

1883, we find him, with his assistant Mr Jenkins, stationed

at the Khedive's observatory near Cairo, prosecuting his

research with such success that, after a residence of five

weeks, no fewer than 3385 wedge extinctions were made.
The absorption constant determined at the two stations,

though indicating a real difference of climate, differed less

than had been anticipated, the respective values from the

Oxford and Cairo extinctions being '253 and '187, show-

ing differences of *o66 of a magnitude  a quantity

about equal to the probable error of observation with the

photometer employed.' (Extract from the president's ad-
dress on presenting the gold medal of the Royal Astro-

nomical Society to Professor Pickering and Professor

Pritchard conjointly. Mon. Not. R.A.S., xlvi., p. 273.)
     The Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis was printed by the

Clarendon Press in 1885. In February of the next year
the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society was

awarded conjointly to Professor Edward C. Pickering,

Director of the Observatory of Harvard College, U.S., and

the Rev. Charles Pritchard, D.D., Savilian Professor of

Astronomy in the University of Oxford, for their photo-

metric researches. Professor Pickering had been indepen-

dently working at the same subject with a different instru-

ment, and had produced a larger catalogue about the same

time. The two catalogues have been compared with each

other, and with other similar catalogues on several occasions,

and considerable discussion as to their respective merits

has ensued; but it is not within the scope of this bio-

graphy to follow this discussion, or to criticise further a

work the value of which will become better apparent with

the lapse of time. It is sufficient here to record as above
the award of the gold medal an undoubted testimony to

the great merits of the work. Another sentence from the

president's address on the occasion of the award may
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  299

perhaps be added. ' In Professor Pritchard we observe an
astronomer whose opportunities for stated observatory
work only commenced at a time of life when most of us
natuarally feel a desire to be relieved from all active re-
search, establishing under difficulties a first-class observa-
tory, which has already attained a reputation for sound
original work, of which many older establishments might
well be proud a reputation that, doubtless, will be re-
tained at least so long as the University observatory re-
mains under the personal control of our esteemed col-

league.'

     From the many letters of congratulation which the

veteran astronomer received when the award became

known, the following two may be selected as specially

worthy of record, if only because of the personalities of

the writers.

                                                                                                ' OXFORD,

                                                                      ' January I2//&, 1886.

    'DEAR PROFESSOR PRITCHARD, I write to thank you
for your letter and enclosure, which give me much pleasure.
I heartily sympathise with your feelings on this occasion.

     ' I wish you many years of happy and useful work.

    ' Will you send notice to the Gazette^ if you think it fit to

do so, in my name, " The Vice-Chancellor_is informed that the

council R.A.S.," etc., etc. I remain, yours very sincerely,

                                                                       ' B. JOWETT.'

                                                              * OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                       ^th February 1886.

    ' DEAR PROFESSOR PRITCHARD, As I find that I shall

not be able to attend the anniversary meeting on Friday, and
consequently shall not have the pleasure of seeing you re-
ceive the medal which you have so well deserved, and of

offering you my congratulations in person, I just write a
300 CHARLES PRITCHARD

line to show my goodwill and to express my hearty con-

gratulations on your successful work. I have unfortunately

been laid up lately with an attack of bronchitis, and although

I am now well again, I am obliged to be careful in this severe

weather not to expose myself to cold, and I should have to

return either at night or early next morning, as I have to

lecture on Saturday morning. Believe me to remain, yours

very truly,            J. C. ADAMS.

    'P.S. Please give our kind regards and congratulations

to Mrs Pritchard.'

The photometric work was no sooner completed than

another undertaking, equally laborious, important and novel,

was commened, viz., a systematic determination of the

parallaxes of the brighter stars by photography.  The

parallax of a star is the inverse of its distance, and is thus

large for stars near us, and small for those far away. The

majority of stars are so remote that their parallaxes are

too small for discernment with our present optical appli-

ances. There are only very few stars a few hundreds at

most, probably among the many millions which the

telescope can count, which have a sensible parallax, that

is to say, which sensibly change their apparent position

as the earth moves round the sun in its annual orbit.

It is this annual motion of the earth which enables us to

measure the parallaxes of the stars, and thus infer their

distance ; for at times of the year, separated by six months,
the positions of the earth are separated by nearly 200

millions of miles. That the stars present the same general

aspect from two stations so widely separated shows at

once how remote they must be ; but it is not until we

make measures with the greatest nicety of which modern
instruments are capable, that the full truth is realised. It

is then found that, not only is the aspect generally the
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  301

same, but so exactly the same that only in a very few

cases can any change be detected. It is found, as above

stated, that there are a few hundred stars at most which

slightly change their apparent position in response to the
real change of position of the earth in six months. The

vast majority must either be rigidly attached to the earth's
centre (a supposition which it is no longer necessary to

consider), or at least 200 billions of miles away ; for, if

nearer, they would apparently shift their positions every
six months by an amount which our telescopes could
measure. The few exceptional stars whose parallaxes are

measureable are not always found among the brighter stars,

as would naturally be the case if the stars were bodies of

uniform size and structure. We infer, therefore, that their

size and structure varies within wide limits, and that we

may yet find examples among the fainter stars, which
have not hitherto attracted attention, of sensible parallax.
But, other things being equal, the brighter stars should be
nearer us than the fainter ; and in undertaking a systematic
series of measurements for parallax, Pritchard selected the

brighter stars as more likely to give measureable parallaxes.
The novelty of his work consisted in the employment of
the photographic method. The most successful deter-
minations of parallax up to that time had depended on
eye observations with the heliometer, and work of great
beauty and accuracy had been accomplished with this
instrument by Bessel, Kriiger, Winnecke, Auwers, Gill,
Elkin and others. But the heliometer is an expensive
instrument, costing some thousands of pounds. Could this
great expense be obviated? By taking a photograph of
the portion of sky to be examined (viz., the star whose
parallax is to be determined and neighbouring stars),
measurements can be made in the study with a micro-
scope instead of on the sky itself with a heliometer. Are
these measurements equally valuable for the particular
302 CHARLES PRITCHARD

purpose in view? We have seen how Pritchard proved
to his own satisfaction, in the case of the lunar photographs,
that * the accuracy of the photographic method is established

on a secure basis' (p. 284); but when we come to stellar
parallax we are dealing with very small quantities indeed,
and it is not quite certain, or at least Pritchard did not

consider it well enough established, that for these very
small quantities photographs might replace the original
sky. Accordingly he set to work, in the first place, to

settle this question by direct experiment. Taking the
well-known star 61 Cygni, the parallax of which had been

already determined many times and by many different
observers, he sought its parallax by the measurement of

photographic plates, and to his great delight obtained
results in thoroughly good accordance with those of others

and of similar ' probable error.' I quote verbatim from the
report presented to the Board of Visitors on June 8,

1887.

     ' The somewhat hazardous enterprise of attempting, for
the first time in the history of astronomy, to obtain the
distance of the fixed stars from our earth by the aid of
photography has been attended with success. The final
results of the investigation have been placed in my hands
only during the writing of this report. The first observa-
tion was obtained on May 26 of last year, and the last
was effected on May 31 of the present year. The inter-

mediate computatious were systematically continued during

the interval. They involved the reduction of no less than
30,000 bisections of star images on 330 photographic plates
procured on eighty-nine nights. Eight 'independent deter-
minations of the parallax of the two components of 61
Cygni resulted from all this work, and these happily

indicate a substantial agreement between themselves, and

afford other necessary proof of reliability.
     ' By a happy coincidence, on the very day when the final
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  303

results of these investigations were evolved, I had the

pleasure of a visit from her Majesty's astronomer at
the Cape of Good Hope, a practical observer whose experi-
ence in parallactic investigations is probably unrivalled.
His remarks, after critical examination of the entire work,
have encouraged and gratified me. Astronomical photo-
graphy is hereby placed on a secure basis as an efficient
and exact exponent of the highest form of astronomical

science.'

     I may be laying too severe a stress upon a particular
point, but I have quoted the above paragraphs for a definite
reason. We again see how Pritchard, when embarking on
a new enterprise, was not content to satisfy himself by
direct experiment, but was anxious for the opinion and
advice of the best-known experts in the matter. As at
the outset of the wedge photometry he consulted Dr

Huggins and others, so here he lays emphasis upon the
opinion of Dr Gill, who was fresh from recent triumphs in

the domain of stellar parallax with the heliometer. If Dr

Gill's visit was a ' coincidence,' it was certainly one of those

'happy coincidences' which successful men have the knack
of controlling.

     The value of the method being established, a systematic
examination of the parallaxes of second-magnitude stars
was undertaken. The results are contained in Volumes iii.

and iv. of the Oxford University Observatory publications,

which were printed by the Clarendon Press in 1889 and
 1892 respectively. The parallaxes of twenty-nine stars were
determined, some of them more than once. Pritchard de-

lighted in rounding off an investigation and giving it an
aspect of completeness ; and he gives in these volumes not
only a full account of the Oxford work, but a complete
history of the subject of stellar parallax, and a complete
summary of all determinations published up to date. From

this it appears that there are only ninety-one stars of which
it304 CHARLES PRITCHARD

        it,the parallax has been measured with any care. Of these,
                                 aaless than half have a parallax greater than o"'io, that is to
 say, are nearer us than 200 billions of miles (approximately).
                                                                              ;These figures will serve to illustrate the remarks made above
 as to the total number of stars with sensible parallax. We
itcannot with confidence assign any limit to this number,
because so few stars have been yet examined. It may seem
strange to those not previously cognisant of these matters

that more work has not been done in this most interesting
direction ; but it must be remembered that the determina-

tion of the parallax of even a single star is an immense
labour. More than that, before the applicability of the
photographic method was established, it involved the pur-
chase of a very costly instrument, the heliometer. By show-

ing for the first time that parallaxes might be determined
photographically, Pritchard materially lessened both the
labour and cost of such work ; and, moreover, contributed
a considerable share of the total knowledge at present

available to us.

     I have refrained from giving here any details of the work

which can so much better be studied in the published volumes

above referred to. The details given in the case of the
photometry are sufficiently illustrative of astronomical work
for those not familiar with without similar explana-
tion in each case. But must not be supposed that the

parallax work was in any way less important than the photo-
metric, so far as contemporaries can judge. The ultimate
value of all such work must be settled in the future but con-
temporary recognition of the high value of the parallax work

was promptly forthcoming in the shape of royal medal from
the Royal Society. It needs no words of mine to assess the
authority and importance of this recognition. The terms in
which the work was spoken of on the occasion of the pre-

sentation are given elsewhere in this volume, and can well
be imagined how many congratulations and good wishes
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  305

poured in on the aged astronomer at the news of this second
signal mark of distinction.

     He was, however, already hard at work in ' fresh fields
and pastures new.' This time he had not waited as before
for the completion of one piece of work before under-
taking another ; but when the project for an interna-
tional chart of the heavens had been mooted in 1887,
although the parallax work had only recently been under-
taken, and would certainly require some years' work,
Pritchard could not resist the fascinations of so novel an
enterprise, and eagerly joined the coalition. He was not
able to be present at the first Conference in Paris, 1887,
but he addressed the following letter to Admiral Mouchez,
here reproduced from the volume of Proce's- Verbaux, etc.,
published by the French Academy at the conclusion of the

Conference.

                                 'THE UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, OXFORD,

                                                               12th April, 1887.

    4 A Monsieur le Contre-A miral Mouchez, Directeur de

                     ( C Observatoire National a Paris.

     'MONSIEUR L'AMIRAL, C'est avec le plus profond regret
que je vous annonce que je ne puis pas, a cause de circon-
stances imprevues, assister a votre Congres a Paris.

   i.' Si j'avais ete present, j'aurais fait remarquer 1'utilite

de prendre encore des renseignements definitifs sur la forme
de 1'instrument qui produira avec la plus grande exacti-
tude la forme circulaire des impressions stellaires sur
les cliches photographiques et aussi pour assurer la plus
grande immunite de distorsion dans la distribution des

images.

    'J'ai moi-meme photographic un champ de 81' de rayon

angulaire, ou toutes les impressions stellaires sont sensible-
ment circulaires ; ceci est, je crois, la plus grande etendue de
champ comme exactitude qui ait jamais ete produite jusqu'a
present ; j'ai soumis ce negatif au jugement de quelques-uns

                                                       U
 306 CHARLES PRITCHARD

 des membres anglais du Congres et ils peuvent en parler,
 ainsi que de 1'execution du cliche; 1'instrument employe
 est bien connu : c'est un telescope-reflecteur de 1 3 pouces
 d'ouverture et de 120 pouces de foyer. Maintenant je
 m'occupe d'experiences avec d'autres ouvertures et foyers,
 dans le but d'obtenir la plus grande etendue de champ
 pour laquelle toutes les etoiles paraitront rondes et non

 ovales.

     ' 2. Je crains que 1'essai de photographier les etoiles d'une
 faiblesse qui excede la i6e grandeur ne soit un projet un peu

 trop ambitieux pour le moment, et, vu la longue duree de
 1'exposition necessaire a ce but, il se presentera d'enormes
difficultes.

     * J'imagine que, pour passer de la I5 e a la i6e grandeur, la

duree de 1'exposition necessaire sera au moins aussi longue
que celle employee pour obtenir jusqu'a la I5 e ; il y a d'autres

difficultes dont il est superflu de parler a MM. les membres

du Congres.
     'J'ose suggerer que bien des difficultes pratiques seront

evitees en Hmitant le projet a la I5<L grandeur de 1'echelle

Pogson, si meme cette grandeur peut etre fixee. Un tel
projet restreindra, je suppose, les reproductions imprimees
permanentes destinies a la distribution, jusqu'a la I4e gran-
deur approxmative. En meme temps, il sera peut-etre de-

sirable de prendre des images de plusieurs parties du Ciel
d'apres les methodes des deux Herschel, nominees en Anglais
gauges ou echantillons, et ces images pourront donner la re-
production d'etoiles plus faibles.

    4 Je crois que quatre annees peuvent etre suffisantes pour

developper ce plan, qui est plus modeste, mais nean moins
tres vaste et utile ; dans 1'intervalle, 1'experience et des
moyens plus efficaces et plus forts peuvent etre acquis pour
une entreprise de plus grande importance.

     ( De mon cot6, si je puis faire quelque chose pour avancer
le projet qui sera adopte a Paris par le Congres, je mettrai
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY  307

avec plaisir les ressources de 1'observatoire de I'Universite

d'Oxford a sa disposition.
    ' J'ai 1'honneur d'etre, Monsieur 1'Amiral, votre tres humble

et tres devoue serviteur,

                                        ' CHARLES PRITCHARD, F.R.S.,

                                              ' Director of'the University Observatory ', Oxford?

     The Conference was attended by fifty-six astronomers of

different nationalities, who determined to make a complete

map or chart of the sky, as it appears to us at the end of the
nineteenth century, by photographic means. To explain the
magnitude of the undertaking, it must be remarked that to be
of sufficient astronomical value one photograph cannot cover
more than a very small portion of sky. The images of stars
near the centre of a plate are round ; but further from the

centre they become elliptical ; and further still their shape is

very irregular. By properly constructing the photographic
telescope the available ' field ' (i.e., that portion of the plate
of which the images are sufficiently round) can be enlarged
within certain limits, but these limits no efforts have yet

been able to surpass. It will be seen from the above letter

that Professor Pritchard was devoting his attention to this

point.
     The available field of one photograph is about two degrees

square or four square degrees ; and as there are about 42,000

square degrees in the whole sky, some 10,000 or 11,000 photo-

graphs at least are required to cover it all over, without allow-
ing for any overlap. To take all these photographs properly
would occupy a single observatory for many years ; and

hence the necessity for co-operation if the work was to be

accomplished within a limited time. Ultimately seventeen
observatories have united their forces for the work, and a

special portion of the sky has been assigned to each. It was

decided at the Conference in 1887 that the co-operating ob-
servatories should all use telescopes of the same pattern, so
308 CHARLES PRITCHARD

that the photographs might all be comparable ; and minute
directions, all with the view of securing uniformity and

homogeneity in the work, have been given to the different
observatories by the Central Committee at different

times.

     The decision as to a standard pattern of instrument for
the work was at first rather a blow to Professor Pritchard,
for such an instrument did not exist at Oxford, and would

have to be constructed if he were to take any part in the

work.
     In the letter to Admiral Mouchez he refers to a photograph*

he had taken with the reflector which he already possessed,
and he probably hoped that this instrument might be avail-

able for the work proposed. It was decided at the Con-

ference, however, to work with refracting telescopes, and

these hopes were thus disappointed.

     But the generosity of Dr Warren De la Rue again solved

* The following letter from the Astronomer- Royal, referring to this photo-

graph, is of interest :

                                         ' ROYAL OBSERVATORY, GREENWICH,
                                                       ' 1887, March z^th.

     ' MY DEAR PRITCHARD, Huggins has sent me your beautiful photo of Perseus

Icluster, on which heartily congratulate you.

     ' It compares favourably with Henry's negative of the same cluster which Gill

has left with me.
     ' Your stars are round up to the edge of the plate, whilst corresponding stars on

Henry's plate (70' to 80') from centre are decidedly oval. Also for the bright
stars, the images on your plate are much smaller (in angular measure) than those

on Henry's.
' (This, I think, arises from the secondary spectrum with a refractor. )
I'But Henry's plate (32m. exposure,
                                         believe) shows many more faint stars

than the Oxford, and the smallest images near the centre of Henry's plate are

much smaller, being only 3" in diameter (including the penumbral fringe). Thus
each of the two plates has its own special merits.

    ' I take it the Henrys have a great advantage in the high optical power of the

directing telescope as regards keeping a star exactly on the cross-wires, their

instrument having been made specially for the purpose, whilst you have had to

adapt the De la Rue reflector to the work as well as you could.

* With congratulations on your success.  Ever yours sincerely,
                                                         <W. H. M. CHRISTIE.'
             WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY            309

the difficulty. We can well imagine with what joy the follow-
ing letter was received :

                            * THE ROYAL SOCIETY, BURLINGTON HOUSE,
                                       'LONDON, W.,June i6th, 1887.

    ' MY DEAR PRITCHARD, It gave me very great pleasure

to learn that the visitors of the Oxford University Observa-
tory, recognising the value of your photo-astronomical work,

are about to request the University to vote for five years
the sum of 600 per anumn to enable you to continue the

work.

    ' I am myself deeply sensible of the value of your work,

and, provided the University will accept my offer, I will

itpresent to             in your honour, the sum of $oo, to enable

        '

                    it,
   to procure the conversion of the Grubb telescope

into an astronomical photographic of the very highest

order.

   A cheque will immediately follow the acceptance of this

offer. Yours sincerely,     WARREN DE LA RUE/

   The offer was ultimately accepted by the Convocation on

November                 1887. On Wednesday, November  Dr De
             I,             it

                         a                          a
la Rue enclosed cheque to the Vice-Chancellor for 600,     2,

after having seen Sir H. Grubb's estimate for the new photo-    it

graphic telescope for 575. He wrote that the 2$ might
go for any incidental expenses, and added that he wished

'an incription to be affixed to the telescope to the effect
    The gift of Warren De la Rue in honour of Professor

Pritchard.'

    Dr De la Rue died on April 19, 1889, at the age of
seventy-four, from an attack of pneumonia. It would be

difficult to over-estimate the value of his help so generous

and so well timed. On at least two occasions his liberalitya
made all the difference. In 1874 converted refracting

telescope into well-equipped observatory; and in 1887
 310 CHARLES PRITCHARD

enabled that observatory to retain its place among those
engaged in the very newest and most important work, when

it otherwise might have had to fall behind. It is not easy to

lay out money to the best advantage, even in science ; and the
same amount might easily have been practically wasted. De
la Rue's judgment in selecting opportunities commands our

admiration quite as much, if not more, than the liberality

itself.
      No time was lost in giving the order for the telescope to

 Sir Howard Grubb, but the construction was no easy matter.
The pattern selected at the Conference was a refractor of the

same dimensions as the instrument which had been con-

structed by the brothers Henry, of Paris, who had shown what
beautiful photographs could be obtained with it. Similar
instruments were at once ordered from the brothers Henry by
some of the observatories, more especially and naturally those
on French soil, but for obvious reasons the British observa-
tories preferred a British maker, and Sir Howard Grubb was
unanimously chosen as that maker. He has accordingly
supplied instruments to the royal observatories at Greenwich
and the Cape, to the University observatory, Oxford, and to
the Melbourne and Sydney and Mexican observatories. But
the difficulties of construction were new to him, and he
necessarily went through much experimental work. He
began with objectives of small size, and the performances of
these were tested at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.
Feeling his way, he advanced to larger glasses, and in testing
these Professor Pritchard was indefatigable. The events of
this search by trial and error for a satisfactory photographic

object-glass are, however, too recent for detailed description
here. Briefly, several objectives were made, sent to Oxford,
photographs taken with them and examined, the defects
classified, the objectives returned to Sir H. Grubb for correc-
tion, corrected by him accordingly, returned to Oxford and

tried again, and so on. A constant interchange of letters with
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY                                            311

the Astronomer-Royal, who was similarly testing object-glasses

of smaller size, was kept up throughout this period. Such

work could only proceed slowly and carefully, and took much

time. In the hope of accelerating                         Professor Pritchard in
a
                                                     it,
October 1889 sent over his second assistant, Mr Jenkins, to

stay month in Dublin, and there to take photographs with

the objectives on the spot, and so save the journeys to and fro

between each trial. It will be remembered that this work

was proceeding contemporaneously with the heavy work on

stellar parallax, and the resources of the observatory were

strained to the utmost. A fairly satisfactory object-glass was

received in December 1889, but its focal length was not

sufficiently accurate, and was not until July 1890 that the

instrument was finally ready.
it
       it

                                           ;

                                  's it
                                                 a

                                                                       I
The experimental work was, however, by no means over.

The next two years were spent in experiments of all kinds,

and was not until 1892 that actual work on the chart
of the heavens commenced. This work was in full swing

before Professor Pritchard death in May 1893, 255 plates
having been taken and on coming to the observatory did

not find necessary to change in any essential point the

routine of work which he had started and got into regular

going order.

In September 1889, two and half years after the General

Conference of 1887, the Central Committee met in Paris to con-

sider details. It was by that time known what observatories

were to take part in the work, and many of them were already

provided with instruments. Oxford was, unfortunately, as

we have seen, an exception; and Professor Pritchard wrote

that he had learnt, by long experience, that the actual

performance of new instrument was a much better guide
              a

than theories as to its use, and he would therefore not

trouble the Committee with any remarks on this occasion.
In March 1891, the Committee again met, and now Pritchard
.had been in possession of his object-glass for some months.
312 CHARLES PRITCHARD

He was unable to attend the meeting in person, but sent his
first assistant, Mr Plummer, to represent him ; and, further
contributed an admirable summary of the experimental
work which he had done. The summary deals with seven

points.
     1. The time of exposure necessary to obtain star images

susceptible of measurement, and not liable to escape notice

on the negative.
     He considers that, on a good night, a ninth-magnitude star

would be photographed in 20 sec. ; on an ordinary night in

55 sec.; a fourteenth-magnitude star in 45 min. on a good
night ; 80 min. on an average night.

     2. Impression of eleventh and fourteenth-magnitude stars,
so as to be clearly visible.

     3. Increase of diameter of stellar images, with time of

exposure.

    4. Measurements of images near the edge of the field.
     5. The method of determining photographic magnitudes
at Oxford.
    6. Extent of the field susceptible of exact measures.
     7. The plate-carrier.
     The mention of Mr Plummer's name reminds me that
far too little has been said of his indefatigable and excellent

work as assistant. Professor Pritchard's great age precluded

his taking any share in the active work of the observatory,

as a younger director might possibly have done; and thus
the whole of this work was carried on by the assistants.

Further, the Professor was often absent for considerable

periods owing to ill-health, and the actual initiative then

fell, in many instances, to Mr Plummer. That he should go
to Paris as the representative of Professor Pritchard was
a fitting tribute to the position he had made for himself
by great zeal and skill. The Astronomer-Royal wrote to

Professor Pritchard, expressing his great satisfaction at the

arrangement ; and the Central Committee paid Mr Plummer
WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY    313

the further compliment of putting him on a sub-committee

appointed to examine and report upon the photographic

specimens contributed by the various observatories. Professor

Pritchard was himself a member of another sub-committee
appointed to consider the best means of carrying on the
adopted scale of stellar magnitudes to the fainter stars, to
which it had not yet been accurately applied. The matter
is somewhat technical. The proposal adopted involved the
use of wire gauze screens, placed before the object-glass,
to intercept a portion of the light. These were ultimately
found unsatisfactory, and rejected by a large majority of the
Committee; but not before a considerable amount of ex-

perimental work had been done. Especially heavy work
was undertaken at Oxford, where an alternative method,

based on previous experience with the wedge photometer,
was worked out at the cost of considerable labour, and found

satisfactory.

     The amount of work of this and other kinds got through
at Oxford during these, the last, years of Pritchard's life,

is plainly visible from the heavy correspondence preserved
in the observatory. I have read through these letters, hoping

to find some to reproduce ; but the selection is particularly
difficult. Many of the writers are still alive (the Astronomer-
Royal, Dr Gill, Dr Huggins, Dr Roberts), and their letters
are so often of that friendly and semi-private character which

precludes reproduction. Others, again, such as those to the
late Admiral Mouchez, are too much concerned with the

technical details of the work for the astrographic chart.
     From Professor Pritchard's own letters of about this time,

I select the following example :

     'DEAR ADMIRAL MOUCHEZ,                                 October 1 890.

ment for the international chart   The instrumental equip-
apparently complete, and feel              rejoice to say, now
I
                                  that at this observatory
                is,

              I
3 14 CHARLES PRITCHARD

we are at last launched, i.e., launched for groping to know

our instrument and how to use it.

    'After all my many years' experience, I feel that our

knowledge is very dark upon the very wide questions of

celestial photography on which we are all embarked. To

me one important conclusion is very apparent, viz., that

the Congress will be wise not at present to lay down

rules of the Medes and Persians ; also that very much

already apparently determined by the Congress had better

be regarded at the next meeting thereof as subject to a
revision. The experience of the members of the Congress

in the nature and use of the new instrument is as yet

necessarily very limited, and for my own part I hardly
know yet what may turn out to be the case. I am dili-

gently groping and inquiring.

    ' Happily I conclude that the instruments and reti-

cule are a great success, and that the scheme of the

Congress is practicable, provided only that we do not in

the first instance require too much i.e., too wide a field

in respect of the faintness of the stars to be photographed.
I think that our efforts would in the first instance be

wisely confined to the limits of mag. n. We should

thereby gain experience and knowledge.

    ' The question of the plates to be used, I now practically
find, is a very important one, and of some difficulty. I do

not find in your last fasciculus that Dr Eder has yet
helped us by reporting his experience. It occurs to me

that some arrangement should be made with some com-

mercial firm to supply us with plates having a given

emulsion, to be selected by competent authority.  the ex-

    'The question of the glass is also important

pense thereof may be serious and I yet await the reply
of the glass manuufacturers whom you mention in your

fasciculus. I believe I have devised a very rapid method

of measuring the photo, mags., and also another for an
         WORK IN THE OXFORD OBSERVATORY                                                                                                   315

exact and rapid method for copying the photod. plates,

of which more by-and-by. I am, dear Admiral, yours

truly,                             C. PRITCHARD.'

     The end of my journey should be within sight, but
I look back with dismay on the poverty of the ill-kept

log. It is one thing to be a traveller and see things of
interest, quite another to give an account of them which

will convey a tithe of that interest to others. Would

that this story of Professor Pritchard's astronomical work

could have been so complete and workmanlike as his

own memoirs ! As it
         is
                                   is,

                                                                                                                                       ;
                     perhaps these straggling notes,

though lacking in symmetry, may here and there catch

the attention of those patient enough to turn over the

leaves.

There    some abruptness in this termination but an

abruptness perhaps not altogether unfitting the subject.
In some ways Professor Pritchard's death was fore-

shadowed his physical health could not but suffer with

advancing years. He lost his 'right hand/ Mr Plummer,
who was appointed Director of the Liverpool Observatory

in 1892, and he did not fill his place at the observatory.

Mr F. A. Bellamy was appointed assistant, but neither

Mr Jenkins nor he was advanced into the vacant position,

and Professor Pritchard frankly assigned as                                                                                               reason
         a
                                                  is

                                       I

                                                                           aa
                                                                                                                                                   ;
that he wished to leave his successor unembarrassed in

the choice of first assistant. But though the signs of

failing health were thus apparent, not only to others

but to himself, there was no corresponding decadence

in the work, which was carried on to the very last

and, even after that, continued on the same lines by virtue
of the momentum imparted to it. As am dealing here
not with the whole of Professor Pritchard's personality

and life, but with his astronomical work only,                                                                                            certain

abruptness in terminating my task  thus almost inevit-
316 CHARLES PRITCHARD

able, and I therefore not ungratefully accept the situa-
tion. At this point, the Oxford University Observatory

having been built, and made thoroughly efficient; the
Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis having been published ;
the parallaxes of the second-magnitude stars having
been determined ; and the Oxford share of the astro-
graphic chart having been successfully incepted- at this
point the masterhand was withdrawn from the work.
                               INDEX

ABNEY, W. de W., 292-293.                  Bellamy, F. A., 26, 315.
                                           Bessel, F. W., 301.
Adams, Professor J. C., 94, 238, 300.
                                           Bethlehem, Star of, 233.
Acland, Sir Henry, Letter to, 127.         Bible and Science, 188.
        Letter from, 138.
                                           Birkenhead, 144.
Airy, Sir G. B., 56, 230, 235, 242, 252,
                                           Bishop, George, 271.

                                           J.J.,Blomefield, 147.
255, 283, 284.                             Blunt,  40.

Allen, 33.                                 Board of Visitors, 276, 277, 278, 279,

Al Sufi, 287.                        and            302.             35.

Analogies in the Progress of Nature        Bolland, Rev. William,

Grace, 176.                                Bond, G. P., 242, 250.
                                           Bonn, 288.
Antarctic Survey, 246.
                                           Bonomi, Joseph, 229, 230.
Arago, D. F. J., 290.                      Borrodale, 226.
Argelander, F. W. A., 288.
Assistant Secretary R.A.S., 248, 249,      Bradlaugh, 128.

         254.  Chart, 271, 278, 280,       Bradley, Dean, 40, 153.
Astrographic                                       Account of Schoolboy Days, 68.

       305-316.        Observatory   for,  British Association, 90, 175.
Astronomical Physics,                      British Astronomical Association, 145.
                                           Brixton, 8.
       265, 266, 267.                      Briinnow, F. F. E., 263.
Atlantic Cable, 253.
                                           Buckingham, James, 231.
Auwers, A., 252, 301.
                                           Butler's Analogy, 40.
                                           Butler, Dr, Letter to, 101.

                B

BATH, 146.                                      CAIRO, 131, 298.
Baily, Francis, 237.                             Cambridge, 12, 37, 217, 260, 263, 299.
Bakerian Lecture, 230.                          Cameron, Mrs, Letter from, 89.
Baly, P. P., 270.                               Campbell, Miss Rosalind, 22.
Barry, Chas., 263, 264, 270.                     Cape Observations, 241, 245, 253.

Bayer, Johannes, 287.                                     Observatory, 310.
Beaufoy Clock, 246, 247, 248.
                                           317
Beck, Joseph, 251.
                                   INDEX

Carlsbad, no.                             Elkin, W. L., 301.

Carpenter, James, 250, 251.               Evolution, 181.
Carrington, R. C., 238.
Catton, Mr, 35.                           FARADAY, Michael, 219.
Central France, Journey to, 117.
Christ's Hospital, 30-31.                 Farmer, Professor J. Brettand, 161.
Christian Evidence Society, 113.
Christie, W. H. M., 308, 311.             Farrar, Canon, 152, 171.
Church Congresses, 175.                   Fasel, Vincent, 223, 229.
Clapham, 6, 24, 54, 144, 219, 222, 223,   Faye, H. A. E., 258.
                                          Fellowship at St John's College, Cam-
        227, 275.
Colenso, Bishop, 84.                             bridge. 44.
                                          Ffoulkes, Rev. Edmund, Letters to, 116,
Coleridge, 41.
Collingwood, 255.                                  174.
Continuity, Law of, 204.
Convocation of Oxford University, 262,    Flammarion, Camille, 289. i
                                          Flamsteed, John, 287.
        263, 265, 270, 272, 309.          Fletcher, Isaac, 238.
                                          Foucault, Leon, 229.
DARWIN, Charles, Letter from, 94.         Frauenhofer's lines, 220, 240, 258.
                                          Freshwater, 82, 219, 240, 241, 242 246,

                                                 247, 254.

         George, 60.

Dawes, Rev. W. R., 220, 238, 241, 243,

       244, 245, 246, 257, 293.           GASSIOT, J. P., 56, 219, 220, 263, 264,

Dealtry, Rev. Dr, 64.                            270.
De la Rue, Warren, 223, 230, 238, 239,
                                          Genesis Cosmogony,
240, 241, 243, 244, 260, 263, 264,                              190, 191, 192.
                                          Georgium Sidus, 259.  Letters to, 197,
265, 266, 267, 270, 272, 280, 281,        Giberne, Miss Agnes,

       285, 308, 309.             159.           200.
Denza, Father, Letter from, 158,
                                          Gill, Dr David, 301, 303, 313.      by,
Diagram of Corona, 227.
Dictionary of the Bible, 177.             Good Words, 258, 259.

Dollond, 224, 241, 293.                   Gould, B. A., 289.
Dublin, 263, 311.                         Grant's History of Astronomy, 221.
Dufferin, Lord, I, 34.                    Grove, Sir George, Reminiscences
Dunkin, Edwin, 244, 298.
                                                   71.

                                                  Sir William, 56, 182.
                                          Grubb, Sir H., 262, 263, 267, 270, 309,

ECLIPSE, Total solar, of 1860, 220, 231,        3io.
                                          Guardian , The, 177, 190.
       238, 239.                          Gwatkin, Mr, Letter to, 40.
Eclipse, Total solar, of 1868, 238.
                                                            II
Eder, J. M., 314.
                                          HADDENHAM, 246.
Egypt, Journey to, 130.                   Hamilton, Sir W. R., 56. 249
         Letters from, 131-137.

         , 279, 298.
                                       INDEX                                                    319

Hare, Archdeacon, 40.                         JACOB, W. C., 226, 228, 231.           J.
Harvard, 298.                                 Janssen, Jules, 284.
                                              Jeffreys, Charles, 39.                        MJ
Hastings, 154.                                Jenkins, C.A., 130, 144, 216, 272, 281,
Hatherley, Lord, 92, 101.
                                                      296, 298, 311, 315.
Heis, Eduard, 289.                            Jowett, Professor, 151, 299.
Heliometer, 301, 302, 303, 304.
Hemming, George, Q.C., 68.                                           K

Henry, Paul and Prosper, 308, 310.            KELVIN, Lord, 160.
Herschel, Alexander, 219, 255, 256,           Khedive of Egypt, 298.
                                              King's College, 45.
  257, 258.
                                              Konigsberg, 252.
- Caroline, 254.
    Sir John, 218, 219-229, 231, 232,         Knowles, Mr James, Letters from, 97,

235 237, 246, 249, 250, 253, 258,                      149.

-- 288, 289, 306.  239,   254,   255,  257,   Kriiger, Adalbert, 288, 301.
    Lady, 247.
    Sir William,

258, 259, 287, 306.
J.
    J.Sir W.        Reminiscences      by,

              J.,73-                          LAKES (English), 20.

       - Letter to, 145.                      Lambeth, 272.
                    162, 218.
                                              Lassell, William,                      251, 264.
Hevelius, Johannes, 287.
Higher Criticism, 194-197.                    Leo XIII., 159.
Himalayan Expedition, 223-230.                Liapunow, M., 250

Hind, R., 271.

Hipparchus, 286.
Hippisley, Mr, 146.
Hodgson, Richard, 241, 243, 251, 252.
Hook, Dean, Letters from, 91, 102,

103, 173-                                     Liddon, Canon, Letter from, 113.

Hopefield, 246.                               Lindemann, Eduard, 289.

Houzeau,  C., 289.                            Litera Humaniores, 274, 275.

Howlett, Rev. F., 238, 243.      238,  243,   Liverpool Observatory, 144.
Huggins, Dr William, 218,
                                              Lloyd, 2.
266, 296, 313.
                                              Lockyer, N., 251.
Letters from, 94, 293-295.                    Lunar Libration, 267, 279, 281, 282.

Letters to, 146, 155, 263.

Hulsean Lectureship, 94.

         Lectures, 176.   I.     of W.), 82,

Hurst Hill (Freshwater,

       240, 241, 242, 246, 247.               MAIN, Rev. Robert, 238,                           254, 256,
Huxley, Professor, 160.
                                                      264.
Huyghenian Eye-piece, 240.                    Malvern, 116.

IDELER, Ludwig, 233,                          Marsh's Test, 241.
Inaugural Lecture, 261.                       Martin, Sir William, 42.
                                              Martyn, Henry, 35.
                                              Mathematical Tripos, 41.
                                              Maurice, 56.
3 20 INDEX

Melbourne Observatory, 310.             Paris, 229, 232, 271, 305, 306.
Meole, 5.                               Peirce, C. S., 289.
Merchant Taylor's School, 26.           Pepys, 33.
Mercury, Transit of, 1878, 285.         Pickard, Lord Mayor of London, 2.
Meridian Photometer, 289.               Pickering, E. C., 289, 298.
Metaphysical Society, 97.
                                        Plummer, W. E., Letter from, 107.
Miller, W. A., 238.
                                                , 144, 154, 216, 270, 271, 272,
Miracles, 178, 179, 187.
                                               275, 280, 281, 296, 312, 315.
Mitchell, Mr Chalmers, 156.             Pollock, Sir Frederick, Letter from,
Mortimer, R. Thomas, 34.
Mouchez, Admiral E., 308.                       95-

         Letters to, 305-307, 313-315.  Poplar, 10, 30.
Muller, G., 289.                        Pritchard, Rev. Professor
Mullis, John, 112, 149, 272.
Munich, 220, 289.                               Birth of, Feb. 28, 1808, 8.

                         N                       Cambridge, 1826, 35.
                                                Clapham Grammar School, 24-67.
NASMYTH, James, 239, 240, 242, 243,             Council of Royal Society 1885,

        244, 245.                       141.

Natural Selection, 184.                    Fellowship St John's College,
Nature, Laws of, 179.                   Cambridge, 1833, 44.
Newman, Cardinal, 172.
Newton, Miss Emily, 19.                  Freshwater, 1861, 82-104.
Nicol Prism, 292.                        Fellowship, Honorary, St John's
Nile, Voyage up the, 133.               College, Cambridge, 1886, 141.
Northampton, Address at, 128.             Gold Medal Royal Astronomical
Nottingham Sermon, 90, 182.
November Meteors, 238, 253, 257.        Society, 1886, 141.     at Cam-
                                           Hulsean Lectureship

                                        bridge, 1867, 94.
                                          Marriage to Miss E. Newton,

                                        1833, 19-

                                         Marriage to Miss Rosalind Camp-

                                        bell, 1858, 59.

                                         Nottingham Sermon, 1866, 90.
                                         Royal Medal of the Royal Society,

                                        1892, 160.

                                        Savilian Professorship at Oxford,

                                        1870, 105.

                                         Wrangler, Fourth, at Cambridge,

OGIER Ward, Mrs, Reminiscences  by,              1830, 13.

         1-23.                          Pritchard, Ada, Reminiscences by, 105-

Oom, F.A., 223.                         167.
Origin of Species, 185.
Orion, 257. .                            Sir Charles, K.C.I.E., C.S.I.,
Orion, Nebula, 250.
Oxford, Life at, 105-167.               1-21.

                                        Capt. Charles, I.
                                        Eric, Reminiscences by, 117-125.
                                        Frederick, Letter from, 141.

                                        George, 10.

                                        John, 8.
                                        John, Letter to, 151.
                                         Rosalind, Reminiscences by, 82-

PARALLAX, Stellar, 278, 280, 285, 300-  104.

        304.                            William, 7.
                                       INDEX

Ptolemy, 286, 287.                           Steel, Rev. C, 164.
Pusey, Rev. Dr, 172.
                                             Steinheil, C. A. von, 289.
R                                            Stock, John, 10, 30.
                                             Stockwell, 16, 18, 47.
RADCLIFFE Observatory,  127.
Ranyard, A. C., 230.                         Stone, E. J., 242, 244, 250, 251, 252.

Ramsgate, 20.                                -Struve, Otto, 243, 250, 256.
                                                     Wilhelm, 249, 259.
Revelation, 179-180.                         Summary of Researches at Oxford, 279.
Roberts, Isaac, 313.                         Sumner, Bishop of Winchester, 78.
Rome, 220, 243.
Rosse, Earl of, 263.                                   Letter from, 86.
Rowton, 8.                                   Sydney Observatory, 310.
                                             Sylvester, Professor, Letter to, 162.
Royal Astronomical Society, 98, 141,
                                             TACUBAYA, 310.
217, 228, 229, 232, 236, 237, 242,           T. Coronae, 253, 258.
                                             Tennyson, Lord, 90.
245, 246, 247, 250, 252, 256, 259,
260, 261, 265, 270, 280, 293, 295,                    Letter to, 100-150.
                                                     Mrs, Letter to, 100.
        296. 298.                      218,  Thame, 246.
Royal Observatory, Greenwich,                Times Newspaper, 226, 227, 257, 265.

        232, 242, 244, 253, 271, 310.  266,  Turner, Prof. H. H., Astronomical

Royal Society, 141, 246, 247, 259,                  Chapters by, 215-316.
                                             Twickenham, 27.
        280, 304.                            Tycho Brahe, 287.

Ruskin, John, 115.

SABINE, Sir Edward, 247.               260,                             U             274-
Salisbury, Lord, 263.                   35,                                           286,
Sanday, Professor, Letter to, 196.           University Observatory, Oxford,
Savilian Professorship, 105, 216,
                                             Upper Tulse Hill, 293.
         261.
                                             Urano'metria Nova, 288.
Schonfeld, Eduard, 288.                               Oxoniensis, 278, 280, 285,

Secchi, Angelo, 243.                                 293, 296, 297, 298, 316.
Seidel, Ludwig, 289.
Shrewsbury, 2.                               Uxbridge, 10.

Shropshire, 4.                                   VATICAN, Letter from, 159.     284.
Sickle, 257.                                     Venus, Transit of, 1874, 283,
                                                 Vignoles, Rev. O., 227, 251.
Smyth, W. H., 249.                              Vittoria, 223, 228.
South, Sir James, 236.                           Vulcan, 222, 228.

Southern Cross, 134.                         X
Spain, Visit to, 220.

Spitta, E. J.. 144, 292, 293.

St John's College, Cambridge,

         153-
Standen, 263, 264.

Star of the Magi, 177, 233.
3 22 INDEX

W                                           Wolff, J. T., 289.

WEBB, E. J., Preface.                       Woolwich, 247.
                                            Worcester, Bishop of, Letters to, 152,
Webb, Rev. T. W., 251.
Wedge Photometry, 278, 279, 285-                     160, 162.
                                                     Reminiscences by, 77-81.
         290.                                        Theological Chapter by, 171-212.

Weld, Miss Agnes, Letter from, 100.         Zollner, J. C. F., 289, 290.

         Reminiscences by, 138, 140.  243,
Whewell, William, 227.

Whitley, Canon, 146.
Willow - leaves, 239, 241, 242,

        244, 245, 255, 258.
Winnecke, F. A. T., 250, 301.

                                      THE END

                       Colston &> Coy., Limited, Printers, Edinburgh.
          JUST PUBLISHED

PHILIP GILBERT HAMERTON : an Autobiography

           (1834-1858) and a Memoir by his Wife (1858-
           1894). With a Portrait. Demy Svo, cloth,
            price 1 6s.

       The volume contains many of his letters and others of great
interest from Mr ROBERT BROWNING, Mr G. F. WATTS, Mr PETER
GRAHAM, Mr R. L. STEVENSON, &c. ; Reminiscences of GEORGE
ELIOT, TENNYSON, C. R. LESLIE, PAUL RAJON, and many others ;
and Descriptions of Mr HAMERTON'S romantic life on Loch Awe, and
experiences in France during the war time.

EDINBURGH. Picturesque Notes by R. L, STEVENSON.

           New illustrated edition, with eight copper plates and

         many other Illustrations by T. HAMILTON CRAW-

           FORD. Demy Svo, Roxburgh binding, price i6s. net.

The Daily Telegraph says : ' There is scarcely a page of this
delightful work that is not adorned by a masterly sketch illustrative of
the letterpress. The book presents a handsome and striking appear-
ance, its covers being lavishly ornamented by escutcheons, executed
                                           Typographically,
in gold    upon dar"k green morocco.   work exceptionally      too, it merits
unstinted   praise. Altogether a fine                        well produced.'

CONFIDENCES OF AN AMATEUR GARDENER.

           By A. M. DEW SMITH, Author of <A White

           Umbrella.' With many Illustrations.               Large

           Crown Svo, cloth, price 6s.

ANIMALS AT WORK AND PLAY: their Emotions

           and Activities. By C. J. CORNISH, Author of
           ' Life at the Zoo.' With Illustrations.
                                                             Large

           Crown Svo, cloth, price 6s.

The Times says : ' Full of fresh matter about animals and birds.'

THE          EARLIER ENGLISH WATER-COLOUR
           PAINTERS. By COSMO MONKHOUSE. New and

           Revised Edition. With many Illustrations. Large
           Crown Svo, cloth, price 6s.

LONDON: SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT. RUSSELL ST.
'The most permanently valuable of the Art Magazines.'

                                                                             National Observer,

THE PORTFOLIO

         Monographs for 1896

                                Price 3-T. 6d. net.

THE PICTURE GALLERY OF CHARLES I.                    By

       CLAUDE PHILLIPS.

   ' The story is admirably told, and constitutes a most interesting chapter in the history
foofrmE.n' gliSschotsmAratn, . which has never been presented before in so concise and handy a

JOHN LA FARGE. ARTIST AND WRITER. By CECILIA
       WAERN.
  'Mr La Farge's " Letters from Japan" showed him to be a charming writer, but the
force and distinction of his draughtmanship we have had too little opportunity for recog-

nising. The samples given here are well reproduced, and the South Sea pictures are
very interesting. They and the Vailima letters go hand in hand.' Bookman.

RICHMOND ON THE THAMES. By RICHARD GARNETT,

     C.B., LL.D.

   ' A charmingly written and charmingly illustrated account of that most beautiful of the
suburbs of London, its history, its place in art, and its place in literature.' Times.

THE LIFE OF VELASQUEZ. By WALTER ARMSTRONG.

THE ART OF VELASQUEZ. By WALTER ARMSTRONG.

ROYAL ENGLISH BOOKBINDINGS. By CYRIL DAVEN-

       PORT.

The Numbers for 1896 are bound in two volumes. Price 12s. 6d.
       net each. Cases for the volumes, with titles, is. 6d. each.

LONDON: SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT. RUSSELL ST.
  THE PORTFOLIO

MONOGRAPHS FOR 1894 AND 1895.

                        Price 2s. 6d. net.

REMBRANDT'S ETCHINGS. By P. G.  THE EARLY WORK OF RAPHAEL.

Hamerton.                             By Julia Cartwright.
                                W. Q. ORCHARDSON. By Walter
MALTA, AND THE KNIGHTS Hos-
      PITALLERS. By W. K. R.          Armstrong.
                                CLAUDE LORRAIN. By George
        Bedford.    By A. H.
JOSIAH WEDGWOOD.                Grahame.
                                WHITEHALL. By W. J. Loftie.
        Church.
                                JAPANESE WOOD ENGRAVINGS. By
JULES BASTEIN-LEPAGE. By Julia         Prof. W. Anderson.
Cartwright.
D. G. ROSSETTI.     By F. G.    ANTOINE WATTEAU. By Claude

       Stephens.    By Claude          Phillips.    By C. J.
FREDRICK WALKER.                THE ISLE OF WIGHT.

Phillips.                              Cornish.
FAIR WOMEN. By William Sharp.   RAPHAEL IN ROME. By Julia Cart-
THE NEW FOREST.     By C. J.
                                        wright.
Cornish.                        DUTCH ETCHERS OF THE SEVEN-

THOMAS GAINSBOROUGH. By Wai-         TEE NTH CENTURY. By
       ter Armstrong.
BOOKBINDING IN FRANCE.  By W.          Laurence Binyon.
                                WILLIAM BLAKE. PAINTER AND
      Y. Fletcher.                     POET. By Richard Garnett.
THE ENGRAVINGS OF ALBERT        THE RENAISSANCE OF SCULPTURE
DURER. By Lionel Cust.
ITALIAN BOOK-ILLUSTRATIONS. By         IN BELGIUM. By O. G. Destree.
Alfred W. Pollard.              GERARD DAVID. By W. H. James

                                        Weale.

    The following Monographs are bound up together :
"THE LIFE OF VELASQUEZ" and "THE ART OF VELASQUEZ," under the

      title of "VELASQUEZ : A STUDY OF His LIFE AND ART." Price 95. net.
"THE ETCHINGS OF REMBRANDT," by P. G. Hamerton, and "DUTCH

       ETCHERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY," by Laurence Binyon.
       Price 7s. 6d. net.

"THE EARLY WORK OF RAPHAEL" and "RAPHAEL IN ROME," under
      the title of "RAPHAEL: His LIFE AND WORK." Price 7s. 6d. net.

"THE NEW FOREST" and "THE ISLE OF WIGHT," by C. J. Cornish.

       Price 7s. 6d. net.

SomewBIiNtEhDaIrNlciGoelrouIrANerdtiFcRplelAasNteoCsn,E,"hEanvugenldisebhreentBhoeroetkpitbrlieinntdeoidfng",anBbdOyObKoMBuIrNndDFINleuGtpchewrI,NithEillNu"GsBtLrOaAtONeKdD-

      AND FRANCE." Price 75. 6d. net.

The numbers for 1894 and 1895 are bound in eight quarterly volumes.       Price
         IO.T. 6d. each. Case for the volume with titles > is. 6d. each.

LONDON: SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT, RUSSELL ST.
 EVENTS OF OUR OWN TIME.

A Series of Volumes 011 the most Important Events of the last Half-

        Century, each containing 300 pages or more, in large %vo
        with Plans, Portraits, or other Illustrations, to be issued at
        intervals price $s., cloth.

Large paper copies (250 only) with Proofs of the Plates, cloth, los. 6d.

THE LIBERATION OF             ITALY. By the Countess

      MARTINENGO CESARESCO.   With Portraits on Copper. Crown

      8vo. Price 5^., cloth.

THE WAR IN THE CRIMEA. By General Sir EDWARD

      HAMLEY, K.C.B. With Five Maps and Plans, and Four
      Portraits on Copper. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 5^.,

       cloth.

THE INDIAN MUTINY OF 1857. By Colonel MALLE-

      SON, C.S.I. With Three Plans, and Four Portraits on
       Copper. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 5-r., cloth.

THE AFGHAN WARS OF 1839 1842 AND 18781880.

      By ARCHIBALD FORBES. With Five Maps Plans, and Four
      Portraits on Copper. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Price

        5.9., cloth.

THE REFOUNDING OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE.

      By Colonel MALLESON, C.S.I. With Five Maps and Plans,
       and Four Portraits on Copper. Crown 8vo. Price $s. cloth.

* ACHIEVEMENTS IN ENGINEERING DURING THE
     LAST HALF-CENTURY. By Professor VERNON

      HARCOURT. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price

       $s.j cloth.

* THE DEVELOPMENT OF NAVIES DURING THE
     LAST HALF-CENTURY. By Captain EARDLEY WILMOT,

      R.N. With Illustrations and Plans. Crown 8vo. Price 5^.,

       cloth.

       Of Volumes so * marked there are no Large Paper Editions,

LONDON: SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT. RUSSELL ST.
POPULAR SCIENCE

RADIANT SUNS.           A Sequel to Sun, Moon, and Stars.

      By A. G i BERNE.  With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth.
      Price 55.

SUN, MOON, AND STARS. A Book on Astronomy

      for Beginners. By A. GIBERNE. With Illustrations. Twenty-

      First Thousand. Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 55.

   "One of the most fascinating books about astronomy ever written."  Yorkshire
Post.

THE WORLD'S FOUNDATIONS. Geology for Be-

      ginners. By A. GIBERNE. With Illustrations. Sixth Thousand.

      Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 55.
  " The exposition is clear, the style simple and attractive." Spectator.

THE OCEAN OF AIR. Meteorology for Beginners.

      By A. GIBERNE. With Illustrations. Fifth Thousand. Crown

       8vo, cloth. Price 5s.

  " Miss Giberne can be accurate without being formidable, and unites a keen sense
of the difficulties of beginners to a full comprehension of the matter in hand."--
Saturday Review.

AMONG THE STARS; or, Wonderful Things in the

       Sky. By A. GIBERNE. With Illustrations. Seventh Thousand.
       Price 55.

   " We may safely predict that if it does not find the reader with a taste for astronomy
it will leave him with one." Knowledge.

THE GREAT WORLD'S FARM. How Nature Grows

    her crops. By SELINA GAVE. With a Preface by Prof.                Boulger,
    and Sixteen Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 53.
" A fascinating book of popular science." Times.

THE STORY OF THE HILLS : A popular Account of

      the Mountains and How they were Made. By the Rev. H. N.

       HUTCHINSON. With Sixteen Illustrations. Price 55.
  " Charmingly written, aud beautifully illustrated." Yorkshire Post.

LONDON : SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT. RUSSELL ST.
EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WRITERS.

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS AND THE ROYAL ACADEMY.

      By CLAUDE PHILLIPS. With Nine Plates after the Artist's
       Pictures. Price 75. 6d., cloth ; large paper copies (150 only),
       2 is.

DEAN SWIFT : LIFE AND WRITINGS. By GERALD

      MORIARTY, Baliol College, Oxford. With Nine Portraits,
      after LELY. KNELLER, etc. Price 73. 6d. ; large paper copies
      (150 only), 2 is.
   "Mr Moriarty is to be heartily congratulated upon having produced an extremely

sound and satisfactory little book." National Observer.

HORACE WALPOLE AND HIS WORLD. Select Passages
      from his Letters. With Eight Copper Plates, after Sir

      JOSHUA REYNOLDS and THOMAS LAWRENCE. Second
      Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 75. 6d., cloth.
    " A compact representative selection with just enough connecting text to make it read

consecutively, with a pleasantly-written introduction." Atkenceum.

FANNY BURNEY AND HER FRIENDS. Select Passages

from her Diary. Edited by L. B, SEELEY, M.A., late Fellow
of Trinity College, Cambridge. With Nine Portraits on

Copper, after REYNOLDS, GAINSBOROUGH, COPLEY, and

WEST. Third Edition. Price 75. 6d., cloth.
" The charm of the volume is heightened by nine illustrations of some of the master-
pieces of English art, and it would not be possible to find a more captivating present for
any"oAne   beginning to appreciate         the characters       of the  last century."     Academy.
          really valuable book."          World.

MRS THRALE, AFTERWARDS MRS PIOZZI. By L. B.

SEELEY, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

With Nine Portraits on copper, after HOGARTH, REYNOLDS,

ZOFFANY, and others. Price 73. 6d., cloth.
adv""anTMthargiseS.es"ekeletycPhahailsdl
                                           excellent material   to work upon, and he has   turned it to the best
                                                                  than the autobiography,  for it is infinitely the
                                          Mall Gazette.

                                           better worth having
more complete and satisfying." Globe.

LADY MARY WORTLEY MONTAGU. By ARTHUR R.

       ROPES, M.A., sometime Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.
      With Nine Portraits, after Sir GODFREY KNELLER, etc.

       Price 73. 6d. ; large paper copies (150 only), net 213.

    " Embellished as it is with a number of excellent plates, we cannot imagine a more
welcome or delightful present." National Observer.

LONDON: SEELEY AND CO., LTD., 38 GT. RUSSELL ST.
ita^5s^1"*^.*^=*
                       258468

,..

